You're familiar with Matthew five, sixteen, in the same way let your light shine before others so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven. In the same way, let your light shine before others so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven. I was in visiting Anna and Ben and Anna showed me a YouTube channel that she likes to watch. And it's this guy who drives around a town. I don't know where he is located. And he looks for the worst yard. Seen this guy? And then he just completely transforms it, right? And um so some of us have seen it. Does this sound amazing? It's pretty cool because um you don't only have to watch that long. And he time lapses. It of course it took him all day, but I can w skip to the end and see before and after. And it's amazing that this guy doesn't gets clicks and all that stuff. You know what's not like that Watching TV shows about people that are grossly overweight, like my 600-pound life. You know, there are more than a million people That weigh over 500 pounds in America. A million. Um that's something that's not going to take a day of mowing to conquer, is it? No. You know what also doesn't work at all is to tell people that weigh over five hundred pounds, just stop eating Took them a long time to get there. Um and just just stop doing whatever doesn't really work. Just stop twirling your hair. Just stop picking your Fingernails. Just stop whatever. And and there are things that people do, these are other shows where they become obsessed with this thing and it ruins their life, right? It controls them as this thing accumulates. Until finally, hopefully, that person says, I cannot beat this. I need help. I need help. And of course if you weigh 600 pounds, you probably haven't left the house in years. Right? Probably can't walk, can't sleep Can't breathe. And more than that, you're ashamed. The shame is crippling And what has to happen after these millions of things to get there, you have to have a million things to get out of it. In other words, you have to become a different The person that got you to that, you cannot be that person anymore. If you want to not be that person, you can't you can't be. Altogether, a different life, a different hope. And what you do is you say you need help and you attach yourself to someone who can give you hope and help you. along the way. Hope, after all, is what we're saying is a life-shaping certainty you possess today about a future you will have, but you don't yet have I hope the president does this or I hope he doesn't do this. We're talking about resurrection hope that comes out out of Easter morning that comes out and informs our lives and informs our works what we do, we say. What we think. And whether you weigh 600 pounds or 60 pounds, we all need hope. So today I want to think about how do we describe our former selves Um know the famous answer to the interview question. What are some of your weaknesses? The famous answer is I tend to work too hard. Right. That's a terrible weakness, right? And so when we look back, a lot of us, if especially if we've grown up in the faith, if we've grown up The church. We say, you know, yeah, I can get cranky sometimes. Sometimes I'm late. That's about as far as we go In our Christian subculture, we're trying to do all these things right. I read the right translation of the Bible. I go to the right denomination. I have the right obedience. I read the right books. I watch the right shows. I listen to the right radio station. I sing the right hymns. I dress the right way I vote the right way. And yet, you know it's amazing that all people that are doing all this right stuff stuff, how lives go off the rails. Over and over and over and over again. Because you're not dealing with what's going on inside your good person. The spectacular meltdown is on its way. Sometimes it's a slow evolution that just numbs and crushes the soul. And sometimes it's a spectacular meltdown. Because maybe, just maybe, we're not that good after all. Maybe, just maybe, it turns out we are like what Paul writes in Titus. For we ourselves were once foolish, disobedient, led astray, slaves to various passions and pleasures, passing our days in malice and envy, hated by others and hated Paul, yo. I grew up in church, man. That's way too far. I mean, okay, yeah. I did say Gosh one time. That's I'm sorry. So w can we agree with Paul here How are we like that? Or are we just talking about them? We're always going to talk about them, right? But Paul doesn't seem to say like, you know, those people, those people out there were once foolish. He says, We ourselves, we ourselves were foolish. So how did I pass days of malice and envy Who who hated me? But who did I hate? And and what about now? Is that gone? But we're we're thinking about then we have an old self and how much of that old self is still in there? It's not all gone. Right? We are growing more and more like our new selves, but it's not happened yet. We still have work to do, we still have things to go about doing. What am I defensive about? What am I touchy about? What am I callous about? What do I hate? It may be a polite hate. Smile on my face, hate. Right? Doesn't mean it's not hate. Is it? I I might have good manners with my hate, my envy, my malice, my malice Paul's telling us again that we all have a story of rescue, and we all still need rescuing. It's not completely Done. And it's very nice when you can sort of get through this and admit that we're not perfect after all. Um that we don't have it all together, that we are still messed up, we still need help, we're not all fine. But there's also another possibility, and that is I love sinning. Jesus loves sinners. Sinning's awesome. Right? Why would I stop? My identity is wrapped up in it This is one another way people go. It's sort of like um why fix my car when everyone gives me rocks I don't want to fix my car. Then I gotta drive myself. That type of mentality, right? Why why should I stop this when I get so much attention? But while good works don't save us, good works flow out of our salvation, right? They don't save us, but they come out What is he right? For the grace of God has appeared bringing salvation for all people, training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions, and to live self controlled, upright, and godly lives in the presence of God So when have we last Good people. When have we last renounced ungodliness and worldly passions? And I don't mean you burned your VHS tapes. But on the same token maybe there are some songs that I shouldn't listen to. Movies I shouldn't watch, restaurants I shouldn't go to, places that aren't good for me, that I could renounce that worldly passion. Right? I want you to renounce yours, but I'd like to keep mine. Please renounce yours and give 'em to me. If they're cars, money, you know, I mean you know When have we last been self-controlled and upright and lived godly lives? Not for salvation reasons. Right? Because gospel centeredness comes out of us, we're redeemed from lawlessness, not to it. And so so many times we don't want to be a Pharisee. I don't want to be a Pharisee, so I'll go the other way And we'll try to average it out. Jesus constantly exposes the complete false godliness of He does not want us to be hypocrites, right? But he doesn't want us to keep ruining our lives with integrity. So he says we should be zealous for good works. We should exhort and rebuke with authority. We should be submissive to authority. Obedience. We should avoid quarreling, foolish controversies, genealogies. Uh oh. Genealogies. He's not talking about those genealogies Showing courtesy to others, being gentle. And obviously that was a problem then, and it's still a problem now, right? People are not that different. But the good news for people like us, the once foolish dis Disobedient, led astray, slaves to passions and pleasures. Good news for people who have malice and envy in their hearts, who hate and get hate Good news happens when you read verse four, right, in chapter three. But when the goodness and loving kindness of God, our Savior, appeared, he saved us not because of works done by us in righteousness But according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit, can be poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ, our Savior. So that being justified by His grace, we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life. The hope of eternal life we can have. We're heirs to it. We have it. By the washing of regeneration. That Jesus gives us this amazing grace as we cling to Christ, we become new creations. The old you is not you, the new you is you And that means we have an anchor of hope. In the storms of life, we have assurance steady salvation, assurance Sure and steady Savior, in the midst of our struggles and our doubts, we have hope. And then Paul says, You also have work to do. Out of that sure and steady hope, that sure and steady salvation, that future that is yours but you don't have yet, there are things to do. I was trying to think about how to illustrate this. Imagine a School aged kid who looks ahead and looks at the educational system breakdown of America. Who looks ahead and looks at the job market, doesn't think it's worth it, doesn't know what to do, looks ahead at uh wealth management and decides I'm gonna drop out of school. And you you look at this kid and you say, you know what What you're in second grade. Can't drop out of school in second grade. Where are you getting all this? I watched CNN and Fox It's bleak out there. It's bleak out there. Yo, you're in second grade. There's stuff to do. But sometimes we look at the head and we just like, it's impossible. And and I'm the wisest person around. So I can see this. And so I know what we gotta do. We gotta do something different, right? Paul is saying d don't drop out. There's a lot to do. But but Take some time with some sober judgment, right? Some honest introspection, some diagnostics, and then plug away Plug away in the thorns and thistles because we have a creation to tend to, a kingdom of God to explore and to multiply. And that's why we're waiting for this Bl blessed hope, right? He's he says, waiting for our blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ, who gave himself to redeem us from all lawlessness and to purify for himself a people of his own possession who are zealous for good works. When we take that look and we know where we were and we know our Savior, we can look forward to that hope and move toward it. And all that he has for us, right? Paul's advice isn't think deeper, man. Run Faster, work harder, pray more. He's saying grace has appeared for salvation for all All people. Good God's goodness and kindness. Because after all, we are saved by works. But it's Jesus' works, right? We we aren't just saved by his good feelings or love for us. Oh those are those are true, right? We're saved because he achieved everything. His record was perfect, right? He did it all. He hoped perfectly, lived perfectly, prayed perfectly Was perfectly obedient, rebuked perfectly, was mad perfectly. And he gives that all to us And so he gives you that MVP parking spot, employee of the month. Like you get that because he did a good job. And you get to park there, right? It's good news for us today. His achievements. We give him what? Our failures. Our debts. Our mistakes. He takes all that of us. I was doing premarital counseling one time and the couple was sitting there and and um we were talking about money and the uh soon to be wife said she wanted to keep the checking account separate. And this was very frustrating to the soon to be husband and and so she was explaining, well it's because I have debt that I'm bringing to the marriage and I don't want him to worry about it. He's like, I'm already worried about it. What are you talking about? Just give it to me and we'll take care of it together, right? Your debts become my debts, but my getting out of debt becomes your getting out of debt. So we bring our lives and our work to God. Our our work, shoddy, not up to code all the time, riddled with errors But we get his credit by his mercy. We get his craftsmanship. Diligence. We get him And so then he calls us to move in this way, as he's fulfilled the law and all its requirements, as he was perfectly self-controlled, upright and godly, and he redeemed us From the opposite of that. Because he after all died in lawlessness. Right? It was lawless people that could crucified him. They propped up some laws that were not correct, were not real, but they used those very laws that they wanted to fill perfectly to kill Crucify our Savior, a miscarriage of justice that He took willingly to set us free. And now we're free. To do good. We can freely live in freedom. And hope. We have hope for the future. We have hope in the present. And that's what makes it um okay to do this work if we're if your work is going to school, going to class, great. Sometimes it's you know, at home, wiping bottoms and making lunches and shuttling Kids around, sometimes our actual jobs, right? And what we're doing is we're pushing back the darkness that ever creeps toward us. Pushing back the darkness. To bring shalom to the world. God shalom to the world. That could be in our small tasks, writing code, crunching numbers, mopping floors, washing dishes, dusting shelves In in the normal everyday life where we're not a rock star, we give to the Lord our our work like these chores things, right? not to earn favor because we love the master. And there is coming Someday an eternity of blessedness with Jesus, ultimate fullness in every way, perfectly manicured lawns. Right? We will all be the lawn guy. And the new you for each of us will be fully realized, and it'll be better than we could ever imagine. It's one of our promises we have because we're heirs. We we get to inherit it. This whole earth perfectly restored as made new. And we have that redemptive grace and that resurrection power now only in Christ. Because our God works to save us. So you are the light of the world. A city on a hill cannot be hidden, nor do people light a lamp and put it on Under a basket but on the sand, and it gives light to all the house. In the same way let your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works, and give glory to your God, your Father who is in heaven And we remember our key verse. Hebrews 6 19. We have this as a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul, a hope that enters into the inner place beyond the curtain, where Jesus has gone as a forerunner on our behalf. That's our hope. Amen. And we have a few ways to respond. The first is to take some moments in silence Listening to the Holy Spirit about what he might be saying to us. Let's do that now. We also have Lord, we confess that we are debtors in need of your grace. May your Grace bind our con wandering hearts to you because we are prone to wander. If you have prayed that prayer in faith, then you know that you're a sinner, God saves sinners. That's what we've just been talking about. We have this as a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul, a hope that enters into the inner place beyond the curtain where Jesus has gone as a forerunner on our behalf, having become a high priest. Forever. Your sins are forgiven, your dignity is restored, your shame is taken away, all by the life and sacrifice of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. At the time of the banquet he sent his servant to say to all those who are invited, friend, your spot at the table is set. He has made a place for you. Thanks be to God. Amen. And let's take the time Christian, what do you believe? I believe in God the Father Almighty, Maker of Heaven. I believe in Jesus Christ, his only Son our Lord, who was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate Was crucified, died, and was buried, into hell. Today he rose again from the dead. He ascended to heaven and is seated at the right hand of the I believe in the Holy Spirit, the Holy Catholic Church, the communion of saints. The forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting. Amen. If you have prayed that prayer or confessed That creed in good faith, if you can say these words however imperfectly, then this table is for you.