As he comes. I was reminded of the fact that uh w when we were born, uh for the most part, unless you were adopted, uh your parents simply received you. They did I didn't choose you. Um I didn't choose my three children. They each just came to me. I got what I got. But when I got married, I got what I chose So when we when we pray for God's guidance, God's leading uh as you choose a a a a a pastor to be. Uh y you just got me. Stan called me up one day and he said, Carl would you fill in? Uh and that's that's how you got me. Uh no nobody chose me except Except for Pastor Stan. He said, I I need somebody to come in behind me. But pray pray for this process as a congregation. the search committee has been really uh faithful in doing their work. But the best fit is what the congregation does It's what you choose. It's the right fit. It's not the question of is this person a qualified person? Does this person preach a sermon? Does this person do this or that? The question that you will address is is this God's fit for us as a congregation? Pray for that. Pray for the for the questions that you ask and that he asks. Pray for the dynamic and the interaction. uh that God would be pleased in bringing his person at his right time. That is the reality that we pray for So I just want to remind you of that as we uh draw near the next couple weeks to that. In preparation for reading this morning, I I want to uh Say what you all know, and that is uh we are moving into the last week as we anticipate uh Easter Sunday. Uh w this morning we are looking with the uh palm branches that are in the back, we're looking at that entry into Jerusalem. On Friday, we will have a Good Friday service. It'll be a different service, probably, for many of you. A service in which we will speak to each other by reading Scripture. It will be basically a service of silence and reflection. We'll probably have uh one hymn. When we finish, we will simply go out in darkness. Uh this is a service that has actually been used in the church since about the seventh century. So it's a very old service. And if we had stone cold, stone walls, maybe we would feel the starkness even more. But the whole significance of Good Friday is to feel To experience, to worship God, recognizing it's in the starkness of our own need, of our own failings. that Christ went to the cross. If you've not already been contacted by Joan, you will be. And if you um uh don't uh then you contact her. We are looking for about uh thirteen or fourteen readers. We will read through a section uh of the Gospel of John and we will read to each other. So I would like uh it's my prayer, my desire, uh that uh there be somebody from as many of our family unit as well. as we can pop possibly have. Maybe children, uh it may be uh dad, it might be mom. If you represent your own family unit, be there Have a part of that so that we can speak to each other the truth of God. So I just want to encourage you to think about that, prepare your hearts for that. It's not going to be a long service, but it's a service in which we together uh take God's word, speak it into each other's heart, and speak it before God. Anticipate that on Friday. I look forward to I've had the privilege of going through this uh what's called a tenebrae service uh a number of times uh in my life, and I appreciate it. I hope it will be meaningful to you. This morning we're going to look at um two portions of scripture. Uh I haven't forgotten about the fact that But uh I said we were going to be camping out in Romans chapter twelve for a few weeks, but I'm gonna read from John chapter twelve. Not Romans chapter twelve, but John chapter twelve And uh I'm also going to be reading from Romans chapter twelve. I want to take these two texts and pull them together. I hope you'll understand. So I want you to ask, I want to ask you to turn your Bibles to John chapter 12, and we will begin reading at verse 12, and I'll ask you to stand as we read the Word of God. John chapter twelve. And remember that the background of this is that um Jesus has healed. Lazarus. He has not just healed him, but he raised him from the dead. And everybody was amazed as they were coming to Jerusalem to celebrate The Passover. Here is the word of the Lord. The next day, the large crowd that had come to the feast heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem. Jerusalem. And so they took branches of palm trees, went out to meet him, crying out, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the king of Israel. And Jesus found a young donkey and sat on it, just as it was written: Fear not, daughter of Zion, behold, your king is coming, sitting on a donkey's colt. His disciples did not understand these things at first. But when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered. They remembered that these things had been written about him and had been done to him And the crowd that had been with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead continued to bear witness. The reason why the crowd went to meet him was that they had heard he had done this sign. So the Pharisees said to one another, You see that you're gathering nothing. Look, the world has gone after him. It's the word of the Lord. May God be praised. Let's pray. Father, would you come again as you came on a young colt, a young donkey? So, Father, would you walk into our hearts today, into our midst today, that we might know truly how to honor you, how to give glory to you And walk through us into the world. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You may be seated. The question that really comes when we come to this text, uh and we We we read about the people laying down their their coats and bringing palm branches and I'll guarantee you this is the Uh and there are a lot of different kinds of palm branches, so I don't know if it was a date palm that they were waving or uh you know, just what kind of palm it was, the text doesn't say. But uh in any event there was probably a lot of rubble on the street by the time Jesus got by And the question before us is what was the nature of their thoughts, of their words, as they brought them in? front of Jesus, along with their palm branches. I want us to think this morning about honor. We're going to take this text and then we're going to uh pivot a little bit and look also at uh at the twelfth chapter of Romans, uh because both are woven around the idea of honor Honor is first of all in this text concealed. It's not actually revealed. It's concealed. It was concealed in the palm branches. It was concealed in the words that were spoken. It was concealed because there wasn't really honor. To Jesus or to God. Think about it for a moment. Why were people there Well the text told us. The text told us that there was this big hurrah. Jesus was coming. It's the same guy that raised Lazarus from the dead. Wow, I got a scene. This is phenomenal. And so everybody turns out. They were coming to Jerusalem anyway for the Passover. Let's go see Jesus. It was a big event. It was like a concert. Everybody's going. I think I'll go too. So honor was actually concealed in the big hurrah. That's what verse 17 says. Now the crowd that was with him when he called Lazarus from the tomb and raised him from the dead continued to spread the word. What was the word that they actually spread? about Jesus. That he did a miracle or that he was a miracle. That he talked about God or that he was God. That he came just to bring Lazarus life or that he came to bring everyone life? What was it that they talked about when they talked about Jesus? And I want to suggest that primarily the honor, the glory of Jesus was concealed in their very actions. It was hidden. It was concealed secondly in their self joy. They were joyous about it. Yes, they were. They could shout out salvation, salvation now. But what was behind the salvation shout? Was it the sense, I have found my forgiveness in Christ? Christ? Or was salvation the sense of finally there is a leader that even Rome has to deal with? Is there finally this time where we have a leader that our our religious leaders have to recognize? Salvation. We win. Finally we win. So it's very easy to conceal true honor in the sense of winning, in the sense of I'm finally going to be free from the oppression of politics around me. I'm finally going to be free from the oppression of the church. uh of the religion that is around me. The sense of uh I will be free. So honor, the honor for Jesus was hidden behind that. We couldn't really see it. You don't really see it And we can go throughout our world today and find that we often are watching people give glory and honor to something, to some cause, to some movement, but it's not glory to God. We might be happy with it. There's a a concealing third as they almost vote for Jesus. Like i here he comes. Uh normally we expect the king to ride in on a on a horse, a big horse. Uh but this this king is gonna ride well all right, it's a donkey. Uh but at least he's riding, right? This could be our new king. No, they hid it. They hoped, I believe, to prosper I will never forget the day when we were in our small town in Ethiopia, the northern province of Ethiopia known as Eritrea. And uh King Haile Selassie was still living And uh and he came through town with his motorcade. Uh and I want to tell you the town turned out. There was no question that the town turned out out. And he drove in an open Cadillac convertible. And as he sat in the back seat, he had stacks of Ethiopian dollars. And as he came through town, he went, and everybody scrambled for a dollar. And they all shouted and cheered. The same time he was coming through our town, it was one of the worst famines that had ever hit Ethiopia. And he denied it. So when everybody gathered around, they got their dollar. Maybe they got two dollars. And maybe they had their kids scrambling and they got a dollar too. But people were dying while those dollars were being thrown around. What is honor It's so easy to hide honor in our own desires, in what we think is going to feed us. But the text goes on. It doesn't stop with the words of the people. It doesn't stop with the palm branches. It doesn't stop with the coats that were there. The text moves on to Jesus Himself. And it's when we look at That we understand what honor really is. So it wasn't just concealed, honor was actually revealed. Honor is glory. So what gives glory to God? What is going to give glory to what God purposes and does? Look at verse 23. Jesus replied, The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. Was the glory, was he talking about the hour in which everybody was putting their palm branches on the ground? No. He was talking about the hour of suffering. Jesus was to be glorified and suffering. He anticipated the agony of the cross. He anticipated the agony of the cross even when he went to the garden and he prayed, Lord, God, if this could pass from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but yours be done. Verse twenty-six. Look at verse twenty-six. Whoever serves me must follow me, and where I am, my servant will be Also, Jesus was glorified in serving. He served his Father. He said, if you're with me, serve me. So glory and honor was in serving. It was in suffering, it was in serving. It wasn't in waving. We wave. Jesus said, I am glorified in suffering. I am glorified in serving. And third, Jesus is glorified in let me call it seeding the world. Look at verse 24. Truly I tell you, unless a kernel of wheat falls to the ground and dies, it remains only a single seed. But if it dies, it produces many seeds. So who are the seeds? We are the seeds. The glory and the honor of Christ is seeded in us. Because he died, because he suffered, because he served, and so we receive that benefit. He seeded us. His death allows us to live. And God calls us in a unique way to be those seeds. One seed dies, it creates a plant, the plant has more seeds, and those seeds die and give birth and life. That's the analogy that Jesus has used. He was the seed, and he seeded you and me that we might walk forward in God's sake. Now that that is where we find ourselves in John chapter 12. What Scripture does is it doesn't stop there. It picks up this idea of God seeding us, Jesus seeding you, and Jesus seeding me. And so I want you to turn over to Romans chapter 12. I told you we're going to go to both places, and I just want to pick these two together. Look at Romans chapter twelve. We left off last week, or we focused, I should say, last week in first I'm going to start, I'm going to back up and read verse nine. Let love be genuine Abhor what is evil, hold fast to what is good, love one another with brotherly affection. That's what we looked at last week. Outdo one another in showing honor. There's that word again. Honor. Does it mean instead of waving one palm branch you ought to do two? No. Because this may conceal the glory and the honor of God. The question is: what reveals the glory of God in your life and in my life. What reveals it? Do not be slothful, the text goes on, in zeal. Be fervent in spirit, serve the Lord, rejoice in hope, be patient in tribulation. Be constant in prayer, contribute to the needs of the saints, and seek to show hospitality. Bless those that persecute you. Bless and don't curse them. Rejoice with those who rejoice. Weep with those who weep. Live in harmony with one another, and do not be haughty, but associate. with the lowly. In this text we're taught we're taught what we do to give glory to God We we see Christ's glory. Now, how is Christ's glory born in us? It's when we one another the glory of God in Christ. I can't think of any text, any place in Scripture. Where we are commanded to outdo one another. Compete with each other. Except here. Compete with each other in what? In honoring each other. Not in concealing, not in concealing the honor of God, not in concealing the honor of uh of your of yourself Actually, don't conceal the honor of God. What does it mean to honor? I want to open that up just a little bit and suggest that this is about honor being sealed. Now what is a seal? In in ancient history, you you probably know that uh letters of significance were sealed in wax. We still have that today. Uh you'll find it as sort of a foofy thing you know, where I'm gonna send you a card and I'll put a little wax seal on it. And maybe a little heart in it or something like that. Um it it's nice, it's sweet. But uh i in history, the wax seal meant it's authenticated. It comes from someone of high rank. Don't break the seal unless it's for you. And this seal indicates that it's true. It's actually from the person, from the desk, and it is a significant message to you. So there is this sense of a seal. that is there. Sometimes the seal was like a tube. In the early Egyptian era it was actually a tube that was rolled across fresh or soft wax. Then it would harden. Uh later on it got a little more sophisticated. It was like a rubber stamp, you know, where you would just sort of press into it. Again, I I I have too many memories of um being in Africa where uh you needed a rubber stamp. Uh and a rubber stamp was actually what authenticated your organization or what you Well anybody could get a rubber stamp. There was a little guy out on the on uh on the street corner uh with a little stack of uh of flat rubber and a an Xacto knife or a razor blade and you show him a picture of what you wanted to stand for, he'd make you a seal right there. He'd cut it around uh very very precisely he'd cut it uh all of the letters were I mean he'd have to learn how to do it backwards and all. But he was good at it. You give him an hour and he'll give you a rubber seal It was as fake as fake could be. But you could use that rubber seal anywhere. And I did actually, I I I confess, I had to have uh a uh a tax receipt uh of all of the mailing. This is the day is when you you sent mail and you put a stamp on it. Well we sent our prayer letters and we had And we actually accumulated a significant uh cost factor in stamps. But the post office wouldn't give you a receipt. They said your stamp is your receipt. So how do you turn it in So I had to create my own business that said uh uh George Fox stamping and sealing. And I got a seal and it went like that on every receipt. Yeah, it's fake. But it was acceptable. Sometimes we do the fake thing. Sealed God seals his honor in you. You and I are not to be faked. God's presence is to be rolled in our lives. And what is His presence Remember what it was? What was it that Jesus did? It was a sacrifice. It was a service. And that's now what we come to when we come to this text and say, listen, outdo one another in showing honor. Outdo one another. Rejoice, pray, give. Verses twelve and thirteen remind us. each other in other words. Verses 14 and 16. Bless each other. Associate That's not too hard to do, is it? As long as we associate with people that we like, and as long as we associate with people that we feel show us honor But that's not what it's talking about. It's talking about associating and blessing those that would otherwise seem to give us dishonor Don't look for higher friends. Look for those who need friends. Look for those who need to be built up and lifted up. That's what God said. says suffer wrongs received. Suffer needs unmet. Beloved, don't revenge yourself, but leave it to the wrath of God. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay. What's that about? What that's about is I often suffer. I have been put down. Jesus says, that's fine. It's not yours to pay it back. Pay it back with befriending Pay it back with honor. Don't pay it back with vengeance. Receive the pain. Receive the grief, receive the loss. If you put this together, it's where we find the work and the presence of Christ. He died for us that we might have life. He took our pain on him. The redemptive part of honor is often in receiving the pain of others. How do we receive that. How do we receive it humanly speaking? I understand how God did it, but how do how do we do it? How do we one-another each other on this? How do we outdo it? The only way that I know to understand it is uh is to give you an example. Comes out of out of our lives. Together. Our youngest son Jesse spent many, many Sundays working in the slums of Nairobi. And he would work in areas where, you know, if they played soccer, there was no field. It was a cess field, a cesspool. It's where all of the Yeah. Everything from the city of Night Ruby drained out as it went down into the river. That was the only place you could find That's where he went. Uh and and he was known by uh a man who was discipling him and working with with him. He was given a name that was um uh called Brethi. Uh it was the name preacher. Uh in high school he would spend time with some of his friends down there and tell Bible stories. Speak about the love of Christ. The kids that he played with were dead by the time They were eighteen. He slept in their home. What was their home? A little tin shack buried in the middle of the slums Little tin shacks that were no more than maybe a nine by nine room. There wasn't enough room for four kids in the nine by nine room, especially when they were teenagers. So the boys slept outside under the eaves. of this little tin shack. And where are you going to put a visitor? Huh? Up here with us. We'll sleep together under the eave And I watched as Jesse bore the shame, the pain of poverty. Some years later, as his friends died, were killed. the pain of the slum environment. He looked at God and he said, if you're a powerful God, why do you do this? And he has struggled with that until today. Here's the lesson I want you to see. When you bear someone's pain, when you have walked in their shoes. When you have felt their story, when their poverty has bit you in the stomach The tendency is to turn to God and say, Why? Can I trust you? If you've done it To these? And the only answer that we have is to recognize that that's what Christ did for us. He took my pain. He was my pain-bearer. He was not only my sin bearer, he was my pain-bearer. He was my shame-bearer. And to honor my Jesus, he needs to roll his seal in my life. That I like him might be willing to bear the shame, the pain, the rejection of his people. And in so doing, the glory of Christ will be rolled out into a world of pain and hurt. It's the honor of God. We're going to celebrate that vicarious suffering of Jesus. Again on Friday, where Jesus was rolled into a tomb. His disciples disciples wondered in pain. Friday was not yet the day of celebration. Friday was simply the day of pain. I want to encourage I encourage you this week to feel the pain of the world around us. Feel each other's pain. Understand what it is, the pain of The pain of the mind, the pain of poverty, of pocket? What is it that keeps us from the fullness of life? Reflect on that with your eyes upon Jesus, who took all of that that we might have life and might might be the seed of life because we reflect his life in our lives. May it be. May God's honor not be hidden, but may God's honor be revealed and sealed in Us. Let's pray. Father, would you come to us? Roll your grace upon us. Stamp that grace and that glory in our lives. That we might be your letter delivered. to a world that's authenticated because of what you've done in us and for us Father, we think of those that we've perhaps walked with and we have no answer. Why they experience crushing And we not. Would you show us some that we ought to walk with even this week? We might walk with them, that we might love them as you in Christ loved us with sacrifice, with service. So Father, open our hearts in prayer. Open our hands in joy. Open our lives as the evidence of your great work of suffering for us. Thank you, Father. Thank you for your word. Thank you for the season that we have To remember again the power, the depth of your great love for us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.