Good morning. It is indeed a good thing when brothers and sisters gather together before the presence of our holy God to worship him and to hear from his word. Paul greets his church that he loves so dearly. We saw the greeting last week and this morning we begin looking at the body of the letter that Paul is addressing to the church. in Corinth. And we're reading from 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verses 4 to 17. If you're able, will you please stand with me and let us honor the reading of God's Holy Word this morning. I give thanks to my God, always for you, because of the grace of God that was given you in Christ Jesus. That in every way you were enriched in him in our speech and our knowledge, even as the testimony about Christ was confirmed among you So that you are not lacking in any spiritual gifts as you wait for the revealing of our Lord Jesus Christ, who will sustain you to the end, guiltless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. God is faithful, by whom you were called into the fellowship of His Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. I appeal to you, brothers and sisters. By the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that all of you agree and that there be no divisions among you, but that you be united in the same mind and in the same judgment. For it has been reported to me by Clois people that there is quarreling among you, my brothers. What I mean is that each one of you says, I follow Paul, or I follow Apollos. Or I follow Cephas, Aramaic for Peter. Or I follow Christ. Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul? I thank God that I baptized none of you except Christmas and Gaius, so that no one may say that you are baptized in my name. I did baptize also the household of Stephanus. Beyond that, I do not know whether I baptized anyone else. For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel. And not with words of eloquent wisdom, lest the cross of Christ be emptied of his power. The word of the Lord. God, we gather before your presence this morning, not to hear the words of a man that stands before you, who is broken and frail. But we gather before your presence to hear your word, your very word, given for us. Would you now, by the power of the Holy Spirit, open our hearts and minds that we may hear? That we may understand, that we may believe. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen. Please be seated. Again, it is a good thing when brothers and sisters gather together in his presence to worship. It is a great blessing that God has given to his church. And the one thing that God has given to his church, as we know and as we saw last week in the book of 1 Corinthians, is this a great diversity. That God has blessed us in so many ways that we all sit here together as one people and yet we think differently. That each one of us, if I was to pick a topic and try to address it, each one of us would have a very different view and very different way of looking at that same particular topic. That we prefer different things, that some of us who sit here don't like contemporary music, and that's okay. And some of us love traditional services. We would rather sing the hymns of the of our great saints that have gone on before. Some of us would love to see a a high liturgical service and others would like to see a more contemporary service. And that's okay. But that we're also gifted in different ways. That if we were to take a research this morning to try and find out the many gifts we have in this church, we would be overwhelmed and excited To see the blessings of God in umbits. Some of us love mercy. Some of us are good at teaching Some of us are good at working with their hands. Some of us are so wise and when they speak, we just want to listen to them as they speak to us. They are blessed with words of encouragement That we're a gifted church. But that we're also a passionate people, people that are passionate about so many different things. I love football, the real football, not American football, soccer. Some of us are so so excited about evangelism. We just want to see the church go out there and witness and bring many to Christ. Others are so enthusiastic and excited about music. We want to see our music grow and become the best that we could ever think of. Others are excited about children. They want to see our children's ministry grow. Others are excited about so many other things that we could talk. For days on and on. Diversity And yet we may ask ourselves, so despite all of those differences, and yet we gather together as a people of God, how can we pursue, how can we maintain unity despite all of our differences How can we avoid this which happens in our churches and happens in our lives every day because we are sinful people? And it is this. That we tend to gravitate towards those who are like-minded as we are. That I would rather reach out in fellowship and be close to the person that has the same interests and values and goals in life That we would want to be drawn closer to those who have charisma or a great personality or a great style, that this is the style of this particular Particular group or this particular person, that's what I like, and that's where I'm gonna go, to the exception or to the exclusion of others. How then, I may ask this morning, can we focus on that which is important, which is unity in Christ, and avoid the peripheral matters that create division. and form cliques and form groups and form uh uh uh purchasing, if you will, groups in the church as the church in Corinth is experiencing. How do we do so For Paul, it is easy and yet deep. For us to maintain unity, we must keep Christ as the core of everything that we do. And so in verses 4 through 9, it begins to show the church at Corinth. That I need you to pursue, I need you to maintain unity. Why? Because your unity is evidence of God's grace that we that is in you Your unity, our unity is evidence of God's grace that is in us. Look at verses 4. As 4 begins to But notice that Paul is not simply giving thanks to the qualities or the things that the church has. Paul is giving thanks to God for the church in Corinth. He's giving thanks not for their faith and love that they have as Paul is accustomed to do. But is giving thanks for what God's grace has done in them in them. That the focus of Paul's thanksgiving is this It is the gracious deed that the Lord has done in you, and not the qualities that I find in you. There may be there, but not in anything that you have done in yourself, or you may possess in and of yourself But because of what Christ has done and what has Christ done to this church as we saw last week. Remember, the Corinth life was a s was a life of fornication and prostitution These are the people that have been drawn from a life of pagan idolatry into the church of Jesus Christ. And he's giving thanks to God for the grace that has been poured among them Save them from their fornication and pagan idolatry and every form of sin that they have been living, and they are now declaring and confessing Jesus Christ to be their Lord and Savior. I give thanks for you For what God has done in you. Paul is basically pointing out the validity of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the message that Paul had preached in their lives. began having an impact in them and they have been saved and now they're bearing witness and that witness is being confirmed in those who have believed and become a part of the church The results of the message, verse 7, is that they are lacking in no spiritual gifts. What that means is not because it's not like oh you have every gift, one person has all the gifts. No It is that you are blessed with all kinds of spiritual gifts. All sorts of spiritual gifts can be found in your congregation, in where you are. In fact, he goes even further. That you exceed more than the other people. You're exceeding in the gifts that God has done and given to you, but not so with love. Not so in the in the way that you're speaking and your knowledge is not matched. With your love for the community, for those that are around you. Do you notice Paul singling out these two gifts of knowledge and speaking? Which are the two gifts that this church seems to be so prideful? Of their boasting of their gifts of speaking and knowledge. Yet, this enriching of spiritual gifts for Paul, he's wanting the church to look to the future, not just what they are seeing, the grace of God that is now. But the enriching of your gift is actually an assurance, a foretaste of what the good that is yet to come. You think you've seen the best? Wait until Christ returns and you see what God has in store for you. Because on the day of the Lord you can be assured you will stand before God blameless, for He is the one who uh who has taken all of your sins And he's the one who sustains you. That Christ has won the decisive battle for you by his death and resurrection, and yet the war still rages on, drags on. And then we see a reputation here. Can you count how many times Christ Jesus So Jesus Christ is repeated. For the first ten verses, ten times, he repeats Jesus Christ, Christ Jesus. Why? Because Paul wants to show us. Paul wants the church to see us The centrality of Jesus Christ in our unity. That is central to our unity. And every time saying in Christ, it means that we have to experience, just like I mentioned The the what the what theologians call the the the already and the not yet. It's this eschatological tension that we experience in our lives Whereby we understand when we know by God's grace He's already showed to us that we've been redeemed, that we've been saved from sin, from the bondage of sin, and yet we still find ourselves struggling with sin. Yet we still die, and yet we still are in need of being transformed into the likeness, into the image of Jesus Christ. Paul is saying, Look, you can experience the spiritual gifts that have that Christ has given you now. But there is more, immeasurably more than you could imagine that you're about to experience when Christ returns. Paul is not criticizing their gifting Is he? He's not saying, how could you be gifted in speaking and knowledge? No, Paul is criticizing their misuse of the gifts that Christ has given to them. That they're using their gifts not for the good, not for the good of building the church, but for their own self-assertion, as a status symbol, as a competitive division. That's what they're doing. Why? Because we know Because we are gifted people and we know how gifted people tend to think. Gifted people tend to think that they are cut above everyone else. And that's a problem Paul wants to focus and emphasize the giver of the gifts. Paul wants the church to look to God who gives freely to all. Gifting you with knowledge and speaking at everything that you have. He's warning the church against what's called triumphalism. He's warning the church: don't begin boasting about your giftedness. Looking down upon others that might might not exceed in your gifting as you have. Don't look at your brother and your sister and put them down because they're not as gifted as you are Because you're waiting for the revealing of our Lord Jesus Christ, and it's not happened yet. So don't do that. Paul is asking the church and asking us to consider that we are called into a fellowship of faith in Christ Jesus. That this is the place, God's grace, this is the place where we're reckoned to be righteous by God. This is the place where we're reconciled in Him through His death and resurrection And that is true of us as a whole. That is true for us as a corporate body of Jesus Christ. And that it is also true for us individually that Christ has called each one of you from your sin, but that we neglect the corporate aspects of it. That the church is the fellowship of his son, of Jesus Christ. You know, Paul, as he uses this word fellowship, koinonia, it doesn't mean what we would like it to mean. Because we would like it to mean that we are drawn or we we have fellowship or gathering of the a like-minded people like we are. It is not Fellowship here means a communal participation. It is a status of being in Christ Jesus or being shareholders, if you will, like in a company, of a sonship that is derived from the sonship of Jesus Christ Himself. It is sharing life with Christ, not merely enjoying one another's company. That's great. But we have a bigger thing to share, and that's Christ Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. That the way for us to demonstrate that we have fellowship in Jesus, that the way for us to show, to have evidence that we have fellowship in and with Jesus Christ is by having fellowship with one another, with those who belong to the house of faith. Why? Because we have the same Father The same Son and the same Holy Spirit who works in us. Our confidence, therefore, Paul says in verses nine, is not in anything that we do. As he elsewhere says in Titus chapter two, verses fourteen and and following. Our only confidence can be in God's faithfulness, for He is the one who has called us into fellowship with Himself. It was His initiative, not our own liking, not our own choosing. And that the calling of every believer, of you, of me, of us, is to be in fellowship in Christ and not division. And then secondly, Paul gives us the pattern of what our unity looks like. What is the pattern of our unity? And that's that's what we see from verses 10 through 11. That our unity means The whole together, not parts of the whole. Our unity means the whole together, not parts of the whole. Paul uses one of his favorite words that he uses in all of his epistles. I appeal to you, brothers and sisters. That language is not some kind of a military command that is to be followed, but it's actually a very tender encouragement to be acted upon And the the appeal to unite in the name of Christ means this. I want you, church, to unite not because of anything that you have. I want you to agree, not for anything that you have, but for the sake of what Christ is and what he has done in your life. He says, all of you agree. You know the Greek they actually mean speak the same thing. I want you to speak the same thing. That's what Paul is saying. Really? Speak the same thing? Does that mean that we should not have any disagreements and how we should run our ministry? Does that mean that we shouldn't have a difference of opinion? Of course not. That's not what Paul is saying. Paul is not saying that you cannot have a difference of opinion, that you cannot disagree on how things should be run and all of that. Paul is saying that you speak the same thing or the same mind in terms of our core beliefs. Who is Jesus Christ? Who is God? What is salvation? What do we truly believe Believe about him and what he has done for us in our lives. It means agreeing that we are all in fellowship with the same Jesus Christ. It means that we agree that we all belong to one God and to one another We may disagree. But every time we disagree and take Christ out of it, you know what we're saying? We are calling our brother and our sister and telling them that they are out of fellowship or away from the fellowship of the body of Jesus Christ. We cannot do that. We cannot allow our differences to become greater than Christ who unites us. We cannot Then he says you'll be perfectly united in thought and mind. What is Paul talking about? In thought and in mind. Paul is saying this. You know, that language actually has been used elsewhere in Matthew chapter 4, verses 21. If you remember the story, as Jesus is actually approaching Matthew and uh John and sorry, James and John. They're mending their nets that are broken, that they're that are torn, that trying to put them to restore something into its right condition. That's the language that's being used of mending nets And remember, what is going on here at the church in Corinth is not schism. It's not like a theological controversy or anything like that. It's dissension. It's cliques. It's people wanting to be a part of someone that they that they think is better than the other. They were internal conflicts. They were still gathering together in worship together. But there were splits. There was a tear in a garment that needed to be put back together. You know, when I was reading this it actually took me back to the days when I was young and and when we used to wear uniforms going to school And my mom would always tell me these uniforms are really expensive so when you go to school, I want you to go, when you're done with school, come back home and change from your little blue pants and nice white shirt because I don't want them to get torn. Because they're expensive, I'll keep buying them. Of course me being me, forget. So I go play and then tear my shorts and my my shirt and then when I c I come home my mom is mad at me And so she has to put patches on my shorts. She has to sew them and put them back together. That's what Paul is saying. There should be no ripping apart of the clothing of your community. Don't do it. But you are supposed to be knit together in mind and thought. It doesn't mean that we have the same musical taste. It doesn't mean that we belong to the same political party. No way. But it means this that we are all solidly united about Jesus Jesus Christ that there is no room for division. The quarrels that Paul is talking about here, you might think that they're just mere uh uh uh Differences in opinions. Absolutely not. The language in the Greek there is actually some ugly rivalry that is self-centered, that stems from self-centered opinions Paul is saying there should be nothing. Verse 11, like that in your life. Church, we like to fight over small matters. We like to fight over peripheral matters that don't matter at all. Things that are have a lot to do with our preferences, with our personal issues. Over our own traditions that we think are so important. Why? Just so that we may win, just so that we may have our own way, not to build the Church of Christ. And you know when this happens? You know how this happens? It always happens when we replace Christ as the center core of what should unite us. It always happens when we replace Christ as the fabric that brings and binds us together as a family of God. Oh, how I pray for the church. Or how I pray that we would turn our eyes to Jesus so that the things of this world may strangely become dim every single day of our lives. We are not told about the four groups that Chloe's family mentions here, but we can speculate what the groups were all about. We can speculate how they came to be about. Why? Because we know this man. We're told about them in scripture. We know about Apollos, the I believe scholar, preacher. The man who is so brilliant as a Jewish scholar who comes from Alexandria, Acts 18. Maybe the people who gravitated around him were the people that were most educated members because they loved his rhetorical speech making. We know about Peter, the spokesperson of the twelve, the men who had spent twenty years of his mission to the Jews, maybe the traditionalists, Galatians 2, the ones who did not want to invite and and allow the Gentiles to become part of this. Church. We know about Paul. He planted this church. He's the spiritual father of this church. Maybe the ones who gravitated to him were the ones who were saying, But Paul, you are my spiritual father. You are my hero. I can't go to anybody else. What about those who even claim that they belong to Christ? Goodness gracious, we find it difficult to even talk about them because we all belong to Christ But they might be the people that Paul is addressing in in First Corinthians twelve. The ones who are claiming that we got our spiritual gifts from the reason Christ directly from him. We are better than all of you. We are more superior. We're the spiritual elite. To the exclusion of others, Paul is not attacking anyone of these men, he does not attack Apollos, he does not attack himself or Peter, he's attacking the church. For creating parties, for having cliques. He's saying you cannot be having parties. You cannot be having relying upon a certain leaders to the exclusion of others. He's saying, this is what I'm telling you. The emphasis here is you cannot say I myself belong to Apollos, I myself belong to so and so. All the groups are wrong for following a certain leader. They're using the human name so highly and God's name so lowly. Because, truth be told, We do the same thing in our churches, trying to cultivate divisions when we cluster ourselves, around one minister, around one elder, around one deacon. And the sad thing is that we, I, as a pastor, I am as guilty of doing that as we all are. And as a friend of mine reminds me that the unity must begin with the leadership. A friend of mine says, as the king goes, so do the people. So church, let me get real I want you to like me. I want you to love me. I want you to appreciate me. I want you to think of me as a good pastor, awesome pastor, make me the best. There's nothing wrong with me wanting to be loved, is there? You don't want to be loved But I ask you to forgive me. Forgive me. Forgive me for where In my preaching, in my sharing with you, in my talking to you, in anything that I have done since I've been here, where I have completely failed to point you to to Jesus Christ and I've only pointed attention to myself that you may like me. Please forgive me. This unity is incompatible with the centrality of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Yes, it is incompatible. We cannot be divided because we belong to the same Christ, who is the head of the church that He has made. That we're called to have unity together and not creating faculty actions, not individualism, because as we know, enmity in the body of Christ can be especially, especially painful Man, I can run a whole paragraph for telling you what could happen when we remain disunited. And I'll just mention a few things here That when we allow this unity to happen in our lives and in the in the life of the church, we are beginning to count and to look at our brothers and our sisters and as as the enemy and not the real enemy. That we spend so much of our time and energy. Fighting one another. And we forget about fighting the enemy that is against us. That we begin to plant seeds of hatred and resentment in our own hearts. Instead of loving one another, that we give a false testimony to the world that's looking around us, that a church is divided when we're supposed to be one. We reduce We are reducing our effectiveness to evangelize to the world when we remain united. We're preventing ourselves from associating with one another, from loving one another. From being in fellowship. And don't you remember God's word and the blessings that come upon people of God when they're gathered together in unity? We don't want to grow. Why would we do that? Our discretion, church, our disagreement. It's okay to disagree, but don't let our disagreement become self-censored. Don't let your self-interest be a part of that. Don't let our disagreements and what we we might not agree become the center stage of our lives. No. Christ must be the center of our lives. Keep it that way Paul's cure for these clicks and this split is a theology of lordship of Christ and His cross. That is enough. We don't need anything else. Which brings us to a third and final point. Which is this? There has to be a foundation to all unity. And that foundation can only be Jesus Christ For us to achieve unity, we must be founded on Christ. Look at the questions that Paul is asking here. Is Christ divided? Has Christ You know, was Paul crucified for you? Verse 13. Were you baptized in the name of Paul? Paul is saying this. You want to know what the foundation of your unity is? It is Christ. It is Him crucified and it is your baptism into Him. Christ, Him crucified, and your baptism into Him. That question is so passive when he asks is Christ divided. He's asking, can you even envision that Christ is a portion divided into small pieces and then they're sprinkled into the different groups that you claim to belong to? Absurd. Christ Church is one, it is one body, and it must remain so as Christ is one. These people are so wise. They're so wise that they've forgotten the sensuality of the cross of Christ. And the wonder Paul asks another absurd question: Was I crucified for you? Or was crucified, or was Christ crucified for you and you and everyone else who belongs in the family of God? Our allegiance is not in the one who baptizes us Our allegiance is in Christ. It is Him that we're baptized into His name. Paul is saying, I'm not trying to create some mystic relationship With those that I'm baptizing. If I'm baptized, actually Paul did not baptize a whole ton of people he says he doesn't. He was preaching the gospel. Paul was not trying to create that kind of a relationship with those that he baptized. But he's saying this. Baptism is a great thing, yes it is. But the greatness of baptism does not depend on the one that baptizes you But it depends on the on whose name you're baptized in. The name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Paul is saying baptism and preaching, put them together. I'm not trying to give you a contrast between the two But I'm trying to tell you this. It doesn't matter who preaches, it doesn't matter who baptizes you. Not when they draw attention to themselves. What matters is Christ. What can a preacher and you feel free to answer me this as loud as you can what can a preacher accomplish with eloquent speech if he fails to draw you to Christ? Cleverness of words was not Paul's business, and it shouldn't be my business. My business is to point you to Jesus Christ. Because my cleverness will only work to nullify the cross of Christ. Because if everything I did, if everything I preached depended on my own cleverness, on my own sophistication, on my own achievement that I can achieve on my own, then what does that make of the cross of Christ? What does that make of the grace that God gives us through His Word? It empties it. I cannot rely. On my wisdom. I cannot rely on my own cleverness. I cannot rely on telling you and preaching to you that which tingles your ears, that what you that that what you want to hear every day. I cannot rely on that. Because it only goes as deep as touching the surface, but it never goes into people's hearts. If you're only going to be persuaded by the things that I say. If you're only going to be persuaded by my own philosophical and exegetical wit, the crucified Christ will not persuade you. Church, Christ wants us to remain in Him. He is the focus of everything that we do. He is the firm foundation on which our unity must be built. So where do we go from here? What do we do? Now that we're now that we know the evidence Or rather, our unity is evidence that God's grace is alive in us. Now that we have a pattern of what that unity looks like, now that we have a foundation on that unity, where do we go? There is no room for personalities in the cross, in the in the Church of Christ. There is no room for clicks in the Church of Christ. There is no room for devices, disagreements. There's no room. There's only room for one thing. There's only room for Christ. My prayer for you this morning and for me Is that by God's grace we will submit to one another in humility? Treat each other as families. And we can only do that if we cr if we keep Christ as the main focus. So here's my prayer with you. You can pray with me if you'll Like Jesus prayed this for you in John 17. Holy Father, keep them in your name, which you have given me. That they may be one even as we are one. The glory that you have given me, I have given to them, that they may be one even as we are one. I in them and you. in me, that they may become perfectly one, so that the world may know that you sent me and loved me, even as you love me. May that be true of us, Lord Jesus, we pray. In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen.