You might recall that we've uh already looked at two sermons from The book of Proverbs, chapter twenty-seven, and both of those two sermons were about friendship and we talked about our friendship and how we view God as as our friendship. As a better or greater friend. And then we talked about our friendship with one another as we talked about rebuking each other. Today we're looking at one more verse and I promise it's the only it's the last verse from chapter twenty-seven of Proverbs. And you will feel as if we're going back to those two uh sermons that we that we talked about friendship because it has a a similar motive, it has a similar feel to it. And I think chapter 27 is really all about uh friendship. So this morning we're reading from Proverbs 27. We're only reading one verse. So would you please stand as we honor the reading of God's word from Proverbs 27, verses 14. The wise king says, Whoever blesses his neighbor with a loud voice, rising early in the morning, will be counted As cursing. Father, would you help us this morning as we come before your presence to hear your word? Open our hearts, open our ears that we may be able to hear you. Help us to understand the things that you're teaching us from your word. And let us be obedient to it. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. You may be seated The culture of politics in the world, some might argue is all the same. Politics are the same, right? Everywhere But there's something else we can also notice when you talk when when you look at the world and realize that every country has its own culture, its own way of doing things. And so even when it comes to politics, there are certain things that are very unique about America. There are things that are very unique about Kenya. There are things that are unique about China. and every other country. And so wherever you go or if you watch T V and see elections in a different country or just simply politics, you realize that it's a little different from what you're used to So I will tell you what I know of. I know of two countries of America where I live, but I also know about my home country in Kenya where politics is a little bit different from how you'd imagine or how you'd think about politics See I like the way we do politics um in America when a politician shows up saying relay to you know make a pitch for a reason why you should elect them or they should be your leader, they will show up and they will tell you their ideology. They will stand up and and take questions from the press or from the community and people will ask them What are you gonna do about the water project? What are you gonna do about the housing? About you know community policing and all of those things. And then it's done. They have given you a reason as to why you should elect them, right? In Kenya it's a little different. When a politician shows up in an event, he basically takes over. He's seen as A sort of a a king, if you will. You see, when a politician shows up at an event, there are people who are always waiting In anticipation for this man to show up. And the moment he stands up, they will rise up and there will be song and dance, they'll be praising this man as if he's already accomplished that which he is about to promise you, even before they hear their i his ideology, even before they hear what he has to say about his life or what he's gonna do in politics They're already singing songs of praise to this man. And you wonder why. Well, actually there are people who are hired to do so. See They made a job out of it. They do it because they have something to gain. Because you see this guy does not even have to make a pitch for his politics, his ideology All he's got to do is just show up and people dance and he joins them and they dance together and then after that he's handing out money and food and clothing and all these things See the people are praising this man or this woman because they know that they have there's something for them to gain. They don't care about the man or the woman. They don't care about his ideology. They don't care what he's gonna do. They're just Exuberant because they know they are gonna gain something. Their praise of this politician is not sincere. Their praise is hypocritical. Their praise is just an over expression of gratitude that really does not exist. It's not genuine. It's not real. See, our passage this morning is telling us that sometimes we can praise people, we can show gratitude In a way that's not right. In a way that we shouldn't do it. A disclaimer about this passage this morning. I think it's very easy for us to read this verse that I've just read and I heard a few moans go go on. And we can ignore it as purposeless, really In fact, some commentators have argued that this is just a light-hearted joke, if you will, that's simply talking about how wrong it is for you to wake your neighbor up, especially if they're not a morning person, with a loud voice. I think we can appreciate the the humorous side of it. We can appreciate the lightheartedness of this passage. But I think if we look deeper into it, I think this passage really does reveal a broader application A more practical lesson that we can learn in our life. And I will say this. I can personally deduce from this passage that It has in it an idea of motive, the motivations of our heart, right? We can all see that. I mean it's not explicit in this text, but we can see it in the sense that if I came to you and did something extravagant, something great. Or if I came to you praising you for who you are and how great you are. I mean all of us would question at first. We would take a step back and ask ourselves, is this person just doing it for themselves or for me? Is there an ulterior motive as to why they are doing this exuberant, this great deed? We all do that at some point. And so because of that I I see a little bit of of of of a motive. Of course it's not the best uh passage. I mean there there are scriptures that we can go to in in terms of looking at what the motivations of our heart are. But I see the idea in there. I think this text, however, is might not particularly be dealing with the motives of our hearts, but the more broad application that we really ought not disregard or be sensitive. Towards other people's needs, even when we're doing something good to them. That's a broader thing. Either way, I think the point that the wise king is trying to make to us Whether you see the idea of the motive or whether you see the broader application of it is that it does matter what we do, or rather, it's it just doesn't matter what we do, but how When and why we do it, even when it's a good thing. So, with that said, let's begin with the obvious in this passage. He begins by saying, whoever blesses His neighbor rising early in the morning. Well blessings are good things, something that we ought to do. Scripture is filled with instances where we're called to praise or to to bless. to bless the Lord our God. And it's something that we ought to do to one another as well. But what exactly does he mean? What is the idea of blessing one another. The Hebrew translation of this word has a range of meanings that we can learn from. And some of them are a bit obvious and others are not as obvious as we would think. But blessing means from the Hebrew kneeling down or bowing down to honor God. And the common uh language that we use is praising God. So praising God is blessing God. But it also has another idea to it as well. As you go through the Old Testament and see God blessing people and providing the idea of provision that God blesses you with good gifts, that God blesses us with good gifts. Also has the idea of gratitude, offering gratitude. When someone does something to you, you bless them, right? You don't bless them by giving them anything, but you bless them by being in gratitude to what they have done to you It also means greeting. And I think some com most of the commentators actually see it that way, especially the ones who are excusing this passage as just merely greeting someone in the morning who is not really a morning person. And so it could mean a greeting when you bless someone you are. Actually saying hello to them. It's a nice way of saying hello to them. I think for a passage, the best way to look at it is to see the double meaning of praise and of provision. And you know the praise we can almost see it right there. Look at the the last word in this passage is talking about blessings and curses. can see the connection between those two, the blessings and the curses. When we bless people, most of the time we use our mouth to bless others. And when we curse, we use, we speak words of cursing. But you can do that with deeds as well, can't you? We can be a blessing to people with things that we do with actions that we do with things that we give people and we can curse people with deeds as well. And so that's why I think Solomon is is having this double meaning to it, if you will. So it's whether you speak or whether you do good deeds. So all throughout as we talk about this passage, I'll be using the double meaning of praise and of provision. But this man that Solomon is talking about, or if it could be you, it could be me, we see someone is heaping praises and adoration to his neighbor. And they're doing it in a certain way. They're not just praising the person for the sake of praising them. They're praising them with a loud voice. What does this mean? Why why does he say that they're praising them with a loud voice? Well, the loudness, I think, implies several things. It implies the intensity It implies extravagance, it implies the magnitude of this person's praise. You know what while it's really our duty to praise one another, to bless one another, It's another thing when you do it so loud, when your thankfulness is done in a manner that seems not right And I think the warning here is that we should not magnify the merit of our friends beyond measure. Do not magnify the merit of someone beyond measure. Because by doing so, you will seem as if you're being insincere. You will seem like those people who dance for the politicians Like you're trying to get something out of it. Why, if you have to do it, are you doing it so extravagantly? Maybe we do it so loud because we hope that the people that we're praising will hear our exaggerated praise and maybe. Maybe they will do more for us. Maybe we will gain more. So if someone has done a good deed to you, if if they've given you something. Maybe you're doing it in that manner so that they can do more. The idea is not for you to be thankful. The idea is that, can you do a look a little more? There seems to be a sinister motive to it. And the praise is again being done in the loudest of voices so that everyone will hear your broadcast. You're trying to drum up support. You're trying to be as loud as you can. You're trying to blow your horn as loud as you can. Placing yourself in a place that's higher than you should. And also placing the recipient of your praise in a place that they don't deserve to be And because of that loudness, because of that loudness of your voice, it really becomes about you and not about being thankful. You're making it all about you and not about being in gratitude towards the one who has done you well. You see the loudness of voice really uh call the attention to the self deadily. When you're trying to be loud you're you're trying to call attention to yourself. You're trying to Have people look at you. You're interrupting. You have no regard for other people. You have no regard for peace. You're self-conceited When we bless others loudly, we turn that which could be a good thing, what could be a blessing to other people. And we ruin it by the loudness of our voices, by calling attention to ourselves. See, by doing it in such a loud voice, we're really missing the point. Because our our blessing or what should have been a blessing now becomes a curse. Praise then becomes just empty flattery. All you're doing is just flattering people. Something that puffs up and breeds pride in our own hearts and in those that we're trying to praise. See if you want to bless someone, if you want to be kind to someone If you want to show gratitude to anybody, the best way to do it, and the how, to answer the question as to how we do it, is to do it quietly. Not with a loud voice. See, gratitude that's given in humility, gratitude that's given in secret, gratitude that's given silently is more acceptable. than an over-expression of it that can seem to be disingenuous. I like what Matthew chapter 6 Verses 1 to 6 says. And I'll read from 2 actually. We'll go back to verses 1 on the next point. Listen to what Matthew tells us. He says, Thus, when you give to the needy, Sound no trumpet before you as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may be praised by others. Truly I say to you, they have received their reward. But when you give to the needy, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing, so that your giving may be in secret, and your father who sees in secret will reward you. And when you pray, you must not be like the hypocrite For they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and at the street corners, that they may be seen by others. Truly I say to you, they have received every word. But when you pray, go into your room and shut the door and pray to your father who is in secret, and your father who sees in secret will reward you. I mean how much more should we ask the Lord to help us, to give us a spirit of humility, right? And gentleness, that when we bless one another, when we praise other people When we do acts of kindness, we do them with sincere hearts, a true and genuine thankfulness. So that's how we bless one another. We do it quietly, and we do it with a sincere heart. Does it matter when we do it? I think someone is saying, yes, it does matter when you do good things to others, when you bless others. And rising up early in the morning is not the way to do it. Regardless of whether you're a morning person or not. Dan shared a joke with me, I think he got it off of Google or something. It said, you know, I would be a morning person if morning started at midday or twelve But it does matter. Timing matters as to when we we bless people, when we do acts of kindness to others. It really does. The author of the great book of Ecclesiastes, who is the author of the book that we're studying this morning, the preacher. Solomon himself says in Ecclesiastes 3 1 and 8, we all know it. There's a time for everything, right? There's a time to be born and a time to die, a time to build, and a time to tear down, and so on and so forth. It matters even when we do good, even when we show gratitude to others. See the unwise person is the one who rises up in the morning To try and do a good deed, to try and bless their neighbor. I mean you can just think about there is so much that's wrong about that phrase, isn't there? There's so much that's wrong with that statement about you waking up in the morning and trying to do a good thing to to your neighbor. Maybe give them coffee, but not try to do a whole lot. It's early in the morning. You can imagine people are still trying to get up. I'm still trying to get up. And before I have my coffee, you probably don't want to talk to me in the morning. But it's not just that. You're doing it with a loud voice. I mean it's not even slow, it's a loud voice. And I think the implication is pretty clear here. We all know it's it's an intrusion. It's rudeness. You're really being rude. It's inconsiderate. It's annoying to say the least. I mean, we can involve all kinds of things about mourning. You think about it, it's calm. It's quiet. Like I said, we're still trying to get up. And it seems that this person just wants to exaggerate whatever it is that they are doing, whether they're praising, whether they're doing acts of kindness. They want to start that early in the morning and maybe, just maybe. The reason why they're starting so early in the morning is so that they can go all the day long It really is an exaggeration of whatever it is that they're doing. Yes, it's a good thing, but they're really going out of their way to exaggerate what it is See the best time to do it, the best time to bless your neighbor, the best time to be kind to others, the best time to show gratitude even to those who have done well to you is to do it when no one is watching. When you're not calling attention to yourself. And again we just read that great passage from Matthew and verses one says, you know, be aware of practicing your righteousness. before other people in order to be seen by them, for then you will have no reward from your Father who is in heaven. And I think this has the idea of us being sensitive. Timing has to do with our sensitivity, being sensitive to other people, caring for their needs. Can you imagine me as a pastor? being asked by uh by the church or by the the elders or even just on my own um being asked to go visit someone in hospital, someone who's undergone like a really major uh surgery And here they are, the doctors have you know said that this person needs their rest. And I show up in the morning, or maybe not even in the morning, but I show up whatever time I show up And I sit there and they're they can barely open their eyes and I'm shooting questions asking them, how was the surgery? How did the doctor do this? Blah blah blah and keep going on and on and on for hours I mean, I'm trying to be a blessing to them. I'm trying to to to go and and and and appreciate them and be there for them as they're they're healing. But the timing is totally off I mean such a visit ought not to take more than ten minutes. All I need to do is be there for them and care for them and and and pray with them And get out of there. I have no business trying to to talk out of their ears for hours. They need some rest. Timing. does matter even when our intentions are good they they can be ruined because our timing is off and I think the whole idea of of of s you know of being um People who are timely in the things that we do and are being sensitive to others also has another aspect to it. And sometimes we really never think about it The fact that perception really is reality. That the things that people perceive from us Are true to the people that are watching. You are not in my mind or my heart to know what I mean when I say something. So sometimes when you say something and it's hurtful to other people or it's just totally off and they say, well or you st you tell them, Well that's not what I meant. Well, to them that's what you meant because that's what you said So our timing has to be right in the sense that we ought to care for other people's needs and be sensitive to them because what they perceive is reality to them because they they cannot tell Not from this side. They can only tell what you have shown to them. So let's be careful. Let's be aware of people's needs and their feelings. Have you ever been a difficult situation where you just called a friend and you wanted to share with them something That was going on in your life that was difficult. Maybe you just wanted to vent. Maybe you did not even expect them to say anything. You would not expect them to give you advice or solution to your problems. All you wanted was just a listening ear And then they just surprised you by saying something that was so timely, something that just w was out of the wall. You you never expect them to say that and it just made things better. It just made you feel better. Maybe it had nothing to do with your problem, but it was just a timely Word that they spoke to you. It wasn't an exaggeration, it wasn't out of pretense, it wasn't it was maybe it was just and I love you, my friend, or I'm praying for you For you and that was enough for you. I think that communicates the power of being timely in terms of caring for others, in terms of being uh thankful to what people have done to us, or doing good good acts to other people. May the Lord help us to be timely with our words, our words of praise and our acts of kindness. And I think no wonder We give him this warning that we just read from Matthew to not care for what people think in terms of our intentions. Don't do your Acts of kindness or praises so loudly that the world may see, do them that our Father in heaven might see our good acts of kindness. See, if we do not pay attention to how and when we say things Or do acts of kindness to others, we really might ruin the good intention that we had. And the wise king here is telling us to be sensitive towards that, to be sensitive towards people, towards their needs. When we bless them. Otherwise they will be counted as blessing. You know the reason why we bless other people in the first place, the reason why we should pay attention to being timely and sincere and and And sensitive. I mean ought to be one thing. I cannot think of any other thing other than being in gratitude to God Himself to Christ and his work that he's accomplished on the cross for our sins, for our life. Because you see on my own, I'm gonna exaggerate anything On my own, I'm gonna fail. On my own, my good intentions will not really be good enough. But if I'm able to look to my God, if I'm able to look to this God who is creator-maker, And realize that he is the one as we sang this morning and spoke through scripture. Who deserves all of our praise? Who deserves for us to wake up in the morning and praise him with our endless praises? Because our praise of Him can never be enough, can it? We can never praise God enough. But if that is what drives me If the gospel of God who's acted in the greatest manner of kindness towards me by taking away my sin, if that is what drives me To appreciate people, to give gratitude to people, then I might get it right. Right? Then my words might be timely. Then my heart might be sincere when I do it. See the reason why I say that is because it's the gospel that shapes Who we are. It's the gospel that shapes how we act towards people. It's the gospel that shapes how we we're sensitive towards people because we know we've received great kindness from God Himself And so we're able to say, as we read this morning with Paul, that I seek not my own good, but the good of my neighbor. So brothers and sisters, the way to be timely, the way to be sincere in our actions is to really live by that gospel is to really live in gratitude to what God has already accomplished on our behalf. I leave you with these words of Paul from Colossians 3, 12 and 15. He says, Or put on as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, compassionate hearts. kindness, humility, meekness, and patience, bearing with one another, and if one has a complaint against another, forgiving each other, as the Lord has forgiven you So you also must forgive, and above all this, put on love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you are called in one body. And be thankful. Let us pray. Father, we thank you for your word this morning. We thank you that it is only you that we can come before you to praise and honor and bless. And yet you've called us to bless each other, to love one another, in humility, with sincere hearts, and in a timely manner. manner. You help us to live as your word calls us to. We pray in Christ's name. Amen