Morning. Our passage this morning is a bit long. Whatever you have on your bulletins has been broken down to chapters nine, verses one to ten and fifteen to twenty-one. But I'll be making reference to the whole chapter. So I would like to ask you kindly if you would turn to you a few Bibles on page 295 and 296. Or if you're using your own personal Bible, turn to 1 Samuel chapter 9. We will read the whole chapter. Reading from 1 Samuel chapter 9, verses 1 to 27. There was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Abel, the son of Zero, the son of Becker, son of Aphiah, a Benjamin, a man of wealth. And he had a son whose name was Saul, a handsome young man. There was not a man among the people of Israel more handsome than he. From his shoulders upward he was taller than any of the people. Now the donkeys of Kish, Saul's father, were lost. So Kish said to his to Saul, his son, Take one of the young men with you, and arise and go look for the donkeys. And he passed through the hill country of Ephraim, and passed through the land of Shalishah, but they did not find them. And they passed through the land of Sha'alim, but they were not there. And they passed through the land of Benjamin, but did not find them When they came to the land of Zuth, Saul said to his servant who was with him, Come, let us go back, lest my father cease to care about the donkeys and become anxious about us. But he said to him, Behold, there's a man of God in this city, and he is a man who is held in honor. All that he says comes true. So now let us go there. Perhaps he can tell us the way we should go. Then Saul said to his servant, But if we go, what can we bring the man? The bread in our sacks is gone, and there is no present to bring to the man of God. What do we have? The servant answered Saul again, here I have with me a quart over shekel of silver, and I will give it to the man of God to tell us away. Formerly in Israel, when a man went to inquiry of God, he said, Come let us go to the seer, for today's prophet was formerly called the seer And Saul said to his servant, Woss, what's that? Come, let us go, so. So they went to the city where the man of God was And as they went up the hill to the city, they met young women coming out to draw water and said to them, Is the seer here? They answered, He is, behold he is just ahead of you. Hurry, he's just come now to the city because the people have a sacrifice today on the high place. As soon as you enter the city you will find him before he goes up to the high place to eat, for the people will not eat till he comes, since he must bless the sacrifice. Afterward those who were invited will eat. Now go out for you will meet him immediately. So they went up to the city. As they were entering the city, they saw Samuel coming out toward them on his way up to the high place Now the day before Saul came, the Lord had revealed to Samuel, Tomorrow, about this time, I will send to you a man from the land of Bijelin, and you shall anoint him to be prince over my people Israel. He shall save my people from the hand of the Philistines, for I have seen my people, because their cry has come to me. When Samuel saw Saul, the Lord told him, Here is the man of whom I spoke to you. He it is who shall restrain my people. Then Saul approached Samuel in the gate and said, Tell me where is the house of the seer? Samuel answered Saul, I am the seer. Go up before me to the high place, for today you shall eat with me And in the morning I'll let you go and will tell you all that is on your mind. As for your donkeys that were lost three days ago, do not set your mind on them, for they have been found. And for whom is all that is desirable in Israel? Is it not for you and all your father's house? So answered, my not a Benjamin. From the least of the tribes of Israel. And is not my clan the humblest of all the clans of the tribe of Benjamin? Why have you spoken to me in this way? Then Samuel took Saw and his young men and brought them into the hall and gave them a place at the head of those who had been invited, who were about thirty persons. And Samuel said to the cook, Bring the portion I gave you, of which I say to you, put it aside. So the cook took up the leg and what was on it and set it before Saul. And Samuel said, See what was kept is set before you eat because it was kept for you until the hour appointed that you might eat with the guest So Saul ate with Samuel that day. And when they came down from the high place into the city, a bed was spread for Saul on the roof, and he lay down to sleep. Then at the break of dawn Samuel called to Saul on the roof, up that I may send you on your way. So Saul rose, and both he and Samuel went out into the The street, and as they were going down to the outskirts of the city, Samuel said to Saul, Tell the servant to pass on before us. And when he has passed on, stop here for yourself for a while that I may make known to you the word of God. The word of the Lord this morning. Please be seated. Just a few days ago I personally, I should say, watched the movie that you probably maybe have seen, Oh God. Have you seen that movie? It's a story that centers on an unassuming supermarket assistant manager, Jerry Landers, that's played by our beloved John Denver Chosen by God. God is played by the comedian George Burns. And God chooses Jay Landers to spread his message despite the skepticism of the media, of course. religious leaders and his very own wife. I couldn't finish watching the movie because I was laughing so hard because it was so biblically wrong. But I did catch a little bit of a conversation that was going on between Jerry Landers and his and and God. God is played by this old and timely man. George Burns, of course. So Jerry says to God, people always are praying to you. Do you listen? God answers, I can't help hearing. I don't always listen. Then Jerry says, so then you don't care. God says, of course I care. What can I do? So Jerry looks confused at this time as God's answers simply don't make any sense. So Jerry said, what can you do? You are God So God answers, only for the big picture. I don't get into details Now this movie is a comedy, and we might laugh about it as we are this morning, but we shouldn't be surprised by that particular message because even in our own lives we tend to think the same way We tend to think that God does not care for the small details of our lives. And all he cares about is the big picture. And he's not involved in our life as we sit here this morning. And so we can't help ourselves but question if God is involved in our lives, especially the very small things, the very mundane, ordinary things, unattractive things in our own lives. And I'm sure you couldn't help reading through this passage today, this morning, as we're reading through chapter 9 of the book of Samuel. To just hear the words and how God is choosing the most unlikely of places. The most unlikely of means to provide a king for his people. And so the first thing I want us to see from verses 1 to 14, we'll take that big chunk together. Is this That God chooses small things in life, in all life, to do his will. The section begins at the book of 1 Samuel started Every time I read this passage, I'm reminded of how the book started in chapter 1, introducing us to a new to a family. And so we encounter this family, and this passage is actually indicating a new beginning Just as everything started off in 1 Samuel chapter 1 with the introduction of Elkanah and his wife was there We're now here going into another section, a new beginning. Because Israel is about to be introduced to their new king that they asked for in chapter 8, as we saw last week. Funny enough, the name that we introduced here of our young man by the name Saul ironically means asked for or requested. What a reminder for God's people to be reminded of their sin of rejecting the Lord God. And here they are with the new king. And then from the genealogy we learn something about his family that Saul is coming from a wealthy family They might be well-to-do family, but they are not holding any significant place in Israel, and we will probably not heal them again. Because that's not the goal. The goal is not for live for the family But the narrative is very careful to give us at least a hint of who this man Samuel is. And so he describes him to us. Look at verses 2. He's the kind of a guy that Israel would have wanted for a king. We're told he's the most handsome man. And the Hebrew here that's used actually it's not even just uh handsome in terms of the way he looks, but it actually means good. Which means that he made a very good impression on everyone. It's what the world looks at, isn't it? A man with striking qualities, a man who stands out by his nature, his appearance, his bearing. I like what Ralph Davis, one of my favorite commentators in the Old Testament, says People would have voted him Mr. Israel if there was ever a contest by that name. He was not just Israel's best. He was not just Israel's one of Israel's best, he was the best And so in verses 3 and 4, we find Mr. Israel himself doing the most mundane and attractive ordinary job of all, chasing his father's asses. From this speech we get to know his character. But not just who he is, but we get to know something else. Something about the means that God is choosing to provide for his people. But I I think just looking at this verses you you you' you you're probably perplexed just like I am by looking at Saul's character Doesn't it? Look at those verses in verses 5. The man appears like he's a follower, more of a follower than a leader. He would rather go back to his father saying, Oh, my father is going to be worried about me if we don't find the donkeys after looking for them. For three, four days, he's ready to quit before he accomplishes the task that his father has given him. And when his servants suggest that they go seek divine guidance He's not saying, well, let's go. And then asking the question, no, he's saying, no, but we have nothing to give to him, as if God's wisdom is there for him to buy. His ignorance of the man of God whose word was told in 1 Samuel 3:20 and 4. 1. What was what does the narrative tell us about the word of God, about Samuel? Is that his word was known to all Israel. But Mr. Hanson, Mr. Israel himself has no idea who the man of God is. When he meets him, what does he say? Where is the seer? He is blind and as as we shall see as we go on reading this book is that that's not just his blindness for now, his blindness has become Pretty clear as he leads God's people. Seems like he's a follower, and we wonder, even for him not knowing who the man of God is, we wonder about his relationship with Yah Does he have any? Maybe Saul's lack of knowledge points to a more general ignorance that's going on in Israel. That he's unaware of what God is about to do in the life of his people. That God's people are also unaware of what God is up to. Isn't that who we are? Most of the times we are completely clueless of what God is doing, what God is about to do in our lives. And even the servant himself does not know the God's servant's name. He just says, This is what I know, that this man is held in high honor. And all that he says comes to which is a confirmation of Samuel's true prophecy. But then on the other hand, the perplexion keeps going. On the other hand, he seems to be a good leader as well. I mean, he's worried about his father. He was obedient to go look for the sheep or the donkey, not the sheep. And he's asking to bring a gift, which was customary, to bring a gift if he went seeking for God's guidance through the prophets. In verses 6, the servants' words are surprising to say the least, because this man seems to think that their journey might have something more significant than just finding their donkeys. He's so determined that they meet this man of God. I mean, then you must wonder where did the quarter of a shepherd over silver come from? If set Saul knew that they had nothing, where is it coming from? This truly the unseen hand of God in the servant's insistence. They see the man of God. And the fact that they are seeking help, divine guidance. I mean I think that should remind us that there are no matters that are so trivial to us and to Small, as we read this morning through a memory verse in Proverbs 3:6, in all your ways acknowledge him and he will make your way straight. Or you make your path. You make straight your path. That nothing is too small for God. Nothing is too ordinary for us to ask help from. And when we do so, we ask help in the right places. And Saul and his servant go to the prophet of God. These are not near chances, but the means that God is choosing to accomplish his will through his people. And then the encounter with the women here, as we see, reminds us of something that has happened that was so significant back in the past. Remember the story of Moses. Isaac and Jacob, when you're reading through those passages, you must be wondering: I wonder if the same great thing is going to happen to Saul as it did with the women that they had encounters with. Application for us is this in the form of a question. Do we despise small things, ordinary things in life while looking for the spectacular? Because that's most of our lives. Most of the time we're looking for the great things. We're looking for the mega means that we can see the tangible things that we can say, oh yeah, I'm sure God is in this. But then we're doing the the the the mundane things in life, we suspect, oh yeah, this is just going through the motions of life And that God is not here because God only cares, according to George Burns or the movie, about the big picture. He doesn't care about the small things I think here's the danger for us because while God might not be leading us to royalty, even though some of our young women and men here might be the next president of the United States of America, it's possible. You could, Stephanie. But by despising small things we might be rejecting the very means that God has chosen to bless us. By rejecting the small and the mundane things, we might be rejecting the blessings that God wants to pour upon His people through you By rejecting the small things, we might be rejecting the means that God has orchestrated and developed and ordained so that He might accomplish some great and marvelous works in your life and in the life of your community. And your church. The second question is: this: Do we ever think that we do not have to ask for guidance for God's help, especially when it comes to small tasks? And small things in life. That God doesn't care about those small things. That God does not care about the mundane things. If we do, we might lose hearing from his word and knowing his will for us. Because you know what? Sometimes God speaks to us through the Kashir at the supermarket. Sometimes God speaks to us while we're shoveling snow on our neighbors' driveway. Sometimes God does speak to us while we're doing the dishes and laundry, taking our clothes to the cleaners. He does But God doesn't just choose the means through which to bless his people. The second thing we see in verses 15 to 41 is actually the confirmation of that, and it is this That God controls all the details and circumstances of our life. He doesn't merely choose It controls every detail. The specificity in detail here is breathtaking. Source timing is almost remarkable. Arriving just at the right moment that Samuel was about to make his way into the town, every little detail just seems to fall into place at just the right moment. And here we see the man of God that God is sending in verses 20 is not just any man, it's a specific man from the land of Benjamin. So Samuel even tells Saul, just so that he doesn't guess or doesn't think, Oh, I know many people have lost their donkeys. He tells him exactly when those donkeys were lost, three days ago But they have been found. Because what looked like mere chances is now being made clear. And it is this that God is in control, that God is manipulating the circumstances in His providence to accomplish Every purpose that he has ordained. And at this point in verses 15 to 21, we know this. We know that the lost sheep, the search for the and the failure to find them The servant's idea to consult the man of God, the finding of the quartersecle, and the timing of their arrival was all leading to where we are, to God sending Saul to Samuel. And then in 15, we're told that God had already revealed all these things to Samuel, of who this man was going to be, the king, to be your appointed, to be anointed. I like what John Woodhouse notes. He says that it's through revelation, God's revelation, that we understand the work of God because He has spoken. He has revealed Himself. So we wonder what's the relation between the verse that the next thing that God is saying in verse 16 of his control and his love? Because we're told here three times God is calling his people my people. Remember in chapter eight he wasn't very excited about the people because of what they were doing. I think it's because it really shows us one thing that God's control. The reason why God wants to control every detail of our life, every circumstance of our life is Because he cares for us. It's because he loves us. He really does love us. That's why he wants to have a hand in every aspect of our life. God would not let his people go. So he said, three times my people. Because it's always being appointed as king, he's not coming to replace God as their king. What an undeserved blessing for God's people. That they're held in God's love by his unwavering sovereign grace. That these trebles, these unfaithful people do not cease to be objects of God's compassion. No wonder the author says in verses 17 that he is to restrain my people. He doesn't say rule. He doesn't even call him a king, he says a prince, not the king. Commentators have argued about what that language means to restrain. Some of them say, well, maybe it just means rule. I don't think so So, because that language is not used anywhere else in the Old Testament. I think it means to hold back. Because this king that's about to come, he's supposed to hold the people back from their determination to be like the nation. How this will work out, we have no idea yet. But God is reminding the people that I am still your king, I am still in control, and so he will become a king as long as I say so. Saul will only be a ruler of God's people as the Spirit of God moves according to the limits of God. What a blessing it is for believers to be designated as God's holy nation, a people for his own possession, that we may proclaim the excellencies of him who called us out of darkness into his marvelous light. Ralph Davis again notes and says this: if you are a child of God, if you know Jesus Christ, you rejoice to see that your sin does not dry up the fountain of his compassion. That his pity refuses to let go of his people. Oh love that will not let me go. I rest my weary soul in love. I cannot demonstrate this point about God's control without telling you a beautiful story, a sad story that was carried in the reader's digest of 1949 It was about a chance meeting because the story goes like this. On January the 10th, 1948, just two years after the World War II, Marcel Steinberger got on a train in the Brooklyn subway For the first time, he would normally take a different line. But he changed his schedule. This one particular day just to visit a sick friend that was in hospital. And now he was on his way back to work on the noon train The train was full, but he was able to find a place to sit. He sat next to a Hungarian man that was reading a Hungarian newspaper. See Sternberger had been born in Hungary as well And he would never have felt any, he never wanted to talk to people when he was around people. But on this particular day, he just felt so compelled to say something to the man that was sitting behind next to him. So he looked over his shoulders and he said in Hungarian, do you mind if I glance at your paper? The man was really surprised, of course, being addressed in his own native language. And then during the next 30-minute train ride. They got a point. And during that time, his new companion voluntarily shared his tragic story. He told him that his name was Pashtin. That he was a law student when the war started. He told him that he was eventually put into labor battalion and sent to the Ukraine and was later captured by the Russians and put into work, burying the German dead. After the war, he walked home hundreds of miles on foot, only to find that all his family had been killed. Strangers were now occupying his house, that he lived with his wife He was able to locate a few of his friends who survived the war and they told him that the Nazis had taken them into Ausrich, where the where they're presumed dead. Hashkin was stunned and angry and sad and so he decided to leave Hungary, fled through Paris and eventually made his way to the US in 1947. Sternberger listened to the story as this man was telling him about his story, and it sounded so familiar And he remembered that a few days ago he had met a young woman, a woman that had almost the same story. She had been taken to Austria, but was later transferred in Germany and she was working in a factory out there Eventually she was rescued by the American and was brought to New York in the first boatland of displaced persons in 1946 Sternberg had been moved by her story so much that he actually took a piece of paper, wrote her phone number and address, hoping that one day he would introduce her to his family to help with the grief and death. Madness. He was sitting there thinking this must be an impossible story for there to be a connection between the two. But upon reaching his station, he continued on with the man and talking to him. And he finally asked Is your first name Bella? And he said, yes. How did you know? So Anbarga fumbled to find his piece of paper. The address and phone number for the young lady and he asked him, Is your was your wife's name Maria? Almost fainting. He said, Yes, yes. And then Sternberger told Pashkin, let's get off on the next train. On the next station. He wasn't giving him any explanation as as to what was gonna happen. As soon as they got off the train, he looked for a phone booth And he called Marian without explaining anything to her, he asked her, Tell me what was the address where your family lived in Hanuman. She told him and turned over to Pashtun and asked him, Was such and such your address? And he said Said, yes. He told him something miraculous is just about to happen. And then he handed him the phone without saying anything and he said, take the phone, talk. To your wife. He broke down uncontrollably, and later Sternberger was able to put him on a taxi, and him and his wife were reunited. The story goes on, and they cannot remember anything When they got together because it was so happy and exciting. But the author of this story concludes the story this way. He says Skeptical persons would no doubt attribute the events of that memorable afternoon to music. But was it mere chance that made Sternberger sadly decide to visit his sick friend and hence take away a subway line that he never had been on before? Was it chance that caused Bel Apashkin to be sitting beside Steinberger reading a Hungarian newspaper? Was it chance? Or did God ride the Brooklyn Subway that afternoon? Moral of the story? We need to be aware that God is at work in our life and in our world. Even in the small matters that we might think there's chances and coincidences, because there are no chances and coincidences, we should learn to be faithful for attending to the routine, the ordinary, and the million because it is in these small things that God often leads and directs his people. And finally we look at the final few verses 22 to 27 But God chooses the means. He controls every detail of our life and finding that God has the power to make small things great. It is the end of the chapter that it seems so astonishing to us from lost donkeys to God speaking, from the mundane to significant. as receives God's sovereignty in mundane details of life as God anoints all to become king Saw he's receiving special treatment towards the end of the chapter. He's being given a foretaste of what it is to become a king, a new king. He's enjoying a special place on the high table with special meatcasts that we'll probably set up for the priest. And later having a special meeting at dawn With Samuel in verses 27. I think he must have been shocked to hear Samuel's words. In verses 20, what does Samuel say? It says, And for whom is all that is desirable in Israel? All Saul had in his mind was his father's donkeys. And now he's been he's being talked about the royalty. The seer knew something much bigger than what Saul would have expected. If we could only see the expression on this country boy's face. And he becomes so reluctant By making arguments, he says, Well, but I'm coming from the smallest of all tribes. They're not just the smallest of all tribes, but even the smallest of clans in Israel, just like Gideon. Relaxed. But God is more than able to take small people and make them great. In fact, this has been the theme in the whole book of 1 Samuel. God raising the lowly to a high place, taking the small and making them great. Remember Hannah's prayer? Hannah's Hannah's words in chapter 2 verses 8. She knew something that Saul did not know. She says, God raises up the poor from the dust, he lifts the meaty from the ashes. to make them sit with princes and inherit a seat of honor. For the pillars of the earth are the Lord's and on them he has set the world Saul will never be the same again, not after his encounter with God's servant Samuel. Because when we encounter God, our lives should never be the same again. Because God's own hand in our lives should influence and change who we are. Saul is being transformed when he gets caught up in God's plan for his people. See, Saul had had no idea what God was about to do. Just like one man that we know so well, Moses, he went out looking for the sheep in Midian and then saw a burning bush and decided to Check it out and see what was going on. He had no idea that he would be the one that God would choose to deliver his people from Egypt, because that same God is the same God that's working in our life. He hasn't changed and He still uses the same means, He still does the same thing, calling us out of our smallness into greatness Out of the ordinary gifts that he's given to us, he's still doing the same thing right here, using our small congregation, using our small budget, using our small pastor, Josiah, that's me. Because I do not speak with the same passion as Tony Evans. I am not the next Tim Keller, neither do I want to be. I do not speak with passion and with knowledge and wisdom And the eloquence of Alistair Beg or Rabbi Zacharias. But there's one thing I do know for sure: that God is truly at work in this congregation, even through a small man as I am A country boy that was born in a tiny little village in Africa that you will probably never hear of. But I believe that God is at work building his kingdom and making us great, greater than you have ever imagined all your life The question for you is this: Do you have the eyes of faith to see that? Do you have the eyes of faith to see his powerful and seeing him that is orchestrating everything in your life for his good And to his glory. Because seldom do we know or see the small things in life that God uses to do great things. Or the great things that he makes out of small. Did you hear that? Very seldom do we see or know the small things in life that God uses to do great things. or the great things he makes out of small events. There's a passage we're not going to read it because of time in Acts chapter 13 verses 17 to 22. Where the Apostle Paul actually summarizes our passage this morning by showing us how God calling and making a monarchy that God that God's people had, he uses that To send the Messiah to us. That the same God who raised Saul to be a king while he was chasing donkeys. He's the same God who raised his own son, Jesus Christ, who was born in a manger, dying on the cross for our sins. And he is the same God who tells us that one day he will return to reign and rule with us in heaven. That is royalty. You know, you want to know how lost donkeys can lead to royalty? That's it right there. Finally, this chapter shows how God takes Israel's enemies. And compromises as they ask for King and turns them into opportunities of his grace. Russell Smith puts it this way. Well, first, my words is this: that this chapter is not really about Samuel or about Saul or about Israel. It's about God. It's about the God who is orchestrating and guiding all of that which occurs here And Russell Smith says this: that he uses things in our lives as well. He asks the question: Have you not seen how the small events in your life have let you down, have let you down an expected path to encounter the living God? Have you not sensed the power of the Holy Spirit giving direction to your life? Have you not been flawed with conviction and confirmation as you've read scripture or as it is being proclaimed right now, here before you? That it is all God working to provide you direction, and it is God saying to you as He works in your life: behold your king, Jesus Christ. He says, I choose the means to bless you. I am in full control of every detail and circumstance of your life, and at the same power that raised Jesus Christ from the grave Is the same power that will raise you to be with him on the last day. So seek me, trust me, because I am in control. When you do, everything will be well. Thank you, Lord Jesus, this day for the word that reminds us that we should not despise the power of small things, that we need to seek you. Even in the mundane things of life. Because when we do so, all will be well. Praise in your name. Amen.