Good morning. Having considered Paul's words in chapter 11 or 1 Corinthians on head coverings, and we saw that last week. Paul continues to speak to the church about issues that pertain to public worship. And here this morning we'll be looking at the Lord's. Supper. If you are able, would you please rise as we honor the reading of God's Word from 1 Corinthians chapter 11? We're reading from verses 17 to the end. Hear now the reading of God's Word. But in the following instructions, I do not commend you, because when you come together it is not for the better, but for the worse For in the first place, when you come together as a church, I hear that there are divisions among you, and I believe it in part. For there must be factions among you in order that those who are genuine among you may be recognized. When you come together, it is not for the Lord's supper that you eat. For in eating, each one goes ahead with his own meal. One goes hungry, and another gets drunk. What? Do you not have houses to eat and drink in? Or do you despise the church of God and humiliate those who have nothing? What shall I say to you then? Shall I commend you in this? No, I will not. For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you. For the Lord Jesus, on the night when he was betrayed, he took the bread. And when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me In the same way also he took the cup after the supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. Whoever therefore eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in any in an unworthy manner will be guilty concerning the body and the blood of the Lord. Let a person examine himself then and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup. For anyone who eats and drinks without discerning the body eats and drinks judgment on himself. That is why many of you are weak and ill, and some have died. But if we judged ourselves truly, we would not be judged. For when we are judged by the Lord, we are disciplined so that we may not be condemned along with the world So then, my brothers, when you come together to eat, wait for one another. If anyone is hungry, let him eat at home. So that when you come together it will not be for judgment. About the other things, I will give directions when I come. The word of the Lord. Father, you have invited us to come And celebrate to come and feast, to come and hear your word. And so we pray that you would allow us by the power of your Holy Spirit To have a desire, a willingness, an openness, and faith to hear your word as you speak to us. It is in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. I am not a big fan of canon weddings. They are flamboyant They're excessive. They are long. Takes the whole day to just have one ceremony for a couple to get married. But there's one thing I love about tenant weddings. See, it is the only one time that I observe and see people from all walks of life. Coming together, celebrating together. They are brought together by this one couple that is celebrating their holy matrimony. And there's only one high table, that of that couple and the groomsmen and the and the ladies. Everybody else lines up as they feast on the goat or cow or whatever it is that has been slaughter slaughtered for that day. And whether you're rich or poor, whether you are someone that you could not um have gotten along with someone else. Whether you're educated, uneducated, people who on a normal day, on a normal week would not get together to sit and have a meal. But on this one particular time, they are united by the couple that is getting married together. I think it's a good thing because there are a few places where our unity can actually be seen despite our differences. And it's around a table. It is around the Lord's table. Where the rich and poor, the weak and strong, the educated and educated, where young and old, white, black, and yellow. Gather around the table, and we're reminded by the Lord Himself that we are one body in Christ. Not because of any other reason, not because of any other factor, but because of Jesus Christ Himself. who invites us to his table. Now you see the church in Corinth, as we just read, had forgotten. They had completely missed the point when they gathered together to worship the Lord. They had forgotten what the table meant for them. And so it is with us that sometimes we do forget what the meal that we are about to partake together means for us. We we take it for granted. We take it without confessing our sins. We take it without due respect and reverence for God. And I think Paul has a message for all of us this morning and reminding us that the only way for us to approach this table that Christ invites us to is only with profound reverence reverence of God Himself. And so he begins in verses 17 through 22 to show us three things that we're going to be looking at this morning. That this table is a meal of unity, and so we must participate. Together. You cannot do it if you are not together. Having praised the church, as we saw last week, keeping because they had kept the traditions that Paul has passed on to them, here he says, I will not commend you, I will not praise you. Because every time you come together, it is not for good, but for worse. Verse 17. Remember as we read the book of Acts, we realize that the first century church after the Pentecost They used to practice or come together and share what was called a common meal. It was called a love feast or a gape feast. That's what they called it. And so they would i you know, it's it's an example of what we do uh when the whenever we have potluck, right? When when people bring all kinds of meals and we all share together and eat together and celebrate, they did the same thing But they did not only do that, they celebrated and had a common meal, but they also participated and did the Lord's Supper. Acts chapter 20 They demonstrated the love of God and the love for one another in word and in and in deeds. And this feast was what brought people together. But then we realize in Jude verses twelve, it tells us there was actually discrimination that started happening in this common meals. But there was abuse of the poor and people separating themselves and and doing things in cliques and and factions. And that that is exactly what was going on in the book of uh in in Corinth That the rich and the poor were divided during those meals, that it became a situation of the haves and the have-nots Where prominent members of the family who probably are the ones who hosted the this big parties because the church met in in people's homes, they're called the house churches, and the social elites, they received special treatment And they consumed their special food and and some of them were getting drunk and all these kinds of things. And the leftovers were meant for those that were poor, the ones who were coming late. That the prominent people did not have patience to wait on the laborers and the slaves that showed up late. Remember, this might have been the only meal for those that were poor. To enjoy because they brought their crumbs, if you will. It was a common meal. It was supposed to be a love piece, but instead in Corinth, it turned into a travesty of love. That's what it turned out to be See, the rich and the ones who had the meals could have been doing such a great act of hospitality by bringing the food together and inviting everybody to come. Unfortunately, that was not the case They were dividing themselves and having clicks with themselves. They were not considering one another. There was no sharing. It was really not a common meal. It became a party for the benefit of the ones that were The the social or the inner group um that hosted the parties. Now, remember we saw earlier in the book of First Corinthians that There were personalities, there were cliques and divisions in the church that were based on personalities where some said, I belong to Paul, I belong to Cephas, I belong to whoever Here the divisions are not in terms of personalities, but they're actually in terms of their social class, in terms of their cultural background and economic status. And remember The church in Corinth is a church that has a mix, a really interesting mix of people that are coming together. There's the Jews and the Gentiles There's those that speak Greek and those who don't speak Greek. There's those that are citizens, you know, Roman citizens and those that are not citizens of Roman. They're considered considered as as outsiders And all these people that are coming together in the congregation to worship the Lord, there is only one thing that brings them together. It is only in the church, it is only when they gathered for these common meals. It is only when they gathered to worship the Lord that they actually found a place that they were welcome. That they found a place where they belonged. Have they found a place where they could call home? Have they found a place where the barriers that divided them, the divisions that could have kept them apart of race and status and class, they were broken They were forgotten. When the church gathered together, your status, your identity, your background, everything that you claimed for yourself was supposed to be forgotten. Because they found identity in Christ Jesus. And that brought them together. But instead, that's not what go that is not what is going on here. Instead. The poor are being looked down upon. The rich are looking down upon the they're despising the church of Jesus Christ. See, the issue in Corinth was so bad that Paul actually in verses 20 Says that what you're doing is not even celebrating the Lord's Supper anymore. Because your actions have actually nullified what the Lord's Supper is supposed to be. It has become a nightmare. You're not eating it the right way. You're eating while you're divided. Communion was supposed to be this supremely edifying action, and yet it has become something that divides you He even continues in verses 20 and uses very strong language. Look at it. He says, Don't even attend the love feast if you have no regard for love for the poor If you have no regard for one another, don't even show up to the love feast. That's the implication. That the supper is meant to be this mark of the one who laid down his life for many, Jesus Christ who became a servant. And died on the cross for our sins, and yet you are despising the ones that are weak, the ones that you don't think belong So there's a connection here. And I love it because when you look at the Old Testament, the Old Testament is actually filled with the theme of God especially caring for the poor. You read the book of Deuteronomy and elsewhere, you see how God Cares for those that are poor, for those that are considered the least of this. And yet the church in Corinth has no regard for them. Yet the Church of Christ has no regard for them. That they are humiliating them as members of God's covenant. That they are invited, that they belong, those that we don't consider as as people that are part of who we are, that they are considered a part of God's community. You read the book of Matthew, chapter 25, towards the end and hear the stern words of Jesus. As he talks about those who come claiming that they they knew Jesus, and yet he said, I was poor, I was hungry, I was thirsty, I was in prison, and yet he never came to care for me. If this church truly was the gathered church of Jesus Christ, they could have been reminded that they can constitute a covenant community where every member found a place where Everyone who showed up in their doors found a home, found a place, regardless of their social status, regardless of their achievements and qualities, because they were all looking to the same thing, which is the gracious redemption of Jesus Christ. Salvation that Christ has achieved on all of their behalf. See a church that stands divided, a church that looks at divisions and doesn't care about being together and doesn't share with one another. Is not acting as a church of Jesus Christ. We are not being a church of Jesus Christ if we act in a way that divides us, if we're not together. We are in fact kidding ourselves. Every time we show up and celebrate this meal that Christ has invited us to share. And yet we have competitions, we have factions, we have hatred, we have jealousies that we're we're filling in our hearts Thinking that somehow the Lord's Supper is going to be acting like a magic experience that somehow takes and makes everything okay. It does not. We must ask the Lord to help us that we might have the right attitude in our hearts before we approach the table. It is to be approached with utmost reverence. Secondly, in verses 23 to 26, Paul says we don't just participate together, but we participate in a remembrance. Okay, verses 23. Paul speaking of the word that he received from the Lord, what I also delivered to you, that the Lord on the night that he was betrayed, he took the bread. What is Paul speaking of? Yeah, this is actually one of the most important uh passages in Scripture because The letter to the Corinthians actually precedes any of the Gospels. So these are the first words of Jesus and the first words of the institution of the supper that are recorded in Scripture. Now we don't know how Paul received these words, whether it was during his vision, when when Jesus appeared to him, regardless of how he received the formula for the institution. He says that what he what he received, whether it was passed on to him by the apostles or not, he passed on to the church, he passed on to the people of God through reputation. They did not originate from him. These are the words of Jesus Himself. And we must take them seriously. That the supper was was celebrated as we saw when we looked at chapter 10 in connection with the Passover. Matthew 26 reminds us And it was during the third cup there was four cups that the people of God celebrated during the Passover. And it was the third cup that we know that the supper was actually instituted. And and Paul is saying that the bread is a representation. It was symbolic of what happened to Jesus' body. Remember the prophet Isaiah in Isaiah chapter 15? 53, what does he say? He says, but Jesus was the was pierced for transgressions. Of course he says, but he, referring to Jesus, he was fierce for transgressions. He was crushed for iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his wounds we are healed. That when we participate in the Lord's Supper, that we are guests, that Christ is the one who invites us to come together at his table. And that we're considering one another, honoring our fellow members that also belong in the family of Jesus Christ. That's the reason why we learn the words of the institution. So during the stuff of the the Jews are looking to God through the Passover and the and they're reminded of reminded of God's rescue, God's redemption Of the exodus that he delivered them from slavery. In the same way that when we gather together in the presence of God and share communion, we are looking for Christ in his death, his resurrection His ascension and his return. We're meditating, we're proclaiming of that which is remembered. That is this. We are looking back and seeing what Christ has accomplished, his body that was broken for us He's got it the resurrected and is now in heaven, but we're also looking back to his looking forward, sorry, to his return. The one day He is returning in the bodily form. But also even us when we die, we shall rise again with him into his kingdom. The feast of love that was to bring strength and consolation, Paul reminds us, happens at a time when people are plotting To arrest and to kill Jesus. What an amazing thing. But the institution of the supper happens when people are plotting When people are trying to be the enemies of God, while God is trying to reach out down to us to save us. And so he says, The body is for you. The body is given for you, verses 24. That what happened to Christ's body. Happened for you. His body was broken for you. His body was broken for the blessings of his people. Personally and corporately. And then he says, do this in remembrance of me. That means continue to do it. Every time you gather together, keep doing this. Keep remembering, keep breaking and receiving the bread, keep recalling Christ's suffering for you. Objectively, we do it as a prayer, and we say, We Lord, we hope that we can graciously remember the Messiah. We we hope that we can somehow cause the kingdom of God to appear right now where we are. But subjectively we also ask and say, The Lord, as we partake and remember Christ's death on the cross Father, help us to know the implications of what we are doing. So that we don't just do it for the sake of doing it. We who may partake of the one love We who take that one piece that we're going to be lifting up and breaking and spreading to everyone, we share together in Christ. That because we've been formed into one community, in unity And the bread that we take, as we said, is a sign of the glorious body of Jesus Christ that is in heaven. It's not here. So that reminds us. And we should have a better view on what that means. Not as some believe that the bread actually does become the body of Jesus Christ. That is not true. Again, he says the cup that we take is the new covenant in his blood. Look at verses 25. See, the cup was actually a language that was used figuratively, meaning an impending or undergoing a violent death So by Jesus describing this cup that he's about to take, he's saying, This is the new covenant in me, he's he's fusing together the language of Jeremiah 31, 31, the promise of the new covenant, and the book of Exodus, chapter 24, verses 8, where Moses is Spreading blood on the people to seal the covenant for his people. And he's saying this: that the covenant represented by the cup is the idea of God is sealing his agreement of salvation with his people People who are separated from God, people who are without hope, as Ephesians 2 reminds us, that now that shedding of the blood has sealed you into this covenant, people, you now belong to Jesus Christ in this new covenant. And when you talk about covenant, we're talking about the relationship between us and God, right? That God has established a means through which he can relate with us The old covenant was based on the law. The only way that the people of God could keep that covenant going was by obeying the law. But of course, they failed time and time again because they couldn't keep the law We're totally dependent on Jesus Christ in the new covenant, and that's good news for us because we know that none of us can perfectly keep the law. So Jesus comes and he perfectly lives a sinless life and perfectly keeps the law. And now we depend on him. We depend on the free grace that has been given to us through Jesus Christ. We don't live under fear in the new covenant. So we approach him as our Father. The blood is the life. Without the shedding of the blood of Jesus Christ, there is no forgiveness of sins. It is only through the shedding of his blood that the activity of the Holy Spirit in a believer's heart is open so that we may receive him. The scarlet wine stands for the very lifeblood of Christ that is poured out for us. Because without it, there is no relationship with God. There is no covenant. Jesus comes and replaces the Jewish system. So that now everything centers on him, everything centers on Jesus Christ. He alone and his death is what establishes this new covenant that we have in Christ Jesus. And that is good news for us. Now wow again we shouldn't mistake the supper, whether the bread or the cup, to be the real body and blood of Jesus Christ as somehow Speaking of transubstantiation and consubstantiation, or even reducing it to a mere casual occasion where we remember Christ, as Ringley would say. We start with Calvin here because he is our buddy. And there's a very real gift of the Savior in the sacrament. Appropriates the blessings which flow from glorified Christ in virtue of his death. There is a real, special, mysterious presence of Jesus. When we partake of communion. See, when we come before the Lord's table, we receive Christ, don't we? But we bring ourselves. We come to him as Steve so rightly prayed this morning. Just As we are. We are vividly proclaiming, announcing of the Lord's death until he returns. There's an eschatological part to this bread, to this cup that we celebrate. See, we're not going to need communion in the new heavens. But we need it now. We need it today. We need it to remind us that not only Christ's first coming and his forgiveness of our sins, but that he is returning. He's coming back. So our behavior must be consistent with the proclamation which serves as the heart and meaning of the sufferer We're not merely remembering his death. We're not merely going back. We are a church that is living between the first coming and the second coming of Jesus Christ. And you know what we do right now? Our job is to fix our eyes on Jesus Christ. Our job is to continually come to the cross. Where every sin that we have committed, every sin that we will ever commit is nailed on that cross And finally, we must prepare ourselves before approaching the table. That's the last part, verses 27 to the end. Paul says we participate together. We participate in remembrance, but we also prepare by confessing our sins. Paul warns us Not to partake communion in an unworthy manner. But we must come to the Lord's table with profound reverence. See, the the call for this table is a joyful one, isn't it? It's a happy meal for us. It's a love piece for us. But Paul wants us to keep in mind that we cannot come to it superficially. We cannot come to it with carelessness. It is a solemn rite. It is instituted by Christ Himself, but it is also charged with a deep and sacred meaning. And we should never lose that. See, there's a sense in which I know that I partake of this Lord's table in an unworthy manner. I know that. Because I am not perfect, because I am filled with so much sin. But I don't think that Paul is speaking of perfection here. I think Paul is saying yes is a way in which all of us partake of this table in an unworthy manner. But that does not mean that we come that we cannot come in faith and in due performance with all that is feeding. It is when we neglect this duty to do so, to search our hearts, to come with reverence before God, that we find ourselves sinning before God. So, how then can we guard ourselves? How then can we guard ourselves against unworthy partaking of the Lord's table? Look at verses 28. Paul says, you must examine yourselves. Says you must have this rigorous self-examination before taking the supper so that you may not approach it with irreverence, with sinful manner. Test your attitudes, he said. Towards the table. Your outward conduct, your understanding. What does this table mean for you? What does the Lord's Supper mean for you? What is the purpose of this Lord's table? We must check our hearts. We must check our hearts that we're not filled with contempt. That we're not disregarding one another. We're not looking down upon those who we don't think belong to us. We must check our hearts that we are truly filled with genuine love, not just for Jesus Christ, but for others. If this table represents and is a symbol of the holiness of God and his sacred place, his sacred presence, there's only one way we can come. And it is only after we've sought remission of our sins. We cannot come with unbelief. We cannot come with disobedience in our hearts See, sometimes we approach the table as a mere right. Sometimes we refuse to anticipate what it really means for us Sometimes we we're not even aware that we're supposed to be confessing our sins. Sometimes we don't even confess our unworthiness. To partake of the table and and and address or think of a worthiness that is only because of Jesus Christ. We are not worthy to take the table because of anything in us. We are only worthy to take the table because of what Jesus has done for us. See, I think Paul wants this church in Corinth to know the difference between eating bread to nourish your body physically. And eating flesh uh bread to nourish your faith. It's a spiritual meal, it's not a meal that fills you up That little tiny cup is not going to fill you up. Neither is a pinch of bread. But we must not stop sinners from coming to the table because I would not take it This table is meant for you who is a sinner saved by grace. So who may come to the table? We may ask I love the psalmist in Psalm 51. He says and cries out to God and says, Have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love, according to your abundant mercy, blot out my transgressions. And then one 14th century Zecharias Eusinius, the theologian, says this, describing the only person who can come to the table. He says it is this person. Quote, it is those who are displeased with themselves because of their sins, but who nevertheless trust that their sins are pardoned and that their continuing weakness is covered by the suffering and death of Christ. And who also desire more and more to strengthen their faith and to lead a better life. Hypocrites and those who are unrepentant, however, eat and drink judgment on themselves. If we fail to examine ourselves, we're eating and drinking to judgment. Paul points to the church and tells them, the ills and sicknesses and the people that are dying, they are dying because they are coming. to the table without reverence because they're refusing to confess before the Lord their need of a Savior. Let us not do that. I think when Paul speaks of judgment here, it's not condemnation. Paul is not saying that God is punishing you. Paul is not saying that God is somehow punishing those that belong to God. I think it's actually a beautiful thing. As one commentator puts it, he says that these judgments are actually tokens of God's love. That God is chastising his people so that they may have the proper reverence that they should have when they come to the table. That God is saying Let me allow affliction to happen in your life so that I may draw near to you. Let me allow all these things to come to you so that you may open your eyes and confess your sins before God, so that you may repent, so that you may find mercy and grace. Before the Lord, so that you may come in a worthy manner before God Himself, so that you may not be judged with the world. See, to worship God is to open ourselves to an extreme danger that comes when we treat that which is holy as profane. Did you hear that? To come before the presence of God is to open ourselves to an extreme danger. That we must come before God with reverence, with honor. C. S. Lewis describes Aslan, the lion that represents Christ, not as a tame lion. He is not tame And that's the same way we need to view Jesus. We need to view our worship of Him. Reverence. Holy fear. See, and here's the good news, brothers and sisters. Jesus Christ has invited you to come to his table. He invites you a sinner and says, I have saved you by my grace, and I consider you a partner in covenant, in the covenant that I have with you. You belong to me. He says, I am the Lamb of God that died on the cross to cleanse you from your sin. He says, I'm your brother. I am your friend who shows you how to live for God, how to honor him, how to bring him much glory, and how to be thankful. He says, I am the source of bliss. I am the only one who can show you how to have joy and gladness in God's presence instead of grief and sadness when you think of his death. So he says at his table, at my table, as the invited guest, come, come and reflect, come and rejoice, come and be grateful, come and be thankful. Come and join the church of all ages and of all places. Come and sing Maranatha, which means come, O Lord. Come, Lord Jesus, because you are invited to this table Father, we thank you for your word. Thank you that you truly have invited us to come and feast at your table that you prepare for us, not because we are in any way worthy. But because we are made worthy by the sacrifice that Jesus Christ made on the cross for us. So, Father, as we seek forgiveness now as we corporately and personally confess our sins, would we be able to do that with hearts that are broken, hearts that are vulnerable before you? So that we may partake of this bread and of this cup in a worthy manner before you. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.