Good morning. I had lost my sermon notes. That was a scary thing to get up here. To preach on First Corinthians chapter eleven without your notes. You'll understand why. It is always an honor and such a great pleasure to bring God's word to you. Word that God has given to us that is inerrant, that is infallible, that is true. What that we need to hear every day of our life. If you're able, would you please stand and let us together honor the reading of God's word from 1 Corinthians chapter 11, verses 2 through 11? Paul and The first verse of eleven we ended by saying, Be imitators of me as I am of Christ. And now he continues. He says, Now I commend you because you remember me in everything and maintain the traditions even as I delivered them to you. But I want you to understand that the head of every man is Christ. The head of a wife is a husband. And the head of Christ is God. Every man who prays or prophesies with his head covered dishonors his head, but every wife who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered dishonors her head, since it is the same as if her head were shaven. For if a wife will not cover her head, then she should cut her hair short. But since it is disgraceful for a wife to cut her hair or to shave her head, let her cover her head For a man ought not to cover his head, since he is the image and glory of God, but woman is the glory of man. For man was not made from woman, but woman from man Neither was a man created for woman, but woman for man. That is why a wife ought to have a symbol of authority on her head because of the angels. Nevertheless, in the Lord the woman is not independent of man, nor man of woman. For as woman was made from man, so man is now born of woman. And all things are from God. Judge for yourselves. Is it proper for a wife to pray to God with a head uncovered? Does not nature itself teach you that if a man wears long hair, it is a disgrace for him? But if a woman has long hair, it is her glory? For a hair is given to her for covering. If anyone is inclined to be contentious, we have no such practice, nor do the churches of God. Holy Spirit, would you please this morning pour out unto us and Would you take away the blinders that could be in our hearts or sin or unbelief and any other thing that prevents us from truly understanding and hearing and believing your word? And help us, Lord, this morning. Illumine our hearts. Renew our minds that we may be uplifted by your word this morning. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. Paul is writing a letter to a specific church Paul is writing a letter to a specific community, to a specific group of people with a distinct culture. Paul is writing a letter to a people that are affected by specific issues in their lives. And it is so easy for us to read this passage this morning and be tempted to dismiss everything that we just read because some of this cultural thing that we see here seem to us or sound to us as I should say outdated This passage, in some sense, could remind us of something that sounds patriarchal, something that sounds hierarchical, something that sounds so irrelevant for us today. But we must be careful. We must be really careful this morning because this is God's word, isn't it? And God's word is relevant for us. God's word has authority for us. And so as we go through as we go through the whole book of 1 Corinthians, we cannot pick and choose what that which we like. And the things that we understand, and then say we do away. Let's do away with the things that are so difficult and so uncomfortable for us and difficult for us to understand. Now, having said that, there is a difficulty for us to understand this passage this morning, and there's a reason why. Again, Paul is writing a letter to the church in Corinth And Paul is actually making expressions and ideas and language that is so understandable, or rather, it is transparent to the church that he is writing to. But it remains a mystery for us. It remains hidden for us. But there's something that is not hidden in these passages, though. What is not hidden in what we just read is this. It is Paul's message for the Church of Christ. For the church, not just in Corinth, but for the Church of Christ here at Grace Reform Presbyterian Church. And it is this. That as men and women, we are called to worship God. But our worship must be that which honors Him, that which brings Him much glory It might be a little hard to see that in here, but let's walk through these passages and just see what that looks like. The first thing I want us to see from verses 2 through 6 is this And if as as you as you think about this verses, Paul you know, talking about the the unity uh that exists in in the Trinity and and then Giving examples of headship and authority and all of that, I want you to think about this. That a worship that truly glorifies God or honors him is actually a worship that must reflect a divine order. That God has given us a divine order that is there for us to actually celebrate and when we honor that we actually bring much glory to God. This is what I mean that Th this passage is I mean there's so much debate on almost every verse as you read through it. There are questions here about what is really the nature of the head covering that Paul is speaking of? What are how are they supposed to look like Is is that what Paul is talking about? Is Paul talking about men and women relationship in in terms of authority or husband and wife? Because there's no Greek word for b husband and wife. There's only Greek for Man and woman. So is is false speaking of the authority of a husband towards a uh towards his his wife or not? What is the role of women in the church in public worship? What is it about the head coverings anyway? Is Paul speaking of head coverings because coverings in Greek actually mean something that's just hanging down from your head Doesn't say whether it's a show or bell or anything. Is it her hair? Or is he talking about our women ought to wear their hair in church? Are you ready? I love the way Paul is being a true pastor. He begins by commending the church. Look at verses two. He He praises the church for actually uh being able to keep and and and obey and follow the traditions or rather the oral teachings that he had given them. These are not things that Paul had come up with These are things that were handed over to him and he's passing on to the church. The the this this were instructions that were actually according to scripture and they were really good for the church And so even be before he begins to address the issues affecting the church, he says, It's good for me to commend you for what you have done well. And then in verse 3 he goes and gives us the order of authority and administration in the divine structure of things. And to him, Paul's argument is this: listen, since man is to be under the authority of Jesus Christ, as Christ is under the authority of God, the woman is to be under her husband's authority. If you take it that Paul is speaking of a husband and a wife relationship. Now, we Paul does not describe to us what issues were really going on in the church. He doesn't tell us what was the problem We can assume that there were women that were showing up in the church in Corinth who came dressed not in the proper way, so to speak. They did not have their heads covered. And so they were causing distractions and and and unrest in the in the in the service. Now we need to go back and ask ourselves, why was that the case then? What was a veil? What is what was the meaning of a veil or a woman wearing a veil in in in the first century community? It was this. A woman's veil or her hair, the way she wore her hair, was actually a symbol that she was married. For a woman to show up in public or in worship without that meant that she was communicating that she was free and independent and not under a man's authority. One commentator actually writes and talks about the Middle Eastern women, which was true back then, but even to this day, that the veil represented power And honor and dignity for a woman. It was unthinkable for a woman to be out in public. Because when she wore that veil, she was basically saying, I am safe, I am protected. If she did not wear the veil, she was alone. She was open to shame and ridicule from people in the crowd. Now think about it On the other side of the Jewish culture, their view of women was, as we know, sadly, they viewed women as inferior. They were property. A woman was not even counted in a number. She did not count. That she was created from from the man. True. From his rib. True. But they were not even recognized in worship They would in fact in the synagogue sit in the gallery or other parts of the service, not to join with the man. It was impossible for a Jewish man to claim any any kind of equality. with men. Now, as I was reading the passage, you probably heard how many times I repeated the word head. It continues to This passage is just filled with that language. I'm not even gonna dare to try and and talk about the debate that is there as to what headship means Some people say it means source, like a source of a river. Other people say it's really authority, authority over. We're not even gonna go there, but we're gonna go where we know. We're gonna use other scripture to help us understand what does this headship mean that Paul speaks. And obviously does not mean superiority, does it? He gave the example of Jesus and his father, God, that there's equality. of dignity between Jesus and God, that they are both God, Ephesians 1 3. That they are equal in substance, you cannot separate them, but there's a difference in their function between Jesus and and God the Father. That there is no competition. In fact Philippians two tells us of what Jesus did, not considering his greatness or glory with God, a thing to be to be can to be grasped, but he empties himself and goes to the cross so that he can die for us. And he does not try to compete with the Father, even though they are both equally equal. Compare that with the Greco-Roman culture where Authority was actually at handed down from the gods to the emperor and then to the lowest of all people that were slaves. And Paul seems to be implying here for us that the Christian community is not to look to the gods or to the emperor for Authority. Authority over whether that's how you see it. But to look for authority that comes, headship that comes from Jesus Christ. Even for men as we as we as we think about it, our call on the responsibility that we're given by God, that it's not meant to give us an ego, that we we're bragging that or we are the ones who have been given an authority We need to be aware and to be careful not to think that way. It's not a chain of command that Paul is describing here, that the man stands in a place of dictatorship and his wife is a brainless slave that just follows his his wishes. That's not what Paul is speaking. Paul is speaking of responsibilities. Responsibilities that must be maintained in the family so that each one of us can enjoy and have the potential that God has given to us. That Hebshu means a spiritual concern for your spouse, for the wife, for her protection, for the tender cherishing and making sacrifices for her. Christ has to be the example. The Ted Shift is a self-sacrificial, self-giving love for your much cherished Spouse. That it is based on as as Paul speaks in Ephesians chapter five, verses twenty-five and thirty-two. You know, it it's interesting that that passage actually, you know, and every time we talk about submission for for the wife. It's not really described what that means that wife submit, but it doesn't spell out what that means, does it Sometimes we tend to go far and try to explain what that means. It means I shouldn't do dishes or I shouldn't go take care of kids. Absolutely no. Doesn't say that. It doesn't mean that we cannot help our wives But the responsibility for the husband is actually spelled out that we're called to love our wives as Christ loved the church, to sacrifice for them. Do you know that Christ's submission to the Father was not an indication that he became less than God? Jesus did not become less by doing the will of the Father. Our wives are not second-class citizens because they are called to submit. They're actually obeying God. They're looking at God's sovereignty and the divine order that He has given us. And then Paul gives us a shock statement in verse 6. Look at it. Worship that is dishonorable. See, is it possible that in this church women were praying and prophesying, which basically means, you know, praying is speaking to God, prophesying is speaking about God, to God's people I think we're trying to look like men in some way. It's possible. Is Paul here cautioning the church not Or the women not to try and and emulate wim uh men in in in public and private affair? It would make sense, right? It would make sense in this way Again, first century community here where women are considered incapable of of of doing any prayer or prophesying, they're inferior and all of that. Maybe they wanted acceptance Maybe they thought, let me try and be like a man and see if my message is going to be accepted. We don't know But we have to be careful to understand that a woman doesn't have to become a man or look like a man in order to be effective in the church. God has called you and equipped you with the gifts and and talents and skills and and wisdom and personality and everything that he wants you to use for his glory. The order of creation has consequences for how we worship. See, I think Paul here may be encouraging the church to err on the side of being modest, if you will. And maybe sometimes we need to hear that. Maybe Paul is encouraging them to be to be st to err on the side of being strict in terms of their dressing so that they may not expose themselves to temptation, too much temptation, and their and hence sin. But we cannot use this text to make an argument that women that come to our congregation must be wearing a hat or a veil or anything like that in the church. Because this is truly about worship. I don't think that that's Paul's point. Here's what I think Paul's point is: I think Paul is Paul would want us to go beyond just thinking about the modesty of our dress and and all of that. It's not just about the dress, but think about the elements of our worship. Think about everything that we do. Think about our music. Think about other elements in our worship that we have here And the question that we must ask ourselves is: are we drawing attention to ourselves, or are we drawing all of the attention to God Even more, think of your own heart. Before you walk into that door, what are your thoughts? What is your attitude towards the worship of God Himself? Are you thinking about giving God all the glory? Are you here to meet with God or are you here to be seen? As men, I think there's a warning for us here as well. Something that I have to think about myself. And so I'll say this, and all the men you can think for yourselves as well. Sometimes I think that we are so quick to judge women in terms of their modesty and decency, but we must be willing to ask ourselves if our judgment on them is based on real issues or it is us who are struggling with self-control and our own sin. So that before we raise our fingers and point at them, at their modesty and decency, we must check ourselves and make sure that sin is not affecting our lives. and making an excuse by pointing at them. Secondly, let us consider verses 7 through 16 Together. That our worship that is God honoring must reflect a mutual respect and admiration for one another. Worship that glorifies God must reflect mutual respect and admiration for one another. Paul is not quoting Genesis 2, but He uses it as a basis for his argument here that God created man and woman, male and female. He made Eve to be the companion to Adam, Genesis 2. 18 and following through 23, in a reciprocal husband-wife relationship. And then he says that the man is the image and glory of God, while the woman is the glory of the husband in that means that the woman God brings to the men is to be his joy, is to be his love and his affection, a a beauty to behold. It does not mean that the woman is not made in God's image. We are all made in God's image. But she was created for man, Genesis 2. 18, to be his helper. Again, woman being the man's helper does not mean you cannot wash dishes or take care of the babies. It does not mean that. That God made male and female and ordained that they should live in such a way that for their own benefit and to bring glory to God. Do we ever think about the order that God has put together is actually for our good? Most of the times we're tempted to think of it, oh, this is horrible, this is bad. Why would God say that we're separated and we have different responsibilities? But we don't think that God is actually trying to be good to us But even more here, Paul is i is trying to make sure that we don't confuse one's identity uh uh and and and there and therefore bring shame and dishonor to God. Um we can talk about the gender confusion. Things that that is going on in the world today. And what a shame that we would want to change what God has made. Because we feel unhappy, God has not made us the way we would want to be. While I agree that we must be very careful and sensitive to address those issues and help those who are struggling with uh gender identities I I think we must be a church that not not only cares but cares enough to point people to the truth And help them understand that God has created us as male and female. And he wants that to be honored. Let me give you an example. Let's walk through a profession, a personal life, and a church life. There was a time that nursing used to be a female dominated profession, right? My brother is a nurse. There's so many men that are nurses now. You think about it. Well to apply it in our lives. Just because you're in a female dominated or male-dominated, so to speak, profession, does it mean that you change who you are just so that you may be accepted in our profession? Absolutely. Be a man. If God has called you to be a nurse, be a good one. God has called you as a woman politician. Bring your womanliness, so to speak, and help make the right decisions in politics. Do this do you see this thing I wear here? You know what this means, right? On my left. This ring thing that is on my If I raise everybody knows what this means in this room. If I was to go on a business business trip, if I was to go to the General Assembly and take my ring off and put it somewhere I might not be trying to be unfaithful to my wife, but what am I communicating? If I was to take my ring off and you know I wear it, and you notice I'm not wearing my ring, what would I be communicating? Let's focus on the church. If a stranger walks into our door and finds us here singing and praising God and doing everything that we do, what would they say of us? What symbols would they see in our midst that would communicate that we are actually different from a pagan cult festival, so to speak? Yes, God looks at the heart. He doesn't look at all appearances and all of that, right? It's true. God does not look at all appearances But man looks at the appearance before he even gives you a chance to peek on what is on the inside We have freedom, but we cannot use our freedom to just do anything that we want See there's a problematic verse in verses ten here that we read that is why our wife ought to have a symbol of authority on her head, because of the angels. Have no idea what Paul means. There's a great passage in Acts chapter 12, verses 23, that actually speaks of the angel that came and struck down uh Herod of a Gripper because he refused to give God the glory. Is that what Paul is making reference to? I do not know. Maybe Paul wants women to pray and prophesy only in a way that brings God the glory so that they are saved from the guardians of God's glory. Because angels are present here as we worship. See, I think whatever the case may be in that verse, I think Paul wants the church to keep the focus only on God's glory. I think Paul wants us to be warned against actions in worship that will distract us from giving God the glory that's due Him. And then he says that neither husband nor wife or men and women should live independently of each other. That God has created us for a mutual partnership. We're united together as one, but also profoundly united in Christ. That our goal is not to compete with one another but to have companionship, to to have fellowship with one another. That competition and trying to be this or that that which are now called to One commentator puts it this way quote True human relationships entails otherness and indeed a respect for the otherness of the other as a necessary basis for true reciprocity, mutuality, and rationality that can constitutes what it is to be human. That what it means to be human is to be with the other. We cannot be without the other. But in order to make sure that Paul does that we don't misunderstand Paul's word as as if Paul is in some sense trying to to to demote women to an inferior place Or to make sure that we don't use false words to, as it has always happened, to abuse the relationships that God has given to us. And use the God-given authority and take advantage of women. Paul makes sure that we understand that all things are from God That we are all we all have the same standing. We are, you and I, men, women, we have equal standing before God. In terms of our self-worth, in terms of our ability or skills, or spirituality, or wisdom, I would even argue my wife is much smarter than I am. That we all have the same standing. Before God. And I'll say it again: the subordination that we see is, in fact, a partnership between men and women. And it's meant to help us so that we are more fruitful. To have a better and a more lovely relationship for all of us. And that's why we must treat one another with mutual respect and admiration for one another as we realize God's God-given special functions. and positions. Then Paul wants us to use a good sense, discernment. That's what he says. Verse thirteen. See the question is not what is proper in the eyes of man, but in the eyes of God, from whom all blessings come. come. It's not just about what is proper for us, but what is proper for God. So church, what do we do in this passage? Here's a good summary for us to take home with us. First This does not mean in any way, form, shape, and sense that on Sunday morning is the day that you must and be legalistic and bring your Sunday best, your suits and ties and Head coverings and all of that. It doesn't mean that. Each culture has its own customs and we all know what's acceptable dress for us to come into God's worship. We know how to dress when we're going to a wedding and we do so. But we must seek to use the freedom that Jesus Christ has given to us in the gospel. But to do that in a way that brings honor and glory to God, not to make a statement for ourselves. And that's important for us to hear. Because sometimes we're so focused on what's out there and not really giving our focus on Christ, on his worship and what is right for him. But that we must also be careful not to just think about ourselves preferences But the idea is that let us make it easier for your brother, for your sister to worship God. Don't do anything that becomes a stumbling block for the other to worship God. Whatever that looks like. Secondly, let us be reminded that the idea of authority is not about inferiority or superiority or any other thing like that. In fact, Paul in Galatians chapter 3 tells us That in Christ and the gospel there's no Jew, there's no Gentile, there's no woman, there's no male and female, that we are all equal, that the gospel has actually taken away all those barriers that that that divide us. We are under God's authority. And lastly and finally, this is my favorite, my personal favorite, is this. I am so glad that we live on this side of heaven in the already and the not yet. And the reason why I'm so glad is because on this side of heaven, our relationships and our actions are not always going to be or are going to be the way they ought to be. Because of our sin. I am a broken man just like you are. And I am sinful. And I'm reminded that I will always continue to struggle. I'll continue to struggle accepting what it really means to live in community and to worship God in spirit and in truth in a way that honors Him. But one day, one day, we will all sit before our Heavenly Father. He will be the authority over us and we will live in perfect harmony and we will glorify him and enjoy. him forever with no problems as to who is a man and who is a woman. And I cannot wait for that day That's the good news for us. So I leave you with this word from the author of Hebrews 12, as we read this morning. Therefore let us be grateful for receiving a kingdom, a kingdom that cannot be shaken. And thou let us offer to God acceptable worship with reverence and awe for our God. Our God is a consuming fire Heavenly Father, we ask for your blessings this morning. You're truly our God, and you give us your words that sometimes can be difficult for us to understand. But would you, Lord, allow us to truly come to you To bring ourselves and the offerings that you give to us that we may offer them back to you in a truly good way that honors you. uh that brings you much glory. And Father, I pray that you would encourage us this morning. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.