Good morning again. We are making our way through the book of uh Book of Deuteronomy and uh just one more chapter to go. Uh we're gonna finish up reading chapters the end of chapter thirty-two and then uh read the rest of chapter thirty-three this morning. Morning. So if you're able, would you please stand with me and let us honor the reading of God's holy and inspired word, reading from chapter thirty-three, thirty-two, verse forty-eight, um all the way to verse twenty-nine of chapter thirty-three. Here now the reading of God's Holy Word. That very day the Lord spoke to Moses, go up to this mountain of the Abraham Mount Nebel, which is in the land of Moab, opposite Jericho, and view the land of Canaan, which I am giving to the people of Israel for possession. And die on the mountain which you go up. And be gathered to your people. As Aaron your brother died in Mount Or and was gathered to his people Because you broke faith with me in the midst of the people of Israel, at the waters of Neri Bakadesh, in the wilderness of Zin, and because you did not treat me as holy in the midst of the people of Israel, for you shall see the land before you But you shall not go there into the land that I am giving to the people of Israel. Chapter 33. This is the blessing which Moses, the man of God, blessed the people of Israel before his death. He said, The Lord came from Sinai and dawned from Seer upon us. He shone from the mount of Peran. He came from the ten thousands of holy ones, with flaming fire at his right hand Yes, he loved his people. All his holy ones were in his hand. So they followed in your steps, received direction from you. When Moses commanded us a law as a possession for the assembly of Jacob Thus the Lord became king in Jeshuran, when the heads of the people were gathered, all the tribes of Israel together. Let Reuben live and not die, but let his men be few. And this he said of Judah. Hear, O Lord, the voice of Judah, and bring him into his people. With your hands contend for him and be a help against his adversaries. And of Levi, he said, Give to Levi your Thumim and your Urim to be to your godly one, whom you tested at Masa, with whom you quarrelled at the waters of Meribah, who said of his father and mother, I regard them not. He disowned his brothers and ignored his children, for they observed your word and kept your covenant. They shall teach Jacob your rules, and Israel your law. They shall put incense before you and whole and burnt and whole burnt offerings on your altar Bless, O Lord, his substance, and accept the work of his hands. Crush the loins of his adversaries, of those who hate him, that they rise not again. Of Benjamin, he said, The beloved of the Lord dwells in safety. The high God surrounds him all day and dwells between his shoulders. And of Joseph, he said, Blessed by the Lord be his land, with the choicest gifts of heaven above, and of the deep that crouches beneath With the choicest fruits of the sun and the rich yield of the month, with the finest produce of the ancient mountains and the abundance of the everlasting hills with the best gifts of the earth and its fullness, and the favor of him who dwells in the bush. May these rest on the head of Joseph, on the pate of him who is prince among his brothers A firstborn bull, he has majesty, and his horns are the horns of a wild ox. With them he shall gore the peoples, all of them, to the ends of the earth. They are the ten thousands of Ephraim, and they are the thousands of Manasseh. And of Zebulun he said, Rejoice, Zebulun, in your going out, and Issachar in your tents. They shall call peoples to their mountain. They that there they offer right sacrifices, for they draw from the abundance of the sea. and the hidden treasures of the sin. And of Gad, he said, Blessed be he who enlarges Gad. Gad crouches like a lion He tears off arm and scalp. He chose the best of the land for himself, for there a commander's portion was reserved, and he came with the heads of the people with Israel. He executed the justice of the Lord and his judgments for Israel. And of Dan he said, Dan is a lion's cub that leaps from Bashin. And of Naptali he said, O Naphtali, sated with favor, and full of blessing of the Lord, possess the lake and the south. And of Asher, he said. Most blessed of the sons be Asher. Let him be the favorite of his brothers, and let him dip his foot on in oil. Your bars shall be iron and bronze, and as your days, so shall your strength be. There is none like God, O Jeshuan, who rides through the heavens to your help, through the skies in his majesty. The eternal God is your dwelling place, and underneath are the everlasting arms And he thrust out the enemy before you and said, Destroy. So Israel lived in safety. Jacob lived alone, in a land of grain and wine, whose heavens drop down dew. Happy are you, O Israel Who is like you? A people saved by the Lord, the shield of your help and the sword of your triumph. Your enemies shall come fawning to you, and you shall tread Upon their backs. The word of the Lord. Holy Spirit, we come to you. We ask that you may give us hope where we may despair. Encourage us where we may be doubtful. Convict us where our sin is seen. And fill us with joy where sorrow may abound. In Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated. So this far we have come. Speeches have been given. Sermons have been preached and songs have been sung. All that's left is for Moses to go up the mountain and never to return. They will never see him again. In fact, as we shall see next week, God will bury Moses in the mountain, and nobody will ever know where he was buried. They will never find his bones, they will never find his body, they will never identify the place that he was buried. And so what's left for Moses is to give one last final act to his people. Moses has had to say some really difficult things to the children that God loves. Moses has had to deal with the people that were rebellious He has had to tell the children of God that they were not his children anymore because they were senseless, they were disobedient, they were loveless. And yet, in the very end, we see something that we wouldn't be expecting Moses to say. The final act that Moses gives is not one that is filled with you have been bad You have been rebellious, you have been disobedient, you have done all these things, and because of that, I don't know what your future holds. The final act Is a message of hope? Is a message that filled with so much warmth from Moses Is a message that is filled with love. Is a message that is filled with a hope of blessings that God is going to give His people an abundance of blessings and comfort to them? Amazing, isn't it? These are the words or the blessings of a dying man Now, we may be tempted to think that they are simply parting wishes of a guy who is old and he's done his d his deal and he's He's about to go, and so here you go. Here's a a few parting shots, if you will, a few a few parting wishes for you. Go well and may the Lord bless you and keep well and bye-bye But we go back to the book of Genesis, chapter 27, and read a story of how important blessings were in this context. And there we find a story about Jacob who tricked his own father in order to inherit or to get the blessings that belong to his older brother Esau. That's how important these blessings are. It is like a will. A father leaving a will, property, money, possessions to his children as he dies. It's serious. Having read all these blessings, however, what can we learn from them? What is so important that God Means for us to learn and to understand and to be blessed and to be encouraged by reading this blessing that God is giving to a very specific people so long ago. I think there's something powerful in these blessings, bless you, that we see here. So we're talking about blessings. And I don't think you can miss it from this particular chapter. And it is this: the relationship that exists between God and His people, a relationship that exists between God and His church. And we've already seen it. It's really a reputation of something that we've already seen throughout in this book, and it is this: that God's people as a church, we must be reminded of how much God delights to bless us. God delights in blessing his people. And because he does delight in blessing us, That the lot that God has given to you is that which God has provided and given to us, each according to God's infinite wisdom. And those blessings and those gifts that God has given to us, we must accept them and receive them with gratitude every day. And so you may ask then, Josiah, what gifts are we supposed to be thanking the Lord for that we ought to receive with gratitude every day? I see three of them throughout these blessings. I see a gift of God's love, and I see a gift of God's provision, and I see a gift of security. These blessings are not easy to understand. As I read through them, I'm sure you may have been wondering as I was reading and I and as I've been reading this chapter and I'm thinking What does that this have to do with anything anyways? What does this even mean? And some of them are obscure to say the least. They're really hard to understand Is this for the future? Is this happened? Is this gonna happen? How does it play out? Uh how does it relate to the blessings we see in Genesis chapter 49, Jacob uh blessing his sons and all of that? Nevertheless If you look at chapter 33, verses uh two and following, you will see this description of God coming from Mount Sinai and dawning from Sea upon his people. And shining forth from the mountain of Paran, and we're told he came from the ten thousand of holy ones. It's a description of Mount Sinai, and we know what happened there, right? The giving of the law And so f as we're thinking about the gift of love that God is giving to his people, to his church, to us and to Israel, we have to go back there to the very beginning as God is giving his people the law. And the giving of the law was a celebration of the foundation of Israel as a nation. God giving Israel as a law was basically God, I mean they belonged to him, of course, before the law was given But it was God identifying himself and saying, I have set you apart as my people. You are different from all other nations Again, we've seen this, not because they were numerous, not because they were righteous, not because of anything special about them, but simply God set his eyes on them and said To you, I am going to declare my love for you, and I am going to set you apart by giving you the law. The law is what sets him apart. But Sinai is not just simply the place where the law is given. Yes, God does give them the Ten Commandments and say, you are to obey me. Sinai is the place where God establishes a special relationship with his people. What do I mean by that? It is God coming to his people and saying, I am the Lord your God who has loved you and rescued you and delivered you from slavery. I am going to be faithful to you. I'm going to show my love to you Provide for you, give you security and all these things, and your response to me is supposed to be a response of obedience. You respond to me by loving me, and the way you love me is by obeying what I've given to you. And so indeed there's one commentator that puts it, Sinai is the place where the lover meets the ones that he loves. And the idea here in this blessing here as we see the gift of love is really a reminder for us as a church, God the who is a God who has loved us, he has come to meet with us He has come to meet his people. It is God moving towards his people. And I love the description here in verses 2. It sounds like a God is is a human being with with hands and and feet and he's he's a traveler, he's the desert traveler, coming towards his people. You can almost imagine as the people as Moses is blessing this this man and women and children gathering on the plains of Moab and and as they hear those words The Moses is saying, listen, this God who loves you is not some imagination from your ancestors. He is real. He is real. But also know this. I am about to go to the mountain to die, but this God is not going to disappear with me. He's gonna be with you. And so God is being depicted metaphorically as a human king marching before his people, coming towards them, establishing a relationship with them, giving them the law. And I think the emphasis here is on the idea that God is near to his people, the nearness of God towards his people. And we see that in our own lives, right? As God's people. In what way has God demonstrated how near He is to us? Can you think of anything else apart from the incarnation of Jesus Christ? When the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son to come and be Emmanuel, be born of a woman. To live amongst his people and email means God dwelling with us. But even the idea of God leaving with Moses and and as he dies out there As Jesus rose again from the dead, as he ascended into heaven, and leaving with us his Holy Spirit Jesus does command us to continue doing something that will remind us of his abiding presence in our midst, right? And what is that? We celebrate communion, the Lord's table that reminds us as we hold that bread and that cup. I wish we were having communion this morning. That God is real, that He is present in our midst, that He is near to us. And yet I think talking about the law and how the law shows that God loves us really reminds us of what the law points us to. Again, we've seen through throughout Deuteronomy that the law points us to Christ. The law is not some horrible thing that was just supposed to be there for people to see To see and say, Oh, I cannot obey that, or I cannot follow that. The law was supposed to point us, to point the church to the one who is able to keep it perfectly so that we're accepted before God. And that is Christ. And so the law is a gift of God's grace. And by that I mean the gospel that we have in Jesus Christ Christ. Again, the prophets Jeremiah and Ezekiel talk about the law that would be written in people's hearts, not just on stone tablets for you to read and and see and talk about it But it's actually written in people's hearts. Meaning we're enabled to obey and to love the Lord. And it guides us. It leads us It's a sign of God's love to us. I love what Matthew Henry says. He's speaking of the law, he says, if if the law is received as a gift, it truly warms our hearts It melts our hearts. It purifies us. It burns up the dross in our hearts. But if it is rejected, it pains. It destroys. Isn't that so true? That if we receive the gift of God's law for us, which is the law of grace, It's gonna melt our hearts so that we may run to Him and there find grace. But if we reject it, it condemns us. It destroys us. It pains us. Because we realize just how much we are unable to keep it, and we feel like there's no place for us to go because there is no place to go unless you go to Christ And when we get there, we don't go there because we think we're gonna obey it, we're gonna keep it. No, we go there because we find ourselves falling every day, and so we say, Christ, help me today and forever, because I can't keep it The law is a gift of love. See the most important thing here is not about Moses entering the promised land, right? It it really isn't. And we're gonna come back to verses forty eight to the end of chapter thirty-two. That's not the main important thing. That's not the most important thing. Well, what if Moses entered the promised land? He would still eventually die, right? He would still die. So that's not the point about him not entering the promised land. What is the point? The point is Moses has been acting all along as the mediate of God's people. He's been teaching them God's word and his law and his instructions. The point is Remember what Moses has been teaching you. Let that be what guides you as you enter into the promised land. The enduring, abiding word of God. Let that be your guide in the new life. It's not about if Moses comes with you. Even if he does, he would still die. See, church, we do need a reminder of the timeless and changing love of God, don't we? And so just like Israel is entering this new land that they they're not quite sure how things are gonna play out. The challenges and the trials and the suffering and the conflict that they're gonna the lies ahead, Moses is Taking one last stab, one last act in his in his dying wish, and reminding the people of the truth about God, the truth about God's love for them. And he's basically telling his people, remember, as you as you participate, as you enter into this land, you are not entering in this place Yes, you're going to have trials. Yes, you're going, you're going to have trouble. Yes, you're going to engage with enemies and all of that. But you are not entering this place on your own. God is with you. God's love is with you. As we journey through a Christian faith, we don't go through it alone. We are not alone. The second gift is a gift of God's provision Uh you know, when if we look at the the the blessings of of Benjamin here and and Joseph, if if we can put them all together. Um Reading in verses 12, uh Benjamin being called the beloved of the Lord who dwells in safety, the high God surrounds and Joseph, a long list of all these blessings that are given here. We just we we notice how precious it is to be blessed. of God. How precious it is to be situated close to the ordinances of God, so to speak. To have the favor of God on your side is the most beautiful thing ever. Listen. There are so many things that we can experience in life, gifts and stuff that happens to us And people that are not believers can experience those things as well as common grace. But to understand that the blessings that we have are from God And to know that God is also looking upon us favorably, even without all of those, an abundance of all those things, is a special thing. In fact, I would say to know that God is on your side, to know that God's favor is on your side means or is what would help us to actually be able to stand up and say, I need nothing else I need nothing else. Now, I'm of course I'm not saying that we don't need homes to live in and food to eat and all of those things. Of course, no. What I mean is I can come to a place where I know how to enjoy an abundance of God's blessings. But that only comes with an understanding that we can find ourselves fully and completely satisfied in God and Him alone. So that we stop chasing after all other things only for what for that which God can give to us. Now that's a life pursuit. Joseph's blessings Especially, I think, remind us of something that is so special and beautiful, and it's called the joy of fruitfulness. The joy of I mean we can read through this and just go like, wow, man, Joseph? What a blessing! The choicest, the finest, the best of all these things. Wow, you must be special, Joseph. And I think the point without really going into so many details here is is is God is is is is showing his people the the source of God's blessing which is obvious, right? Source is God. God is the one who reigns all the blessings, but also showing the means of blessing, which are really God, which are the gifts themselves. And by that I mean the question is being asked: who produces the dew? Who Who is able to make the land grow? Who brings the rain? Who who who makes all these things happen? And the idea is the means of God's blessing To his people is supposed to lead them to a place of dependence upon God alone and not on their ability or anything that they can do. But it's also pointing to a third thing. So it's the source, the means, and the extent Of their blessedness. What's the extent? Can you put an extent on that? It's vast. It is abundant. You can't reach the end of it because he's got it all. You're going to receive the best, the finest, the choicest of all these things. Having said that, we have to be careful, right? Be careful to think that God will give us everything that we want. Because that's not true. I'm sorry. He will not give us everything we want, but God will never deny you anything that you need. I want to drive an X five, BMW. That's what I want. Do I need it? Absolutely not. Can God give it to me? Is he gonna? Don't say it. Hold it, because you don't know Joke societal. I look at the tribe of Asher And I see the description of Asher, the way they're being told you are the the the favorite, so to speak, the the special one. And I'm reminded that we don't get the same lot. I don't get blessed the same way you are blessed. Neither do you get blessed the same way I am blessed. Yet God in his infinite wisdom chooses and decides to allot us different things. I don't know about you, but this is hard Why do some people seem to be more blessed than others? Put it another way. Why would God allow for someone to go through so much in life? Trial and sin. Suffering and sickness. Why Are they not blessed? Are they not God's special children? Why? Listen, we may not have an answer. We may not have an answer as to the outworking of God in terms of how he allots different things to different people, how he allows some of us to suffer and how he allows some of us to thrive, how he allows some of us to own millions of dollars worth of things, and how he allows some of us to just struggle all through life How he helps some of us escape mental illness, and others get it, how he helps some of us come from broken families and others don't, I do not know. But here's one thing I do know for sure. God is good. Whatever trial you may face in your life today or tomorrow or have faced I know we may see those things as trials and as brokenness and as none or as not blessings, but listen to me, you have no idea what God is doing in your life Your trial may be a blessing to someone far, far away from you, and you have no idea about it But one day in heaven, you shall see God. You shall see God face to face. And everything will be made clear. And you will be able to praise him and say, Oh Lord, I am so grateful you allowed me to go through this because it was a blessing in disguise And praise be to God for my thorn in the flesh, because it was all for your glory. Now, having said all that, that does not in any way take away the pain that we may experience in this life, does it? It does not. It cannot. And that's okay But listen, I think we also need to be careful. We need to be careful, especially when we think about God's blessings and how God allots all these things to different And I've heard this many times. Sometimes we look upon people that are poor and we say, Oh, it's because you made mistakes, or it's because you are lazy, or it's because you did all these things, and it's your fault that you are where you are Do you know the people that God is blessing? Who are they? Senseless, rebellious, loveless. And God is giving them the choicest, the finest, and the best of blessings. You may have no clue. Why someone is where they are. The best way to look at it is to know that none of us deserve what we have. It is all by God's grace. In just an instant, it can be taken away from you. Just like that. And that's the best way to enjoy God's blessings. The way to enjoy God's blessedness is to be a blessing to someone else. It is to live a generous life. It is not to hold so tightly onto the things that we have. It is, as I usually say, to hold everything you have with loose fingers. Just let it fall. But you hold on so tightly to the giver of all of our blessings. I love what Jesus said, for what will man profit if he gains the whole world? And yet forfeits his soul. Finally, the gift of security. The imagery and the language in these blessings has battle, horns and and bowls and majesty and all of those things. I especially love the the blessing of Zebelun and Zebelun and Ezekar, where they're told to rejoice, rejoice, Zebelun, but you can almost hear at the back of their heads, oh, wait a minute. Wait wait, we're just gonna celebrate now? We're not quite there yet. You know, there there must be apprehension a a and just uncertainty as as to this land that they're about to to enter into. Yet their fear is really here being shown as it's a waste of emotional energy. Don't do it. Because God is gonna bless you, God is gonna do things for you, God has limited re unlimited resources, so to speak Week verse 19 and he will surely bless you. But but God is also reminding them in terms of security, or I am around you. We just sang this morning, the everlasting alms of God. I'm surrounding you with my security. Can you just just imagine the picture? Where w where where are these people coming from? They're coming from living in tents in open camps. A place that has fortified walls to protect them. That's the picture here. That God is going to be their refuge. God is going to be their shield, verse 27 and 29, and their and their helper I was reminded as I was reading through this um chapter, you can imagine the the land that the people are possessing from actually goes from the south to the north. And there's their spreading in different parts of of this land of Canaan. Of course the whole land was not exactly the same, right? It wasn't all perfect. There were parts that were rocky And just remind reminding us of when God allots us a rocky side of life, He will give us shoes that are fit to live there. Isn't that a beautiful picture? You know, when I was a kid just running around in the in the woods, that really means a lot to me, because I never liked wearing shoes. And where God had allotted me as a as a kid was not rocky, but it was thorny. There were a t I mean every every night in the evening I'd go home and put my feet up so my grandmother can pick out all the thorns on my s on my sword. It right, i it sounds terrible, but that was my life every day. Because I would you know, I was just walking like this. And isn't that us sometimes We're just walking, trying to escape all the thorns and rocks on and yet God says He's gonna protect us. He's gonna be our security And a picture that makes so much sense is really God reminding them of how compassionate, how pleasurable, how dependable He is to them and how constant he is. He is God is a father. He's like a parent who takes pleasure in carrying his children Looking after them and never dropping them. And the child just resting in their father or their mother's arms, knowing I'll be fine. I don't need to hold on because someone is holding me But that he is also dependable in the sense that, yeah, you you you can trust him. He never sleeps, never gets tired, never grows weary. But it's constant. Meaning that he doesn't just watch over you today just because you're having a hard day, he watches over you all the time. In the good times and the bad times as well See, I don't think that the security that God is promising his people here is some idealistic paradise where God is saying, Issach, Zebalun, and all of the tribes, come on, you now you everything is going to be beautiful with my unlimited resources. You're going to enjoy life, and there will be no troubles whatsoever. No trouble. No. Saying you may walk on rocky paths and thorny paths. The promise is not that you will not have trouble. The promise is you can be assured of deliverance and protection. I will be with you. I love how someone once put it. I'll read this because I think it's it will be good to hear he says that the path lying ahead was not one of peaceful existence and quiet solitude. But it was one beset on every side with danger. Yet it was within this danger and war that Israel would find its safety, because the path of danger, the path of danger was the path in which the presence and help of God would be found. And I love this. The only criterion of Israel's security and eventual victory was the presence of God. An alternative route, safer by human standards, would only lead to disaster and the absence of God's presence. How many times are we drawn and tempted to look to what looks humanly safe? And then go that way. Because we don't we're not quite sure if God is gonna be with us The easy path may seem like the safer side, but it may not be the best side. I love the ending of this blessing in verse twenty-nine as Moses Simply God asking, Happy are you, O Israel? And then the question is, who is like you? Who is like you? A people saved by the Lord. Who is like you, Church? It wasn't by merit It's not because they were so special. The answer to this question is none. There is none like you. But that answer also follows that there is none like you, Israel, because there is none like your God. It is because there is none like your God that you can be called or you can be described as there is none like you. Friends, we've been given the greatest gift, and it is the gift of Christ, the Son of God. Who came and lived a perfect life, who died for us, who made it possible for us to be called the beloved children of God, children whom God delights. to bless. And because we are the children that God delights to bless, we can take hope We can be reminded through this blessing that God will never let us faint or fall or fail without helping us. You are unique and special and blessed and loved and secured and armed and victorious. Only in Christ. So how do you respond to those gifts? There's only one way. There's only one way. We can only respond to all these gifts that God has given to us by setting our affections on Him, on Jesus, who loves us, who secures us, who provides for us. Us. Let us pray. Dear Lord Jesus, we thank you for this day. Thank you for reminding us of how much you loved us, how much you care for us, how much you provide for us. While sometimes our faith may wane and feel weak, while we may doubt Encourage us, Lord, to hold on to the blessings, to hold on to the truth about who you are. That is your delight in blessings. us. And so may we receive the gift of your son by setting our affections on you. Every day. In Jesus' name. Amen.