Good morning. Would you take this privileged time to open your Bible to Philippians chapter 4 or turn in Look at the reading on page two in the today's bulletin. As St. Paul writes from prison to his listeners, he tells them to take joy. He assumes that in his life there are issues, just as there are issues in our own lives. And in the scripture we are have captured these words for us, and they're captured so that we ourselves may take joy in Jesus. Jesus Christ. Please stand as we reflect upon Paul's words in renewing our joy this morning. Philippians 4, verse 4 and following. The word of God, receive it as such. Rejoice in the Lord always. Again, I will say, rejoice. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand to not be anxious about anything, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving Let your request be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts And your minds in Christ Jesus. The Word of God, may He have our hearts enter into it and His Word enter into our hearts. Please be seated. On Christian radio the other day I heard a touching story about a I think it was a six or seven year old boy who had sadly lost both of his parents. And heartbroken is not a strong enough word for what he was going through. And as he was feeling this brokenness within He started noticing people around him, and they too, many of them were in pain. Many of them looked sad Or troubled. So he started thinking to himself, well, what is it that makes me happy And uh as he thought about it, he he thought about these, I believe it was little animal-like toys that he played with. And when he was playing with his toys Somehow they brought some joy to his heart. And so he got an idea and he spoke to his aunt and next thing you know he was out in the street and he would see people who looked a little bit sad and he would give them uh a zoo-like animal, maybe a little elephant or a giraffe or penguin or something, put a smile on their face and they were greatly touched and at least for a moment their joy was renewed I read recently uh it was from um Let me see if I can find the site. Psych Psychology Today said in today's America, high school and college students are five to eight times as likely to suffer from depressive symptoms as they were teenagers were fifty or sixty years ago. Five to eight times uh kids suffering, young people from from the sense of depression uh when I was a kid growing up. I mean this is I guess there's a lot going on out there today with perhaps it's uh uh fast technology. I mean you get instant an answers just like that and and if you're walking around life and you don't have your iPhone or something You feel like, oh I'm I don't have any answers. Who am I? You feel lost, you know. And you see televisions, everything's all pristine now. You it's hard to compete with something that's been polished and shiny And and you start thinking about your life and and you Facebook the same way. People paint these images of their lives and you think, Man, who am I? I'm nothing. These people were perfect people. And so it's no wonder perhaps it uh young people even can be feel vulnerable. And of course, it's a broken world and it's not just those things I mentioned, but there are many things that uh may cause us to to be living our our day or a week and and we're like somehow we're feeling the pain and Maybe the smile has disappeared. The joy has slipped into an oblivion somewhere, somehow. And that's why it's great that we have the Bible in a passage like this, as Paul writes from prison of all places to be telling people to take joy. Is someone in chains. And yet there it is. How are we as believers to renew our joy? First notice and remember, we're under a command. Sounds odd, but that's what it is. Verse 4: rejoice in the Lord always. And again, in case you didn't get it the first time, here it is, another command. Rejoice. Well, getting commands doesn't really change the heart, does it? It just perhaps even makes you feel more guilty. I'm under two commands and still feeling low. Well, notice to remember also, he says in the fifth verse, the Lord is at hand. The Lord's at hand. And you can take that for a moment and look at it a couple ways. One, you can say, hey. We have Christ in our hearts. If you don't have the Spirit of Christ in you, you don't belong to Christ. That's what the Bible says The other thing is that the Lord is at hand to mean He'll come back anytime soon, and guess what? You're going to find great joy. Because all those things you're worried about now seem like nothing. if you know Jesus Christ. And his returns. Maybe soon. Or who knows, maybe you'll leave this world. Enter your joy suddenly through some strange event, turn of events. And then he says in the fifth verse, if you look at it As we think about how do we enter into joy, he says, let your reasonableness be known to everyone. That's the ESD translation. And as I started thinking about that and studying it, from the context, it appears what Paul is saying here, as you read on in this text, he seems to be saying don't overreact To life's troubles. Walk gently, it can be translated, or with patience amidst life's problems. Don't freak out The Lord's right there. And let everybody see that you're stable, that you're walking with patience amidst the problems of life. It's a reasonable thing to expect, actually, if you have a relationship with Christ, that it is not the end of the world when you didn't get your promotion. That you didn't do as well as you expected on that examination, or that the health report didn't quite come out the way you would have anticipated He says in the next verse, don't be anxious about anything. But in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God. Now let's break that down for a minute. He says, when life is difficult, when you're concerned about something Instead of being anxious, we are to do something And that's what I like. People just he just doesn't say, cheer up. But then he actually gives you a to-do list. And there's two things on it. Actually one if you group it together. Let your request be made known to God. Verse 6. You see it? Let your request be made known to God. A few years ago, my wife came up with an idea, we call it the mystery box. Because on Mondays we have grandchildren, two toddlers running around being potty trained. And uh so we have the mystery box. Look like tiny little lunch boxes, kind of Disney-looking And uh the kids know what's inside these boxes. They don't know what it is exactly, but they know it's something good. Could be some fruit snacks, it could be a little Snoopy toy or something in there to bring them some joy. And somehow that motivates toddlers to go potty The problem is when certain papa's there by himself for a few moments, sometimes he forgets about the mystery box. So the child is looking at me, the grandson or granddaughter. Papa, Mr. Box. Oh, I forgot. So she she just has to ask. Hey Will you give me the surprise? And guess what he does? You know what I'm going to do every time? Going to give her something from the box Even I don't know what's in there most of the time because my wife puts the stuff there. But I know that if she asks or he asks and they went potty, they're gonna get it Let your requests be made known to God. Your concerns. You're concerned about something, and you want God's intervention to give you something to perk you up. Sometimes the Bible tells us we don't ask. And that's lobber down. You have not because you ask not. James 4, chapter 2. Chapter 4, verse 2. We all know we're told to ask, but what is our practice throughout today? Do we ask God, especially as we're hurting because of the relationship in the office with the boss? Or because we're hurting because of of something that got lost, we can't find it. Instead we're freaking out, hacking unreasonably, as if we've lost the world itself. And uh instead of saying, hey God, you know, we got a problem here. Usually it's I got a problem, we've forgotten about God, and so we forget to ask him to enter into the problem. That's the first thing we need to do. By the way, if you happen to be a senior citizen, next time you're in Chick-fil-A, Dunkin' Donuts, or perhaps TCBY, And you order something, ask. They'll give you a discount. You've probably been overpaying for a long time. The other day, a very shocking thing happened to me. Surprising. Surprising in a good way. So my microwave went up. It was a pretty nice microwave. It's about a little over $300 or so, and it was about two years old. So I thought I had an extended warranty on it. I guess I did. But you know how those things read sometimes. And uh so it looks like I'm gonna have to buy a new microwave. So I go to into one of these major appliance stores, and uh this was after trying to get it fixed with the with the warranty forever, about eight calls, which took me nowhere for about a week. Finally I know I'm gonna have to pay several hundred dollars if I want the same thing like I had or something similar. Went into this major appliance store and I met this wonderful salesman You would think that a salesman would actually try to sell you something. But you know what? He tried to talk me out of buying a new microwave. Unless I did one thing first. He says, why don't you ask frigid air? Call them and ask them if they will help you. Tell them your story Because it's a pretty compelling story. And just say, two years old is broken and I've got to replace it. And tell them you might be buying a kitchen aid I said, why don't I have the number? No, not gonna help me. He doesn't have some one year warning on the thing. He says, Well just ask. Okay. I said he said, I'll get you the number. He got me the number. In a minute I was on phone with the frigidair. In two minutes, you know what they said Hey, you give us a little over 100 bucks. We will fix that for you for nothing, and we'll give you a two-year warranty on our work. Hey It pays to ask. It pays to ask. And especially if we want the peace of God in our hearts When we're dealing with something in life that's broken, we're told to take our concerns to God. Make our concerns, our requests known. And by the way, when we go and we ask God something, guess what he says here? Don't forget about the stuff that he's already given you in the past. Make your concerns, requests known to God with thanksgiving. Or as the ESP puts it on the front end, perhaps, for a reason. With thanksgiving Make your request known to God. You remember the you all know the story of the Ten Leopers, right? That's one of the most uh Memorable stories in the Bible. We know that ten guys were sick. They had this leprosy disease, and Every one of them, we don't even know if they were believers or not, so certainly nine of them acted like they weren't. But it's interesting, the one who was a foreigner, which I assume was not part of the religious establishment in Jerusalem The one whom was least religious, you might say, he's the only one that came back to thank Jesus. For being kind to him, for healing him in a specific way. And Jesus had an all-important question that he asked. Remember what it was? Where are The other nine. Where are the other nine? Romans 1 gives us a long list of unethical, uh immoral behavior that is in this group of people that's mentioned. Seems to be a generic historic view of fallen humanity, apart from God. Uh they professed themselves to be wise. They became fools, it says. You can read it in Romans 1. They became fools, acting as if they were wise. But when you really look at what they did, it says they were dishonoring God with their bodies, worshiping false gods, changing the truth. of God into a lie, serving the creation more than the Creator. They were malicious, murderers, deceitful, unmerciful And there, amidst the list, it says, neither were they thankful. Neither were they thankful. Terrible thing for us to go through a day without frequently giving thanks, especially if we're complaining because we ordered Coffee without cream. And they went and put it in. If we order something on the menu and they got it wrong, and now we have to wait five more minutes or ten minutes. more minutes. The truth is, how many things do you have of any worth That God didn't give you. Do you own anything at all? It isn't a gift What part of your life that's good do you deserve? Right? The wages of sin is death. Right? That's what we've earned. We've earned death. We've inherited a broken, fallen nature, and you know what? We acted out So everything we have now, as somebody once said, anything less than hell is far more than we deserve. And we've got a whole lot of God going. Good going for us. Especially That we know Jesus Christ because we know we're not going to be standing before the judgment without a Savior. We know our sins are forgiven. We know we're trusting in Christ. And that in the end we're going to be good. Not only that, I mean we're going to be in good shape. Not only that, look at the stuff we got. We have many of us still have our parents. We have Automobiles often with one per person in a household these days, not always, but some of us are sharing, some of you are sharing. But so when he says uh make your request known to God, when make when you're concerned about something, tell God about it, and then enter into thanksgiving. Notice he doesn't say what to be thankful for, does he? You've got to figure that out Right? With thanksgiving, make your request, known. So you're s you're thinking. It's it shouldn't be too hard to think of something. Oh guess what? I'm breathing I can still breathe. I'm not on a ventilator. Thank God, you know, I'm not on medication. Or if you're on it, guess what? Thank God I'm on medication. Because now my heart will pr beat regularly or something, you know, this fungus or this thing will go away. Or at least it'll help me with my cholesterol or whatever it is. is you're worried about because you don't want to get a heart attack. So uh and the list it's just your list and it's a cool thing. I used to think when I was a little bit Less stupid. That uh I didn't need to ask God in everything, many things. You know, you just kinda do that on your own on your own with your own effort, especially the easy stuff. And there's something to be said for that. You don't need to uh You need to exercise your own mind and your own gifts and do things. But when you're stuck, you know what? Even in the littlest thing. What bothers and it bothers you, if it bothers you, be sure to bother God. Because He's concerned about you. The question is, will you make your concerns known to God to him and when you're doing it will you say by the way you helped me fix the microwave last week But this week, the car motor blew up. What are we going to do about that? And I don't see any raises coming for a long time You understand? We asked with thanksgiving. And there's something about uh, I know that the promise of peace is a gift from God But there's something that there's a byproduct when you the more that we be thanking God through the day. Think about this for a minute. When you give thanks for something, somehow it brings out the uh the new you. Somehow it uh ministers to our own soul. It uh it it it creates a better perspective because then we start remembering our history, how we got where we are You understand? When you start thinking, thank God for my wife. She because when I was twenty one twenty-five, I was praying, Lord, where's the woman? You understand? But now I'm thankful for all these years. And and if you're s single, whatever, you know, you can thank God that maybe you don't have a spouse because now you got all this time on your hands. You know what I mean? So I I uh you have to get your own angle on that one. I'm not trying to make a value judgment on marriage. But the um the point B it refreshes your member uh memory when we thank God that that that we are the recipients You understand? And he's the giver. He's the giver. What we have are the gifts. And it's helpful to have that big perspective. Then you realize, hey, I'm on a free ride here. And then the big t the the other concerns don't seem so troubling when you realize it's it's all free to us anyway. It's all one loan. You're not taking any of it with you, you got that, don't you? You're not taking anything with you. You're leaving it all behind. And hopefully you're blessing people while you got it in your hands. And you're doing something worthwhile with with your gifts, your time, your money. Because we're just stewards. We are what we are by the grace of God. We have what we have by the grace of God. And by the grace of God, let us be thankful for it. And the more we thank God, I think the better perspective we're going to have. And uh we can thank him for so many things. Our health, our home, our eyesight, our hearing, our uh giving us another day of life. So on and so forth. But I do want to point out to you here, you know, there is a promise here. You see the promise in the text, don't you? You're concerned, and he's going to put joy, he's going to put peace in your heart. You understand? If you let your request your concerns known to God with thanksgiving, here's the promise. I'm not making it, God makes it. And you ought to hold him to it. The promise is if you do that, if you make your concerns known to God, thanking him in the process The peace of God, God's peace, it surpasses your thinking, surpasses my preaching, it surpasses everything. It's going to guard your hearts And I take that partly to be emotions and you're feeling like lashing out, acting unreasonable. It'll guard your mind. You shouldn't get me worried in your thinking In Christ Jesus. He's going to guard your hearts and minds. He's going to give you peace. My wife says, What if they don't have it? I said, that's not my problem, that's God's. And that's the people to see if they're using the process by faith. I want to leave you with this. Wasn't sure if I was going to use it, but I want to leave you with this As we conclude this very helpful, to me helpful message from St. Paul and from God speaking through him. For us who are suffering and concerned in life, and you'll face problems this week, the rest of this year, the rest of your life. Paul writes from prison, and he doesn't deny that all of us will suffer, as he himself is suffering at the time of his writing. uh and to quote uh the late Frederick Bushner, he says these several paragraphs. He says, indeed, Paul must have had a strong suspicion That the worst things might soon happen to him. He does not try to minimize them. He does not try to explain them away as God's will or God's judgment or God's method of testing or Our spiritual fiber. He simply tells the Philippians that in spite of them, even in the thick of them, they are to keep in constant touch. With the one who unimaginably transcends the worst things and also unimaginably transcends the best. In everything, Paul says, they are to keep on praying. Come hell or high water. They are to keep on asking. Keep on thanking. Above all, keep on making themselves known. He does not promise them that as a result they will be delivered from the worst things Any more than Jesus himself was delivered from them. What he promises them instead is that the peace of God Which passes all understanding will keep your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. The worst things will surely happen no matter what. That's to be understood. But beyond all our power to understand, he writes, we will have peace. Both in heart and in mind. We are as sure to be in trouble as the sparks fly upward. But we will also be in Christ. As he puts it. Ultimately, not even sorrow, loss, or death can get at us there. In Christ. That is the sense in which he dares to tell us. Have no anxiety About anything. Instead, rejoice in the Lord Always. Again, I will say it. Rejoice. Fellow Christians, you are in Jesus Christ And Christ Jesus is in you. Rejoice. Father, we bow before you We thank you that your peace, the peace of God, which surpasses our thinking, surpasses the worst of times, the best of times. Your peace will guard our hearts and minds, and that peace indeed is found in Jesus Christ, whom we have found and who has found us. O Lord, may our hearts in times of trouble and in times of blessing, may our hearts be filled with peace and joy, and may the world see the joy of Jesus Christ. Which forgives us our sins, gives us purpose for living, and gives us a tremendous future. In His name we pray. Amen.