Good morning. Again, we're privileged to have before us the Word of God to meditate upon. this Sunday. I'd encourage you to open the scriptures or read from your uh quietly from your bulletin uh passage from Philippians chapter 3 verse 17 in the following As we come to this text as you know, uh if you're like many other human beings in this world, uh our lives can often be Uninspired, routine, perhaps at times even mundane And as believers, we know that we're called and would like to deep down live lives that are truly meaningful and helpful uh to ourselves and to the people behind us and around us, uh inspirational, if you will. And so uh we come to this great text And uh Paul is going to speak to the Philippians in that regard. He won't tell them anything new, but he will tell them some things that are very crucial to remember. Please stand as we read from the Word of God. Philippians chapter 3 verse 17. I'll be reading from the English Standard Version. Open your hearts to God's Word. Brothers and sisters, join in imitating me and keep your eyes on those who walk according to the example you have in us. For many, of whom I've often told you, and now tell you, even with tears, walk as enemies of the cross of Christ. Their end is destruction. Their God is their belly. And they glory in their shame, with minds set on earthly things. But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior. The Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body, by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself. Therefore, my brothers, whom I love and long for, my joy and crown, stand firm, thus in the Lord, my beloved. May Paul's words, God's words, go deep into our hearts to lift our lives in the future. Please be seated. When you're in prison, you have a lot of time on your hands A lot of time to think. Joe Paul writes from prison, probably a prison in Rome. And he's writing to this church of Christians that he, many of whom he helped come to know Christ. And now he's going to tell them. Something that he's thought about for a while. And actually things he said in times past, but now would remind them of that which is very important. For the believers there in what's now modern day Turkey, but they're in Philippi, to remind them how they can Live a life that is fulfilling to ourselves and may even be very influential for others And after all, isn't that what we want? Who wants to wake up in the morning and to uh have a mundane life with little effect on anything And so Paul writes, and he's going to give the believers there, and us, since we have the Word of God preserved in writing, is going to give us a big picture. To keep in mind as we live down here on earth in the trials and testings and even just the ordinary of life. So, how can we live inspired lives? And there are many things that Paul could say, but he focuses on Basically one thing with two parts here. And basically what he says, if we're going to live inspired lives, you and I have to stay connected to heaven. Can you say this? I need to stay connected to heaven. Say it. I need to stay connected to heaven. He's going to first give us the horizontal and then the vertical So to stay connected to heaven, uh we need to stay connected to heavenly minded people. That's the horizontal. And I hope you have heavenly mind-minded people in and around your life. If not, you need to find some. Connect with them. Look at what he says in verse 17, brothers, and that's used generically, and sisters. Join in imitating me. Join in imitating me. And keep your eyes, here's the command, keep your eyes on those who walk according to the example you have in us. It's a call to imitate other human beings. Mature Christians, like Paul, he says, like us. Contextually, it's uh Paul Uh he's literally said imitate me in other places he says follow me in the ways that I follow Christ. First Corinthians chapter eleven verse one. And so we are good to uh pay attention to the life and uh the teachings of Paul and particularly the life here. In fact, he often quotes, he often tells the people, just forget my teaching, in effect. Just look what I've been doing. To the Thessalonians, for example, who needed a good lesson in work. He said, Look, I don't take any pay I just get up and I work hard with my hands. Why do I do that? Because you need a lesson on being a hard worker. So we would do well to visit the life of Paul often, to to gain those things, not just in the area of work, but in other areas. And notice he says, imitate me uh those and those fix your eyes on those who walk according to the example you have in us. The S there I presume is uh uh Timothy and Epaphroditus, probably, because he uh had ridden referring. They were with them Uh uh Timothy was a dedicated young pastor, serving it appears in Ephesus, uh a hard worker, uh young man, but yet still can serve as a model. Uh it's amazing that even young people can be uh inspirational if they get a good hand on God and Christ early on in life and it's good to be around people like that. And he says in Epaphroditus He was a devoted worker for Christ. If you look at Philippians chapter 2, verse 29, he tells them to honor men like Papaphroditus. Why? Because men like him Basically, risk their life for the work of Christ. I mean, if you find someone who's willing to risk their life for Jesus Christ, I tell you, you want to get some information. You want to gain something from their life read the stories about their lives, learn from them and how they manage to be so dedicated And zealous for the one who's died for our sins. And of course, when he tells us here, keep your eyes on those who walk according to the example you have in us, we have a host of people, don't we? To fix our eyes on. For example, the Bible itself. We have hundreds of role models in the Bible. Joseph, for example, he stood strong when tested and tempted morally. We see his account in Genesis 39, when Potiphar's wife uh tempted him. The story of Daniel when he was taken prisoner, we still see him praying three times a day to the God who had uh saved him, uh trusting in God's providence. Uh we see uh for example Job or s Job uh we need to visit him uh from time to time to learn from him so that we can be inspired to do better in our own suffering. Uh you recall uh Uh the Chaldeans attacked and killed Joe's servants. He was a pretty wealthy man. He had employees and uh taking care of him and his household. And uh and then a vicious storm comes and uh kills many and Job's family. And uh we see the record there in Job 120. When Job hears the terrible noise or the the terrible report It says in 120, at this Job got up, tore his robe, shaved his head, and he fell on the ground in worship And said, Naked I came from my mother's womb, naked I will depart. The Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away. May the name of the Lord be praised. In all this, Job did not sin by charging God with wrongdoing. Wow. There's someone we need to meditate on from time to time, especially when we ourselves are uh maybe hurting and suffering. In fact, it's better to do it when you're not suffering. Then you can be proactive and you don't have to rescue yourself out of a condition where you're blaming God Uh you can avoid the whole problem altogether, perhaps, because you're inspired by the life of Job and you remember that Job was uh God was big in Job's life and he can big be big in yours. uh when trial problem comes your way. So we need to stay connected to heavenly minded people. Um We could look in the New Testament, for example, like the nameless woman in Mark 12. She gave so generously and sacrificially. People were putting money into the offerings. And uh some put big big amounts, and apparently it was obvious that who was giving what. I think now we try to do it more discreetly, but that's the way it was then. But in Mark 12, 42, this a little woman, this young or this uh woman, poor woman, gave in uh just a couple of uh coins. And uh it says Mark twelve forty two, but a poor woman came and put in two very small copper coins worth only a few cents. And Jesus said regarding her Regarding those who had given large amounts, those who gave huge amounts, he says, they all gave out of their wealth, but she out of her poverty. She put in everything, all she had to live on, she gave out of her poverty. See, there's a lesson to be learned there, isn't there? If we visited that The learned importance of God loves a cheerful giver. He loves someone who can give uh sacrificially. And uh they understand that uh they want to serve God and often serve God when it hurts. Uh Financially. As Jesus said elsewhere, it is indeed more blessed to what? Give than it is to receive. As many of you know, it's the only time in the Bible uh where he's quoted, where he's Outside of the four gospels. It's found there in the book of Acts. And then there's the example of Lois and Eunice or Eunice, Timothy's mother, or grandmother and mother. Uh who are women of sincere faith, it says. These are women of sincere faith. And guess how Timothy came to Christ? It's through grandma and mom passing down their faith. And isn't that what you want, those of you who have children Those who are going to have children, don't you want your kids to have a sincere faith? And so we do well to remember women like grandmothers and mothers like Lois and UNICE. Of course, then there's history itself. We can read books about people and Christians throughout history and what they've uh uh dawn through. You know at the I didn't know this, but at the council until recently, the Council of Nicaea in 325 AD, there are three hundred and eighteen delegates attending And over 300 of them had lost an eye, a hand, or were limping, uh, had problems with a leg or something because they were being tortured for their faith. And yet they stood strong for Christ. They all faced persecution and testing, but refused. To yield to the torture. Instead, they trusted in God's power to either deliver or to sustain them through it. Because they knew there was a greater joy that was to come. And in fact, there are people around that we we may know, like Johnny Erickson and what she's done from her wheelchair and suffering a diving accident, becoming quadriplegic, and now has a tremendous powerful ministry. to special needs uh individuals. And even our own uh Alan Tibbles, who recently passed away a few years ago, one of uh uh the late Allen, uh former member and elder of our church, he became a quadruple in a sports accident, working with kids. And uh guess what he did After that, after he f had was put into a wheelchair, he sold his house house in Suburbia and went to one of the uh poor socioeconomic places in Baltimore City and Sandtown, right where the riot uh area near there where that broke out. And uh what did they do? They started uh uh Santawn uh Habitat for Humanity they started New Song Community Church and uh New Song Community School. Uh he and his wife Susan Uh these are inspirational people. It's not that we all have to move into the inner city. Uh but the point is that uh a broken vessel God can do a lot with. uh when you you have a mind that's connected to to Christ and Christ's love for you and that's what Alan was all about, that the the the love of God and loving people. was basically his his understanding of how we should live life and we need to think about role models like that to uh inspire us. uh as we go through life. You know, the scripture reminds us of the value of uh staying connected with uh uh uh strong believers as Proverbs twenty-seven seventeen says, as iron sharpens iron, so one person sharpens another. That's what happens. Or as you know, these familiar scriptures in Hebrews 10, 24. Mature believers know how to, quote, spur one another on toward love and good works. They know not to give up meeting together. Uh as some are in the habit of doing. They know how to encourage one another. And all the more as we see the day approaching. And folks, it is getting closer. Christ is returning. It won't be long. It's closer now than it ever has been. And then we think of Philippians 4. 8 and following one of my favorite passages. where mature believers know how to think well. Hang with people who uh know how to think about what is right and true and pure and lovely and whatever is admirable. People who uh understand uh uh uh have a good perspective on life and not uh thinking another way. There are people who think A lot of people think in another direction. He mentions them here in this text. Look at what he says. For many, he says in verse 18, of whom I have often told you and now tell you, even with tears walk as enemies of the cross. of Christ. Apparently I assume here he may be talking about those who profess Christ. But if you look at their life, they appear to be enemies. Why? Because their end is destruction and their God is their belly. They're people living uh for themselves and and uh more mere pleasure and consumption, uh examples of uh gaining and gathering and consuming and not just to have more uh uh just to have uh not just to get but to just to keep getting. And the point is it's not a bad thing to be upper mobile. But the question is what are you doing? Hopefully like it's As it comes in, you're like shoveling it out, you know. You know, God definitely has a bigger shovel in you, by the way. So uh the more you the sooner you realize that, the better you are As it comes in, spread it around. And we're not talking about trying to be socialist here or anything like that. We're talking about sharing The gifts of Christ to bless people, because it is indeed more blessed to give than to receive. And uh somebody once said, when mankind finally discovers the center of the universe, uh many will be surprised, many people will be surprised that they are not it. And so let's stay connected, Paul says, to heavenly minded people, uh imitating them as we draw inspiration from them horizontally, and then there's the vertical. Then there's the vertical. Stay connected to heavenly minded people, horizontally, stay connected to heaven itself. Look at what he says in verse 20. There are those who were the living, their God is their belly. But what he says, but our citizenship is where? It's in heaven. Can you say our citizenship is in heaven? Say it. Our citizenship is in heaven. And from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. You know, to this second last point. C. S. Lewis' familiar statement gets right to the point. You've heard it. Listen again. It's critical. Quote C. S. Lewis. If you read history, you will find That Christians who did most for the present world were precisely those who thought most of the next. It is since Christians have largely ceased to think of the other world that they have become so ineffective in this. End quote. And that's exactly where Paul is leading us. And the Philippian believers. He's leading them to draw their inspiration by remembering the big picture that there is a heaven You may be a citizen here of the United States or of some other country, but he says that's not it. That's not everything We have a greater, more heavenly citizenship. Our citizenship is in heaven. So let's not get too attached to the earth. We need to be Thinking about the things of the earth, paying attention to them, but they aren't to have a good hold on us. And we aren't to we're to hold them gingerly, like holding a bird in our hands. Just genderly. We have to deal with the earth and the things of it, don't we? But we can't stay too attached. You know, in Hebrews 11. 13, it speaks of believers in the Old Testament, uh, believers like you and me Who have been elevated to a place of prominence in the Scripture. They walk the earth living by faith like you and I. And then there was men like Abraham mentioned and his children, normal people, but somehow they identified in a special way because of the way they lived. Hebrews 11 13 says all these people who were still living by faith when they died, they admitted that they were foreigners and strangers on earth. People who say such things show that they are looking for a country of their own. If they had been thinking of the country they had left, they would have had opportunity to return. Instead, they were longing for a better country. A heavenly one. Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared a city for them. When Abraham left Back in Ur, the city of Ur, and traveled, I don't know, maybe thousand miles or more, called to a place he wasn't sure where it was, but God was guiding them, he realized he wasn't just looking for the land of Canaan. Canaan. He understood that this was a type. That God was calling him to a heavenly city, and that's what Canaan's all about. And the delivery from Egypt, the Israelites, that's the story of them being captive. Literally, but it's a picture of us being captive in our sins, and God sets them free. And it's a picture that God refers to over and over again that, hey, we've been set free, free through the blood of Christ Just as they celebrated the old Old Testament Passover through the blood, the sacrifice, we've been freed up. And we're headed for a new place. A new and better place. A place flowing with milk and honey And uh it's not going to be just your old typical uh store-bought stuff either. And looking forward to it. You know, this is one of my favorite stories I want to share with you I may recall the story of Florence Chadwick, Chadwick swimming in the fog. She was the first woman that swam the English Channel in both ways. It was the 4th of July, and it was 1952, and she was out on uh on an island 21 miles off of the coast of California And she was going to swim to California. And um so she waded into the water, the cold water, on this 4th of July morning. And uh the fog was so thick that she could barely see her mother or her or her coach, her party that were in boats next to her as she's swimming And uh millions of people, it said, were watching on television as Florence Chadwick not only wades in the water but begins swimming in this cold water mile after mile. It said that several times it it was uh he even had they even had to shoot rifles into the water because there were sharks getting close. So he wanted to scare them away. So uh and fatigue was never a problem for her to swim twenty-w one miles wasn't difficult. Of course, you know it's kind of rough swimming swimming in the ocean, but fatigue wasn't the problem. The problem was that the water was bitter cold So cold that after quite a few miles, her body had firstly felt like it was numb And finally she said, I want out. Lift me out. Take me out. And her mom saying, and her coach saying, look, it if the trainer saying, it can't be that much further. Just press on. I know we're almost there And so she looked for the California coastline, couldn't see it Was numb, exhausted. Said, take me out. They pulled her out, and it was just minutes, and guess what? They were on the shore. And they're interviewing her and they're asking her questions. And she said, and some aren't wearing there's a discourse, she said, you know, she said, if I could have seen the shoreline. I think I could have made it. I think I could have made it. Later on she did the swim again, by the way. But you know, you're something about if you can see the shoreline, you've got hope, don't you? And and it puts something in you. You know that, hey, you know This is not the end of the world. We're almost there. And you're in a problem and you're suffering. You're going through something. And if we forget the big picture, we forget the Fact that there's a heaven, we're citizens of heaven, and there's a savior there in heaven. You know what? He's waiting, and he's coming soon. He awaits us, our arrival, and we await his, right? To meet him finally. He's coming soon, soon, and guess what he's going to do? It says in this text, he's going to transform our lowly body to one like his glorious body. And as I think about that text, I think about that in a in a broad way. You know, verse 21 says, He will transform our loadly body. uh these weak body virus elsewhere, you know, it says the flesh is weak. I think about the body, I think we're uh physically weak and we're morally weak, aren't we? Physically weak, it's tempted. Some things are so tempting you just want to like go for it, right? Maybe it's the attractiveness of the past. And uh sometimes we're just so weak physically. Maybe t you know, you're going through some terrible illness or the joints are are hurting and the my the mind isn't working. There's so much uh that uh aches and hurts and tries and tests us. And life is hard. Just waking up and raising a family or getting up and going to work and wake over exhausted But the struggle will soon be over. It'll be over. In the meantime, strength is available, and that's what we're looking for in the stacks, aren't we? That's what Paul's telling us. Inspiration is available so you can go through the struggle and do it do it well. Inspiring the people around you, how can he possibly do this so well? uh in this low broken condition. You know, Chris August wrote an inspiring song I want to leave you with as we close. Chris August uh song Amen, inspiring song that brings Paul's message together for us. Here's what it says, listen This world is full of people, the weary and the poor, waiting for the day when they will hurt no more. Though this world is full of suffering, these promises are true. We hold on to the hope that the day. Is coming soon. So amen. Amen. And the people said, the troubles of this world, they're coming to an end. And all my brothers and my sisters, let me hear it again. The kingdom is coming. And the people said, Amen. This world is full of struggles. We're all trying to break free. We fall back to the same things because addictions are disease. But I'm telling you, there's someone who will set your spirit free. His name is Jesus, and his blood redeems. Give me more than just religion, because it feels like something's missing. That heaven and earth collision. Amen. And amen. Lord, we pray before you that we need a heaven and earth collision. We need heaven to come down into our hearts. In our minds, as we live here on earth, we know that in heaven there's a Christ, a Savior Who is coming to redeem us. In the meantime, Lord, help us to look to Him that our hearts might be inspired. Help us to find Him and heavenly-minded people that we might draw inspiration from them as well. Help us to stay connected to you, Lord Jesus, horizontally and vertically. As we look for that day when you'll come to transform these lowly bodies of ours, to make us into something far better than we ever dreamed. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.