Good morning. So we're continuing chapter seven, which is a long chapter. We're in the middle of the chapter. Which is interesting from Paul as he digresses from matters of sexual immorality and marriage. So we're reading from verses seventeen through 24. And if you're able, would you please stand as we hear the reading of God's Holy Word? First Corinthians 7, 17 through 24. Only let each person lead the life that the Lord has assigned to him and to which God has called him. This is my rule in all the churches. Was anyone at the time of his call ready circumcised? Let him not seek to remove the marks of circumcision. Was anyone at the time of his call uncircumcised? Let him not seek circumcision. For neither circumcision counts for anything, nor uncircumcision, but keeping the commandments of God. Each one should remain in the condition in which he was called. Were you a slave when called? Do not be concerned about it. But if you can gain freedom, avail yourself of the opportunity. For he who was called in the Lord as a slave is a freedman of the Lord Likewise, he who was free when called is a slave of Christ. You were bought with a price. Do not become slaves of men. So, brothers, in whatever condition each was called, let him remain with God. The word of the Lord this morning, Holy Spirit, we know the life is difficult. And that sometimes you call us to situations that are hard for us to live. But we also know that, God, we need to continue asking you to help us. Help us Understand your word. Help us believe your word that you've given to us. So we ask you this morning, would you by the power of the Holy Spirit help us to understand This message that you've given to us, that we may walk in the manner in which you've called us. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen. Please be seated. How many content people do you know in your life? Let me put it in a different way. Are you content? No, I say that because it's hard for us to think about our lives and where we are and to truly be content with our circumstances, our situations. Why? The cliche is that the grass is always greener on the other side. Does this does this sound familiar to you? If only I could be somewhere else. If only I could be doing something different, I would serve the Lord, I would be more spiritual than I am If I was married, if I was single, if I was younger with a little bit of more energy, if I was older with just a tad bit of wisdom If I was richer with a little bit more resources to give away, if I could change the political systems of our of our world, if I could change my external circumstances, then everything would just be peachy. So we think. See, Paul in the text that we're just reading is dealing with so many things that we've been talking about in chapter seven. Actually Beginning chapter 5 and 6, we saw a lot of stuff that's going on of people that had become believers from being prostitutes and from sexual immorality and all kinds of things And Paul is here digressing in talking about all these issues to reinforce his main message, which is this: which is this: I want you, church, brothers and sisters, to live a content life. I want you to check your pulses so that your restlessness, the things that make you so restless in your life may not bother you. So that you may truly live a life that honors God. Now, as we go through this text, there's one thing that I want to mention that Paul is not saying, and don't hear me say this: Paul is not saying that we cannot change our situations. Paul is not saying that we shouldn't improve our situation or condition in any way. Paul is not saying that. Paul is saying this Don't make the external circumstances and the things that you seem to be pursuing other than God become the priority in your life Because when you do so, you are setting yourself up for countless non-stop discontentment. That's the point for Paul. And so Paul is basically saying, do you want to be content? This is how you can be content. Blossom, bloom, thrive where you are. If that's where God has placed you, He wants you to blossom. He wants you to thrive where you are What authority? How can Paul say that? How can you thrive where you are, knowing that our circumstances most of the times don't allow us to do so? Well, he says, verses 17 through 19 is you have a right standing with God. Or in another way. Your status should not determine whether you're content or not because you have a right standing with God. Again, Paul is digressing here to make his point that You need to live your life in a content manner because of what God has done for you. See, Paul is really concerned about God's call for our life, right? He says, Well, God has called you, but he's not just simply called you. He's called you to service, to do something. To worship him, to honor him. But what was the people, what was the one thing the people in Corinth were so used to And being told that they should pursue, and being told that they they were called to. They were used to autonomy, to individualism, to self-sufficiency, to self-fulfilment, to the pursuit of the human Wisdom. That's what they know. That our life is all about the chasing of the wind, if you will, the next goal, the next money, the next influence, the next whatever it is. And Paul is saying, No, no, no, no, no. Walk in the way in which God has called you. Maintain your present state. Now, Paul is not just basically talking about your vocation here, which we tend to place all things in terms of a vocation, but I think Paul is talking about the condition of our heart, of who we are, where we are. That God is the one who chooses to call us from darkness, and he's the one who chooses to give us certain gifts, different gifts, so that we may serve Him. And that God, in His sovereignty, places us in specific places So that we may honor Him, so that we may serve Him. And so Paul is saying, I need you to know that you need to live the life that is set before you by using the God given gifts that I have given to you. Because when we become Christians, when become believers, we bring with us everything that we were, don't we? Now, of course, Paul is not saying live in the sinful manner in which you were called. Continue to live in your sin and don't worry about your sinful nature. That's not what Paul is saying. Paul is saying, well, you've been given a new heart. You are a new person. You're not the person who used to live in sin. But if you are a plumber, you don't become something else. You continue to be that I think Warren is looking at me and thinking why would you use the example of a plumber? That you can continue to serve the Lord where you are, that it's not necessary to always want to change your status, just Because you become a Christian, unless your job or vocation or whatever you're doing is contrary to scripture. It is unethical, it is not um a Christian thing for you to do. And so Paul has to illustrate the point To the people because he's speaking to a specific people, and so he gives them two examples. The first one, the Jews and the Gentiles, and then the slaves and the free And I think the first example of the Jews and the Gentiles is a pretty uh big example for us to even think about it, especially in terms of identity, in terms of our our status, and in terms of how we think Who we are and how we can actually serve the Lord. Remember, circumcision for the Jews was a huge thing. Verse 18: it is what separated them from the rest of the people, the heathens, the Gentiles No wonder some of the Jews when they became believers they were asking that the Gentiles would have to be circumcised and actually obeyed the the rules and the laws of of being a Jew in order for them to be accepted in the covet in the community of faith. Why? Because to them circumcision was everything And so Paul is saying, no, it doesn't matter. Your circumcision is nothing. And then he turns to the Gentiles and says, Well, uncircumcision. If you're not circumcised, it doesn't matter for you to go seeking circumcision. Why Because the Gentiles, actually circumcision was a mark of scorn. They looked down upon people who would be circumcised, upon the Jews And actually, history tells us that some young Jewish men that became believers were trying to go to the doctors and surgically remove the mark of circumcision so that they would belong into the Hellenistic culture Or trying to become like the Gentiles. Things reversed. So Paul is saying, both of them don't matter. The marks of circumcision or uncircumcision are nothing compared to obedience to God, to pleasing God. Can you imagine? Just how difficult this message was for Jews to hear, especially being told that you are the covenant people, that God loved you and chose you to be his people And that he has given you blessings, why? Because of the mark that he's given you, and now you're telling me That all my history, everything else that I've believed, and the marks that I've seen as as God's presence in my life, that you're telling me that that's nothing And Paul is saying yes, because you know what matters to you? You are a believer when you became a Jew. Well, I mean, you are a believer when you are a Jew, that doesn't change. What is now new is this: it is your new status in Christ What matters is that you now belong to Jesus Christ and you belong to Him and you're called by His name. For the Gentiles, the same thing, that you've now been circumcised by the Spirit of God That the old person that used to live is now gone, buried with Christ. That you have become a new creation in Christ. And as elsewhere he says in Galatians 3, he says, there's now no Jew, no Gentile. They're all one person. In Christ. Paul is saying there's no ritual that can compare or take the place of obedience in God. See your identities as male and female, white and black, those are external things. They are merely external things that should not always occupy our minds and our hearts every time we think about our service to God. They are temporary things that will not last forever. We should instead be concerned about what is the duty of man, what is your duty to God? What has God called you to do before you even ask about Am I a woman or a man or married or made a Jew, a gentle, whatever you are? Am I living in faith and obedience to Christ, which is more pleasing to him Paul is saying, look, you are seeking to find your identity to say, well, but I'm not a Jew, so why should I obey God? Or I'm a Gentile. How can I obey God? Paul is saying, if you're asking the question about your right standing You already have it in Jesus Christ. You belong to Him. Paul is saying, don't envy the status of someone else. Don't be driven with such desire to make a change in your life. Because God has called you where you are, and you can serve him providentially where he's placed you. See, when we become believers, our whole being is conditioned by that fact. By the fact that we are believers. Think of a house that is sold for demolition. It might be as beautiful as you can take a look at. It might, you might have done some repairs or changes in it. But do those changes and repairs matter at the end of the day if the house was sold to be demolished? It doesn't. Paul is saying you by you wanting to become Jewish or un Jewish or whatever it is that we might want to be changing our status to be. We're tinkering with repairs that don't really matter. They don't matter. That our identities as men and women, Gentile, Jew, or whatever we are, yes, they do have value. They have their place. But the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ is what transforms us and makes us to see ourselves as we really are in Christ And it relativizes such distinctions that might separate us. See some new believers tend to think that when they become Christians, well, now that I'm a new believer I need to become a missionary, I need to go to seminary and be trained to become A pastor. It's commendable to think that way, and if God is calling you, by all means, go for it. But it's not the only way that we can show our gratitude to God for what He has done for us. You can be an engineer and show gratitude to God. You can be a janitor and show your gratitude to God. You can do it and do it well. Paul is not forbidding Christians. He's not forbidding us from bettering ourselves, from doing that which we need to do in order to uh provide for families or even do well in our specific jobs and situations. But Paul is cautioning us against making changes simply because one is a Christian. You don't leave your occupation just because you became a believer. Again, unless it's against Scripture, right? And our roles can change. God can call us to something different. And God does change our roles and our situations. But even when He does that, Paul is saying, look, even if your status And your situation changes, the only thing that you gotta keep in mind is this: that whatever you're doing must reflect the glory of God. That is the most important thing: pleasing Him and His glory. Because there's a danger in us of our pursuits of life. What are we seeking? What does the world tell us to seek every day in our life? Seek higher mobility, seek greater status, seek greater influence in the eyes of the world. Alter your external circumstances, and that will be the key to you pleasing God. Is that true? Absolutely no Our external circumstances are not what brings glory to God. See, I think Paul is calling us to understand who we are so that we may actually begin to live our lives as Christians regardless of our economic, social, and religious situations That our stats our statuses, whatever they may be, they are insignificant compared to who we are in Christ. And that's what Paul is telling us in verses 17 through 19. Okay, verses 20 to 22. He continues with the second example. We have freedom in Christ, or rather If your status was not to determine your contentment, your circumstances should not as well determine your contentment. See, the church in Corinth was just like the church in our day. It was a mix of all kinds of people. It was a mix of the rich engaging and interacting with the poor, Jews and Gentiles. There was actually the argument is that there was as many as 50% of the population that were slaves. In Corinth. That's a huge number. See, the slaves were fully aware of their circumstances, of their lack of freedom. And Paul is encouraging them and saying, I mean, Paul is basically saying, don't worry about it. Are you a slave when Christ calls you? Say don't let that trouble you. Don't worry about it. Why? Because Paul would rather encourage the slaves in where they are and they've got and God calling them. And for them to please the Lord, then look in upon their own circumstances. If God has called you as a slave, remember that He's more than able to give you the grace to live as such. That your state, even though it is difficult, it is not of first importance, but your relationship with God That is what matters most than anything else. That the outward state does not always count And here's the deal. Because think about it. What is the greatest bondage that the slave and the free is in? Is it their circumstance? Or is it their bondage to sin and death and the kingdom of Satan And Paul is saying, you have been rescued from a much, much more powerful bondage that you could ever imagine. You are in need of a savior. And when he's liberated you and rescued you from that, that is reason and purpose for you to be grateful to God and to ask for him, to help you, to give you grace, so that you may honor him first before you even look at your circumstances. But the freedom that we find in Christ is much more glorious than the present circumstance that we might find ourselves in. See, the truth of the matter is we can be so concerned about our circumstances that we actually negate And disregard the efficiency of God's call in our life. We can actually be so concerned about our circumstances that we enslave ourselves With the anxiety and the frustration that comes with the situation that we might find ourselves in. And I think this goes really well with how Paul follows that paradox. It's a really complex thought that Paul is saying, Well, were you a slave when you were called? No. Well, don't think about it. Don't worry about it. But if you have an opportunity to be free, please by all means take it. And then he says, Well, because if you're free when you're called, you actually become a slave of Christ. So you're both enslaved. You're free but enslaved In Christ. And that is what matters more than anything. Now we gotta deal with the problem here, right? Is Paul saying that I'm not gonna challenge slavery of my day? Is Paul saying, well I don't care about slavery? You can continue being enslaved and that doesn't matter. Just be joyful about it. Is that what Paul is saying I don't think so. You know, if you really think about it, the first century Christianity was such a tiny little institution. Slavery was a huge, huge institution. Paul understands But maybe the best way to go about this is to actually lay the ground by giving God's people something and a message that is that is more powerful than merely activism or so or just addressing the problem of of of slavery, but actually allowing the people to understand that which is able to transform and confront social evils like slavery, which is the gospel of Jesus Christ. And I think that's what Paul is doing here. That we are now reaping the benefits of what Paul has laid for us, the gospel of Jesus Christ, which I think is the only way that we can address the issues of of racism and and division and anything else that you can think of in our country and elsewhere. It is only by the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ that is able to That's what Paul is doing. He understands The problems that the slaves are going through. He knows their pain. They want to be free. He's not saying that I don't want to address the problem. He might not say it But he understands that God rules, that he is powerful, that he is in control of even all these circumstances. But he is living it to God. He's living it to the power of the gospel to make a change. What about those who are experiencing difficult situations in your life? What about those who have to face cancer And terminal disease? What about those who are living in very difficult jobs and they don't know how to be content in their different situations? What about some of us that are struggling in broken marriages? difficult children that we do not know how to counsel them. What about those who are addicted? Those who are living in addictions. What about the single mothers? whom it is not by their choice that they are single, but they're struggling to care for their children and their families. How can they live faithfully? Trusting the Lord. How can they be content in such circumstances? How can they live without anxiety and pain and frustration that comes with their situations? What do we say to them? I think we have to go to only one place, to the Spirit of God, to his grace. To understand that is it is only God who is able to determine our lives, His call for us. Because I think it's the only place that we can, in fact, keep our eyes. Gazed upon God and knowing that He is able to free us, knowing that He's able to care for us when we are in such difficult situations. It is only by the grace of God that we can say with Job From my mother's womb, naked I came from my mother's womb. Naked should I return. The Lord is the one who gives, and the Lord is the one who takes away. But blessed be the name of the Lord. See, Paul is not speaking things about contentment that he doesn't know of. Paul is a man that had been jailed and beaten and hungry, was without clothing, shipwrecked and persecuted and mocked by all people Yet when Paul was going through such difficult situations in all things, he said, For I have learned in whatever situation I am to be content. I know how to be brought low and I know how to abound. In every circumstance, I've learned the secret of facing plenty and hunger, abundance and need. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. And finally, Paul points to us that we can be content not because of our status, of our or of our our circumstance, but also because we know the one who rules our hearts. We know that there's one who controls all things. See, Paul is repeating himself here, repeating chapter 6, verses 20, when he says, You were bought with the price that Christ purchased you from sin and from death. You now belong solely to God, to Christ, and that we're not called to be enslaved by man, to be enslaved by anything, to be entrapped by the things of this world. See, it was believed that when someone bought their freedom through the gods, which is how they kind of worked out freedom of a slave. That you could actually not be enslaved again. Once you were you were bought out of slavery, you could not go back to it. I think that's the idea that Paul has here when he's saying you were bought with a price that price paid for you. You've been purchased That once Christ has purchased you from the kingdom of Satan, that's it. You are done. You are safe. God is now your king and your master. You cannot go back. There is no going back. But you are secure. And I think the idea in verses 24 here when he says remain with God, I think he's saying this. I think whatever circumstance that we go through, know that God is always with you, that his eye is always looking upon you, wanting you to please him and to live honorably before him. But he would not leave you alone. He would not leave you on yourself. Do you realize that Paul is not calling for a revolution here? For activism to try and change circumstances of life? That Paul is basically saying this: Do you believe? Do you truly believe that the gospel of Jesus Christ is more than able to transform and make a change and help you to understand who is truly in charge of your life? Do you? I always say this because it's it's so true in my life. Do we really believe that the gospel of Jesus Christ is more powerful than anything else in our lives? Do we? Because I know I don't, most of the times. See, I don't think Paul is saying some light things there when he's talking about contentment. Because Christ has saved you and called you to serve Him, but Christ has called us to live in this tension, the already and the not yet. We know that the kingdom of God has come, that we are saved, and yet it's not been consummated yet. And yet, he's calling us to live in this life with all its precious and all the demands upon us, of all the things that we gotta do and and attitudes that we gotta have, and And it's difficult. It is hard. It is hard walking in the manner that God is calling us to do. But the only thing that can make it easy is this. Understanding that God Himself has come to be with us. And that He is not separated from us in any way, that He loves us And that he cares for us, and that he is here to walk and to navigate this life with us. So when we struggle, when we're having a hard time being content, when we're having a a hard time living and blossoming where we are We can be encouraged this morning. God, you are with me. You are going to aid me so that I can live this life that you have called. me. Father, help us and encourage us through this that we may truly understand that you've called us and you've not left us on our own. That you are truly with us every day of our lives to aid us so that we may live the life to which you've called us. Help us to believe this this morning. In the name of the Father, of the Son. The Holy Spirit, Amen