Um this is from Isaiah forty-four. Um verses one through eleven and then twenty-one through But now hear, O Jacob, my servant, Israel, whom I have chosen. Thus says the Lord who made you, who formed you from the womb, and will help you. Fear not, O Jacob, my servant. Jashuram, whom I have chosen, for I will pour water on the thirsty land and streams on the dry ground. I will pour my spirit upon your offspring and my blessing on your descendants. They shall spring up among the grass like willows by flowing streams. This one will say, I am the Lord's. Another will call on the name of the Lord, and another will write on his hand, the Lord's. And name himself by the name of Israel. Thus says the Lord, the King of Israel, and his redeemer, the Lord of hosts. I am the first and the last. Besides me, there is no other God. Who is like me? Let him proclaim it, let him declare, and set it before me, since I appointed an ancient people. Let them declare what is to come and what will happen. Fear not, nor be afraid. Have I not told you from old and declared it? And you are my witnesses. Is there a God besides me? There is no rock. I know not any. All who fashion idols are nothing, and the things they delight in do not profit. Their witnesses neither see nor know, that they may be put to shame. Who fashions a god or casts an idol that is profitable for nothing? Behold, all his companions shall be put to shame And the craftsmen are only human. Let them all assemble, let them stand forth. They shall be terrified. They shall be put to shame together. And verse twenty-one Remember these things, O Jacob and Israel, for you are my servant. I formed you. You are my servant, O Israel. You will not be forgotten by me. I have blotted out your transgressions like a cloud, and your sins like mist. Return to me, for I have redeemed you. Sing, O heavens, for the Lord has done it. Shout, O depths of the earth. Break forth into singing, O mountains, O forests, and every tree in it For the Lord has redeemed Jacob and will be glorified in Israel. Thus says the Lord your Redeemer, who formed you from the womb. I am the Lord who made all things, who alone stretched out the heavens, who spread out the earth by himself, who frustrates the signs of liars, and makes fools of diviners. who turns wise men back and makes their knowledge foolish, who confirms the word of his servant, and fulfills the counsel of his messengers, who says of Jerusalem, She shall be inhabited. And the cities of Judah, they shall be built, and I will raise up their ruins. Who says to the deep, Be dry. I will dry up your rivers. Who says of Cyrus, he is my shepherd, and he shall fulfill all my purpose, saying of Jerusalem, She shall be built, and of the temple, your foundation shall be laid. And then please see the thank you, Bonnie. We're talking about the what it's like to be in the presence of greatness through the book of Isaiah. And we've been uh mentioning what it's like to meet your idols. I've talked about when I got to meet Mark McGuire with my intern. Taylor Swift, probably right now. Willie Nelson, Gordon Ramsey, Warren Buffett, Coco Goff, Cal Ripkin. We've got a good story. Well, before that I have met R. C. Sprohl. He's a pretty big deal in our little world. I know Tim Keller before he passed away. I've got a picture with us on his phone. He and I have traded emails. I'm sure he w was waiting for the next one. He couldn't couldn't wait. Sometimes he asked me for advice, you know, and um But I've got a good story about a guy who met Val Kilmer in the airport. Not not this la late, you know, when Val Kilmer was a big deal. He was Batman him, remember? So he was a big deal in the nineties And he saw him in the airport, which he thought was a little odd, and he just wanted to get up to him and get an out autograph. And as he approached him, Val took a phone call, not really. And he said, You know, I just want Just real quick, my kids love you. Give me an autograph, please, and I'll leave you alone. And and Val Kelmer kept on with his fake phone calls We'll come back to that. What's it like to approach your idol? Who would you love to meet? And we've been establishing that Isaiah, the book of Isaiah, written so long ago. Is still relevant for us today in Maryland in twenty twenty-three. We we've been looking at what their situation is And then looking what our situation is, and they're not exactly the same all the time, but but where it's just people, so they're not exactly all different. And then we're looking for Jesus. How can we find Jesus In every passage. And in this passage, it's almost like it's an American Idol contest. We're going to start throwing things up there and seeing who's the best and vote on a winner. at the end. There are contestants lined up, there's performances, there are judges, and we're going to declare a winner. And this comes from Isaiah 41. So go back a few chapters. Starting at verse 21, it says this, set forth your case, says the Lord. Bring your proofs, says the king of Jacob. Let them bring them and tell us what is to happen. Tell us the former things, what they are, that we may consider them, that we may know their outcome, or declare to us the things that come. Tell us what is to come hereafter So that we may know that you are gods, do good or do harm, that we may dismayed or terrified. Behold, you are nothing, and your work is less than nothing. An abomination is he Who chooses you? God says, okay, you you want idols? Bring it. Let's put 'em up there. Let's have a debate. Let's have a public forum. State your case Give your proofs, and you really need to be able to talk about the future. Talking about the past is a lot easier because it's in the past. You can explain the past, but if you are a God, you have to be able to talk about the future. And so so Yahweh is on the docket too. If if Yahweh's gonna be in this, we need to see that he is real as well. He's in the competition. Now before we get to the actual competition, we have to see our problem. And we have two problems. Well, we have a lot of problems We have more issues than National Geographic. But two of our problems here are boredom and idol worship. And so Isaiah talks about them, assesses them, and analyzes them. This is like a a property assessment or a home inspection, a car checkup, uh going to the doctor's office. Okay, what are the problems before we buy this car, buy this property Do we have a clean bill of health? So the first one is boredom. That might be surprising. What do we do when we get bored? Well now we pull out our phones, right? You know that's that's your boredom lasts a little second these days, but I a friend who would tell me about he was sitting in seminary and They had these you know staggered rows that went up and for the guy in front of him, whenever he got bored, he would pull out a paper clip And basically stick it in every part of his body up in his head. He would just start picking in his ear, picking picking in his nose, picking wherever else he could find, and g he would get stuff, you know And so so my friend is like it's one of those things where you can't stop watching. It's so So gross. So yeah, neither one of us are bored. Neither one of us are bored. My solution for afternoon classes was sunflower seeds. I would just bring in and just chew these sunflower seeds because you can't be bored eating a sunflower because there's a lot to take care of, right? You know, it's a constant thing. But then I think I maybe told you this Uh and I had another class and my solution was I left class halfway through and went and played soccer. So that's how I dealt with boredom. Not great for learning how to counsel anyone So now we have our phones, right? And we we used to have to daydream or doodle. Now we can get stuff done. Um but but we live in a common cynical, jaded, overstimulated society. In fact, the average American attention span is 8. 25 seconds. Compare that with the thing that has a attention span of nine seconds, and that is a goldfish. Now how do they determine that? But um you know all people that includes babies and one year olds and two year olds. So if over sixteen, the average attention span is thirty-two So that's a little a little better. Isaiah's talking about this um empty There's effort, but it's empty of passion and joy. Look at forty-four, twenty-two, and twenty-three Sing O heavens, for the Lord has done it, shout, O depths of the earth, break forth with singing, O mountains, O forest, and every tree in it, for the Lord has redeemed Jacob and will be glorified in Israel. Um where am I thinking then? Oh, I think it's in forty-three Oh yeah. So you've got to go back a little in your Bible. Yet you did not call upon me, O Jacob. You have been weary of me, O Israel. You have not brought me your sheep for burnt offerings, or honored me with your sacrifices. I have not burdened you with offerings, or wearied you with frankincense. You have not bought brought me sweet cane with money, or satisfied me with the fat of your sacrifices. But you have burdened me with your sins and wearied me with your iniquities. You have not brought the stuff, you have not been joyful, and you have wearied me You have wearied of me, I have not wearied of you. That's the contrast here. So this is like you're you're doing some stuff. You're in the pew. But you're not getting it. You're not here in spirit. You're not listening. You're not bringing me the things I want, which is yourself. You where's the passion? Where's the excitement for me? Where's the anticipation of what I'm going to do? Where's the imagination of what God's doing in the world? And people stop even coming. More and more people are stopping coming. Back when I was a college pastor, I estimated that t eight eighty percent of all the OU students would check the box if they're a Christian But it I looked around and I could only see like one thousand students doing anything. So I'm not saying that didn't mean they weren't a Christian, but 16,000 students checked the box and I could see 1,000. So 15,000 students every week. They weren't getting in groups. They weren't going to church. They weren't singing They weren't praying. They weren't hearing. They weren't eating the Lord's Supper. They weren't confessing sin. And that wears you down. And you move away. People then stop coming all together. They're too tired. They've got better things to do They think we're all hypocrites. They don't want to get lectured. Church feels like a police department. Well you're gonna get tickets written on you. Church feels like a political action committee where we have our things that we are trying to do Church feels like a show, a theater. Church feels like a mortuary where people go to die Church can feel like a seminary where you're just learning, learning, learning, learning. And church can feel like a museum. Vestiges of the past. Nothing is happening anymore. But you're here. Why? It's something to think about. Most people think this is silly What you're doing. Why are you here? Our first problem is boredom. Our second problem is idol worship. This is the big point in this passage. Idol worship. It's 6 through 20. There's a lot about idol worship here. Idols aren't though what I just talked about in the Smithsonian. Those idols do exist, right? Yes, there are literal idols, but there are functional idols. Tim Keller talks a lot about this Functional idols are when we take good things that we have and we make them the ultimate thing That we must have. You've got to be careful whenever you hear someone say, I cannot live without you. See, that's a little bit in the idle world It should be possible to live and to imagine a future where that death of that relationship didn't also kill you You've made that person and an ultimate thing in your life. That's natural. We do this all the time. It's what becomes our bottom line and it becomes what we serve. And again, they're fine things. That's beauty, success, money, knowledge, health, all good except when it's all in all When you can't live without it, when you can't live without power and information, when you can't live without being loved and respected and approved of When you can't live without this body that looks this way, or when you get mastery over a thing or a topic Some people their ultimate is taking care of someone else. Some people their ultimate is being productive excelling, being recognized. Sometimes it's it adhering to a religious code of morals But one ultimate is being totally independent of organized religion. That can be an idol Being a member of of ex social or group, my children have to be happy My party has to be in power. What can you not live without? mentioned this before, but when we moved to Fells and I started going to listen to live music every day, and it was normally this one place cat's eye and I was like I'm gonna And sometimes I'd be in there for two, three hours, and sometimes it could be like, oh It's midnight, I haven't done it. And I would get my clothes back on, go down there, sit in there for ten minutes and say, Alright, I checked that box. Right? And so that's it it was getting into like obsession No. No. No, it was just a cool thing to do. It well I don't know if that was an idol, but that got to like I will do whatever it takes to check this off the box. And it is driving one person at least crazy. And I never do that any other time. So so even that it's like I I had I had said that I would do I've been telling people, you know, I've Listen to live music every day and I didn't want to break the streak because that felt important to me. No one else cared at all. But I cared. I have so many more examples of things like that We'll talk about him later. So Isaiah is saying something in ancient language that we still do He's expressing the emptiness and absurdity of this. It's absurd for me to be proud of my streak. And yet there it is. He's saying that these idols that we have, these things that we hold onto so strongly They're futile. They bring no profit to our soul. They're meaningless. They're dead. They're profitless They they they grip us with the chokehold when they become an idol. You know, happy kids are great, but if your sole job is happy kids, that is not great The ones in here, he's talking about, are made of wood and stone and metal, and someone had to make it. It didn't drop from the sky. And then you bowed down to it. Money, sex, and power. It could be anything though. I read a book called Billionaires of Vinegar. It's about the wine market and how people collect wines We all know that. And how you can make forgeries. Because one of the things about collecting old wines is you don't know what it's going to taste like There's no like, oh yeah, if it tastes like this. So so there's one uh somebody bought for two hundred and sixty-five thousand dollars a bottle of wine Coming from 1789, that was supposedly owned by Thomas Jefferson. Why would a person do that? Prestige. Right? Because once you open that bottle and pour it out It's over and it could taste terrible. Wine's not supposed to sit that long. And so they get to be like Cool experience. Tastes awful. But it's prestige, right? Making a good thing ultimate our marriages, our families, our religion, our race, our culture, our politics. Just look on your phone. Where do you spend your time and money Where do you spend your energy? Now that may not be an idol, but that's your where you're zeroing in on. And the other one is what makes you furious When people start poking at something and you start reacting really big, that's a spot. And it could be: I demand to be respected. Right? And that can be a a thing that you will not be disrespected with So this guy he's in this airport with Dow Kilmer trying to get a autograph for his kids and and he's getting blown off. So he he does what you would do, right? Hey everybody, it's Val Kelmer. Right here. Val! Val signing autographs! Here you go! Get an autograph from Val! Bao deserved every second of that, right? He exposed the idol and walked away. How does God help us do that? Point two, God's provision is forgiveness and refreshment It's bad. John Kelvin says we're all idle factors. We just make them in our own lives over and over and over again. But God doesn't save good people. He saves bad people just like us. Isn't that good? How does he do it? He forgives us. He forgives us. The contrast here is you have wearied me, but I have blotted out your transgression. You brought all these sins to me, and look what I'm doing. Look at twenty verse forty-four-twenty two I have blotted out your transgressions like a cloud and your sins like mist. Return to me, for I have redeemed you. Amen, right It's amazing. He acknowledges their boredom, their inadequacy and sinfulness, and that they are wearying him, and he forgives them. That is grace, not merit. We want to contribute. And so look at 432 God knows we want to contribute. Put me in remembrance. Let us argue together. Set forth your case that you may be proved right. God says, okay, you you want credit Uh and and then we get on the standard we just like, well God, I've always Well okay, I've never I got nothing. I mean I could talk for a while, I could fill up the space, but really I don't think it's gonna that make the And God says, Mike Canyon last uh Two nights ago said our default is always towards works, righteousness. Sort of what we move toward if unstopped, that's what we think we got And the Bible over and over and over reminds us that is not grace. It is not unmerited favor. It's his terms There is no connection into these things, and he just gets to, I have blotted out your transgressions like a cloud. It's God's logic, His work, His prerogative. And remember, they're going in actual physical captivity And here we are gonna drive away in our cars to our homes. It's a big different situation. But he doesn't say, you know, I'm gonna take care of you and the your big problem is Your captivity. He says your big problem is how you got into that captivity. The root problem, your idolatry problem. And I want to forgive sin, not just change circumstances God saves us and forgives us. That is good news for us today. And he also refreshes us. 44, 1 through 5. But now here, O Jacob, my servant, is Israel whom I have chosen. Thus says the Lord who made you, who formed you from the womb, and I will help you. Fear not, O Jacob, my servant, Jerusalem, who I have ho chosen, for I will pour water on a thirsty land And streams on the dry ground, and I will pour out my spirit upon your offspring, and my blessing on your descendants. This one will say, I am the Lord's. Another will call on the name of Jacob. Another will write on his hand the na the Lord's and name himself by the name of Israel. God refreshes us and we all need vacations and naps and games and baths and peace. Peace and quiet, and sometimes a smoke and a good meal and a good conversation in a clean house. But the ultimate refreshment is God Himself. Spirit, giving us Himself. And then we respond to that It's like in verse 5, they're lining up at the tattoo parlor to get their hand stamped the Lord's I am the Lord's. I don't ever want to forget. The people are bound together in sin and forgiveness. Now refreshments. People are coming into God's house to hear him and to be revived by him, to have a conversation with him. And however you grew up in church, if you grew up in a church that's conservative or fundamentalist or liberal or traditional or contemporary You you do you know the in your head all these things, can recite the creeds, can sing the hymn, teach the kids, but are you hunger for the Lord Lord. You thirsty for God? Do you want to hear the Bible preached? Be in fellowship And when we're forgiven of not wanting to do that all the time, what is our response when God does forgive us? When we know that that we're a sinner, when we're an idolater, when we know we we are bored often sometimes Well, we come to Jesus because we know he certainly wasn't bored with the Father. He delighted in the Father all the time. He wanted to be with him all the time. He never ignored the Father. He never ghosted the Father. He listened to the Father and loved the Father. And he gives that love to us. Which is good news because we need it. Jesus could have led a very different way and the people wanted to be led a different way. And the the fact that we make these idols shows how we want to be med And Jesus could have been a superpower. He could have been a guru. Satan tempted him to use his power in a different way. The Jews wanted a really different king than what they got. The Romans wanted him to go away. And they were filled with gods. And Jesus came to forgive sins and get himself. Amen. And when we understand this, we go back to 21 and 22 and 23, where God tells us, Remember these things, O Jacob and Israel. You are my servant. I formed you. You are my servant, O Israel. You will not be forgotten by me. Remember these things. Remember when you've been forgiven so many times times. Remember your need for forgiveness. Remember his pledge of forgiveness. Remember the sir certainty of his promises Ponder them, keep track of them. How He's blotted out your transgressions like a cloud and your sins like a mist, and return to me, for I have redeemed you. Return to me because I have already redeemed you. I don't redeem you when you return to me. Return to me because I love you. I've redeemed you. I've called you by name. And sing, O heavens, for the Lord has done it. Shout, O depths of the earth. Break forth into singing, O mountains, O forest, and every tree in it. For the Lord has redeemed Jacob, and we will be glorified in Israel. Thus says the Lord, your Redeemer, who formed you from the womb, I am the Lord who made all things, who alone stretched out the heavens. Who spread out the earth by myself, who frustrates the signs of liars, and makes fools of the diviners, who turns bent wise men back and makes their knowledge foolish, who does all these things I'm the Redeemer. So what should we do Sing for joy of our Redeemer. Shout. We join the earth in shouting Idolaters have been making idols, and then we're bound to idols. Jesus is the bondsman releasing us from idols and redeeming us to himself. And you want to talk about worshiping a block of wood? The trees are going to sing to God because that's how they were created. Totally different, totally different. There are so many reasons for joy. For us to sing, let us love and sing and wonder. He has quenched the laws loud Thunder. And then at the very end of this, you see what happens? Verse 27, who says to the deep, Be dry, I will dry up your rivers. Who says of Cyrus He is my shepherd, and he shall fulfill all my purpose, saying of Jerusalem, She shall be built, and of the temple your foundation shall be laid. Cyrus is a long way in the future. He's being talked about right here, 250, 350 years ahead of time. 45 I gotta think my math here. Oh, Siri, how many years ahead of time? This is what happens. This happens. That was one of the tests, right, of the idols. If you've got an idol or a god, you've got to be able to predict a future Boom, he puts it in the passage itself. Amazing. God is mighty and safe. He uses the Persian king for his glory. That's how sovereignty is. So the the idol trial is over, right? The contestants haven't been real hot. Remember in uh season three, two thousand four, William hung sheet Kishi Bangs. Remember that that song that he sung his Asian guy? It was like so bad it became good. Uh Bob isn't sure. I'll send it to you, Bob. Make sure to click on this Wednesday email. I'll put a clip of it He became a pop phenomenon because he was in your brain you thought you had a shot to be the best one. I I amazing how it works out. That's how deluded we are in our idols and our idol worship, right? These idols are c rolling down and they're all William Hung singing over and over again, and it's not gonna work. Instead, we have a God who gives us contraconditional grace. God accepts us just as he accepts Jesus. He doesn't accept us as we are. He accepts us as we are in Christ. Just as I am in Christ, because we do not call upon him. We get weary of God. We don't honor God We do burden God with our sins and our complaints, but He blots out transgressions. He does not remember sins, and he gives us his spirit. He formed us and he helps us So we can awaken to the grace, hear the grace, watch the grace, and share the grace of Jesus. Amen. Amen. Let's take a few moments in response.