May then, my child, be strengthened by the grace that is in Christ Jesus, and what you have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses, entrust to faithful men who will be able to teach others Others also share in suffering as a good soldier of Christ Jesus. An athlete is not crowned unless he completes competes according to the rules. It is it is the hard working farmer who ought to have the first ship Share of the cross. Think over what I say, for the Lord will give you understanding in everything. Remember Jesus Christ, risen from the dead, the offspring of David, as preached in my gospel. for which I am suffering bound with chains as a criminal. But the word of God is not bound. Therefore I endure and endure everything for the sake of the elect. That they also The saying is trustworthy for if you have died with him, you will also live with him. If we endure, we will also reign with him. If we deny him, we also will deny ourselves. If we are faithless, he remains faithful, for he cannot Deny himself. Second Tim D two Well good morning, Grace. Good to uh be here this morning with you. I understand that you're getting the brothers of the Garriott brothers in the pulpit here at Grace. So my name is Craig. So you had Chuck and you had my brother Chris and so I'm the middle of those brothers and uh but it's a great honor to be here I want to thank Pastor Doug and the leaders in this body for allowing uh to for us, my brothers and myself to to bring the Word of God to you. Uh so I understand that Pastor Doug is uh somewhere on the Seven seas sailing and uh uh enjoying God's big beautiful world and it m it makes me smile when I think about about that for busy pastors. I often think about uh you know Jesus would take his disciples with him out on the Sea of Galilee and uh and just with themselves in And I think that uh probably Doug's experiencing a lot of uh just the grace of God uh in that time But I uh I want to thank uh this body for uh your support of Balm, uh uh which helps us to equip and multiply Christ-centered cross-cultural disciple-making leaders for church renewal and church planting. And you know Grace Relay was the first church that Bohm partnered with in church renewal. uh before Pastor Doug and Julie came and um and it was a great honor for us and Pastor Stan was really the primary leader in that and you can be praying for Pastor Stan because two weeks ago he uh he went into surgery emergency surgery with a brain bleed. Uh they successfully operated and he's home uh recovery. But uh we appreciate your But such moments remind us of the gift of life and the gift of health that we have and uh how precious uh our our time is. And and when I think about just the preciousness preciousness of time, I also think about uh our callings and uh what we're here for, what we're called to be And I think about Paul's words to the Ephesian elders. And this is what he said in Acts 20. I do not account my life of any value, nor as precious to myself if only I may finish my course in the ministry that I received from the Lord Jesus to testify to the gospel of the grace of God. And each one of us here have been given a course, a race for us to follow, to fulfill. And uh and so today we're going to be looking at some of the last words of the Apostle Paul to his lieutenant in the faith, Timothy, in 2 Timothy 2. 2. And in these last words, Paul is suffering in a dark, dank dungeon of a prison in Rome under uh the Emperor cruel Emperor Nero, and he knows that he'll never be released uh except by death But Paul's preoccupation is to make sure that the the positive truth, that the gospel and its teaching and faith were faithfully transmitted to the next generation. Just like a runner hands off a baton to the next generation Next runner. He wants to faithfully put that into the hand of his lieutenant uh Timothy. Timothy. And he is in Ephesus, where he is called to lead the mission and to oversee the churches, which were plagued with false teachers and heretics and self-centered leaders who either needed to be corrected or were abandoning the faith because of the rising persecution against the people of the way, the followers of Christ. And right before our passage uh today Paul says you are aware that all who are in Asia turned away from me and so Paul knows Timothy struggles with feelings of app apprehension of faint-heartedness, and Paul knows that Timothy feels often unsuited and overwhelmed with this calling to lead this great mission But the amazing thing and the wonderful thing is that when God wants to do a great thing, he looks for weak people. He looks for those who often feel inadequate. Uh as First Corinthians says, God God chose the weak things of the world to shame the strong, us that no one may boast before him. You've heard the passage from Second Timothy. Let's pray that the Lord would meet us through His Lord Jesus, you said in John fifteen, if you remain in me, and my words remain in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be given you This is to my Father's glory, that you bear much fruit, showing yourselves to be my disciples. Holy Spirit, we ask that you would open our ears and our eyes and our Our minds to hear, to see, and to understand your word. Embolden our hearts to courageously obey and apply your word, that you would be glorified and honored. Today and do this now, even through this week, vessel. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Tell me your leadership family Failures. Tell me the biggest ministry blow ups and messes of your life. the the the request from a young church planner uh uh uh boldly asked me after a worship service uh over lunch and I remember sitting there in his his uh dining room uh as he was holding his infant child and two of his toddlers were playing off to the side and his kind wife was preparing uh lunch and I I was taken back by that question, uh this forward question, but I also was grateful that he felt comfortable enough to dive into the deep end of the ministry pool to ask that question. And so I you know, I started to tell him some of the stories. I told him about how foolish it was uh to start a church plant four months into my marriage with Maria uh of moving into the heart of Baltimore City for as a country boy uh with a suburban wife without any training or mentoring and of buying this uh five unit deteriorated apartment house uh to renovate And then commuting to seminary to Philadelphia from Baltimore, all the while while Maria was expecting our first child. What is the line between first year of marriage. I should have stayed home and made my bride happy, as uh Deuteronomy 245 says. And I told him about laying hands And I told him about the occasions of slander and of suicide and moments of despair and revelations of my own idolatries and disorders of the ministry success. But I also told him of Christ's faithfulness and his mercy and his sustaining grace And afterwards he smiled and he says, Thanks. He says, I hope that I can last thirty years in the ministry. This helps me to know Thanks, he said. In some sense it felt like this young church planter just got a kind of anomaly. The exercise appeared to strengthen his resolve and to help him put in perspective his fears so he would not be so overwhelmed when he found himself In the midst of the battle. The scriptures remind us that every believer, that you too and I, are in a spiritual battle or fight We live in a time of growing and great forces that will seek to snuff out and to weaken the gospel. We live in a time where many are leaving the gospel and the gospel community Church researchers and missiologists have presented statistical realities of the loss of members and participation in the church. Uh seven years ago it was like forty five hundred churches were closing per year. Uh Tom Raynard recently said they're expecting fifteen thousand to close this year And uh for every one church that's planted, three are closing. Uh Irwin Ins, our former M<unk>A coordinator of the PCA cast a vision to see a thousand new churches planted It within ten years, which is about a hundred a year. Yet he acknowledged the challenge of our denomination that was only able to plant twenty-six churches a couple years ago while fourteen closed which netted twelve churches. The largest religious growing population are the nuns in the Those who do not identify with any faith, or those who were used to be part of the organized church but are done with it. And uh two-thirds, as we know, of the youth that grow up in our churches leave by the time they reach adulthood. So many of you parents may know and experience the heartaches of that Uh and I understand that Pastor Doug is working on uh doctoral work uh to evaluate like the the the nuns and the duns from the teaching elders of our denomination, which is a great research. I hope that he is able to get all the interviews that he needs. But this is our context. This is our Rome. This is our ephesus and this is our Mission. And so here in Second Timothy two, Paul's writing a letter to Timothy to help him face his fears and to strengthen his calling. Specifically the calling to continue the Paul knows Timothy's personality, he knows his fears Uh and he freely raises uh them as the hurdles that he'll have to overcome. And we too need to be strengthened to overcome our fears and our weaknesses to fulfill our Particular gospel callings. And so here in 2 Timothy, uh Jesus strengthens Timothy and us in our calling to make and to multiply disciples. Mission, the mindset, and the means are elicited in this passage. The mission verse two and you and what you have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses And when Paul says, what you have heard, and he's talking about uh the the gospel, he's talking about the good deposit of It's not an invention, it's not man's gospel, it's not human tradition, not secret knowledge, private revelation is the revelation of and from Jesus Christ as Galatians one 11 says. It is that foundation of the apostles and the prophets. The sound words, it's the gospel of Jesus Christ, his life, his death, his resurrection, and The faith wants delivered to the saints. And so it's the person and work of Jesus, the salvation by grace, through faith alone, and the call to live holy lives to make and multiply disciples. The sacred deposit is now being entrusted to Timothy. And this gospel, this good deposit, this truth, uh is now given to him to Timothy. take and to guard and to preserve and to pass on. But Timothy is to entrust to faithful, reliable men, faithful followers and And the word is anthropos, which is a gender inclusive it's both men and women, as it was as we see with Paul's practice. He's supposed to entrust. Sometimes we call them fat people, faithful, reliable, or faithful, available, and teachable The mission is disciple making multiplication. Paul, we find is teaching to Timothy, who's called to instruct the faithful men. who can teach others also. There's four generations uh mentioned in that one verse. And so there is it's it's not enough just to teach. We must entrust the gospel to others who will teach Others also. And so the goal is not just addition, the goal is multiplication of disciple makers. Earlier this summer we celebrated Pentecost Sunday Uh the New Testament birthday of the church. And we remember how the Holy Spirit descended upon the hundred and twenty uh disciples in that upper room as they were pre And the overwhelming power of the Holy Spirit came in and detonated their mission. Professor Chris Green of Public Theology at South Eastern University of Florida said, Whatever we might have heard, Pentecost is not the story of devout believers lost in prayer, hidden away in an upper room, caught up in a mystical rapture. He says Pentecost is the story of bewildered believers swept out of prayer into the streets, into the public eye. Pentecost is the end of pride Private spirituality because the Spirit presses the church into the public square, into public responsibility. Following the Spirit always leads down Down from the upper room and out to the outer courts. And with that you start thinking, well what is you know, what is the church's definition of a disciple? supposed to make and multiply. Well you know what's what's your definition? And actually I have to tell you, I I just kind of presumed that for decades. Uh but then I started I think that's a really important question for every single believer to ask. You know, what is the disciple that we're called to make and to multiply And so at Baum, you know, our our definition is uh to uh disciple is a captivated follower of Jesus Who is transformed in the family of God and empowered to multiply disciples? So when you start thinking about the whole movement of Jesus' disciple making movement. You know, he he he he calls these followers, you know. They says, follow me and I'll make you the fishers of man Right? And so they're captivated by Jesus. And every single one of them got captivated and they left everything to follow. So captivated and to stay captivated uh to Jesus is really a core calling. But he didn't just do this independently. He brought them into community. He brought them into the family of God. And a pretty diverse family, but it's a family of God that brings gospel transformation. So we can't we can't grow by ourselves. We need God's people. We need God's community But it's not just to be a happy family, it's to be a family on mission. And so we see this movement of the Holy Spirit, he's training them to be disciple multipliers. And so So we see that with the gospel in Matthew 28 and then Acts tw, you know, be my disciple m my witnesses in Jerusalem to thee of Samaria. So we see this multiplication effect. So that is uh the call So uh so we've been witnessing uh some blessings of of the movement of making disciples. Abbott Church was another church that we walked with uh in church renewal. Uh they were about to close. Uh and in God's providence and grace we were able to join in for two years and then in God's providence He calls my brother Chris to become the pastor there. But uh and the and the leaders and the people the church went through our disciple making pathway training And uh they started to do what's called Discovery Bible Studies in Enoch Pratt Library. Uh my brother, Chris, uh would uh uh uh got a room and uh they let him like do a lunch uh bible study uh there at Enoch Pratt and uh they offered free pizza and so you know, m some person saw my brother walking with boxes of pizza and says, Where are you going? And so this yeah so he gets a good following. So they have probably twenty to thirty people gathered Tuesday at noon for this Discovery Bible study. Uh they've had he said he said in the last year probably about a hundred different people coming through that. And in the last year they've w witnessed uh seven adult baptisms. Now in a church of like twenty-five or thirty, that's pretty phenomenal. Um and so we are encouraged by seeing uh this movement by the way uh out in the foyer is a uh a flyer uh we're gonna do another this will be an online uh disciple making training pathway training uh that we do with BOM starting January the fourteenth. So if you want to uh experience kind of a a training where you're equipped to be uh Orden, you know, everyday missionaries where you live, work, and play and learn. This would be a great way to do that. But the nineteenth century church historian Philip Shaft uh said this. He said there were no professional missionaries supported by organized missionary societies as we now have them He says the expansion of the church was largely due to the spontaneous efforts of individual Christians by conversation, by teaching Teaching by example, by their conduct in business and society, by their very death in times of persecution. From the beginning to about 325. And he says, and yet in less than three centuries after the death of Saint John, the religion of the crucified Nazarene Had spread over the entire Roman Empire, which then represented the civilized world and was professed to be the majority of its population. Every congregation was a missionary society and every Christian believer a missionary inflamed by the love of Christ to convert his fellow man. That's a picture of early Christianity Christianity. Every single believer saw themselves as the missionary where they lived and worked and played. And so uh that's what Paul is equipping Timothy to Encourage. But we see the mindset. The mindset, uh the soldiers, uh a soldier, athlete, and a farmer. And so we see this this picture These three images that that Paul raises before Timothy. And uh these three metaphors, a soldier, athlete, and a farmer, all of them emphasize the kind of work that will be done demand it which is strenuous, it's both hard labor and it involves suffering. A farmer, a hard working farmer who's who ought to have the first share of the crops, hard work is indeed The indispensable trait of a good of good farming. Successful farming depends as much on sweat as on skill. This inclined the farmer. He must keep at the work. Having put his hand to the plow, he must not look back. And this uh Bishop Raoul said this. Unlike the soldier and the athlete, the farmer's life Is totally devoid of excitement. Remote from all glamour of peril and of applause. My grandfather was a farmer. uh granite Maryland on Old Court Road and uh behind it so basically it was my grandfather, it was my aunt and uncle next, it was another aunt and uncle next then it was us. And it was like uh I guess the uh w what was that sh show series, you know, the f all the family living together. Yeah. So we were uh there and my dad my grandfather had his farm behind us and he was a carpenter farmer but mainly grew corn. But then he decided uh uh to grow Christmas trees And so uh he uh recruited my brother and I to plant like twenty-two thousand Christmas trees behind our house. You know. And I remember, you know, planting these little seed And uh and then as they would grow, he would he'd hire us to trim them uh in the summertime, you know, so that they were shaped well. And I'll never forget it took like seven years uh to for this Christmas trees to grow before they're ready for harvest. And I thought as a teenager, that is like forever, you know. But that's what farmers do. plant and they nurture and they they work it and uh you know Jesus said uh the harvest is plentiful uh it's abundant But it's hard to find workers. It's hard to find laborers. So he says, Pray to the Lord of the harvest to send out workers. Uh do you hear uh Jesus calling you into the harvest A Proverbs eleven says the fruit of the righteous is a tree of And he that winneth souls is wise. But then there's the athlete. And of course, you know, during this time, uh, you know, the Olympic Games were well known in Paul's days. Uh such athletes they gave themselves to strenuous self-discipline and training, uh and they would get these little evergreen reefs, you know, that would acknowledge their their victory and their their their their their their athleticism. But cheating or rule breaking in the ancient Greek sports was considered a violation of sacred traditions, uh also often associated with with the games and they could result in severe penalties. We all know of the painful stories of disqualified athletes. But Paul is talking about the disciples and about Christian leaders as well. And uh you know Paul mentions in other places like 1 Corinthians 9, I do not run like a man running, and to say do not fight like a man beating the air. No, I I beat my body, make it my slave so that after I preach to others I'm I myself will not be disqualified from the prize. And of course we all know in fact uh two of The uh last churches that we've been part of uh were at Inverness, we were at Abbott, uh and both of those have histories of leaders that That had been disqualified. And it's a really painful, painful thing. But then we find the soldiers. We find soldiers that uh you know share in the suffering as a good Soldier of Christ Jesus. Soldiers on active service do not expect it to be easy or safe. They expect risk. They expect suffering. These things are part and parcel of a soldier's calling. My father-in-law, Donald Dawkins, was part of the uh of of uh Patton's Third Army that followed the uh Normandy uh D Day uh invasion in southern France. Uh who and these were soldiers and they many of them froze in the snow covered mountains mountains of the forest of Ardon and they fought the bloodiest battles in the trenches of the Western Front. And my father-in-law, he witnessed you know the shells landing in Fox soldiers break down and tears unable to carry on. And he said this I was just an ordinary soldier, just twenty years old, a rifleman Fighting with my buddy in the foxholes. In just seven weeks of combat, our platoon of thirty-eight men had only one original member left me. He remained in combat uh despite being shot at the left arm and he says we live like animals hacking slit trenches Uh and he was forced from the front lines in the winter of nineteen forty-four a frostbite and gang green. Uh they they really didn't equip the American American soldiers uh with the proper clothing and so it was you know all the the cold and the the wet, uh the freezing says I woke up one morning, feet frozen like stumps They carried me to an aid station. The nurse cut my shoes off with a razor blade and December they amputated. He lost all ten toes and permanently lost He like other honorees considered himself lucky. He said, I got to come home. We didn't think of ourselves as heroes He said the best soldiers in my platoon never got to come out of the foxholes. Actually I think this weekend or tomorrow is Veterans Day. And so we remember All the sacrifices of those who gave the ultimate cost of their of their lives for freedom. But the Christian life, as Paul brings up this image of the soldier, it's not a walk in the park, it's a fight for your life Yeah, every day we wake up to the compassions and the goodness and the mercy of God. They're new every morning, but every day we also wake up to war We have an enemy who seeks our destruction and our disablement. Jesus told Peter, Simon Simon, Satan is asked, To sift you as wheat. Uh and then there's all out warfare. Paul talks about the day of evil when all of the forces violently come to assault us. I don't I don't know what your particular fight is right now, where you are in that battle. But you are in a fight. You're in a fight for your life, you're you're in a fight of the king But we also find in this passage that Paul gives us the means. He gives us the way we can endure and persevere. Uh so how do we as good soldiers uh fight and suffer? How do we train and strain like a good athlete? How do we work hard uh in the uh Well we have the means here, and it's in verse one. He says, Then you then, my child, be strengthened by the grace that is in Christ Jesus. And then verse 8, remember Jesus Christ risen from the dead, the offspring of David as preached in my gospel You know, uh John Stopp said about this verse is Paul didn't say, oh never mind how weak and shy and timid you may feel as you do Timothy, just be strong. Paul is not calling Timothy to be strong in himself, to set his jaw and to grit his teeth, and to just do it. But to be inwardly strong Strengthened by the grace in Christ Jesus. Timothy is defined the resources not in his own nature but in Christ Jesus. The grace in Christ Jesus Jesus. And so I think about Jude 21 where where that author says, keep yourselves in God's love as you wait for the mercy of God And so he's telling Timothy, Be strong in this grace. You are a beloved son. Nothing is ever going to change that. Life is short. Invest in eternal uh wisdom and the kingdom of God. How do we stay strong? Well, he says in verse 8, remember Jesus Christ, risen from the dead. Remember, be mindful. Call to mind. You know, we tend to forget very quickly. We have to be reminded you know, uh of the love of Christ for us. And um you know, that's one of the problems as we look at in in the history of Israel in Psalm like one oh se six. It says, but they forgot what they had what he had done and did not wait for his counsel. And so so much of uh the weakness in our faith is that we don't we forget We just don't remember. Uh my ninety-six year old mom is uh in uh Willow Valley in uh in the Glen. It's she's in a uh a memory care unit. Uh She has dementia. And so she's forgetting, you know, she can't remember when I visit her like I will today. But um You know, and so sh she'll often say, you know, why am I here? Why am I here? And my ninety seven year old faith my dad, who's a heroic in this you know, he keeps just telling her uh what's going on. Why is she in here, you know, why you fell and you know uh and so but um that's a good question for all of us is it not To ask yourself, why am I here? Why am I here? And so the scriptures tell us why we're here, you know Uh we we are here on mission. You know, Jesus did after we became believers, he didn't just like zoom us up. you know, he's given us a calling. And so our job is to to to fulfill uh that calling. And uh well one of the great things my mom does remember who I am And uh and she'll grab my hand before we leave and she'll pray. Uh she'll pray for me, she'll pray for Maria, um, and she will pray for Baum. Uh She knows who Jesus is. And that is the most important thing. So in essence, Paul is saying to Timothy thus, when you're tempted to avoid pain, humiliation, suffering, and death in your ministry in your life, remember Jesus Christ, risen from the dead. Um what what I like about uh the the life of George Mueller, you know George Mueller was the the leader uh uh the Christian evangelist the director of Ashley Down and uh an orphanage in Bristol he apparently uh cared for about eighteen thousand children in his ministry life. But this is what he says. Above all things, seek to it that your souls are happy in the Lord. Uh you should seek above all things To have your souls truly happy in God Himself. Day by day, seek to make this the most important business of your life. The secret of all true affectional service is joy in God. experiential acquaintance and fellowship with God Himself. So uh grace, grace relay, you know, uh your capacity uh to be multiplied Multipliers, to be disciple-making multipliers, is to be strong in the grace of Christ, who loves you with an eternal love, who never stops thinking about you every day, who you have as your Savior and as your Lord. And so my brother and sister, remember Jesus Christ, risen from the dead. Be strengthened By the grace that is in Christ. And what you have heard in the presence of many witnesses, equipped to faithful men and women who will be able to teach others Lord, we are grateful that you give these words to uh weak Timothy Uh Lord, as he was thinking about uh Paul in this Roman prison, uh as he was recognizing the cost for following you, and Lord, as many were leaving uh the ministry, the gospel ministry, because of how hard it was getting. Or thank you uh that that uh Timothy uh did practice uh this calling to Be strong in you. And Lord, all of us are here because Lord, you had sustained Him and you had raised up more leaders, and you had multiplied disciples who are willing to give their lives for your kingdom. So God, we pray that you would strengthen Strengthen grace relay for each one here. Lord, you know their particular challenges, the sufferings, the temptations that they're experiencing. God, keep this precious body strong. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay. I hope I get this right and feel free any leader to correct me in this Uh so uh um we're gonna just have a moment of confession. Um you know you've heard many things I've just We've just covered in this passage. So then you just quiet your hearts and uh you know just ask the Lord to bring to mind things that you want to personally confess and then we'll do a corporate confession Let us uh confess together. Uh Jesus, Lamb of God, have mercy on us Mercy on us. Jesus, bear of our sins, have mercy on us. Jesus, Redeemer of the world, grant us peace. Amen. Here are the words of forgiveness and pardon. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, according to his great mercy. He has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection Resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you. Church, your sins are forgiven, your dignity is restored, your shame is taken away, all by the life and the sacrifice of our Lord and Savior Jesus. Jesus Christ. At the time of the banquet, he sent his servants to say to all of those who were invited, friends, your spot at the table is set. Has made a place for you. Thanks be to God. Let us declare our faith by repeating the apostles Creed. I believe in God the Father Almighty, maker of heaven and earth. I believe in Jesus Christ, His only Son Our Lord, who was conceived by the Holy Spirit and born of the Virgin Mary. He suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, died, and was buried. The third day he rose again from the dead, he ascended into heaven, and is seated at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. There he shall come to judge the living and the dead. I believe in the Holy Spirit, the Holy Catholic Church, the communion of saints The forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting. Amen We've talked about remembering in this. Remember the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. Well, he gives us the table as a constant Reminder of His grace. So every time that we come to this table, we are reminded of the ultimate sacrifice for sinners. us uh in this and so uh the this is a sign and a seal of the grace of god for us uh the blood of Christ was shed for us his body was broken for us and And Jesus invites us to enter in to that real meal that is a foretaste of this great Uh and so if you're here today and you have trusted Christ, uh this is not a meal for good people. Uh it's not a meal for uh for perfect people, and it's not a meal just for For Grace Relay people. This is the Lord's table. If you've confessed your sins, if you're seeking to follow Christ as Lord and His Church, He welcomes you to to to partake and to enjoy this time. Uh so we're gonna um invite everyone to come up and partake there is uh the dark the dark uh liquid is wine uh the light liquid is grape juice uh and uh we have gluten free uh crackers here uh for those that are gluten uh sensitive and uh the children are welcome to uh to come with their parents but uh if the child hasn't uh made a confession before the elders uh we would encourage you to to to in to create a uh invitation to the elders to meet with your child uh to to to work Through that. So um the Lord be with you. Lift up your hearts. Let us lift up our hearts to the Lord our God. Therefore, we proclaim the mystery of Okay, you might suppose it'd be the community right now No, that and then we sing after that. Is that correct? Lord uh we just we we thank you, Lord Jesus, for this this opportunity For this meal, uh for these tangible reminders of your eternal love for us. Uh Lord, that while we were yet sinners, you you gave your life. So God pray that you would just let us enter into uh that remembrance. Uh but Lord also, this is not just a memorial meal, Lord, you said it's a missional meal. You said as often as you uh eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim The Lord's death until he comes. Glory. God, help us to be proclaimers. Help us to be disciple makers. Encourage us in this and we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen Okay. So I'd like to invite uh so okay. I'm gonna invite you to come forward as you normally do and uh participate Take.