Uh as as was mentioned before, my my wife Juana is here and our three kids, uh Jubilee, Evangeline, and Kyrus are or down south downstairs in your children's church area. And um it's it's great to be here with you all. The w the weather is great. Uh celebrating Pentecost Sunday with the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. uh with you all and it's just it's just amazing just to be reminded of the of how the Holy Spirit works. Right. And think back all the way back to that first Pentecost Sunday when when when God poured out his spirit upon his church. And the spirit was uniting people from across different cultures and ethnicities, all of this common mission that God has to redeem and save the world. And uh and I was reminded of that this morning as I was watching the that that missions minute, um, because um Roberto's a m a member of the Chiba uh NTW team, is that correct? Uh and a good friend of mine, David Kim, uh is also a member of that team. And and so it's just it was just great to just be reminded of how God is just knitting us all together, right, as his church from from different backgrounds and places. uh all for the this common mission uh that he has to restore the world. Uh and so um yeah thank you for having us this morning. Uh and for us it's it's it's also good to be here because Uh we uh my wife and I and our family had planted a church uh in southeast Baltimore and had pastored that church for the past five years and and and your church ha has been supporting us uh financially and with prayers uh and it it was just uh so encouraging to partner with you uh in that ministry. Uh and so again, you know, the Holy Spirit is at work in knitting us together uh for his mission. Well this morning we're going to be looking at a passage uh in in Luke, uh Luke chapter 14, uh, and I'm going to read this passage for us, and if we could all stand uh and follow along as I read this uh for us. Alright, so Luke chapter 14, verse 1. One Sabbath when he went to dine at the house of the of a ruler of the Pharisees, they were watching him carefully. And behold, there was a man before him who had dropsy. And Jesus responded to the lawyers and Pharisees, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath or not? But they remained silent. Then he took him and healed him and sent him away. And he said to him, Which of you having a son or an ox that has fallen into a well on a Sabbath day? Will not immediately pull him out. And they could not reply to these things. Now he told a parable to those who were invited, when he noticed how they chose the places of honor, saying to them, When you are invited by someone to a wedding feast, do not sit down in a place of honor, lest someone more distinguished than you be invited by him. And he who invited you both will come and say to you, Give your place to this person, and then you will begin with shame to take the lowest place. But when you are invited, go and sit in the lowest place, so that when your host comes, he may say to you, Friend, move up higher. Then you will be honored in the presence of all who sit at table with you For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted. He also said to the man who had invited him, When you give a dinner or a banquet, do not invite your friends or your brothers or your relatives or rich neighbors, lest they also invite you in return, and you be repaid. But when you give a feast, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame, the blind, and you will be blessed, because they cannot repay you, for you will be repaid at the resurrection of the just When one of those who reclined at table with him heard these things, he said to him, Blessed is everyone who will eat bread in the kingdom of God. But he said to him, A man once gave a great banquet and invited many. And at the time for the banquet he sent his servant to say to those who had been invited, Come, for everything is now ready But they all alike began to make excuses. The first said to him, I have bought a field, and I must go out and see it. Please have me excused And another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to examine them. Please have me excused. And another said, I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come So the servant came and reported these things to his master. Then the master of the house became angry and said to his servant, Go out quickly to the streets and lanes of the city And bring in the poor and crippled and blind and lame. And the servant said, Sir, what you have commanded has been done, and still there is room. And the master said to the servant, Go out to the highways and hedges, and compel people to come in, that my house may be filled. For I tell you, none of these men who were invited shall taste my banquet This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may be seated. Well before I uh we get into the passage a little further, uh would it be okay if I pray for us and just ask God again to fill us with the Holy Spirit so that we can understand and hear his word well? Heavenly Father, we do thank you for your word. And we thank you, God, that your word in and of itself is clear and sufficient for our salvation. And so we pray, O God, that as we come uh before your presence once again this morning, as we sit at your feet to hear your teaching through your word, that may you um open our ears, open our hearts. So that we might once again be reminded of your great love for us in Christ. And we ask and pray that you would do this for us this morning, despite the many, many, many shortcomings of the one who presents your word this morning. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. On february twenty-ninth, twenty sixteen, hashtag white people invited to the cookout began trending on Twitter. Now people from all different ethnicities and cultures and backgrounds love cookouts. Maybe some of us are are are planning to have uh a cookout tomorrow uh for Memorial Day. But for the black community specifically, a cookout is much more than just burgers and hot dogs on a summer day Uh it's much more than just an excuse just to you know to to to relax uh by the pool uh with some uh chilled beverages uh and friends. Instead, a cookout is almost a sacred place to experience community, deep, soul satisfying community. Andrea Byrd once wrote in an article in Travel and Leisure, quote, We have a unique way in which we communicate with each other in the black community. It's an interpersonal experience that happens among neighbors, distant cousins, and longtime friends. We often need to see each other, laugh, bond, and embrace over things like food. And that's where the cookout comes in. It's a joyous event that celebrates our advancements, growth, and kinship. Now given the importance of of the cookouts, uh it is a great And wonderful honor, right, for a non-black person to be invited to a cookout. Right? It it it shouldn't be taken with with with like you know just like, oh this is a this is just a simple par uh invitation to a party. No, instead what if if you're invited to a cookout, you are invited in. You are invited in to family. To a place where not everyone else is invited to. You're invited to to to take part in a place of safety. and comfort and real family. Right? Now now we don't have to have been ever been invited to the cookout In order for us to know what it's like to feel the honor of being welcomed in. It feels good to receive an invitation to a group or a party Right? And it also feels pretty lousy when we don't get one. Especially when we don't get invited to or receive an invitation to that thing that is very desirable to our hearts. Right. Now we feel this duality, right? Both the elation of being invited in and the deflation of of being rejected or not invited. We feel this all the time. Right? We feel this when we start a new job Right? Or or on the first day at a new school. Or when we're at home on a Friday night, right, scrolling endlessly through our Instagram and seeing our friends' posts of parties that we're not at. We all have a longing in some sense to feel welcomed in. We all desire to be invited. We all know what it's what it's like to long for this. But that longing oftentimes comes at a price. In our passage this morning, Jesus received an invitation to a meal that was hosted by a group of people called the Pharisees. Now the Pharisees were the religious leaders in Israel, right? They were like the the most important people, right? The people that everyone looked up to because they had all their stuff together. Right? And the Pharisees also knew that. And they loved it. They loved being top dog. They loved being the one that everyone looked up to and everyone held in high esteem. Right? They were the most highly educated men in the community. And and they also they they wore all the right things, they said all the right things. Right. Everyone again held them the highest team in Israel That is everyone except Jesus. You see, from day one, Jesus was very, very vocal about his opposition to the Pharisees And regularly called them out for their pride and hypocrisy. See, whereas other people were were in awe of their religiosity Jesus saw right through these acts as being just symbol signs of outward religion that oftentimes covered like rotten hearts. And as a result, the Pharisees, surprise to no one, regularly hated Jesus. Right. They weren't fans of j of Jesus either because again Jesus was so vocal, the only one that was so vocal against what they did. And so this invitation to dinner that Jesus received from these Pharisees w was not a friendly one. Right? Instead, the Pharisees invited Jesus to test him. But they wanted to get back at him. To catch him doing something in violation of God's law. But in their attempts to reveal something about Jesus, Jesus reveals something about the Pharisees. See, verse 1 says that this dinner took place on the Sabbath, and that a man with diopsy happened to be at this dinner. Now chances are that this man uh was not uh invited to the dinner as a guest. Right? Because you know he wasn't a Pharisee, but he also had uh you know very obvious like physical disability. Right in the Pharisees and in the Pharisees' eyes that wasn't like a good thing Right. So he wasn't he probably wasn't there as as a guest, nor was he there just by accident, just scrolling, you know, s walking through the town and just happened to drop by at this party. Right? Because again these parties this These dinners were not open invites, but they're very selective, right? Invitations that the Pharisees just gave to other Pharisees. And so instead, the Pharisees had probably invited this man, Stropsy, to this dinner for the purpose of trapping Jesus, of catching Jesus in a slip-up. Right? The Pharisees believed that no work could be done on the Sabbath, including the work of helping people in need. And so they thought that by planting this disabled man as a sinner, that they would catch Jesus violating God's law because they knew how much Jesus loves helping people. But Jesus showed how wrong they were by saying to them, which of you having a son or ox that has fallen into a well on the Sabbath day will not immediately pull him out? You see what Jesus was saying here was that right it if you had a son, right, and he fell into the a a pit, would you wait until Monday to to pull him out of this pit? Of of course not, right? That's ludicrous to think that a that a parent will leave their child or sitting in this pit for twenty four hours just because it's a Sunday. Any good parents, Pharisee or not, would would immediately pull their child out of danger, even if it's on a Sunday And so Jesus was saying was that if it's okay for a parent to do that for a child, then obviously it's okay for any one of us to help any other human being. Because every single person is made in God's image. And therefore, every single human being is worthy of dignity, respect, and love. And so it's absolutely okay for us to help someone on the Sabbath, for us to do the work of mercy on the Sabbath as it is on any day. Or, as Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. once said. the time is always right to do the right thing. You see, by doing this, Jesus exposed the Pharisees' lack of compassion for others. others. And because they treated this this man not as a person to be loved with dignity and respect, but as a tool to be used to further their own purposes. And ironically, this is exactly how they treated one another. In verses 7 through 11, Jesus told a story about where to sit at a wedding feast. And the basic gist of this story is kind of summarized in verse 11, which says, For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted. And then in verses twelve through fourteen, Jesus adds to this by telling people that when you throw a party, it's better to invite people who can't repay you. Right? Invite the poor, invite people who don't have money, invite people who can't really invite you back. It's better to invite these people than it is to invite people who can pay you back In other words, what Jesus is doing by telling the story here is by emphasizing the need for humility. Jesus is emphasizing the need for us to be humble. Right. But instead to be humble, to be lowly. The 20th century British author C. S. Lewis once wrote that humility is not thinking less of yourself, but thinking of yourself less. See, humility is putting the needs of others before our own. It's willingly sacrificing ourselves and our desires for the sake of another. A dinner host who practices humility prior prioritizes their guests. They find out what their guests like to eat. Right? Well they don't like to eat. They they they prioritize buying the best wine for their guests, making their guests feel at home, playing the music the guests like. And dinner guests who practice humility will honor their host, observing their their host's customs and traditions, being patient if the food takes a little bit longer than expected Uh making the host feel appreciated for their hospitality. But that is not what the Pharisees were about, because they intrinsically believed that they had done something to earn this invitation. And that they've done something in in order to earn God's approval of them. And so what they were doing, instead of being humble and practicing humility with guests or with hosts, what they were doing, they were always jockeying for position Always comparing themselves, always trying to be better than those around them. And as a result, they became prideful. That you know, if if they felt that their their position was going up, they they they they felt that, hey, you know, I'm I'm a lot better than this person that I just leapfrogged over. If they thought themselves more than others. And instead of serving others, they served themselves. Instead of honoring others, they wanted others to honor them. And this meant that Jesus was not the only one being tested at this dinner. Instead Every single Pharisee who was there was testing and judging one another. They were keeping a mental count of how much people ate. or of of what seat people sat in, or or what comments people made. Because they're always thinking and and and trying to jockey again for position. Trying to find and seat themselves at the seat of honor at the table. You see, this is what happens when we um so desperately long for someone's approval. Everything becomes a tool or a means of improving our status in their eyes, including the people around us. What when a homeless person approaches us for money, when we're parked at at the corner of of of Route 1 uh and and you know it at a stoplight. Right. We w we we might pretend that we're not, you know, like that we're too busy with our with our radio knobs or on our phones. But then when we're on a mission ship and we're trying to get a good picture for the gram, right, we we so readily make time for those around us. Do we not? When we're at work, we might turn a deaf ear to racist, misogynistic, or homophobic jokes that our co workers make in order to gain their approval. When we're at school, we might try to shrink anonymously into the background when a professor misrepresents Christianity. So we often get so desperate to give up with the Joneses that we lose sight of who God created us to be. Now if you've ever been to IKEA, uh you may be familiar with the the as is section. Now the as is section, uh it's that's why my my personal favorite section is the entire uh store. Um some of you are laughing at me because you know why. Um but the added section is it's a small section of the store towards the the very bat the very end of the store uh where you can buy discounted products. Right? And I I love discounts. And these items though are are discounted because they're they're not new. They're not new out of the box. Instead, they're like floor models or they're been items that have been bought previously and then returned. Right? And so these these these these products are sold as is. Right. Sometimes they have like there's small scratches or imperfections in them. Sometimes that there's there's big parts of the of the thing that's broken off. Right, but they're sold as is. Now the good news of the gospel is that uh we don't need to somehow earn an invitation to know God. We don't need to earn it. Instead, God invites us to come to him as is. Vivian Mabhuni, who is a missionary with crew, once said, a drawing near to God does not require a freshly washed face and tucked-in shirt. We come into His presence fully accepted and loved. As children of the Most High, we find mercy and grace in abundance in our time of need, and we are welcomed with open arms. You see, the Pharisees thought that they had to do enough, that they could be enough, in order to please God, in order to earn God's favor. But they were so focused on what they thought that they had to do that they missed what God was doing in their presence. They were so focused on trying to earn an invitation to God that they missed the fact that God had invited Himself into their presence through Jesus. In verse 15, one of the Pharisees said, Blessed is everyone who will eat in the kingdom of God. Now, at first glance, this statement sounds pretty legit. Right? We can all say Amen. Yeah, blessed is everyone who we blessed is everyone who will be at God's table. Right? Yes, Amen. But then we have to stop and consider who said this. Right? See, this was a Pharisee who said this. And he was saying this in the presence of other Pharisees. You see, this Pharisee thought that he was so amazing because of his good works. Because these things made him qualified to be in the presence of God and talking to other Pharisees who themselves thought they were good enough to be in God's presence because of their good works. And so when we realize this, we realize that this statement wasn't actually a good statement. This statement was so presumptuous. It was so presumptuous See basically this guy was was patting himself on the back and inviting others to do the same thing, saying, Good job, we made it. We made it because we're here at this dinner and we're all going to be up there with God at his dinner table. And so Jesus told one final story about a man who wanted to throw an epic party, the most epic of epic parties. Basically all the people that that that this man initially invited, right, all the A-list celebrities, right, all the the the the Blue Check Verify people, right? All these people, right who he thought were gonna come, who thought wanted to come to this party, eventually dipped out on him. And not because they had some good excuses, but because they had some, you know, rather uh lame excuses to be you know to be quite frank. Now again may maybe I'd be to be too too unfair here, right? Because if you look at these examples, these excuses, again they seem pretty legit. Right? One person bought a field and had to go examine it One person bought some ox and then another another person got married. Right? So okay, pretty pretty legit excuses, right? But let me ask you this, right? If the President of the United States or Kanye West or anyone else who you think is like you're like you would bucket list person to meet If they invited into their house for a party, I mean I think all of us would clear out our calendars It wouldn't matter what we were doing on that day. I mean, I'm there, right? We would drop everything and rearrange our schedules to be there And so no matter how legit these excuses seemed, right, at the core they were they were pretty sus. Because the party was worth it. And the master knew this. The master knew this. And we know this because he got angry. He was upset that they were turning down his party imitations for their seemingly legit excuses Yet despite these lame excuses, despite the fact that all these people had rejected him, this man was still determined to throw this party. And so he went out and invited everyone who did not make the cut earlier. You see, God sent Jesus to invite the worlds to come to him. But the people who were the closest to God The people who who God in some sense were were were were like ex expecting to come to him. The Israelites who had been God's chosen people and who knew his promises for thousands of years. The Pharisees, who were the experts in the law, right? They were the seminary graduates, not just the MDIs, but the THMs and the demons and the PhCs. They were the ones who knew God's word inside and out. Who not only had memorized God's promises, but had taught God's promises. These people, they were the first ones that Jesus went to. And yet they rejected Jesus because they didn't want to let go of the good things that they had accumulated. They wanted to come to God carrying all these good things, all these works, all these efforts. And they wanted to use these things as justification for a God should invite them in. When all God wanted was for them to come to Him in humble reliance upon His goodness. See, near the beginning of Jesus' earthly ministry, he said, he taught, Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. Now re ever since I was a young child I I've always loved to snack. Uh I've always loved chips, candy, um whatever it is, it's on on the shelves of 7 Eleven, I I love eating it. And so when when I was younger, my my child would always warn my my mother would always warn me. She'd always say, you know, hey, if you eat too many snacks, you're going to ruin your dinner Right, and then not have any room for what I'm actually making, the good food that I'm making. Maybe this sounds familiar to parents out there. I say it to our kids now ironically. Jesus offers to satisfy our deepest longings for welcome, for invitation, for acceptance. And he offers this to anyone, anyone who longs for it. Doesn't matter who you are. It doesn't matter what we've done. Doesn't matter what we even believe or we fail to believe. He offers it to us just as we are. But if we try to satisfy our longings ourselves, if we try to snack on all the things that we want to snack on, then we're going to find that we don't have room for the good food that Jesus offers us. Because we we've filled up on junk that offers no real lasting satisfaction at all And that's why uh communion, like the Lord's Supper, right, I think is so important, right? Because communion is the Lord's Supper and not ours. Right, because he is the one who prepares it and not us. In fact, when we come to the Lord's Supper, we don't bring anything that adds to the meal. It's not a potluck. Right? We don't bring we don't we it's not BYOB. We don't bring stuff to the table. In fact the only thing that we bring to the table at the Lord's Supper is our sin and our brokenness. The only thing that we bring is a spiritual hunger and thirst for righteousness that only Jesus can satisfy. And when we take communion, we don't just come individually, right, but we come as a church. Because like any feast, communion is not just a means of nourishment But it's also a means of shared fellowship with others who have experienced Jesus' love. Right? It's a safe place where broken, messed up people like you and me can find healing and restoration in Jesus' love. Harry Potter's greatest enemy was a dark wizard named Voldemort. Voldemort uh was the most powerful wizard in the world. was capable of conjuring spells that nobody else could even imagine. No other wizard in history could stand a chance against him. That is, until he met a little baby boy named Harry Potter. Now, when Voldemart first met Harry, Harry was just an infant held by his dying mother. But when Voldemort cast his unstoppable killing spell upon Harry, like he had done hundreds of times before, something unthinkable, something remarkable happened. Harry survived. How was that possible? How was it possible? Uh That a little baby boy who couldn't even stand on his own two legs could somehow stand up to Voldemort when so many great wizards before him had previously fallen. The only logical conclusion was that somehow Harry Potter, even as a little infant, was more powerful than the great and almighty Lord Voldemort. And so that's what Voldemort and the rest of the wizarding community believed. That Harry was powerful, that he was more powerful than even Voldemort. In fact, Harry also grew to believe this. And so as as a as a young boy, as a teenager growing up through you know through Hogwarts, he tried to live up to these expectations of being the world's most powerful wizard, even more powerful than Voldemort. But he was never quite able to demonstrate this great power. In fact, as you read through the books, right, Harry just constantly is stumbling. He sometimes uh he's making huge mistakes and sometimes he even just fails spectacularly. And by the end of the book series they find out that Harry wasn't in fact powerful at all. Instead, he was an average, maybe even below average wizard. So then how then did this below average wizard somehow survive Voldemort's attack? And we learn at the very end of the of the book series that it was because of his mother's love. Albus Dumbledore, Harry's headmaster and mentor, tells him that your mother died to save you. If there is one thing that Voldemort cannot understand, it is love. He didn't realize that love as powerful as your mother's for you leaves its own mark. Not a scar, no visible sign. To have been loved so deeply, even though the person who loved us is gone, will give us some protection forever Now the world says that we have to be enough in order to earn our place. That we have to hustle and grind. That we have to overcome the obstacles before us. That we have to rise above our challenges. But nothing we do can compare to the power of Jesus' love for us. A love that He demonstrated through His sacrificial death on the cross. A love that could not be contained by the grave. A love that fills us through the work of the Holy Spirit. And the love that commissions us in his spirit to invite others to experience the true fellowship with God and with one another that we experienced in the church. And so, as one theologian once said, the most truest confession we can possibly say is summed up in these words of the simple children's song. Jesus loves me, this I know. For the Bible tells me so. Little ones to him belong. We are weak, but he is strong. Let's pray. Heavenly Father God, we come to you and we we acknowledge our longing to be seen, to be known, to be accepted, just as we are. We acknowledge how tired it is to to try to um keep up in this rat race of life. We're trying to be enough, we're trying to earn enough, of trying to um to build up our our own uh following or or our own sense of accomplishment. And to receive the accolades and acceptance of the world around us. So we come to you, God, and we ask the Lord that you would remind us once again. That we don't need to do any of that before you. Because you've accomplished all that for us through Christ. And so we pray, O Lord, that as we come to you in our humility, In our brokenness, in our imperfections, that you would once again invite us to know you, to invite us to uh to rest. In our sure identity as your sons and daughters in Christ. So be with us and encourages we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.