Please stand as we read from the Word of God. We will be skipping the Deuteronomy passage, but uh we will be reading Reading from the Isaiah and John passages. Isaiah one one. The vision of Isaiah the son of Amaz, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Isaiah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah. When Jesus had said these things, he departed and hid himself from them. Though he had sent so many signs before them, they still did not believe in him, so that the words spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled. Lord who has believed what he heard from us, and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed. Therefore they could not believe. For again, Isaiah said He has blinded their eyes and hardened their heart, lest they see with their eyes and understand with their heart and turn, and I would heal them. Isaiah said these things because he saw his glory and spoke of him Nevertheless, many even of the authorities believed in him, but for fear of the Pharisees they did not confess it, so that they would not be put out of the synagogue. For they loved the glory that comes from man more than the glory that comes from God And Jesus cried out and said, Whoever believes in me believes not in me, but in him who sent me, and whoever sees me sees him who sent me. And I have come into the world as light, so that whoever believes in me may not remain in darkness If any one hears my words and does not keep them, I do not judge him, for I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world. The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a judge. The words that I have spoken will judge him on the last day. For I have not spoken of my own authority, but the Father who sent me has given me a commandment, what to say and what to speak. And I know that this his commandment is eternal life. What I say, therefore, I say as the Father has told me. Amen. Thank you. Please be seated. Before I start, I wanted to mention that I I I Held up these books from before they're they're back there. This is one that hadn't come yet. God made boys and girls. This one might be very important to be reading. to your kids. And then secondly, uh I mentioned before that Jim uh had suggested this website called the Samson Society and there are groups and uh so I went ahead and bought some of the books that this comes from. It's by a guy named Late Nate Nate Larkin. He sort of runs in the PCA world, I think in Nashville This is his own story of um his brokenness, and then he made a group of guys that would get together to talk about what's going on in their lives. So it's really excellent. If you're interested, there's some up there. Just take one. Okay. I've mentioned the Grand Canyon already once, I think. But I remember the first time I went there. I've been there three times. Anyone gone to the Grand Canyon? So back quite a while ago, I would think late maybe two thousand and six or seven, because Anna was about five. I decided I so every once in a while I'd take give Julie a break, I'd take the kids camping or something so she could not have kids around. And I was being awesome by doing that, of course, right? I took them to the Grand Canyon. Now that's a whole nother level. It's 14 hours in the car. So I think we went twelve and then stayed the night and then finished it up. Went to the Grand Canyon for you know the average trip to the Grand Canyon is like fifteen minutes. People see it and they go, okay, cool. And check it off the box and turn it around. We stayed for an hour. But, you know, it was exhausting to get there. The kids were whiny and terrible. Uh but I was being a good dad, I thought, and and so we pull up and I'm a little nervous because I don't want him to fall into the hole. I want to come back with all four kids. At least theoretically, there was a couple that I wouldn't have mind losing but not not really. And so you so you you walk up It is crazy how small you feel, how quiet you feel. How majestic this thing in front of you are. You have no concept of how big it is. How beautiful it is. And so you feel this small, quiet, calm, but also nervous and unsettling to be next to something that great and that grand and that deep and that dangerous. Isaiah is like that. We're going to be talking about what it's like to be in the presence of greatness. To be in press in the presence of the Grand Canyon does something to you. And Isaiah is such a great book. I love the book of Isaiah. It's so memorizable in parts. It has famous passages that we've heard before. Isaiah is like the Shakespeare of the Old Testament. He's quoted 66 times in the New Testament, two in our passage right here. That's more than any of the other Old Testament prophets combined. They go to Isaiah. But loving Isaiah is not the same thing as understanding Isaiah, is it? Stringing along all these memorized passages doesn't help you unless you can put Isaiah in context and understand what he's talking to us about. There are so many chapters and so many things. There's a lot of poetry, mostly poetry, but then there's in the middle this history section that's amazing history. And so we're not going to cover all of Isaiah. We're going to hit some of it. I mean, after all, at 66 books, we could be here for a year and a half. But today we're going to do an introduction to the book of Isaiah so we can have our bearings. And the most important thing is what is the book of Isaiah about? It's about Jesus, like what every book in the Bible is about. And we have to find Jesus in Isaiah, which isn't that hard in this book. So my first point for you is going to be vision. And then we're going to talk about Isaiah himself and then do some history and then come back around to Jesus. The first word in the book of Isaiah is vision, the vision of Isaiah, the son of Amos. What which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah. So the first word is vision, and this is the word where we understand that Isaiah has seen God, heard from God, and is passing it on to us. Now, Christians believe That God has inspired the Bible, right? That God spoke to certain people. He spoke through certain people. His prophets, his apostles. And it's important to remember that or know that this isn't like they sit down And channel God and he starts moving their hands to write in Hebrew What he wants them to say. Later on, Greek. There's also some Aramaic. That's not how it works. God's prophets, his people, his spokespeople. Were themselves. They retained their personhood and their personality. They wrote in a certain style, in a certain way, that was theirs. And God uses that To give them his words for us. Now, a lot of times in our society today, this is an antiquated idea, isn't it? That God would do that. This idea is really not accepted in the university, in academic settings. Postmodernism would would creep in there and say that is not imp this is impossible. We cannot have supernatural things. So we certainly can't have supernatural words or books. I wonder if you've heard people say that I wonder if if maybe you think that today. But but we all do believe in some level of prophets. Not to this level necessarily. But but we tune in to find out who's going to win the Oscars. Right, you know, they're these prognosticators and they say there's this is who should win and who will win. We we we we listen to this about predictions for our teens. We're all Ravens fans, I'm sure. Maybe not. We're all Oriers fans, I'm sure. We're all Oklahoma Sooners fans now and football. You've been placed that upon you. You're gonna start caring. What's everybody's record gonna be? I went back and looked at what they said the Orioles record was gonna be and they're exceeding expectations way past. But it was gonna be about 81, 81, 82, 80, 80, 82, which is what I thought. It's what I would have said. So so Sometimes we're wrong. And if you consistently misguess Your prediction, what happens to you? Well hopefully we stop listening unless you're the weatherman. Weatherman gets raises, right? And so so we have um these predictors, these prophets. In in Oklahoma, we're all very weather aware, and so we listened to Gary, England. When Gary, England said there was going to be a tornado We believed it. And we knew what to do. So this is an afforded idea. Now, in the Old Testament, what makes God's prophets? The four things. Prophets consider themselves servants of God, through whom God spoke. They're servants of God. Prophets considered the content of their message unoriginal. So they are thinking, okay, yeah, this is what God's talking to. It's not foreign, it's not novel, it's what God says normally. They consider themselves a divinely appointed societal office Correcting wrong beliefs and practices. That makes sense. And they understood what they preached in a qualified way. That means us looking back, we understand way more than they understood at the time they wrote it. What they wrote still made sense to them It wasn't some crazy idea. But now here, especially on this side of Jesus, we can look back and really understand it. Now you can also see in the in your order of worship there, Deuteronomy 18 Where God lays it out. I printed this in here so you could see it, but I didn't want us to read all of this I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their brothers, and I will put words in his mouth, and ye shall speak to them all that I command him And whoever will not listen to my words that he shall speak in my name, I myself will require it of him. But the prophet who presumes to speak a word in my name that I have not commanded him to speak, or speaks in the name of other gods, that same prophet shall die. Prophecy is a big deal. And if you say in your heart, how may we know the word of the Lord that the Lord has not spoken? When a prophet speaks in the name of the Lord, if the word does not come to pass or come true That is a word that the Lord has not spoken. The prophet has spoken it presumptuously. You need not be afraid of him. Pretty much, stuff's got to come true. That's how you know it's a prophet. So we believe Isaiah is a prophet because we have seen his words come True. And God Himself set up the rules for judging prophets. Because back then, just like now, there's a world of competing voices. We've got all this noise with all of our TV shows and podcasts and uh everything that's happening on the news. Well they had a similar, not exactly the same, but there were other voices that are saying, this is what's going on, this is the real deal, this is where we should go, this is who we should listen to. And God is trying to break through that And say, well, listen, see, watch. And as a prophet grows in his reputation over time, we believe more and more. Because after all, it doesn't do a whole lot of good to wait. If the prophet says repent because there's judgment, and we wait till we see the judgment, how do we repent after that? So you start to see that we have to believe in the reputation. of the prophet over time and see if his words are what other people are saying. Okay. So there are prophets. And if there aren't prophets, then we don't know who to listen to. Or we pick who we want to listen to, or we pick our own prophets. And if we believe in some sort of really evolutionary construct where there's no God in the universe, who do we listen to? And why is this moment significant? And what do we do about our brokenness, if anything? We have prophets in our Cultural moments. Remember Neo and The Matrix and the Oracle? That's becoming a very dated illustration now. It's been a long time ago since we were watching The Matrix. But there are prophecies in Star Wars. Someone is coming. There's someone who's going to save us. That's a prophecy. And so also if if we think about all that God's done, just in Jesus, if there is a virgin birth, if Jesus is God and he came down to earth. If he walked heaven, fully God and fully man, if he he did these miracles and these teachings and he died on the cross for our sins and raised from the dead, all that Surely God can speak through people. That's way smaller than his big, huge way of salvation. One more thing. It's interesting to note that believing all the things that We probably believe. I do. The inerrancy of the Bible, the infallibility of the Bible, the inspiration of the Bible, the things I've just been talking about, none of that is in the Apostles' Creed or the Nicene Creed It forms a backdrop of knowing all that stuff, but we don't insert that into what it takes to be a person of faith. It's very important, but it's not at the center of our beliefs. So keep that in mind. Okay, so that's um the vision. Now, what about Isaiah himself, and did he write this book? Isaiah the son of Amos. There are theories that would tell you it cannot be Isaiah that wrote this book. If you go down this rabbit trail, I'm just letting you know, a lot of people are going to back up and say, okay, well maybe Isaiah wrote some of it, but certainly not all of it. Because starting in the 1770s and 1780s, people started looking at the Bible a little more rationally, but maybe in a bad way. And um rationally saying, well, the book is so different in different parts that it can't be the same person. And so there are theories that there's one two Isaiahs, the real one, and then a later one, or three, or a school of Isaiahs. Which means somebody was teaching them and they were all like coming at it and then they pieced it together. The big reason that people would say this is there's this piece Where Isaiah talks about Cyrus. Cyrus is the king that comes later. Cyrus is a king in the 500s, and Isaiah is writing in the 700s. And how can a person in the seven hundreds know the name of somebody two hundred years later? Well, how could they? Divine inspiration is the only way. So once we wipe that out, yeah, it can't be. But but God can give Isaiah the name of somebody in the future because He can give Isaiah the future. And people have always thought until the 1770s that Isaiah wrote this book. That doesn't make it right. But the Jewish tradition comes down. They weren't dummies, you know, they thought about these things. And there are similarities enough, instead of looking at the differences, you could look at the similarities. Because it could be true that Isaiah didn't sit and write this all in one shot He was writing it over time as he had visions from God. And so the visions came to him at different stages of his life when he thought about things and wrote about things differently. I have published some books and I look back and go, hmm, I don't know. I've changed my mind about some things. Or I go back and I read my old RUF sermons, the very first ones, and I'm like, whoa. At least you've gotten better. Because those are pretty rough. I can imagine how students would come and listen to me. So you can change over time. And also there can be a final editor or compiler who puts it all together. That doesn't touch the inerrancy or infallibility of prophets. Okay? So Isaiah wrote this, and his name means That's right. God's salvation. And you can tell me what your name means too later. Okay, now let's talk about the history of this. Isaiah. History is A little crazy. This is where we're into the politics of it all. It's important to know this, and then we won't hit this very much in the future. But Uzziah is the king of Judah. Now remember, Israel splits up into two, Israel and Judah. It gets confusing when one of them gets the name. But the other one doesn't. We mostly track Judah because the line of Judah, Jesus comes from Judah, and Judah does better than Israel. Israel falls off the rails pretty quickly But during Uzziah's reign, this is a golden age of prosperity for God's people, for Judah. The first half of the eighth century, which is the seven hundreds. But before Uzziah dies, a new Assyrian leader comes up. Tiglith Pelezer, we'll talk about him. And he takes over Babylon, secures the border, and starts to expand, getting new and more territories. So these cities, the the nations, pay tribute, and Israel, the northern kingdom, does that very quickly, hoping to avoid uh an evasion, which is a risky strategy. When Uzziah dies, Assyria moves in. And I would highly recommend a podcast about this. It's called King of Kings by a guy named Dan Carlin. Have you ever heard of Dan Carlin? He has a podcast about that goes basically from this Assyrian timeframe all the way down into the Greeks. And he traces all this through there. And it's really fascinating because we care about a lot of Bible stuff. And he talks about a lot of Bible stuff and puts it into context. But I gotta tell you, he has a very unusual approach to his podcast. He talks and talks and talks and talks. Some of them may be four hours long. So they're really good for card rides when no one else cares what you're listening to, which is not very often. You're definitely going to get some complaints if you're listening to that with your kids on the way to the Grand Canyon. But it's fascinating, it's fascinating. It's called Hardcore History, and this one series is called King of Kings. It's great. So Assyria is on Jerusalem's doorstep. So that's a big external problem for Judah, right? But they have internal problems too. Justice is being bought and sold. Religion is an outward show. And all of these alliances are being formed. Sort of like the Big 12 and the Big Ten right now. Where's everybody going to land? What's going to happen? Who are we going to side with? And Isaiah tells Ahaz, stay fast. But Ahaz goes to the Assyrians. For help. And Judah becomes a slave state to the Assyrians. The Assyrians wipe out Israel and Damascus. And Judah struggles to survive. And Hezekiah shows up and says, no more, we're not doing this any longer. So Israel's in trouble. Judah's in trouble. They might get help from Egypt, which is ironic. And all of Judah gets wiped out except for the city of Jerusalem. That's all that's left. Where we are. Disaster for God's people. What does that have to do with us? It's good to know about the visions and the prophets. It's good to know About who Isaiah is and was. It's good to know about the history of this time and region, but it's so easy for us To learn more and more Bible, more and more facts, and walk away unchanged. God wants learners for sure. Disciples are followers, but He also wants repenters. Transform people. And John shows us right here in this passage that I picked about what a prophet does and how Jesus is embracing Isaiah. Remember, when Jesus started his ministry, he used Isaiah's words, which we will get to. Those are some of the best in the Bible. And here, John and Jesus are talking about Isaiah still. Though he had done so many signs before them, they still did not believe in him, so that the word spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled. Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? Therefore they could not believe. For Isaiah said, He has blinded their eyes and hardened their hearts, lest they see with their eyes and understand with their heart, and turn, and I would heal them. That's from Isaiah 53. 1 and Isaiah 6:10. They couldn't see, they couldn't hear the prophet Jesus, the one who had come for them, the one who had done all these things for them. This is a different type of vision then, isn't it? We started with vision and we're ending with vision. Blindness. Spiritual blindness. Hardening of hearts. These people have no they know who Jesus is. They've seen him work. They've walked among him, and they still don't believe. They have some grid or some filter where all that is bouncing off of them. And they cannot believe in him and follow him. Even though they've had firsthand evidence. They won't submit. They won't bow their knee. They have another explanation. What about us? What parts of us are blind to God's words? What parts of us are blind to the vision? And can we admit our blindness. Can we see our blindness? Which is tricky, isn't it? How do you see your blindness? Someone has to point it out to you That's what the the Bible does. That's what our prophets do. When I w was in second grade My parents realized I need glasses. Why did they realize it? Because I sat this far from the TV. And they said, why do you sit so close to the TV? I'm like So I can see it. I mean so I don't know what other people can see. I don't understand why other people are so far away from the TV because they can't see it back there. And it takes an outside perspective to go, oh no, that's bad vision. And once I started getting glasses in second grade, second grade is a pretty early Julie waited until she was what 48? But now she knows what it's like. I I only wear glasses every moment except when I'm sleeping or in the shower. It's all the time. So I haven't known a world without it. I admit my blindness and then I try to correct it with being able to see. I do want to pause here and say, when we can correct physical ailments in our lives, we do, we should. And one of those things has a stigma attached to it and that's depression. A long time, I think it's getting better, people have said if you are depressed, you have to get out of it and you cannot go to the doctor or take it. anything for it. But but depression changes your brain, and the brain is a physical thing. So brain isn't just thoughts. You have an actual brain in there. And depression changes the grooves of your brain so they go in a different way. And so that's a physical problem. And research has shown this, but it's only been showing it in the last 20, 30 years. So it's sort of no. So if you know someone who's depressed, encourage them like you would get glasses. Go talk to a doctor. It's okay. Now, you may want to not always be on it, because your brain can go a different direction. It can get a regroup. That's very difficult and takes a lot of time. But we need to treat things with the stuff that we have. That's not a crutch. Okay, back to glasses. Throughout this series, I'm not going to stand up here and tell you, your vision is great. You're 2020. No problems. Blue skies. Because Isaiah doesn't. The Bible doesn't. It's not even 2040. I unchecked him twenty four hundred. Um that's not very clear, is it? On one of my sailing trips, I was uh showering off in the back. And the way it works is there's a mooring ball, which means it's anchored into the seabed and it comes up, so you don't have to drop an anchor, you tie into that because it is an anchor. And then during the night is the Wind blows, you sort of go like this. And and I've done this before and I know this. And I put my glasses on a surface And it was fine, it was fine, and then when it came just a little farther, the wind shot the glasses out into the ocean. I spent five hundred dollars trying to h hiring a diver to come get them and he didn't find them Hmm, that's not good for piloting a boat, is it? If you can't really see. So I know what it's like. I called Julie in a panic and said you need to go to the glasses store and f get my prescription and maybe there's somebody here that can fix it but there had been a massive snowstorm. The world was shut down where we were she was like, I can't go, no one's going anywhere. Like three days. It was a a terrible disaster. So I just had to get used to not seeing. Yay. That inspires confidence in the crew, doesn't it, right? Anyway, I know what it's like to not be able to see. We probably should talk to Dorothy and you know she would be the perfect person to tell us as long as it's okay to, you know, be careful. Our sin is worse than we think. We often correct it and we hide it and we manage it. But Jesus says, I take care of sin. I am the only way. I am the salvation. Believe in me, and if you don't believe in me, you will be judged. Jesus says, I see God, and I'm telling you who He is Jesus says, I speak for God. You can trust my words. I'm telling you what he says. Jesus says, in your blindness Your spiritual blindness, I am the light. I will illuminate who God is and who you are and how you can be right with Him. The darkness can go away if you follow me, so there's hope. In this dark, blind, sinful world, there's hope because we have a Savior who has come, who is speaking the words of God, who is God Himself. Come out. Meet the greatest person in the universe. When I was an RUF campus minister, The pioneer woman came to town one day. Guys know the pioneer woman, Ray Drummond. She's pretty famous, especially in Oklahoma. And my intern had to meet her, so she's plotted her whole day following the pioneer woman around, Ray Drummond, right? And it wasn't creepy, I'm sure. But eventually what she wanted to do was to to meet her and have her sign a book. Of course, being in the presence of greatness. But she was so nervous. So nervous to be next to and talked to and what was she going to say to the the pioneer woman? She built this up in her mind And she was finally got her chance. And of course, Ray Drummond was kind, nice, lovely. When we get around greatness, we often feel insignificant and small, like the Grand Canyon, right? And we when we get around the God of the universe, We are going to feel small and insignificant. And Isaiah does too. But Jesus is the greater pioneer woman. He's way better, way more powerful, way more interesting, way more mighty, way more holy, but also kinder. Gentler. Forgiving. Redeeming. And so when we lose our bearings and we get thrown off, when we get around God, it's not normal anymore, right? We can't just be just go about our day. He's great and he's deep and he's majestic and he's kind and inviting and he's pushing into the darkness with his light. Because God is salvation. Isaiah isn't speaking of salvation that he gives, that Yahweh gives, that God gives, that Jesus gives That's what he says at the very end of this passage. And I know that his commandment is eternal life. That's what Jesus is talking about. Eternal life for you, for me, for blind people, for needy people, for sinners. What I say, therefore, I say as the Father has told me. Jesus is our prophet, Jesus is our priest, Jesus Jesus is our King. He is our salvation. We'll look all the way through in Isaiah, but it's true for us today. Amen? Amen. There are several ways to respond to the