Small things that affect change. Here's a a small thing. Uh you know, I'm trying to illustrate these to get your attention a little bit. Um but uh in October fourth, nineteen twelve, Theodore Roosevelt had written a speech, a long speech, a fifty page speech. And um he had tucked it in half, folded it in half, and put it in his suit breast pockets And as he got up to speak, before he had given given the speech, before he pulled it out, a guy named John Schrank shot him in the chest. It hit the paper folded in half, a hundred pieces. And he survived. Look at that. And he said, you may have heard this, he said, during the speech, having just gotten shot, he said, Friends, I ask you to be as quiet as possible. I don't know if you fully understand. I have just been shot. But it takes more than that to kill a bull moose. One little tiny little decision saved the president's life. Um okay, here's a totally different one Um this is uh Drayton Britain, so English, British uh cyclists So they well we just did a l Olympics of Summer Olympics, but Summer Olympics and Tour de France, right? So um the professional cyclists in Great Britain were terrible Always been terrible, never done good. Since nineteen oh eight they had won one Olympic medal in all that time. And you know, uh the Tour de France happens every year, so there are a hundred and ten tribes, no champions from England. In fact, um manufacturers didn't really want to sell them their bikes because it would make their bikes look bad. So they hired this guy in 2003 named Dave Brazefield. And Dave Brazefield made a commitment to the aggregation of marginal gains. the aggregation of marginal gains. So like if we can just improve in lots of areas by 1% only But if we can figure out all the areas, then maybe we'll get better was his idea. And you know, so they got new bike seats, they designed new bike seats, and they got new uniforms that had the right Stuff and uh but they went in there like massage gels that worked better than the ones they had. They they um uh uh they had doctors come in to We teach them all the best way to wash their hands. So they didn't get sick as often. Each athlete. Right? The performance and the weight of the bikes. So uh they were pretty obsessive about this. And then in 2008, only five years later, after working on this all the time every day for five years, they won sixty percent of the gold medals. And in twenty twelve they set nine Olympic records and seven world records. And then um they won the Tour de France five times in six years. Little goals can make a big difference. Small changes can make a big And so how can Grace Relay, where we are here, fifty people in the PCA do anything for the Kingdom of God We're talking about today we've been talking about um the postures of a church um that's fulfilling its mission, that's that's hitting on all cylinders. And I've just, you know, been at pains to say we're we're not talking about something very important. The the thing that we're not talking about is super important. The foundation of the scripture. In our church, the the foundation of the Westminster standards, and even the way we organize our church through the Book of Church Order Put that on a little on the side, but it turns out to be important a lot of times. Now if I were in a different context, I would go to those things Theology, organization, history, right? Uh I had a friend, I maybe mentioned this in in Oklahoma in in the Oklahoma City and and this pastor um was in a Protestant denomination and this pastor didn't believe in the virgin birth Okay. They this pastor didn't believe in miracles of Jesus. This pastor didn't believe he was divine in any sense. This pastor believed he probably lived and he probably did die, but he certainly didn't raise from the dead And this pastor didn't believe he's coming back, and this pastor didn't believe that Jesus is the only way and the truth and the life. Could you imagine being in organizational meetings with this pastor Okay, we're not in talking about what I'm talking about with that pastor, right? Now we're talking about yo, the basics. It's what used to be called the fundamentals. So it so for sure don't hear me say that's not what we talk about. We in the PCA hopefully here know this at some level, certainly not perfectly. But so I'm really then getting at if we understand that, how do we reach, what are we to be like? What should our qualities be? With that in place. So last week we talked about we should as a church throw good parties. That was a weird one John 2, right? Jesus doing something for other. We're making the connections of the gospel for all these. We talked from uh the road of Timaeus about humbly looking for Jesus in the scriptures We talked about praying big prayers from Matthew. We talked about grieving and mourning well. Grieving, mourning, but also celebrating. We talked about that from Nehemiah, that we have emotions that we bring to the table, not just not just our brains, our brains too. We talked about inviting people to walk with Jesus with us. We talked about how Jesus called the disciples and said, You'll become We talked about longing to worship together from action. Acts two, that we we're a gathering people to worship him. We talked about how we should care well from Acts six, that we should tell stories of rescue from from Luke fifteen. And that we should live generous wives from Luke eighteen, when the rich young ruler decided not to give away what he had. And today we're talking about how we're longing for change. And that in in essence it seems a little crazy to say, but we want to change the world. Even our little church. We have an outside missional vision that that we care about our internal health, but we're not inward focused. uh in s in a bunker surviving. You know we're more like an outpost as we're going forth. It doesn't always feel like that Uh w we're not a religious museum. We're just preserving things and everyone can walk around. Oh yeah, that's the way people used to be, and that's the way people used to think. We don't like we don't change it. We're also not like uh the morality police department. We're walking around busting everybody, wrapping their knuckles because they're not paying attention and doing the right thing. Although we care about history and we care about morality. For sure. But that's not our mission, right? What is our what is our mission? Um maybe we forget the very, very last paragraph of Matthew. Matthew ends on this whole thing. The whole book of Matthew says, What? And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and earth has been given to me. Go therefore to make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you And behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. The great commission, great commandment. Love God with all your heart, so mind and strength, and love your neighbor as himself. These are two great things, um our mission. So we're heralds, we're canticleers, we're um Crowing roosters, calling people that the day has come, the night is over, wake up, wake up. Uh changing the world uh doesn't sound like crowing roosters for sure. It sounds ambitious and you know, ideas have changed the world Capitalism, communism, the declaration of independence. Inventions have changed the world. Steel, plastic, computers, the Uh people have changed the world. George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Alexander Hamilton, Elvis. See jobs, campaigns, commitments, and there's global change, there's um national change and then there's local change or even familial change. But local change, I was just looking again at the CAA's mission that Arts involved with, right? Um it's got a big mission, but it's a local mission. Um dedicated to serving the Catonsville community and bringing the gospel of Christ to children through athletics. Local but important. Right? Um decently specific. So Isaiah sixty-one is one among many texts that call us as Christians to follow and to help. Change the world. That's what God is doing globally, nationally, local, with the hope and the healing of Christ. And so as as if you look in Isaiah 61, and Amber read this, but it's in your text, you'll see I think two big things. One is there are a lot of metaphors in this. Right? Isaiah's using these metaphors. He's calling us oaks as righteousness. Now that's not a literal we're not becoming trees, right? We understand that's a metaphor. He's talking about beautiful headdresses instead of ashes. That one might be a little less metaphorical, but still we we understand that that's We're to be garments of praise. We're brokenhearted. Now that's not literally broken hearts, but we understand what that metaphor means. Binding up s those who mourn or are sad. That we become uh people that that help the ancient ruins The ruined cities. And so we we are talking about them spiritually poor, spiritually broken, spiritually ruined. But I do think Isaiah also has in mind the poor. Those who are actually captives, those who have actually been prisoners Those who are actually mourning, those who have been strangers and foreigners, those who have been locked up. And you know, you can think of those movies, those scenes when the movies when someone has the keys and they're going down into the dungeons and they're opening the cells, like, come on, we don't have a lot of time, let's go We ain't got the time talk of it. Come out. Come out. Come out. Come out. Come out. Jesus has got the keys and he's releasing people. And so we go back then to Luke four. We talked about Luke Four um a couple of times already in in this little series. Because in Luke 4 we start with the temptation, right? And um and remember we well we really talked about this in Matthew, didn't we? Matthew four We've done both. And in Matthew four Jesus uh begins it uh his ministry but he he starts with the temptation. This is a little bit this is the the one we did, and and in Luke four he has a the same thing, a little different version, but so the temptation is And in Matthew we read that Jesus begins his ministry after the temptation And it goes this way, different than Luke. Now when he had heard that John had been arrested, he withdrew from Galilee. And he left Nazareth, and he went to Capernaum by the sea in the territory of Zebulun and Naphtali So that when that was spoken on by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled. The land of Zebulun and the land of Nephthalitham, the way of the sea beyond the Jordan, Galilee of Gentiles. People dwelling in darkness have seen a great light. And for those dwelling in the region in the shadow of the death, on them a light has dawned. And from that time Jesus began to preach, saying, Repent for the kingdom of heaven. is at hand. No, that's not Isaiah 61, is it? That's Isaiah 9. If you'll go back, you'll start to remember this becomes a passage that you're familiar with. So Jesus might have had several scrolls, right? He's pulling out the scrolls. And people are connecting The scriptures to him. This guy's come fulfilling this stuff. We talked about that some with his miracles. He's fulfilling The the miracles that they talked about. And he's showing that he is God Himself. And he's also showing He's come to help the people. He's serving the people, giving them these things that he's even talking about, these healings. And so then so this all sounds familiar, and he calls the disciples in Matthew too. Peter, James, and John's and let's be fishers of men. But in in Luke's it's a little different. Which of course is Beautiful. And and then so Luke, uh as I told the kids, he gets the scroll out, right? It's all sort of dramatic. Um, this has happened before People have red scrolls in the presence in synagogue most likely. And um normally what would happen is they you know, riff on this a little bit, get some thoughts, here's some things, and here's what the old rabbis say and the tradition says and you know, now I tell you a little bit, here's a new idea, a new interpretation, but you know what? Um, you know Just a guy. Jesus doesn't do that right. He reads from Isaiah sixty-one the passage Of course Shirley has the whole passage in mind, but he maybe read the whole thing and he rolled up the scroll and gave it back to the attendant and sat down Now they're ready. What are you going to say? So all the eyes on the synagogue were fixed on him. And he said to them, Today this scripture has been fulfilled in all your hearing. Mic drop, right? Uh okay. This is a short acceptance Right. Normally people go on and on about this. I've sort of baked a half hour of time. Uh that took ten seconds. And of course, it's not really the time that they're upset about. They're like, huh? What do you mean? Who do you think you are? And they know who he is, right? So what do they say? Well, we know who this is. Is this not Joseph's son? They're like, Yeah, it's Joseph's son. question, right? In other words, like, uh I'm gonna ask you a question that I know the answer to, and that's gonna like shut you up. You shouldn't be here, you shouldn't be doing this. We sort of let you have the floor. I mean, don't you understand the way things go? Nobody. And he said to them, Doubtless you will quote to me this proverb, physician, heal yourself. What have we have heard you did at Copernaum do here In your hometown as well. Truly I say to you, no prophet is acceptable in his hometown. But in truth I'll tell you, there were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah When the heavens were shut up at three years and six months, and a great famine came over all the land, and Elijah was sent to none of them, but only to Zarephath In the land of Sidon to a woman who is a widow, and there were many lepers in Israel at the time of the prophet Elijah, and none of them was cleansed, but only Naaman the Syrian. Well now he actually now talks for a long time. Reminds them a story. And the story is there's healing. Right? There's there's healing. sick people and there's there's healing and there might be strange ways that you didn't expect to understand and access the God who does Isaiah Stuff all the time. When they heard these things, all in the synagogue thought it was amazing. They thought this was the best sermon they'd ever heard. They thought, man, you got it going on. I can't wait to hear you more. You're invited back next week. No, they didn't really like either sermon, did they? The first sermon was a little too short and a little too uh arrogant. The second sermon was a little too Um you know, a spoonful of sugar makes the medicine go down. Jesus doesn't always agree with that. uh from the sound of music. Uh and so when they heard him say these things all in the synagogue were filled with wrath, and they rose up and drove him out of town and brought him to the brow of the hill on which there That's a reaction that I'm hoping not to quite get. You could just have a different way of accomplishing the same goal, right? Uh but I don't need to have that happen. But passing through their midst he went away. I don't think I'm gonna leave you that. either. Um so one thing about this passage then is this has been fulfilled in your hearing. I think this is a good place to remember that Jesus is often in the already, not yet. Right, that's true for him even in this moment. Because it it has been fulfilled because he's there, but it is being fulfilled because it's not done yet. Right. He's not saying this at the very end of his ministry. It's all been fulfilled. There's still time to go. Right? Um But he is saying, I am the good news. I'm bringing the good news. And he's saying no one can be right with God. You are sick people. Sick people. No one can be right through God except through me. I am the way and the truth and the life, right? And he says, I'll bind you up because you're broken. Can you see that you're broken? You're blind, you're spiritually blind, you can't see it, you're spiritually deaf, you can't hear it, you're spiritually hurting. He doesn't say, give me liberty or give me death. What he does say is your liberty only comes through my death, right? He doesn't say, um, don't tread on me. Great slogan, love it. What snakes He says, Satan, tread over me, yo. So you could walk and be free. Now I did look up you know interesting, like oh state models and state models Maryland State Motto. Do we know what Maryland State Motto is? Do you know Maryland State Motto is in Italian? John, do you know this? I'm gonna put John on the spot. John, stand up. Just kidding, no. Uh it's very strange to me to have a state motto in Italian, and it goes Fulti Moschi Parole Femini. Man, Marilyn, come on, let's get with the program. Which means, I also think oddly, manly deeds, womanly words. A little non-woke, wouldn't you say, right? But it gets sort of like changed around, and if you got taught this in school today, you would probably get taught it means strong deeds Gentle words. Strong needs gentle words. That one's actually a little closer to Jesus, if you put it that way, right? When you are weak, I am strong. Take my yoke upon you, for I am gentle. Gentle and humble at heart, and you will find rest for your souls. Um When when they say when he quotes the um proverb physician, heal yourself, he heal thyself. Um That sounds also like when he's on the cross and people say he saved others but he cannot save himself. And don't you think Jesus is going like Yeah, I didn't come for that. What did I why did I come? To seek and to save the lost. I came for those who are sick, not the well. But I am the great physician, the great healing. I bring healing and hope in my coming, my personal My words, my life, my death, my resurrection, I proclaim the year of the Lord's favor because you cannot save yourself. I have the keys of the kingdom And I'm releasing captives to come into my kingdom, to be my people, to be my children, my bride, my priest. In my temple I will deliver you. Because it is true that all have fallen short of the glory of God. None of us truly in our own being glorify him and enjoy him forever. We instead try to pick up our own trash, shore up our own shortcomings, prop up our own problems Do our own cosmetic surgery, and it's like we have those band-aids, but we're putting them on a massive wound. This will work. Jesus says, I am for tax collectors and sinners. I'm for uh wayward since Sons, prodigals, I'm for uh prostitutes, angry people even, sad people even, debt ridden people, because I give life, I make whole, I pay debt I've set captives free, but it's still already not yet. Right? It's not all finished, even and of ourselves, right Um it's interesting then when you think about uh when Jesus is doing these uh ministries Um and he doesn't do it for everybody. And that's sort of I think something to mull over sometimes is He probably raised three people from the dead that we know about, m maybe more. Oh, but he didn't raise everybody from the dead, right? He certainly had the power to do that. You imagine um, you know, when Lazarus Fell sick the next time. I don't know how long later, ten years, twenty years, forty years later, and you know Martha's there is like you can't get Jesus this time, Martha, go! And he can probably say, You know, I've been there before. It's gonna be okay. Um and she might say, Well why can't he come at home? Um if you look at Mark One, Mark One's an interesting He's talking about John the Baptist preparing the way, then he gets baptized, he gets tempted again, right? He begins his ministry again, he calls his first disciples, we're familiar with that, and then he does these miracles. Um heels, heels Um verse thirty-two, John Mark one. And he would not permit the demons to speak because they knew him. That must have been awesome. Then we read, and then while rising very earlier in the morning while it was still dark, he departed and went out to a desolate place, and there he prayed. And Simon and those who were with him searched for him, and they said, Yo, everybody's looking for you, man Let's get back to the good stuff. Get in and get everybody. In fact, here's what happened. All the people that were there, they all went home and they all slept and they all tell their friends and they all tell their friends and they all tell friends And guess what? Now there's 5,000 people. 5,000 people? I didn't know there could be 5,000 people. I don't know how many, I can't count. Oh, we're just kidding. There's a lot of people ready for you to get to work. And Jesus says, No. Let's go on to the next town that I may preach there also, for that's why I've come. And he went through all Galilee preaching in their synagogues and casting out their demons. Um yeah, we can make that work, we can understand that, but still that had to be pretty disappointing. Jesus didn't heal everybody. Oh he didn't even preach to everybody. This is his work that he's trying to do It it's already and it's it's not yet, right? And word and deed come together, word and deed um uh interplay with each other. It's not all word, it's not all deed. So even when we come to Christ, we become Christians, praise the Lord, we still live. But your relationship doesn't just get put back together automatically. Uh we're still tempted. Um but we're also still fishers of men, inviting other people to come along this crazy journey And we're still broken. But we're also broken and oaks of righteousness at the same time. Um we're also sick, being healed, repairers of ruins. And of course oak grows in the middle of a desert can be a little weird. It can be like an oasis where someone says, Yeah, come on. Here's some rest, here's some shade, here's some water. But there's more journey to go. This is not it. And um We can walk together. We're welcoming the tired, we're providing shelter, we're porting each other, we're putting each other on the way. As we're rebuilding the ruins, as we're participating in the lives around us, not without words and not without deeds, but the perfect proportion isn't always exactly there There may be times and relationships or even encounters where it's all deep. And you're like, ah It's always all deed, that may be a problem, but there's also time where you know at least people that are it's all word. Sometimes it's sort of hard to hear the good news. It's hard to hear about God's healing whenever I'm I'm just hungry. It's harder. And so it's sports and gospel. A lot of sports. It's food and gospel. A lot of food. Beating in the gospel. A couple little uh church history. History interactions of this. Um It's good to toot our own horns a little bit, right? I'll come around and untoot that horn eventually, but Um, you know, in the history of the world, reading wasn't really for everybody. And uh there have been times when literacy has sort of gotten bigger for a lot of people and then and smaller for a lot of people. But as we come through the the dark ages and the middle ages, people can't read. Only the wealthy can read. And this is one reason why I and I love this that the stained glass windows are around the church because they're telling the Bible stories because people didn't have Bibles they couldn't read. Right? And so you could go through and this still is possible Um and share what the Bible teaches. But but if you track a little bit the Gutenberg Press 1400s, right? Changed a lot of that. Now we're getting books and we're also getting in in our own languages, which never happened before. We don't have all have to know Latin to read the Bible. Luther Sort of speeds that up, takes that advantage advantage of that in a good way, I mean. So he says, Yeah, we're all gonna do this, right? And then eventually that reformation gets to a little tiny island called Scotland. And this little uh tiny island in Scotland it sort of gets uh changed by this guy named John Knox. And I'm I'm condensing And so um and so this guy John Us and these other guys they're they're not just even re reforming against the Catholic faith or the also the Anglican faith, and they're becoming Presbyterians of all things And these Presbyterians, because they had sort of a flatter system, right, they started empowering Kirks, churches. And and and one of the things that had been sort of building along the way was reading the scripture for yourself. And so they really started in this little tiny island, the backwoods of nowhere, honestly Teaching people how to read. And and the school systems were unlike any Now I also want to say John Knox had a few things that maybe wouldn't be super awesome, but education became obligatory for people, boys and girls. And and they were teaching Christian education, catechism, Latin, French, literature, and sports. And this made a massive transformation in the Scotland, but also in the world. One other little Presbyterian uh tidbit would be that, you know, um King George III called the American Revolution the Presbyterian Rebellion. Do you know that? The Presbyterian Rebellion, because uh the Presbyterians resisted tyranny a little differently than other people, right? Uh the the the the Presbyterians sort of had in their mind, um, you know, uh a democratic structure. And so there were all these Presbyterian pastors and elders that were colonial leaders and a vast majority of the Continental armor army were Presbyterian elders. Um that's sort of interesting. faith could lead to that. And then if I'm gonna share those stories, I also have to share. On the other hand, Presbyterians just like any vice can be co-op adopted by the culture and the Southern Presbyterians of the eighteen forties, fifties, sixties were totally fine in the main with slavery and so They've made it work, according to the scriptures. So I'm not trying to be triumphant in any sense. I'm not trying to like, yeah! Let's join Dorothy and storm the castle. Although I'm up for that. We have to be at least um cognizant of the way that comes down in our own lives, in our own cultures, in our own systems. Sure, sure, sure. Okay, so changing the world, like those are two little examples of changing Changes of the world through the church, through our faith. So what can we do? What can we do? I mean with Isaiah sixty one and joining Jesus in his mission, what can we do? And I just you know we wrote down some actual examples. I think ESL does that. People have come into our building many, many times from all over the nations. And they're getting Reading in English and the gospel, aren't they? Yeah. It seems humble. Could be transformative. We've talked about it. We've talked about EFI. People are gonna come all over the world. Some of them they're gonna come to Maryland to one of our members and and their family. And they're gonna learn farming principles and learn the gospel and go back. And teach others. Who will teach others? Who will teach others? And they're going to eat and learn the gospel and feast together. Amen, right? Seems so small. Profound, isn't it? Another way that we can change the world even here in our little church is is to remember R U F These guys and these campus ministries, these campus staff, these men and women, uh getting people together. Uh and of course there are kids, but there are also other kids, students. But even then, you know, at UMBC there's around two thousand twenty five hundred international students from ninety companies countries. Come there from all the world. Uh to study at Hopkins it's five thousand students. Hundred and twenty to one hundred and forty countries are prayed for our campus Minister there. And then and then then one more thing that I just want to have on our radars that changes the world that is maybe a little different is um church plans. Church plants um might seem strange. And I looked up um the oldest church, old Trinity Church. In uh Church Creek in Dorchester County, built in 1675, still has churches, and I remind you that was a church plant at one point. Uh Newcastle Presbyterian Church is a USA church now founded in eight sixteen fifty-seven And in some sense now I'm talking about this guy named Francis McAmee, who came over, learned all that stuff, and started Presbyterian churches in America. Well started Presbyterian churches before the United States became a country yet. And the very first Presbytery was up the road in Philly, seventeen oh five. These are church plans. Grace Church was a church plant, right? And some of you were here when this church was a church plant. And I was rummaging through the uh the The mess downstairs, uh being the being organized mess, and I found this cool embosser and and I love these embossers and it embosses uh Um Grace Reform Presbyterian Church 1989. I don't think we would use this much anymore. But I don't want to throw this away because It's reminds you and reminds me this was a church plant. Right? And church plants uh they don't feel like they change the world because we have so many churches. But but people can have different accesses. axis t to the church plant. And you know, when there's a new church plant that means there has to be new elders and new deacons and new Sunday school teachers. Th because in some ways there wasn't a place for them in that old established church. But if I want to come and I wanna teach whatever this this lady's been teaching this class for fifty years. She's not giving it up. Maybe she's ready to give it up, I don't know But it so it frees up new positions for new people that have more responsibilities to spread and grow Dann and Kay and y'all did that. And there are church plants in the works in our presbytery, there's money that's committed, and so we need to pray for these church plants. Because these church plants need to reach the mission with Christ with that theology we hold so dear. Right? Both together. Word and deed, mission. and health. So here our vision is of course to reach our own families, our own kids, our own neighborhoods. These towns around us, state, and then the region and the world. With Isaiah 61, Jesus has come to release the captives, right? He has come to bind up the brokenhearted God came liberty The year of the Lord's favor can be for you and me. And the thing about that is Jesus says I fulfilled it. All that is found not in uh philosophy and not in even theology, but in the person and work of Jesus Christ. Christ. That's the good news. And so Christ saves sinners, that's our message. That's our hope, right? And and we we follow that message and that mission with humble reliance, with our faithful presence. With in some ways sometimes a gospel resistance with the ministry of hope and reconciliation because Christ saves sinners and he fulfills it. Amen. Amen. Take a few moments. Think about the Holy Spirit, what He's saying to us