Morning. Just a few things I want to say before we get into the word this morning. First of all Thank you so much for sending a team to Atlantic City. They did an awesome job. And um Dave even uh Left a piece of himself there as it were. But um it was great to have the Warstraws there, in particular the whole team, but uh It was just really a wonderful time. And I'm glad you guys came. Um even in your pain, um the Lord squ squeezed the grapes and beautiful juice came out and wine. So we love ya and thanks for coming. I just want to say that personally from all of us. And thank you all for sending them. My heart is very full this morning It's so neat to come here this weekend and it's like a homecoming always here. It's really family. And um just thank you for uh your support and it's Um when I go over to Italy, I have one of my Italian cousins here, Paola, and her boyfriend Byron. Make sure you say hi to both of them later. But um my our cousin Teresa, whenever I go there and she'll pour me some uh cappuccino. And I'll say grazi grazie and then she'll give me some zucchero and say grazi she's she goes santo no grazi and I'm always like what are you talking about? She goes familiar And when we're family, you don't have to say thank you. But I still can't help it with them, and I and I can't help it with you. I just want to say thank you. So it's really a joy to be here and to bring the word. I'm bringing you a word from Gospel of John, chapter four. It's that wonderful passage where Jesus meets with a Samaritan woman. I preached three sermons on it, so I figured you didn't want to stay here for about three hours or so. So I picked the second one. So I I say this especially for guys like Mark laughing there so he doesn't go, hey, you missed this point. You missed that. I'm gonna miss a lot of points. I'm only focusing on certain things But that's that's for your good as well as for my own. So we're gonna read a little bit here in John four. I am reading from the NIV because that's what I use to preach my sermons in our church. So Forgive me for that. I know you're ESV now. But so we'll have to put up with the NIV translation. Let's stand together for the reading of God's Word. John chapter 4 And uh beginning of verse one. Hear the word of the Lord to you this morning. The Pharisees heard that Jesus was gaining and baptizing more disciples than John. Although, in fact, it was not Jesus who baptized, but his disciples When the Lord learned of this, he left Judea and went back once more to Galilee. Now he had gone through Samaria Samaria. So he came to a town in Samaria called Sikhar, near the plot of ground Jacob had given to his son Joseph. Jacob's well was there. And Jesus, tired as he was from the journey, sat down by the well. It was about the sixth hour. When a Samaritan woman came to draw water, Jesus said to her, Will you give me a drink? His disciples had gone into the town to buy food. The Samaritan woman said to him, You are a Jew, and I am a Samaritan woman. How can you ask me for a drink? For Jews do not associate with Samaritans. Jesus answered her, If you knew the gift of God, and who it is that asks you for a drink, you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water Sir, the woman said, you have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. Where can you get this living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob Who gave us the well and drank from it himself, as did also his sons and his flocks and his herds? Jesus answered, Everyone who drinks this water will be thirsty again. But whoever drinks the water I give him will never thirst. Indeed, the water I give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life. The woman said to him, Sir, give me this water so that I won't get thirsty and have to keep coming here to draw water. He told her, Go call your husband and come back. I have no husband, she replied. Jesus said to her, You are right when you say you have no husband. The fact is you have had five husbands. And the man you now have is not your husband. What you have just said is quite true. Sir, the woman said, I I can see that you're a prophet. Our fathers worshiped on this mountain. But you Jews claim that the place where we must worship is in Jerusalem. Jesus declared, Believe me, woman, a time is coming when you will worship the Father neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem. You Samaritans worship what you do not know. We worship what we do know, for salvation is from the Jews. Yet a time is coming and has now come when true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for they are the kind of worshipers the Father seeks. God is spirit, and his worshipers must worship in spirit and in truth The woman said, I know that the Messiah called Christ is coming. When he comes, he'll explain everything to us. Then Jesus declared, I who speak to you am He. Thus ends the reading of God's holy, inerrant word, may he bless it to our hearts and our lives this morning. You may be seated. Let's go to the Lord one more time. I need a little extra grace this morning. Let's pray. Father, we do pray that you would make your word clear to our hearts. And not only that, Lord, you would uh anoint the speaker who was presenting the word, but God, we ask that you would give us ears to hear, eyes to see, hearts to just humbly receive the truth as it's given in love in Christ. And God, we pray that we would not leave this place the same way we came in. But that we would have been touched by your Spirit. Be with us to this end, not for our own glory, but God for yours. In Jesus' name. Amen. I need bifocals, I think. That's what happens when you get old. I mean what's a 50-year-old doing playing Ultimate Frisbee? I have no idea. But I digress When we have teams come, we call them urban mission teams, so if you hear me say UMT, that's what I'm talking about. We have teams come in the summer. After they go and they do Bible Club with the children in the inner city, we'll come back together and we have what we call a debrief time. And during the debrief time we ask them, you know, what has God taught you? And and one of the questions that we do ask in the movie this up. We ask, what has God showed you about yourself? And that's usually a pretty powerful one and usually you get kind of um we're expecting that one. And I remember the very first team we ever had, there was a young lady, a teenager, and when we got to her, you know, what has God shown you about yourself? She broke down in tears. And you know, because sometimes you get all kinds of interesting answers and and I slip, oh that's no, thank you very much for that. And then I go to the next person, you know It kind of like that first song we did together and I don't know whatever all the chords everybody was playing. I was like, that was great. Can we do the next one right this time? No. But I don't do that with them. Uh so then you then this this young lady spoke and she said, The Lord And she was breaking up in tears. She said, The Lord showed me how selfish I am. And how holy I am, but not H-O-L-Y, but filled with holes. In her own walk with Christ, and how humbled she was through the whole experience. And she explained how she saw how deeply she was in need of God's grace, not the people she was ministering to, but herself. And that was a powerful moment. And I remember saying to the group, this young lady gets it. This young lady gets it. What kind of gift it is that God gives us when He gives us a true knowledge of our own spiritual condition? Think about it, and it's kind of scary to think about. It was for me until I was 19. How many people are walking around right now in this globe that have no clue that all is not well with their soul? They walk around thinking everything's fine. When in reality they don't know the Lord or they're in desperate need, even as a believer, maybe they've strayed very far. And don't realize, you know, I I think all of us think we're here. You know, and we need people around us to say, you know, how about getting the first base first? You know, and we think we're running around the bases. And the the thing about uh ministry, of course, is you know we talk, we do these, um, we go around the neighborhood, we ask questions, we surveys of the community, you know, what's your greatest needs? I don't think we've ever heard my greatest need is to know the Lord Jesus better. Or our need in this community is to embrace the gospel of Jesus Christ. You don't normally hear that. So people the struggle is people don't recognize that great need. But I'll tell you what, they they have all other kind of needs they'll recognize. So so in Atlantic City, if you put up a sign that says free food, guess what's gonna happen? You're gonna have a line going down the street, you're gonna block traffic, right? Free clothes. You can put a sign up. We will tell you tonight through Bible study how to have eternal life. What? Nobody shows up. That's why in leading people to Christ and presenting the good news to them, and even as Christians, for us to recognize this more and more, we need to be, we need to see, be brought to see. Our spiritual poverty, our desperate need for Jesus, and our desperate need for what He alone can give us, which is righteousness. Both credited to our account and both actual, where we become more and more like the one we claim to worship and serve. So I I mentioned that I'd done three sermons on this passage. So I just want to kind of give you an overview of where we're at, and then we'll jump into this section this morning, but what I want you to see is last time we dealt with last time I preached this, the first message, I dealt with who Jesus came to bring his salvation to. And I pointed out the fact that it was a Samaritan woman. Meaning that Jesus had to break all kinds of barriers to get to this dear woman. First of all, he's a Jew speaking to a Samaritan. And in the text, even John wants us to know, Jews don't associate with Samaritans. So he had to break a racial barrier to get to her. And then the other thing you see later in the text, we didn't read it, but the disciples were upset and nervous, not that he was speaking to a Samaritan, but they were nervous because he was speaking to what? A woman. So he had to cross gender barrier. Because back in the day, you know, you think women don't have rights today. Back then, women weren't even allowed to be taught the Torah in the Jewish community. And here Jesus breaks right through to this dear woman. And of course, he broke through the barrier of sin, didn't he? Because as we'll see later, she was not walking with God. And he had to break all three of those. So we saw the who. This time, what I want to look at in our brief time together this morning is the what. What does the salvation that Jesus came to bring this dear woman consist of? And it's a simple thing. You know, sometimes we get high salutin with our theology. I'm guilty probably more than anybody else in this room. But it really consists of two things. This is the gift that God wants to give everybody. And it's a true knowledge of themselves. What a gift that is. Know thyself. And a true knowledge of the one true God. The real God. The God who made us and everything else. Amen. And so that's what we're going to see. We're going to see Jesus brings us a true knowledge of ourselves and a true knowledge of the triune God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Three persons, one God. No, you can't fit it in your brain. Don't even bother trying. You know why? He's God. No, listen, if the infinite God can fit in your finite mind, well then he's not the infinite God anymore. I know. Think about that for a while. Okay. So let's take a look at the first thing that Jesus gives us a true knowledge of ourselves. So before Jesus can give this dear woman the gift of God, which he talks about, which we'll get into, he has to give her another gift of God that'll open her up to receive the main gift that he wants to give her. She needs to be prepared for this gift by seeing a true knowledge of her lost condition. A knowledge, now listen, it's important to see this, of the barrenness. Of her soul. She was in a spiritual desert. He needed to show her her deep spiritual need, her spiritual thirst that she's been trying to quench. in all the wrong places. You know, looking for love in all the wrong places. Yeah, she was the poster woman of that song. Which I don't like at all. But it fit. So that's what he does And he piques her interest with saying, you know, if you would have asked me, I would have given you the living water that wells up to eternal life. And she says, Sir, give me this water so that I won't get thirsty. And have to keep coming here to draw water. But notice her mind is still on what? H2O! She's still thinking pole and spring. And here's the thing, uh especially working in an urban context, so often folks are just trying to keep their head above water. It's all about the daily grind. It's all about surviving. So she's still stuck up in. I gotta get this water And yet how true it is, it's so hard to have people lift their eyes up and say, okay. And in our church, New City Fellowship, we do care about physical needs. And that is one of our thrusts is mercy ministry. We believe in ministering to people holistically, and I know you guys too do too. And so we're not poo-pooing that. You have to meet the physical needs, but but if we only meet physical needs And don't meet the spiritual need, then what's the point? Then you know we're helpful for a moment and not helpful at all for all eternity. And that's not a good thing. And unfortunately, without the power of the Holy Spirit and his illumination, people will never realize the magnitude of their spiritual poverty. Paul Tripp, I've never quoted from him before in my life, other than in this message, but he says this wonderful thing. He says, There is no human being that is going to desire the good news of the gospel. unless they accept the bad news of their condition. I mean how often Jesus is the answer. What's the question? What a stupid bumper sticker. I mean, well what's you know, I mean come on, give me a break. You know, often uh and I have to remind folks when they present the gospel at Bible club for children, they jump right away to the gospel. But they didn't give the kids an understanding of why they need Jesus or what sin is and the magnitude of it. Now Jesus is the master evangelist, of course. God come visit us in the flesh. And he puts his finger on this woman's knee with one simple question, one simple request. He says, okay, go call your husband and come back. That was it. You know, you didn't browbeat her. Right? You didn't sit there and preach at her for half an hour. You just said, just do me a favor, go get your husband And folks might put it this way, things got real up in here. Right with this woman. But with care, with compassion, with wisdom, with love, Jesus puts his finger on the tender point in her life, on the idol of her life. Right? Really what her main need is, her chief sin, as it were. But she gives an honest answer. That's what I want you to see, but you gotta love this woman. I love women who are honest like this. I marry one of them. She tells it like it is. But this this woman says, I have no husband. She doesn't lie to Jesus, doesn't try to come. You know, I gotta stop there for a minute. Now I'm gonna preach. I'm going off my notes. I'm dangerous when I do that. The greatest of all faults, someone once said, is to acknowledge none. Is not to acknowledge any And it's one thing, it's bad enough when non-Christians try to hide their sin, and you can understand why, right? It's uncomfortable. Right? The conviction. But in the Church of Jesus Christ, there's nothing more uncomely, as it were, nothing more ugly than when we don't acknowledge You know, it's weird to me. I've been in other churches, and I've been in many churches, where even elders, I've been with an elder that could not say the words, I have sinned. And I'm telling you, if it were up to me, I'm not Baptist, I'm Presbyterian, so it's not always up to me, I would say you need to step down until you get some humility. There's you know uh what are you saying? You're Jesus? Because if you never have to ask forgiveness for anything, then you're Jesus Told you I got off script a little bit, but hey. So it's not only this woman, it's not only non-Christians that need to do this, it's we daily. We should, of all people be willing to to when when the Holy Spirit points out sin in our lives, we should be the first to say, hey, I was wrong. I sinned. Please forgive me. Amen? You with me? Alright. So Jesus gives this wonderful reply to her. He just says, you're right when you say you had no husband. The fact is you have had five husbands. And the man you're now with is not your husband. What you have just said. I love that. It's quite true. In just a few sentences, Jesus, lovingly, carefully, like a great spiritual surgeon, opens up her sad spiritual condition. He leads her to see the most important thing, that she's a sinner in need of a savior. And as he's going to point out a few moments, he's standing right in front of her. You know, it's interesting, we'll get into it in a moment Jesus never said to any religious leader, as much as they begged him, they would say, tell us, who are you? Are you the Christ? He would always give a nebulous answer. So who does he tell I'm the Messiah to? A sinful Samaritan woman. I'm him. I love it. Don't you love Jesus? I just do. I'm sorry. I just do. Because I I am very much uh Like this woman. And I to this day still need the mercy of Jesus and appreciate his tenderness even when things get real up in here. So you think about it this way, it's it's really a rare gift to see oneself as one truly is. So what a gift it is Jesus is giving this woman, out of love and concern for her soul. Doesn't do this publicly. You notice this? Just between the two of them? Because he cares about her. Dick Lucas, one of my favorite uh preachers, says this. Jesus is putting the knife in. That is, he is making her face the evil in her life. He's saying, in effect, we can make no further progress toward discovering the reality of this living water until you begin to realize that you're living a life that is not pleasing to God, and until you confess that openly. Now here's what's interesting, you gotta see this. This was a day when we didn't have social media. We didn't have the internet. We didn't have those apps that Hannah and I and my wife use where it says find a friend. You know those apps? So I mean I mean I I always say my wife you creeper Because she knows where I am. She's hunting me down. She's like, I know where you are. I'm like, what in the world is going on here? Right? Jesus didn't have any of that technology. And he was able to tell this woman, he lives in Jerusalem, or Galilee, that area, Nazareth, around there, and she's in Samaria, and he tells her, You've had five husbands. And the one you're with right now, he ain't your husband. She knew right away, oh I could see you're a prophet. No kidding. No ordinary man could do that. While he reveals that he's someone special, he also reveals to her that she's a parched sinner in a barren land. See, she had the spiritual emptiness that many of us can relate to. She tried to fill that spot that's only for God. In her life, with immoral living, maybe with the need for acceptance, for love of a man. Sometimes even good things that we want can become idols when we put them up Like they're gonna fulfill all our needs. It's very reminiscent of Jeremiah 2. 13 that states this. And then in this passage, God is actually talking to his covenant people who have walked away from him. And that's why I'm telling you, it doesn't only relate to non-Christians. And he says this, Jeremiah, God says it. In the book of Jeremiah. My people have committed two sins. They have forsaken me, and notice the interesting language here, the spring of living water. And they have dug their own cisterns, broken cisterns that cannot hold water. What's your cistern this morning? Is it materialism? To never enough? Hey, we're Americans. Right? We always want the new gadget, the new thing. Hey, he's got this. I thought I ain't got it. Maybe it's power. You like to be in charge and tell people what to do. Maybe it is immorality. Maybe it's pleasure. I don't know, since we have a long list. We could do a scroll, hit the floor, it'll go all the way out, you know. But we do that, we dig, don't we? And then it doesn't fill. How often even as a Christian when I do fall and I fall into sin, I I I as soon as even while I'm in it, you're like, oh, how could I have made that mistake again? Because it doesn't satisfy. And then on top of not being satisfied, I feel guilty. The neat thing about Jesus is that he invites us to come to him for living water. The only thing that could truly satisfy, and the only thing that can lead to eternal life. And the interesting thing in this passage is We know what that living water consists of because in John chapter 7, he tells us the living water that he's going to give us if we receive him, and we know this already as believers, is the Holy Spirit. The third person in the Holy Trinity, who will live in us, be with us, our comforter, our friend, our convictor. The one who always draws us back to the cross when we do mess up. He's the living water, and he will flow out from us. If we have not received Jesus yet, when we do, we will get to know Him personally living inside us And you can look it up later, I'll spare you the time going to that passage, but it's John 7, 37 to 39. You can check check up on me. You can call me later. But I know I'm right, so I ain't gonna get no call on it. On this one. Think about it this way. We say in the Nicene Creed, that ancient creed, I believe in the Holy Spirit, what? The Lord, the giver of life. Who proceeds from who? The Father and the Son. Together with the Father and the Son is what? Worshiped and glorified. Stop calling the Holy Spirit it. Drives me crazy. And I think it probably bothers him too. You know, I I imagine everybody this is my my husband, it. You know. Where Santo, it had to go out for a minute. I'd be like, alright, come on now. I'd be getting a little personal for a minute. But anyway, sorry. Third person of the Holy Trinity. But what's interesting here is as soon as Jesus turns the heat up a little bit with this woman Notice the woman right away tries to get out of the kitchen. You know? You don't like the heat, get out of the kitchen. So she's going to shift the conversation, at least try to, but we're going to see it's not going to work. So the second last thing I want to point out. Is that Jesus doesn't only give us a true knowledge of our own spiritual condition, he also gives us a knowledge of the one triune God. So look, the woman says this in verse 19. Sir the woman said, I can see that you are a prophet. And now all of a sudden she gets theological. Watch this. So she turns from being very uh subjective, personal, to being general and theological. Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, but you Jews claim that the place where we must worship is in Jerusalem. What she's basically saying, I want you to see this, and uh Tony Evans, Dr. Evans, helped me see this. This. She's basically saying, my daddy and his daddy and his daddy before him, we always worshiped on this mountain. In other words, this is the way we've always done it. This is our culture. And this is the way, you know, and and so you guys do it over there. Which one is right? And Jesus gives this answer to her. He gives her an answer, but he does so by bringing it person back into the personal arena again. He says, in effect, look, it's no longer about worshiping in this place or in that spot. Upon my arrival, the arrival of Messiah Jesus. It's more about how you worship and who you worship than where you worship. And so look, so we're clear on this, this is what Jesus says. It's okay to to lovingly correct people, by the way. We live in a politically correct culture where, you know, we hate to say, uh, you know, I'm sorry, but you might be a Remember Fonzi? Some of us used to watch Happy Days, anybody? He couldn't say wrong. You were It's okay to say lovingly, you're wrong. Because notice what he says in verse 22. You Samaritans worship what you do not know. You know what the word for that is? Ignorance. You worship what you do not know. We worship what we do know. And then Jesus had a lovely say, for salvation is from the Jews. It's a biblical thing. In other words, this is what we need to understand. Truth matters. It does. I don't know about you, but I don't want to follow a lie. And I don't want to tell people lies to make them feel good. Now I know sometimes let's say your wife comes in and Does this dress make me look? Do you ever see that Abraham Lake commercial? He kind of goes, uh she gets she gets a little upset. But no. In that case, maybe a little white line with it. But and and In other cases, in more cases, you don't want to lie to people. When it comes to their eternal soul, you don't want to lie. So Jesus makes it very clear, salvation It's from the Jews. In other words, it's to the Jews that God gave his revelation. Right? Special revelations. To the Jews, he promised a Messiah, a Savior that would save not only the chosen Jews, but the whole world. The Gentiles as well. Listen, the Jews may not have lived up to the true knowledge of the true God. Okay, we all acknowledge that. All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. But it was revealed to them. And the world's Savior would come through them. And here's the thing: we live in a multi-racial, multicultural, multi-faith society more than ever. And we had a UMT speaker come and mention that one of Atlantic City's assets is our diversity. But listen, it could also be one of our greatest dangers. In this sense, if we begin as the church to be infected by the worldly perspective that says now listen is important, that all cultures, all faiths, all beliefs are equally valid. According to Jesus, they're not. That doesn't mean we don't treat people with respect. That doesn't mean we don't love people, we don't serve people, but it does mean that there are times we're going to have to point out the truth in love. Now I'm a this is the longest quote I have, but I I do want to quote this from uh Tony Evans. In our text, Jesus clearly tells the Samaritan woman that his father seeks worshipers who will worship in spirit and in truth. And he's about to reveal to her the truth of who he is, the Messiah, the Savior, not just of the Jews, but of the world. And later, the Samaritans who learn of Jesus through this woman, what do they call him? They say, Now we see that this man is what? the savior of the world. But I want to read this from Tony Evans. I don't usually do quotes this long, but I'm not tech savvy or I would put it on the screen. You could see it see him say it, but I'll try to do my Dr. Tony Evans impression. No, I won't, I'll just read it. But he it was the he's the very first um African American who received the doctorate from Um Dallas Theological Seminary. Very articulate man, and he's been really good for me throughout the years, a good teacher. But this is what he says. He's referring to how Jesus what Jesus is basically saying to the woman. Jesus is Father. You've got to be right. In other words, biblical truth must override cultural differences. Listen, this is very important. Once you bring God into the equation, you must be true to who God is and what God says if you want God to participate in your church service. A lot of churches worship on Sundays in places God does not attend. It's getting kind of quiet here, ain't it? Just because you've got a temple behind you doesn't mean God is comfortable there. Because God is only comfortable where there are two things, spirit and truth. The right attitude resting on the right information. Now, I'm quoting from him because only he can say this. I can't say this. But this is what he says: black is only beautiful when it's biblical. And white is only right when it agrees with holy writ. I like that. There must be a standard by which truth is judged, and we're using the wrong standards. We're talking about what my daddy said and what my granddaddy said and what my people said. We'll go all the way back in history Is what they said, is what they said consistent with what God said? Because if it isn't, then we are wrong even if they're your race, your people, your family We cannot solve the racial problem because there is no divine standard that everybody's operating off of. We're making it up as we go along because it feels good. Because it's culturally acceptable. Because it's popular. And God's not into any of that. He's seeking spirit, the right attitude, and truth, the right information. That's good stuff, isn't it? I quote him because I need to hear that too. Jesus draws her attention to the worship of the one true God, and he begins to give her a knowledge of God the Father. And here's the neat thing. God seeks, Jesus says, my father seeks worshipers who will worship him what? In spirit and in truth. And the beautiful thing Jesus is telling this woman, he's telling us, the Father seeks you. And here's the thing that breaks my heart in a good way. Is that Jesus is saying, I know you. I know everything you've done and what you're doing even now, and still I want you. Still, it's not too late, and still the Father wants you as a part of the family. We want to be able to go to your funeral and say, she's in a better place. But then you have to come to Jesus. Amen? It's one of the hardest things to do as a pastor, as you all can relate to. Is to do a funeral, especially like when I was in Duaneburg, uh they would ask me to do funerals of strangers, and that was always very hard for me. Right So this woman needed to see herself as she really was, and she also needed to see God as he is. A spirit who is able to be worshipped in spirit and truth, no matter where you're located. Jesus says this in verse 23, yet a time is coming and now has come when true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and in truth. And he's referring to the fact that upon his arrival, the promised Messiah, the Savior of the world, and even more in his coming, death and resurrection, he would open wide the way to the Father That people from all tribes, tongues, and nations can come and worship him by faith and in the power of the Holy Spirit. So often we talk about what Jesus saved us from. When I give my testimony, I talk about all the awful things God saved me from. But you know what we don't often talk about? What did He save us to? You know what he saved us to? To worship the Father. He wants worshipers. Before he wants workers, like slave drums, you know, oh yeah. Oh no, he wants worshipers. Remember that I'm just saying this, you know? It's like emote. No, we don't do that. We from the heart, listen. He she loved much why? She was forgiven much. That's why. I'm a worshiper before I'm a worker. I hate when people say, oh, well, you say that because you're a pastor. No, because I'm a Christian. That's my place where God for some reason wanted me to serve. But really, I've been doing this way before I got the call to the cloth. And I want to show you something as we come to a close. I want to show you how Jesus slowly was revealing himself to her and how her understanding is being opened up more and more, and then we'll come to a close. Notice how this woman is slowly being transformed. First of all, in verse 9, she refers to Jesus as what? A Jew. A Jewish man. That's all she saw in front of her, was a Jewish man. Then she asks the question, wait a minute, are you greater than our father Jacob? Possible. Then she says, I could see you're a prophet. She's moving up in the world, right? And then later she says, well when Messiah comes, I'm sure he'll tell us everything. And then Jesus goes, the one you're talking to? That's him. I'm him. And then then finally, in Italiano, finalmente. She drops the water jar for crying out. Yeah, Jesus was like, yeah. She drops the water jar. And she runs into town to do what? To go tell the rest of her town, come see a man who told me everything I ever did. Could he be the Messiah? Brothers and sisters, sometimes uh we have to come back to Christ to be renewed because we lose that excitement You know, when you when you have to be told over and over again to evangelize, you don't have to tell a new Christian to evangelize. You've got to tie him down sometimes. You gotta say like dude, you know I know you know Jesus but I have somebody say something, but can you like tone it down? Well the truth is As we grow and we mature and we have experience in life, we look back sometimes at that honeymoon period. I remember, believe it or not, I remember Dave Wheeler telling me this, and I got a little mad at him. Confession time. But um he said, you know, Santo, maybe you'll never get back to that point. You know, that honeymoon period And it's it only took me, you know, what, however many years that since I've been at Grace to kind of come to terms with the fact is that he's right That was a special time in my life when I was newly saved, everything was fresh, everything was new, and the feelings were all like, you know, you know But then reality hits. You know? You know, like like Mike Tyson says, everybody has a play until they get punched in the face. But you know, so that's what happens. And you know what? Here's the thing. We don't live by it's not we're saved by emotion. Right? It's not we're saved by grace through emotion. What are we saved by? Grace through what? Faith So now, whether we feel like it or we don't feel like it, whether we're high, whether we're low, we say, look, I know of a man whose God come in the flesh. And if you receive him, your life will be changed. Amen. Come to him if you haven't yet. For living water. I could tell you one I I regret, you know, I'm gonna end with this. Somebody I I my wife says, land the plane, saying. What I hate what people say, I hate when people say this, when when they say, I don't have any regrets. I mean then they're saying I I've never sinned. Again, they're sinless, right? Well I can tell you this, I have too many regrets in my life. But I'll tell you the one I don't have. I will never regret. Receiving the Lord Jesus Christ as my Savior and as my Lord. And I'm telling you, it doesn't matter what life gives to me, whether I'm high, whether I'm low. Knowing him, I know all's well with my soul. That doesn't mean there won't be times of deep uh despair sometimes and deep pain and depression, but I'll tell you what, I know my Redeemer lives. And I know I will see him with these eyes. You know, and I won't need these either anymore. So um let's pray together. Father, we thank you. For Jesus, your Son, our Savior. And Holy Spirit, we thank you that even when we mess up and when we stray, you don't say, I'm done. I'm done with this guy and leave us. We thank you that you're patient. We thank you that you will continue to show us the areas we need to humble ourselves and ask forgiveness. And lo and behold, you'll even use weak and sinful servants like us to share with other sinners the good news of Jesus, who is the Savior of all the world, not just the Jews. Well, God, be with us as we continue in this worship service, but more importantly, as we leave these doors to worship you the rest of the week with our lives. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.