Good morning. Yet another day that the Lord has given to us as we consider His word last week we looked at the beginning of chapter two of the gospel according to John. And we left um In verse uh twelve where uh Jesus, uh his disciples and his mother and his brothers um have gone to Capernaum and that's where they're spending a few days. And this morning we're picking up from verse 13 as Jesus moves up to Jerusalem. So I will ask you if you're able to please stand as we honor the reading of God's Holy Word. Reading this morning from John chapter 2, verses 13 to the end. Hear now the reading of God's holy word. The Passover of the Jews was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. In the temple he found those who were selling oxen and sheep and pigeons and the money changers sitting there. And making a whip of cords he drove them all out of the temple, with the sheep and oxen, and he poured out the coins of the money changers, and overturned their table And he told those who sold the pigeons, take these things away. Do not make my father's house a house of trade. His disciples remembered that it is it was written, Zeal for your house will consume me. So the Jews said to him, What sign do you show us for doing these things? Jesus answered them. Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. The Jews then said to him, It's taken forty-six years to build this temple And will you raise it up in three days? But he was speaking about the temple of his body. When therefore he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this and they believed the scripture and the word that Jesus had spoken. Now when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover feast, many believed in his name when they saw the signs that he was doing, but Jesus on his part did not entrust himself to them. The word of the Lord this morning. Heavenly Father, we do come to you yet again, calling out your name that you have come to meet with us this morning. And Lord, even having read your word, we do realize that we are unable to understand it, to believe it without your Holy Spirit. And so we do ask that you would come down in this place. Help us to hear your word, but not just hear it. Help us to believe it. Above all, we pray, as we've been praying throughout our study in this book of John. That as we encounter you, Lord Jesus, in these pages, may we never be the same. Pray all this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. Have you ever given or received an unacceptable gift from a friend? Have you ever given or received an unacceptable gift from a friend? I I had uh I have a story, I I had an incident where I watched someone who received what you would call an unacceptable gift. A friend of mine uh several many years ago when I was still living in Kenya um came to Kenna and he spent a whole week um of ministering and and preaching and um and having seminars with with pastors and their wives and and when he was done it was such a great conference everybody was so happy and when they were done the the the members of the of this conference wanted to give give him a good gift. They wanted to say thank you because of his good work. And so they kept thinking about what would be the most special thing that they could give to this Uh, I think it was in his early 60s or maybe late 50s. What could we give to this gentleman that has blessed the church so much that would be honorable to him And so instead of giving him, you know, the the usual stuff that we give, you know, people gifts a plaque or stuff like that that, you know, someone can recognize and realize this is uh such a wonderful gift, they re the they thought the best gift for them to give to this gentleman Was something that was so special in canon culture that he would treasure this gift, that he would look upon this gift and realize what honor the church was giving to him. And the gift was this. You may laugh once I say it, and it's okay. It was a walking cane. And so they wrapped it up. It was a very special cane made out of special wood. Very special wood, very expensive. And to them they were thinking, this is such a symbolic and magnificent and just a gift that if you give it to someone in Kenya, they would know what it meant Because giving someone a walking cane in Kenya doesn't mean that you don't you can't support yourself or anything like that. It means honor, it means leadership, it means a sense of authority. And so you can almost imagine as he stood there in front of this huge crowd, and he was offered this beautiful gift, and he unwrapped it, he didn't know what it was, and as soon as he got it, he threw it away and he said, I'm never going to use it. You can almost imagine how everybody was so dismayed by his reaction. But what was the problem? My friend thought that they were giving him this cane because they could see his gray hair. They thought that he he thought that they gave him this cane because he was old. It took some convincing From the elders that bought him the cane, for him to realize, oh, this was such a special gift. Friends If we are not careful, we can offer an acceptable worship before God. But here's the thing. The good news for us is that we don't have to. The good news for us is that God has given us in his word the uh w what is acceptable worship to him. We don't have to guess. We don't have to be like my friend who did not understand the cultural dynamics. We don't have to be like the church in Canada that did not think about the cultural dynamics that this guy would not understand what this gift meant. God has given us in His Word what acceptable worship looks like. And in this passage that we just read, this temple cleansing event is actually a good indication of what acceptable worship looks like. And John Wants to point to us that acceptable worship to God is one that is offered from a pure heart. Worship that is offered from a pure heart. Now, you may want to ask the question, what does that look like, however? What is what is worship that is offered from a pure heart or with a pure heart? What does that look like for us as a church? One I just want to mention two things, the two R's, if you will. One is worship in reverence and worship is remembrance Things that we can remember. Okay? So reverence, um John here seems in this verses that we just read, um, seems to be keeping tabs on Jesus movement from Jerusalem to Capernaum and other places But he also seems to be keeping tabs on the Jewish feast that Jesus is gonna attend. This is only the first one that we're gonna see in chapter six And eleven we'll s we'll find Jesus attending another Passover. And we know the Passover and what it meant. It was celebrated around March or uh early April. And we also know what it meant for God's people here, that it was the day that they remembered the angel of death who spared or passed over, if you will, all the Jewish uh first born all the Jewish children and and went ahead and killing all the first bones and all the the homes of Egypt of the Egyptians. And so it was a day that the the Jewish people could come together and remember that this was the time that God rescued us from from Egypt. Uh and we know that this festival was also followed actually by other festivals, including the seventh day festival of But Jesus' arrival here, as we just read, ushes in, or rather we see dramatic events that take place as Jesus finds People in the temple, instead of worshiping, he finds people trading. There's business that is taking place in the house of the Lord. And so Jesus is super offended. He's offended by this that he takes a whip. I like that. I mean I just can you just imagine Jesus this meek savior son of God walking in and in a temple and then just realizing what's going on and and making a a whip and and just going out there and chasing peop you know, all the animals and all of that. I mean just just try to figure that out But we also know that the wares that were being sold in this particular place, this was not unusual, by the way. It wasn't unusual in the sense that many of the travelers that are in Jerusalem at this particular time are coming from far, far away. And so this was a convenient place for them to to to buy stuff, to buy their pigeons and their doves and their and and their cattle and sheep So that they may go and offer the sacrifice to the Lord. So it wasn't a big deal. It wasn't such a uh a big deal. It was a convenient place for them to do that But it's the place that it's it's taking place that makes us get concerned a little bit. First of all, notice that this is not happening in the in the Holy of Holies or in the inner courts of the temple. This is actually happening in the outermost courtyard which was called the court of the Gentiles. This is the only place where the Gentiles or the only where the Gentiles were allowed to get in there's As as soon as you you reach there, that's about it. The rest of the of the of the temple was reserved for the Jews. But this was the only place that Gentiles could actually come in And so they had turned this courtyard, this this this this courtyard of the of the Gentiles into a marketplace. Um and then we're told It wasn't just the stalls that were set up with the animals and all these things that were being told were told that there were also money changes that were there. Now these guys were people who converted uh pagan coinage. Um Which had the imperial image, by the way. Um and it wasn't acceptable. It wasn't acceptable in the temple, a especially as every male Jewish person 20 years and over, had to pay what's called the temple tax. It was half a shekel. Okay, half a shekel annual tax And so these money changers would come and they would accept they would take the the the the unacceptable coinage and then they would offer the tyrant coinage as it was called. And the reason why it was accepted was was because it was believed that high purity uh or or rather high purity of silver. It was more purified Than the rest of the coinage. And so they would do that. Now, this was business, right? So i for them, for the money changers, they charged a percentage to make profit The reason why I mentioned that is because it's important for us to realize that Jesus is not chasing the people out of the courtyard because they were unscrupulous business people. The reason why Jesus is chasing them out is because they were not supposed to be conducting business in the temple in the first place. place in the house of God. I I know some people will argue and say, well it was because they were corrupt and all of that. We don't John doesn't tell us that But before going any further, I also want to mention if you have been reading John and comparing the stories that we've been looking at with the other gospels, you realize there's an issue here with the Passover uh or rather the the the the the the temple cleansing here that john puts it very early on in in in in in in in in the book if you read the other gospels where is it we find the temple cleansing right before the crucifixion And so we wonder, are there two temple cleansings? Is John a little confused that with chronology? What's going on here? Now I want to suggest that it's really hard for us to tell, but all I'm gonna say is this. It seems like there are two temple cleansings. It's possible that there were two temple cleansings. That this one happened early on, and John is not confused at all. He knows what he's doing. And that the other gospels focus on the last one that happens. There are similarities in the temple cleansings, but there's actually differences in terms of what actually happened And so just for your information, I think there were two temporal cleansings. You can uh look up you know in in Matthew and and other passages and see the other temple cleansings in Just kind of compare the differences between the two. Having said that, I I didn't mention that Jesus is not chasing the people out because they weren't scrupulous business people. He's chasing them out because they were not supposed to To be there. They were not supposed to be doing business in the house of the Lord. One commentator puts it this way: that they had turned the father's house into a market instead of the solemn dignity and prayer. It was the bellowing of cattle and the bleeding of sheep. Instead of the brokenness and contrition, holy adoration and prolonged petition, there is noisy commerce that's taking place. And so there's a a really a real prophetic prophetic symbolism that is taking place as Jesus is denouncing worship uh that is not pure before God here. That Jesus is inviting the people to be able to see uh the to or rather to worship God from from the heart without clamor without distracting influences. I mean you can all you can almost imagine as as people are coming into the temple courtyard And and there's all this this screaming and this business that's taking place. And yet this is supposed to be a sacred place where God meets with his people, but they've turned it into a chaos. He's also pointing them to yet another great truth here. I believe that the temple itself. The temple was the focal point where God and his people met. The temple was where God would accept believers. Because of a bloody sacrifice, and and that uh Jesus is actually pointing them to the fact that the temple and the sacrifices that they are making is about to be superseded by yet another Greater and final sacrifice and temple. Jesus Himself will be the true temple. Jesus Himself will be the final sacrifice. Jesus' actions here are not cruel. They are forceful, yes, but they're not cruel I mean we can almost imagine how else would Jesus would have been able to drive out the cattle and the sheep if ever ever taken care of those things. That's lavender, she will tell you You need a whip to get them out. But we can also imagine, imagine the amazement and the fear in the disciples' eyes as Jesus takes this whip and goes out inside and starts chasing the people out with anger, holy anger. I mean just imagine what the disciples are thinking. How could Jesus, how could the authorities rather allow him to do this without dire consequences? They must be afraid, but but even that, how could Jesus execute his actions with such decisiveness without knowing that he's gonna be in trouble? And then we're told that the disciples remember. They remember, we're not told when, but at some point it dawned on them that Jesus was driven by the zeal to preserve God's honor. Zeal for your house will consume me. Verse 17 he says Jesus' cleansing of the temple here is really testifying to his concern for pure worship that Jesus wants his people to realize that they have a right relationship with God at the place that is supremely designated to serve as the focal point of the relationship between God and man. This is the place where God met with his people. The tabernacle and then the temple in the Old Testament. We know that what that means. It means the dwelling place of God, the meeting place of God's people. This is where relationships are renewed. This is where the covenant is renewed between God and his people. But at this time the disciples can only remember the zeal. They cannot know, they cannot remember, they do not know the manner of consumption, so to speak. speak. They do not know that Jesus is actually speaking of his death on the cross and resurrection. Now we know that we don't worship buildings. We don't worship in a temple, but we worship Jesus, the Son of God incarnate The one who has come to dwell with us. He is the one who is present with us. He's the one who calls us to worship. He is the one that is here. As we worship him. But let me ask you a question as we try to think about how to apply this passage in our lives. What do you bring into the house of the Lord when you come to worship? What do you bring? Do you bring your cattle? Do you bring your houses Do you bring your sheep? Do you bring your money? Do you bring a whole train of worldly affairs with you? Are you here only in body when your heart is so far away from God? Because that's possible. See, our church buildings and pews may not have the same sacred meaning as the temple did, but we must remember that this is the place where we meet with God. That he is specially here, that Christ is specially here. Do you know that? Do you know that when God's people are gathered in his presence, where two or three are gathered, Christ's presence is here? Especially here. I love what the preacher in Ecclesiastes 5. 1 says. He says, guard your steps when you go to the house of God. To draw near, to listen, is better than to offer the sacrifice of fools, for they do not know what they are doing evil. See, worship without reverence is a terrible thing. And every time we we come before God and and try to worship and don't recognize don't recognize the holiness of God. We need to realize that's a dangerous thing as well. And the question we must always ask ourselves as we come before God on a Sunday morning is: are we prepared? Are we really prepared to worship God? Our hearts ready to meet with God. We may not be tempted to make sacrifices of animals But there are times when we're guilty of offering substitutes instead of what God requires. We make idols. We focus on things that are not important in worship. And we obsess over those things. And we refuse to look at Christ. We refuse to gaze upon Him. We refuse to hear as He speaks to us. We refuse to know that He is the one who is specially present with us. And that everything else can go wrong, that everything else doesn't have to be right and perfect. That our music doesn't have to be perfect That our sound system can stop working, that the preacher can lose his voice while he speaks, but that all those things don't matter. The most important thing is our eyes, our gaze is only on Jesus Christ because it is him we have come to meet. Mark as he alludes to the Temporal cleansing in Mark 11:17 says, My house shall be called the house of prayer for all the nations. As I mentioned, the stalls and the marketplace is taking place at the court of the Gentiles. The only place that Gentiles were allowed to enter into the temple, the only place that Gentiles who desired to worship the Lord, to worship God and pray, this was the only place that they could come and find refuge. The rest of the Jews were allowed to go in. Do you realize the importance of this? Grace Church is a welcoming church. Grace Church is a place that we all can say when you come here, you feel welcome. That's true. But here's my encouragement to you, friends. We must always be on guard against snobbishness Against exclusiveness, against a coldness, against a lack of welcome, against the tendency to make the church into a closed club, against arrogance, against fastidiousness Which keeps the key seeking stranger outside. The Jews and the people that were making it so difficult for the for the Gentiles to worship, they were avoiding. They were keeping the Gentiles from worshiping the Lord. And I think every time we think about this pastor, we must remember the wrath of Jesus Christ. Against those who make it difficult, even impossible for the seeking stranger to come and worship Jesus. If there is any temptation in this church for us to feel that we are more special than someone else, if there is any temptation for us to feel that we need to shut certain people out May God help us. We must remember in worship. The disciples will remember Jesus' response, not as it happens. But long after the incident. What did Jesus mean when he says, destroy this temple and I'll raise it up again in three days? John tells us, of course, he doesn't leave us hanging, right? But that statement, that notice statement, goes to a different place with the temple authorities. It doesn't go really well with them They are not too happy. And so they questioned him. Again, these are the temple authorities, these are the representatives of the Sanhedrin. And so they had every legal authority to question Jesus Under what authority are you are you doing these things? What are your credentials? And so Jesus' response to them is in an accept uh an accepted An unexpected, so to speak, and misunderstood sign. They did not expect what Jesus was telling them. And then they fully misunderstood the sign. Notice what the question is. What do they ask Jesus? They asked Jesus. Are you out of your mind? What are you doing? Isn't it weird what they asked Jesus Give us a sign. Really? The reason why you chased everybody out of this place, we just want a sign to know if you Do you know why you did this? They don't care. They don't care if Jesus' actions were foundationally just. Because they're not concerned about proper worship of God or pure or pure worship of God or a right approach to come before God. Their question has everything to do with precedent and and and authority. But notice too If Jesus was some hooligan or some emotionally unstable nut job, there were ways, there were proper means to deal with it. Get this guy out of this place. But they don't. They ask for miracles. Why I think it's because these guys knew that they were dealing with the heaven-sent prophet. They just didn't know who or what he was. No wonder they ask for a miracle. Give us a sign. But what could a miracle really do? A miracle that's displayed on demand, could you ask for it here, here you go, to satisfy their curiosity. What would that miracle do other than basically or simply signal the domestication of God? God who is a genie, a God who has to perform powerful stunts in order to maintain his allegiance. I got us to show off so that people may believe. And the problem here is that the temple authorities, who would know the Old Testament? Who should be interpreting these things well? They actually completely miss it. They do not have the eyes to see that the cleansing of the temple was already a sign in itself. They should have been looking at the Old Testament. They should have been knowing that Jesus actions Point forward to a better, to a final meeting point between God and human beings, and that is the Messiah. That Jesus was cleansing the temple. Jesus had come to fulfill, had come to replace the temple, so to speak, and to fulfill the purposes of the temple. Yet they missed it. They missed God's word. There's a good place for us to just pause for one second and ask a question. The question is: this: What do we demand from God in worship that He hasn't already provided for? What do we demand from God in worship that He hasn't already demanded for? See the people here just completely missed Who he was and what he had come to do, even though they had his word in the Old Testament. And I think sometimes we also demand and miss what Jesus has come to do. Again, let's go back to the presence of Christ when God's people are gathered. Do we know and believe that He is here? And yet we cry out, Where are you? Do we realize that he has come to meet us? Not we have come. He has come to meet with us. And yet we cry, where are you? Do we realize that because he's here, he actually hears us when we offer our prayers? He hears everything that we offer to him because in this place he is especially here, and yet we ask, Where are you? Could they call Jesus bluff to destroy the temple and raise it up in three days Jesus doesn't give them the sign that they want. He gives them a miracle, so to speak. And the miracle is that anyone who could rebuild the temple in three days must be judged to regulate its practices. That's true But Jesus was not offering a miracle that they could look at at that particular time and for them to see it so that they may believe it. Jesus was offering a sign of his death and resurrection Which would actually prove that he had the power and authority they were asking for. But again they pew Totally missed it. And we miss it. That Jesus was offering himself as the true temple. That Jesus was saying to his people, here I am. You want to worship. You want to make sacrifices. Here I stand as your God, as the focal point, as your meeting place. Here I am. Jesus is the center of all true worship over against all other claims of holy spaces He is the temple, the ultimate sacrifice that will die and rise again on the third day Again, notice no one understands. Notice everyone misses it, including the disciples saying, not even his disciples get it. And so we're told it was after the resurrection that they remembered, oh, this is what this meant. Obviously, we know that with the resurrection came the Holy Spirit, the illumination in their in their hearts and minds. They understood it. He made them aware that this happened because this is what this is what Jesus was saying all along The Holy Spirit enabled them to understand the things of God. But there's more that happens here, right? We're told that they not only remembered Jesus' words and what he said, but they actually believed the scriptures. Their faith was strengthened Because of their remembrance. And that's exactly what we do. We always say in worship we come to remember. We come to remember God's mercy And love and grace to us. But we also come to renew our faith, to renew our covenant relationship with God over and over and over again. So next time you miss church, just know you are missing a covenant renewal feast. Do you want to miss that? Trust me, you don't. And I'm not guilting you to show up to church every Sunday, but I am. Because that's my job. We remember, I mean, just think about it. The cycle of the week on a Monday and Tuesday and Wednesday and Thursday and Friday and Saturday. And then on Sunday we come, we're refilled, we're nourished, we're encouraged, we're strengthened. We hear God's word, we sing songs of praise. And then we go home and we get tired on Monday and Tuesday and by Friday. By the time Friday comes, we're exhausted. We've dealt with sin. We've dealt with so much stuff in our lives that we're just longing, just longing to be encouraged. We show up on Sunday morning Guess my hand is healed now. Friends, it is a good thing for us to remember the truths of the gospel that we don't think much of at first meeting or hearing. But later to have a clear understanding and meaning that grows on faith. That the significance of Jesus' words would flash on the disciples' hearts and minds. Three years. Three years. For those three years, those words were dark and useless. They meant absolutely nothing. And all of a sudden they came to life. They came to life and their faith was strengthened. I hope there is a resurrection of the good teaching that you've received in the past, you the wise counsel that you've received from a friend, from a pastor. From a family, old sermons that you've listened to, words of encouragement, wise counsel that you've received in the past, that those things will come to life, not just now, but throughout your journey, and that your strength and that your faith will be strengthened. Here's an encouragement for those of you that are parents with young children. I just want to encourage you to keep on sowing seeds in your children, seeds of the gospel. You know those devotions that are just all messy and hard and you don't even know that you've done something good? You know those th those hard questions that your sons and daughters come to you And they ask you the question and you feel like you've done the worst job ever to be to respond to them, but you point them to the scripture. Yeah, you know what I'm talking about Those prayer times that are just mumbling of words from your kids, those bedtime times that you you remind your child that Jesus is alive, that he loves you, that he cares for you, that it's okay. Things are gonna be okay. I hope you know that you're planting and sowing the seeds of the gospel, and one day by God's grace, those seeds will come to life. And I encourage you friends, if you've been sharing the gospel with someone who seems to be hearts, we see that if you've been reaching out to to To a family friend that just seems like they don't get it, they don't understand. You're trying to counsel them, you're trying to point them in the right direction, and yet they seem to be lost and they don't care. I ask you, please, don't stop. Keep doing it Because you never know, by God's grace, that message will come to life. God will resurrect those feelings, those words, and those people will come to know him by grace alone. Three years. Three long years. The disciples had no clue what those words meant. But they remembered. But they remembered And then John tells us that when Jesus was here in Jerusalem, he performed many other miracles. But it's interesting the way he ends it. Because he says that people believed in him. But they only believed the miracles and not him. Their faith was not genuine, it was inauthentic. And so Jesus said that he did not entrust himself to them because they were not real. Jesus did not need anybody. To show the hearts of people. You know when I think about worship I think about being here and knowing that as we stand in the presence of God, every single one of us is fully exposed before God. Do you know that Jesus is not duped by our flattery? Do you know that Jesus is not enticed by our praise? Do you know that Jesus is not caught off guard by our innocence Do you know everything that you are and have is fully at this moment exposed before him? Now that that's that's bad news for those who do not believe. That's bad news for those who do not know Jesus. But we pray that they come to know him because that's the only way that they will be able to experience the joy that comes for us Who know Christ, who know that we cannot pretend even when we're trying to worship and our hearts are so far away from Him, when we are so distracted that we know that we're really we're just here by body and our hearts are not here, we know that But it's good news for us because we can stand before him and tell him, God, I am fully exposed before you. You know my heart. There is nothing that is hidden from you. And that Jesus can take that and sanctify it And cleanse it. And purify it. Because that's what He's come to do. He's come to purify our hearts so that we may offer acceptable worship to God. That's the only way we're going to offer acceptable worship before God. Only if He purifies our hearts. Jesus, purify our hearts indeed. For you are the true temple Was come to replace the temple. But you are the temple. It is in you that we come to worship, not any other. And it's because you've reached out to us. Called us out of our darkness into your marvelous light Set us apart for yourself. That we may honor you and worship you and enjoy you forever. We thank you for your word. And we thank you that you're the only one who enables us to bring worship that would be like incense rising up to your throne. God, we're grateful, truly grateful to you, and for all things. Praying in the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen.