Well we're gonna be reading this morning from John chapter seventeen. And it's uh A significant passage, uh a weighty passage with so much going on in this text. I I was last night before I went to bed, I was looking at at someone else's sermon, uh Derek Thomas, who's a a pastor a pastor in South Carolina, professor at at RTS, and uh I was r reading through what he had to say and uh he reminded me that uh This is a a sermon with a lot in it because he he mentioned that Martin Lloyd Jones preached forty-eight sermons on this text of Scripture. Uh James Boyce preached sixteen sermons on this passage, and we're gonna try and and preach this passage. once uh and and see if we can mine some truths from God's word. But it's it's one of those passages where there's is much more here than we're going to be able to pull out of it in in one sermon together. And so um I would encourage you to read it beyond just this time together, but spend some time meditating on this passage and seeing if you can pull some riches out of God's Word. Let me read this passage for us this morning from John chapter 17. When Jesus had spoken these words, he lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify your Son, that the Son may glorify you. since you have given him authority over all flesh, to give eternal life to all whom you have given him. And this is eternal life that they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. I glorified you on earth, having accomplished the work that you gave me to do. And now, Father, glorify me in your own presence with the glory that I had with you before the world existed. I have manifested your name to your people, whom you gave me out of the world. Yours they were, and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word. Now they know that everything that you have given me is from you, for I have given them the words that you gave me, and they have received them and have come to know in truth that I came from you. And they have believed that you sent me. I am praying for them. I am not praying for the world, but for those whom you have given me, for they are yours. All mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in them And I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world, and I am coming to you. Holy Father, keep them in your name, which you have given me, that they may be one even as we are one. While I was with them, I kept them in your name, which you have given me. I have guarded them, and not one of them has been lost, except the Son of Destruction, that the scripture might be fulfilled. But now I am coming to you And these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves. I have given them your word, and the world has hated them, because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. I do not ask that you take them out of the world, but that you keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. Sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth. As you have sent me into the world, so I have sent them into the world. And for their sake I consecrate myself that they also may be sanctified in truth. I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me through their word, that they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in me, and I in you. that they also may be in us, so that the world may believe that you have sent me. The glory that you have given me, I have given to them, that they may be one even as we are one. I in them, and you in me. That they need to come perfectly one so that the world may know that you sent me, and love them even as you love me Father, I desire that they also whom you have given me may be with me where I am, to see my glory that you have given me, because you loved me before the foundation of the world. O righteous Father, even though the world does not know you, I know you. And these know that you have sent me I made known to them your name, and I will continue to make it known that the love with which you have loved me may be in them, and I in them. This is God's word this morning. This is one of those passages of scripture that as we read it, we're keenly aware that like Moses at the burning bush, we're standing on holy ground. That that there's just something in this passage that is uh deeply intimate. We we get a a glimpse into Jesus' prayer life here. Of course, we believe and confess with the church throughout the ages that the scriptures are the inspired, inerrant, infallible word of God, that all scripture is God-breathing. And it's useful for teaching, for rebuking, for correcting, for training in righteousness that we might be fully equipped for every good work. And yet While every scripture is God's Word, there's no one passage of Scripture that is more or less inspired than any other There are certain passages of scripture that that are especially helpful in the Christian life or that more clearly give us a glimpse into the gospel. relay some uh important doctrinal truth. That that some scriptures just have a a special role in in the Christian life. And this is one of those passages that is just a very special passage for the truths that come out. We see all kinds of important truths in this text. We see a glimpse of Christ's relationship with his Father. We see an understanding of the plan of salvation that God has worked out from before the foundation of the world. In addition to important truths, we also just get great comfort from this text as you read through it because we we find out that on the night that Jesus was betrayed, before he goes to the cross, he took time To pray for us. He prayed for you, and he prayed for me. There's some wonderful things that we can learn from this passage, but I think as we examine this prayer of our Lord, We can see one overarching theme that comes out. And the theme is that Jesus prays that his church would be on a mission. to know him and to make him known. Christ desires his church to be on a mission to know him and to make him known. And that's really the two things we're going to look at together this morning, is knowing Christ and making him known. So let's look first at knowing Christ. primarily from verses 1 to 5 and 24 to 26. We can know Christ through this prayer as as we get a glimpse of who he is, and the way he prays shows us something of who he is. We see uh something of this in the way he prays. First, just to draw your attention to the the movement that he makes in the prayer. He starts off in the first few verses praying for himself. Then he moves into a prayer for his disciples, the ones who followed him during his earthly ministry. And then following that, he goes in to pray for the church at large. We see all kinds of things as he moves through this, but one of the things that comes out most clearly is Christ's relationship with his father. And it's a relationship characterized by intimacy and closeness. He has a deep and abiding trust in his Father, a closeness and a unity and an intimacy with him. And one of the themes that comes out as he interacts with the Father is this theme of glory. And you see there that there's this reciprocal nature to the glory. Right? Jesus prays that he would be glorified by the Father so that he might in turn glorify the Father. He says that he's glorified the Father on earth, having accomplished the work that he was given to do, and now he asks that he would be glorified in turn with the glory that he had before the world existed. There's a lot that goes into that, but one thing we see here is that this is a clear evidence of Christ's deity. Only God Himself can ask to be glorified. No one else can go to God and ask for glory from him. This is a clear evidence that Jesus understands himself to truly be the Son of God. God in the flesh. We see his deity here. We see the fact that, as we've seen already in John's Gospel, that there's there's glory in the cross. There in verse 1 where he asked that he would be glorified. The shameful death of the cross was actually the place of great glory because what looked to be Christ's defeat was actually his victory over sin and death and Satan. And so when he was lifted up on the cross, he was also lifted up in glory because his humiliation led to his exaltation. And so he's praying as he gets ready to go to the cross that the cross really would be for his glory. As indeed it was. But it's not just his glory on the cross, he also Talks about his intrinsic glory as the Son, his pre-incarnate glory, the glory that he had with the Father before the world existed. That he is the glorious one. Who has glory as God Himself. You see God's glory coming through. And yet, while he is God Himself, there's also an interesting role that he plays as our Redeemer. He was given authority by the Father. That's important to understand properly because the Father and the Son and the Spirit are all one God, the same in substance, equal in power. and glory. There's not some hierarchy within the being of God as if uh one eternally submits to the other. And yet in his role as our Redeemer and our mediator, Jesus came as a man, submitting to the Father, obeying the Father in all that he does. And he's claiming here over and over again that he has been faithful to do it. He's been faithful in everything that the Father gave him to do Everything to reveal the Father. That's one of the clear tasks that he was given. He says that over and over, right? Verse 6, I've manifested your name to the people whom you have given me out of the world. To manifest God's name is a significant thing because God's name i is associated with his character and his attributes. To know God's name is to know God Himself. You can think of Exodus three, where Moses is before the burning brush, and and he asks the Lord, Who who should I say sent me to the people of Israel? And he says Tell them, I am that I am. I am the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob. This is my name, and so shall I be remembered for all generations. Again in Exodus 34, Moses prays to the Lord, show me your glory. And it's fascinating. What does God do? He hides Moses in the rock and he passes by. proclaiming the name of the Lord, the Lord, the Lord, a God merciful and gracious, abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness to a thousand generations, but who will by no means clear the guilty Jesus is the one who supremely manifests God's name to his people, revealing who God is. God has spoken finally and fully in his son. Jesus is the Word who was with God and who was God, the Word who became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, the glory of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. He's the exact imprint of God's nature, the one in whom the fullness of deity dwells bodily. Jesus is so fully God that to know him, he can say is to know the Father. And that's so important because what this passage draws out is that we're not merely to know about Christ, but we need to know him in a saving way. He brings that out in verse 2 when he says, But the reason he was given this authority is so that he might give eternal life to those whom the Father has given him, and might glorify God by giving eternal life to God's people. Notice first, he gives eternal life to a specific group. And this is actually a significant thing. He doesn't give it to the world at large. He gives it to the people that the Father had given him. He was given a people. And this brings out one of the the clear important doctrines of our faith, the the doctrine that there was a a council or a covenant of redemption. Between the the persons of the Trinity before the foundation of the world, that before the world was even created, in eternity past, the Father and the Son and the Spirit covenanted together to save a people in Christ. The Father elected a group of people, gave them to the Son, who came and accomplished salvation for them, and then in turn the Father and the Son pour out the Spirit to apply salvation to those specific people. The Trinity is united in the work of salvation, always working together. Significant because later we're supposed to be one as the Father and the Son are one. A significant important doctrine that shows that the salvation that God purchases and accomplishes for us in time has an eternal foundation. That's why Jesus over and over and over again says that he's accomplished what the Father gave him to do. He's obeyed the Father. He's been completely obedient in every way, saying only what the Father gave him to say, being sensed by the Father. It's a specific group. But he goes on in verse 3 and defines what this eternal life is. And he says significantly, this is eternal life. That they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. We know God by knowing Christ. So the question is, what does it mean to know Christ? There are are many who know Christ the the way we know celebrities. I think today. Maybe you're you've been watching The Last Dance and you're a big Michael Jordan fan and you you know everything about all his stats, you know everything about him You might know other celebrities that that you're fascinated by that you follow. You might even speak of them as if they're your friends, talking about them in the first person, right? First name. Uh knowing them. Because you know all kinds of facts about them. And yet the truth is, if you were to walk past them on the street, they would have no idea who you are because you don't have a relationship with them. How how different is that from the way that you know your spouse or the way you know a close lifelong friend, someone who who you can share your heart with, who you can go with with exciting news, or who you can go cry to when things Are difficult and painful. Knowing Christ is not merely knowing facts about him from a distance. It's knowing a person. It includes having a an intimate personal relationship with him, one of fellowship. A relationship where you put your trust in him, not just believing the truths about him, that he lived and died and rose again, but that you personalize it, that he lived for you and died for you and rose again for you. It's a relationship built on love. Merely to know facts about Christ doesn't do us any better. Than Satan himself. That the demons believe that God is one. Satan knows the truth about Jesus, who he is, and what he's done. But he doesn't love him, he hates him. We're to know Christ in a deep and personal way, a loving, trusting relationship. Friends, do you know Christ? Do you have this love for him? Do you have this personal relationship with him? Do you spend time with him through his word and through prayer? Do you know this one? Because the the truth and the the difficult words of scripture is that Jesus one day will come back and there will be all kinds of people who come to him knowing about him and being excited about him, fans from a distance, who come to him and say, Lord, Lord, we've done all kinds of things for you. We've cast out demons in your name. And Jesus' unbearable words will be, Depart from me. I never knew you Friends, now is the time to make sure that you know Christ and to know him in a saving way because the hope that if you know him is that ultimately We will be with him. That's what Jesus prays for us in the latter verses, verse 24. I desire that they also whom you have given me may be with me where I am to see my glory. That you have given me because you love me from the foundation of the world. So the great hope that we have as God's people is that we will see our beloved face to face, that we will be with him and see his glory. That one day we will see him as he is and we will be like him. That our faith will become sight, that we will behold the glory of God and the face of Jesus Christ, that we will gaze upon his beauty. If you know Christ, you will long to see Him. I'll never forget the feeling that I had in my senior year of college. It was Lee's junior year and she got to study abroad in Barcelona for a few months. And over spring break I had the opportunity to go and see her and visit her. And and I was filled with with such longing to see her face to face because it had been weeks and months since I had seen her last in person. And I missed her and I loved her, and because I loved her, I wanted to see her That's the same picture of the Christian life. Maybe you've been feeling that with your own family and friends during this quarantine, longing to see them face to face because Zoom doesn't cut it. If we have this deep personal relationship with Christ, we will long to see him, long to behold him, long to gaze upon his beauty and see his glory. That's the great privilege that we have as God's sons and daughters. Christ wants us to know Him and to love Him. And to follow him. This this quarantine has has stripped away so many of the the distractions from our lives, so much of the busyness that we've experienced just a few short months ago is is gone from our lives and our daily routines and rhythms. My encouragement for you is as we begin to look towards the easing of restrictions, not knowing exactly what pace that's going to take, my encouragement is this. Don't be so quick to add everything back. Make sure that you leave time and that you make time in your life going forward for what is most important, your relationship with Christ. Prioritize him. Seek him through the means of grace, through worship, through Bible reading, through prayer. Develop your relationship with Christ and cultivate a heart that longs to see His glory. Praying, come Lord Jesus, come quickly. We're to know Christ. That's Jesus' prayer for us. But when we know Christ, it's not for our own sake alone. It's so that we might make him known to others. The same way that Abraham was blessed so that he might be a blessing. We are blessed with the salvation that we have in Christ so that we might be a blessing to others, that we might in turn share that hope with others. You see that come out in the many references to the world that come through this passage in verses six to twenty-three. Over and over again the world is mentioned. It's the place that Jesus is leaving and the place that he's letting his disciples stay in so that they might come to see something of his relationship with his father. You see that in verse 18. He says to the Father, As you have sent me into the world, so I have sent them into the world. The Father gives to the Son, the Son gives to his people, and as his people now we're called to go and give to others That's such an important point for us because that reminds us that we are not to hang on to the gospel and hoard it amongst ourselves. We're to go out and share it, seeking that others might come to know. Salvation in Christ. And what's so significant in this passage is the theme of glory runs all the way through it. The number one motivation that you and I have in sharing the gospel is the glory of God. Yes, we absolutely want to see sinners spared punishment and wrath. But above all, if we know and love Jesus, we want to see him be praised and honored and glorified. And so we want more and more people to come and praise him so that every knee will bow, every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. We long for the day when the knowledge of the glory of the Lord will cover the earth as the waters cover the sea. If you love Jesus, you want him to have the prize that he died for, his people from every tongue and tribe and nation and language. The glory of God is what motivates us in missions. We long to see our Lord praised. And so we want people who don't know our Lord to come to know him so that they might worship him with us. May that be our motivation. That's the reason that Jesus has left us here in the world. That's why he didn't take his disciples with him when he ascended. And that's why he hasn't come back yet. He's left us here because he still has people to draw to himself. And he wants to use us in that mission. And so as a church, our Lord wants us to be radically committed to the Great Commission, to going out and seeking the lost that they might come to know him. But Jesus knows that if that's what we're going to do, if that's what we're going to be committed to, that there's three things we need. We need protection. We need holiness and we need unity. He prays for the disciples to be protected. He's praying specifically for the disciples here, but it's relevant for us as well. Jesus makes it clear that he has kept and guarded them, not lost a single one except for the Son of Destruction, a clear reference to Judas Iscaragot. And that only happened so that the scriptures would be fulfilled, right? Jesus knew what was in Judas's heart. all along. He knew that he would betray him. But no one else has been lost. Jesus is is faithful to keep all those who have been entrusted to him. He's protected them. And now he asks as he leaves for the Father to keep and guard them. And he's not praying for a comfortable life. He's not praying that they would be spared every difficulty or hardship. We've already seen in recent weeks that Jesus makes clear that in this world we will have trouble. Persecution is a reality for those who would follow him. Whether in small or large degrees. No, he's he's praying for spiritual protection. He's praying that they would not fall away in the midst of persecution, that that the world that hates his followers would not hinder the mission that he's given to them. spiritual protection that God would establish them in their faith and in the mission that He's given them. But He doesn't just pray for protection, He also prays for holiness. He wants His people to be in the world, but not of the world. And so he says there in verses 17 through 19, Sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth. As you sent me into the world, so I have sent them into the world. And for their sake I consecrate myself that they also may be sanctified in truth. The idea there of sanctifying and consecrating are the same idea. To be set apart and devoted to God, that our entire lives are not our own. Paul says, I've died, been crucified with Christ, and the life I now live in the flesh. I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. We are to be set apart and devoted to God in every area of our lives, in your work, in your personal life, in your family, in your church life. In your neighborhood, in your friendships with others, every area of life is to be set apart and devoted to God. We're to be sanctified, but we're sanctified in the truth, and his word is truth. Friends, this book is not like any other book. This is a book that is alive because the Spirit of God works through his word. It's sharper than any double-edged sword able to pierce us to the division of soul and spirit of joint and marrow. This is a book that changes you as you read it because that is where Christ is to be found. This is where the Spirit works through his word to sanctify his people. If you would be set apart and devoted to God. Spend time in his word. Have fellowship with him day in and day out by reading his word. He prays that we would be holy. That's a question for each and every one of us to ask ourselves. We are in the world, but we need to ask ourselves: are we of the world? Sadly, I think every single one of us, myself, surely, struggles with the temptation to allow ourselves to become too worldly focused, focused on the here and the now about all the cares and concerns of life, rather than being heavenly-minded, focusing on the mission that Christ has given us, being set apart and devoted to God. Surely other things in life are important. It's not to say that none of those things are important, and yet we must make sure that we are in the world, but not of the world. He prays that we would be holy, set apart and devoted to Him. He also prays that we would have unity. And it's it's interesting here in these latter verses, in verse 21, praying that we would be one. just as the Father and Son are one, that our unity would be reminiscent or a picture of the unity that the Father and the Son enjoy with one another. Now, of course, the Father and the Son have a unique unity, including the Holy Spirit, because while they're distinct and different persons, they also share the one being of God. one being of God, three persons, and and yet there is a a unity that we can mirror, right? Because how are the Father and the Son unified? They're unified in their will, in their action, in their purpose. That they have the same goal that they work towards, and they work together. They don't uh work off in other directions, working against one another, pursuing different objectives. No, they they work together And that's his goal for the church. I've been thinking about this kind of way that unity and is important for productivity, right? As opposed to chaos. Maybe you've been feeling this as you've tried to work from home with your children in the house and how it's easy to be distracted and uh uh not focused as as you're seeking to pursue your work objectives and yet how different is that if you go to your office or your place of business or your place of work where all the people that are there are also working for the same objectives, for the same goal. You can be more focused and more attentive. Unity in the mission that you've been given is important in order to accomplish it. Unity is essential for mission because if we're not unified, we'll distract one another. And trip one another up. And it's important to see this is not merely an institutional unity, as our Roman Catholic friends might argue for. He's not saying that all denominations are inherently bad, right? It's a spiritual unity. A unity in the gospel, a unity in the Holy Spirit. A unity in the faith once for all delivered to the saints. The unity that Paul speaks of in Ephesians 4, where he says we have one Lord, one faith, one hope, one baptism, one God and Father of all who is over all. and in all and through all. This is a a spiritual unity centered around the gospel for the sake of carrying out Christ's mission in the world, to draw people to himself. Friends up, are we unified? Surely there are fights worth having Church history is full of them, right? Fights over the the Trinity, the doc the deity of Christ. There are certainly fights that are worth having having in the church. And yet Too often in the church, not merely our congregation, but churches at large and congregations around the world, our struggle is that we bring in our own objectives, our own preferences, our own agendas, and allow that to distract from the mission of the church. Friends, we must be keeping the the main thing the main thing. We must be unified around the gospel, seeking to pursue Christ, to know him, and to make him known. This is the unity that Jesus prays that we would have. This passage is a wonderful example of prayer. But we see Jesus' heart come through in it. As I've I've read over this passage so many times this week, one question keeps coming back to my mind is, do I pray this way? Do you pray this way? Are these the kinds of things that you pray for when you go to the Father to pray? Too often I don't pray this way. I get distracted by so many other things. And yet what we see in this prayer is that before the cross, the night before he was crucified, Jesus took time to pray for you and for me. And as he prayed, he did not pray that you would have a great job, a wonderful house, successful children. He didn't pray even for your felt needs or even for your health. Not that any of those things are unimportant. Those all matter, and we are we're right to pray to the Lord for them. And yet It's significant for us that when Jesus went to the Father the night before he died, he had one request for his people. That we would know him and make him known. Other things absolutely matter, and yet this prayer stands as a reminder for us that we must keep the main thing the main thing. We must not let secondary concerns crowd out the number one thing about our lives, that we would pursue Christ. with our whole being, that we would seek to glorify him as we know him and love him, that we would seek to make him known to the world. And friends, as we do it, may we rest in his protection and may we strive for his holiness and unity, longing to see him face to face. Let's pray together. Lord Jesus, we thank you for the way that you pray for us. And we simply echo this prayer as the cry of our own hearts. May we know you. Seeing your glory, may we be passionately committed to making you known in the world through our worship and our witness. That others might come to see your glory and praise your name. May you do these things for us that you pray for. Protect us as we seek to serve you. Establish the work of our hands. Would you grant us the holiness without which no one will see the Lord? Make us more and more like you, Lord Jesus, as we gaze upon you, that we might be transformed from one degree of glory to the next. Longing for the day we see you face to face. And Lord, may you give us a gospel unity centered around the most important things about what your church is to be and what your church is to be doing. May we be a people committed to serving you in the world, and may all other things be seen as secondary. We ask that you would work in us in this way, Lord Jesus. And we pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, friends, thank you so much for joining me here for uh this this time of worship together. Before you go, receive the Lord's blessings. He never calls us into his presence without also promising to bless all who come in faith. So receive the Lord's blessing this morning. May the Lord bless you and keep you. May the Lord make his face to shine upon you and be gracious to you. May the Lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace. Amen.