Uh just a couple things before we start read the scripture. One is um You know, we need we should add if we're going to pray for our married couples and their kids, let's also pray for the single people and their situations. I know this isn't the place to, but I just wanted to say that out loud. We care about you as well. And then um so we're starting today our sermon series. And most of the time my sermon series will be at the most like 12 or 15 weeks. The reason is because there's a big Bible. And it covers a lot of ground. So we don't want to get stuck in one spot for years on an end, is my opinion. So they they'll go a little they'll go pretty fast and we'll move around as we go. So we're going to start here in the middle of Luke. And then after this, we'll do the Isaiah. But that doesn't mean covering every verse of Isaiah, because that's one of those things where it takes a long time. So you'll feel how it goes. Hopefully that'll be okay. So we're start starting in Luke, and um we'll do that for about 12 weeks. So so this is the the story Let's stand and I'll read the parable of the Good Samaritan. And behold, a lawyer stood up to put him to the test, saying, Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? And he said to him, What is written in the law? How do you read it? And he answered, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength, and with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself. And he said to him, You have answered correctly. Do this, and you will be you will live. But he, desiring to justify himself, said to Jesus, And who is my neighbor? Jesus replied, A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and he fell among the robbers, who stripped him and beat him, and departed, leaving him half dead. Now by chance a priest was going down the road, and when he passed him, he passed by on the other side. So likewise a Levite, when he came to the place and saw him, passed by the other side. But a Samaritan, as he journeyed, came to where he was, and when he saw him he had compassion. He went to him and bound up his wounds, pouring on oil and wine. Then he sent him on his own animal. and brought him to an inn, and took care of him. And the next day he took out two deneri and gave them to the innkeeper, saying, Take care of him, and whatever more you spend, I will repay you when I come back Which of these three do you think proved to be a neighbor to the man who fell among the robbers? He said, the one who showed him mercy. And Jesus said to him, You go and do likewise. Amen. You may be seated. So we're going to be talking about walking Pastor Carl did a good job of slowing down a little and walking. And I'm a big walkable city fan. And we did not have that in Oklahoma City very much. Oklahoma City was built uh late, right? It became a state in 1907. The Oklahoma City started in 1890 with the land run, and there were two types of people. The boomers who waited until the the gun went off to claim their spot, and the sooners, the people that were already out there before the gun went off And so it was a city that got built with carts. And so everything was super spread out. Now Baltimore is the opposite. super, super old city in America, right? Not super old in in England, right? Um or Europe. And so we have really enjoyed walking and there are weeks when Julie doesn't get in the car. It's pretty cool. She's like, well I'm walking to my haircut appointment. I'm walking to, you know, whatever, whatever, whatever. I I think our son probably hasn't driven his car in months. So you can walk, and when you walk, you slow down. It's different when you walk even around this block And you're going one, two miles an hour, then if you're going twenty-five miles an hour, right? You see sticks, you see things that you wouldn't notice when you're when you're whizzing by. So it's it's important. And of course In the Bible, there's a lot of walking. Jesus didn't do much. He rode on a donkey. And he went on boats, but that was pretty much it, as far as we know. There are a lot of things that we he did that we don't have about Okay, so walking, there's this guy named Erling Kage, and he's the only person, I think, who has walked to the North Pole, walked to the South Pole, and climbed Mount Everest, all of them. He's Norwegian and and these happened in the nineteen nineties. And he he talks about when you walk to the South Pole, it's very challenging because He's by himself. He he ditched whatever communication devices so he could he was just by himself. He has to lug his equipment for fifty days, a fifty-day walk in the freezing cold, and all you could see was white. And so that's a huge challenge in and of itself. Just every day to put your foot And keep going. But the other challenge is, what do you think about the whole time? You are left with no one to talk to, nothing to see. And your mind starts churning, churning, churning. He said that was really the bigger challenge. When you slow down that much, And so we're thinking about walking. Now there are four big places in Jesus' life. Four big places. Bethlehem, of course, now, and that gets gone quickly. There's only a little tiny bit of Bethlehem. Then he does his ministry in Galilee. That's where he roots his ministry. That's his region where he grew up. And it's interesting when when you think about how many places he went in Galilee. It's most likely that almost everyone in Galilee, it's not a huge place, would have either met Jesus or known someone who knew Jesus. He gets around. And people knew who he was in Galilee. And what's the fourth place, the fourth big place? Jerusalem, where he ends up. Luke spends five chapters for that one week of Jesus' life. And so my Supposition, or what I'm trying to tell you, is the fourth the third place, the one I haven't mentioned yet, is when Jesus walks from Galilee, where he did his ministry, to Jerusalem. That's a place. Because Luke spends 10 chapters on that walk. If you would have just walked it, it probably would have taken a week. But we don't know how long Jesus took on this walk because he was doing ministry. So he was doing ministry in Galilee. He completed his ministry, right, in Jerusalem, and now he's walking doing ministry. So I want you to think about how that's sort of the in-between spot. Um and you've had big, big highs and big, big lows in the last year, maybe. Julie shared some of our last year, and you think of your last year, some of your big highs, right? Maybe You got married or had a baby or graduating or you bought a house or you're moving is sort of a low for us. Um But it's exciting and uh and that that's a a high. You get a new job, right? You get a raise, you go on vacation, having an anniversary, but there are loads. There's deaths and divorce and breakups. Maybe you got fired this year. Maybe you got arrested this year. I mean, there are terrible things that happened to us But there's a lot of in-between. I know for sure the thing you did the most in the last year. The thing that took up most of your time in the last year was sleeping. Now you're supposed to sleep eight hours a day, right? We don't all accomplish that, but but if you do and you live to be 75, you've slept 25 years of your life That's an in-between. I'm not talking about sleep, but I'm talking about normal days I if you're a pastor, Sundays are important. They are for all of us, I know, but easy like Sunday morning, Lionel Richie says, No, it's not easy. Sunday mornings are not easy. There's a lot that goes into this. Which is great. Or or you could think about uh Easter Sunday and Christmas Sunday, you know, and all these things. And then we're almost to be in ordinary time. Between Pentecost and Advent is ordinary time. So we're talking about ordinary moments. Not your big, huge, awesome meal, but just regular sustenance. Day after day, what's happening from Monday to Saturday? What's happening in our houses and our bathrooms and our kitchens and uh you know in our cars and cubicles and and Jesus is reminding us that normal matters So Jesus begins his walk in Luke nine fifty-one. Look at a Bible or look on your phone or whatever. And he ends his walk in chapter nineteen. Okay, so that's ten chapters of walking normal ministry. So we're going to look at through this period, focusing a lot on the parables, but talking about The other stuff. My first point is going to be just talking about the Samaritans and the Jews. The end of this passage that I'm going to be talking about today is the story we read. The Good Samaritan. It's famous. If you've grown up in church, you know this story. If you haven't grown up in church, I'm glad that you're hearing it today. But we're going to look just look at all that happens in chapter 9. Before we start, Jesus sent out the 12 apostles Jesus feeds the 5,000. Peter confesses Jesus as Christ. Jesus says, take up your cross and follow me. Jesus heals a boy with an unclean spirit. He foretells his death, right? There's so many things that happen, and then he takes off 951 says, when the days drew near for him to be taken up, he set his face to go to Jerusalem. It's go time. Jesus is ready to end up where he's going to die. for our sins and be raised again for our great hope, defeating death. So he starts this walk. And he walks through Samaria. Now, do we know about Samaria? The Jews and the Samaritans, were they friends? No, they did not like each other. There was a long history of hatred, especially by the Israelites Toward the Samaritans. There's a whole big reason for that. But Jesus walks through on purpose and he enters into this a specific place to do this ministry because he knows what the Israelites don't think this way. They think there's good people, us, and bad people, them. Who are the good people? The Israelites, the Jewish people, who are the bad people, the Samaritans Now the Samaritans think the opposite, of course. And Jesus is like, that's not the way it works. There's not like this sacred secular split among people. There is good and bad in all of us. And so he's going to go into that place with those people Seeking holy moments everywhere among the Samaritans. And so we maybe should think that we spend more time among Samaritans who aren't that dissimilar to us, then on the Mount of Transfiguration. Only a few verses where Jesus does this amazing thing, right? And and and they want to stay up there. And he's like, nope, we're going to Samaria. They're like, what? Samaria? And so then Jesus sends his messengers out to announce his arrival, to make preparations, so he can do this ministry. And what happens? No one is excited. No one is pumped to meet Jesus. And so then, this is in 954. What's 53? But when the people did not receive him because his face was set toward Jerusalem, and when his disciples, James and John, saw it, they said, Lord, do you want us to tell fire to come down from heaven and consume them? Now these are the Sons of Thunder, which is an awesome nickname. They get that in Mark III. The Sons of Thunder want to bring down thunder, fire, brimstone, right? And destroy it, wipe it out, just like a uh an amazing movie with special effects. Whoosh. If they're not gonna love you and and want to even talk to you, Jesus, let's get 'em And what does Jesus say to them? He turned and rebuked them, and they went to another village. They had to have been shocked because they want people to follow Jesus and they're mad when they don't, which makes sense. But not everything requires wrath All the time. Not everything requires wrath. So but Jesus starts to get some ch traction here at the end of chapter nine because people are starting to come up to him, right? And one of them says, I will follow you wherever you go. And then he's like Foxes have holes, birds have airs on up, the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. And apparently that is not an attractive thing to hear if you are on to follow Jesus Another one says, Lord, let me first go and bury my father. That seems a very reasonable thing. And Jesus says, nope, leave the dead. To bury their own dead, but as for you, go and proclaim the kingdom of God. And then the last one, let me first say farewell to those at my home. That's super reasonable, right? And Jesus says to him, no one who puts his hand to the plow and looks back is fit for the kingdom of God. Goodness gracious. Jesus um is not doing a real great job of public relations Like his recruiting method seems not optimal. But he's saying it is gonna be hard to walk with me. It's going to cost you to walk with me. So we should not be surprised if it costs us To walk with Jesus. People are dropping out. Following Jesus is not always amazing. He had even told his disciples: take up your cross and follow me. That's not easy to do. But he keeps walking. He does get more traction in chapter ten because there are seventy-two people that come around him. So if you add them to the disciples, he has, you know, approximately a hundred people. And he sends them out and he tells them the harvest is plentiful, but the labors are few. um in and tend to but he sets these expectations similar to the end of chapter nine that it's gonna be that's gonna you're not gonna get awesome responses all the time. You may have to shake the dust off your feet To follow him and go to another town, right? It's going to be tough. And then in chapter 10, verse 13, he woes cities. When Jesus proclaims woe on cities and people, that is not great. He says, woe to you, Corzine, woe to you, Beth Seda. For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes. But it would be more bearable in the judgment for Tyre and Sidon than for you, and you, Capernaum Will you be exalted to heaven? You should be brought down to Hades Now what's interesting is Jesus is in Samaria. So it would seem that these are Samaritan cities. They're the ones not responding to him, rejecting even his presence. But these are Israelite cities. He is talking in Samaria about the people who should know him. And don't. Not proclaiming woes on people that wouldn't know him and don't And so that's one of these things, and we're going to talk about this a lot. You know, we have to think about being inside the church, growing up in the church or being in the church every Sunday is not loving and welcoming Jesus. They're connected, then they can be connected. But it is always very true that you can grow up in church and not care about him at all. Or pretend to. And so we inside the church have to ask ourselves: do we dismiss him? Are we respectfully listening? The outsiders don't know him. They're not pretending to know him. What about us in our hearts? Do we know and love and follow him? Because the outcasts respond to Jesus a lot more than the people who should have known. So he's he's judging, which he does, the insiders, not the outsiders. And he's walking through where the outsiders would be. And so, you know, we often feel real good about our doctrine, polity, standards, worship. Piety, and we nod our heads to all this stuff, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, and we walk out unchanged. And so, you know, he is speaking to us Here, getting closer to the Good Samaritan story, which is exactly the same thing. But before the Good Samaritan parable, these 72 come back and they say, whoa! It's not all shaking the dust off your feet. There are amazing things going on out there, Jesus. We saw stuff that we couldn't believe. The kingdom of God was being realized and people were changing and we saw miracles. We're seeing impossible prayer requests being answered. Amen. keep keep putting them in there. You know, I think one of them was my grandma would come back from the dead. That one I don't know if that's gonna happen, right? It's a good thought. Another one said I want to levitate. Okay, maybe someday, you know, I don't know. I don't know if that's going to happen. And also remember that there are four answers to prayer requests. Yes, no, not yet. And I'm not telling you. Four possible answers to these prayers. So it's not he doesn't answer. It's you may not like his answer, right? Uh or he's not going to tell you when he's going to answer. But we keep praying him and we're we're talking to him and he's talking to us. But they came back with amazing stories, stories of rescue, stories of restoration. Stories of conversion. And we're going to have those two. Stories of people coming back to the church or coming for the first time. Conversions, baptisms. It's going to be amazing what we see. But But Jesus says, all that is great. But in verse 10:20, nevertheless, do not rejoice in this that the spirits are subject to you. But rejoice that your names are written in heaven. So as God does things in our midst, it can be tempting To think that God is going to bless us individually and as a church because of what we do. He's going to do stuff through us. He's going to do stuff for us. But it's not what we do It's who we are. That your names are written in the book of heaven. In indelible ink, you're tattooed on his hand. He loves you No matter what you do. In fact, you can't do anything to make him love you more. Now, when you understand that he loves you, you do stuff. And that's a big deal. So as we minister to people, and he ministers us, as we are salt and light in the community, as we see the kingdom of God happen, We rest in our identity in Christ, right? Hold on to that first and foremost. Okay, so then we get to the Good Samaritan story. Um before we talk about it, I want you to think, and you can maybe who do you think is the most famous Presbyterian. You know, twelve Presbyterians signed the Declaration of Independence. Uh now the you know I'm not saying these are all diehard Presbyterians or godly Presbyterians, you know, like I'm not s I'm not making a value judgment, but John Wayne was one. Shirley Temple, apparently David Letterman, Mark Twain, William Faulkner, ten presidents have said they are Presbyterians, including Donald Trump You know, Alexander Hamilton and Aaron Burr were Presbyterians. That didn't work out good. But that's like what we do with Presbyterians. We fight each other and you know shoot each other and everything. Um one of my heroes, as John mentioned, Tim Keller, died this week on Thursday. And that really hit Friday, I think. That really hit me hard. Um he mentored me from afar, like you know, not on the phone, but I listened to so many sermons by him and read his books. I've met him, I have a selfie with him, um, which I'm never gonna delete from my phone, of course. And um traded emails with him sometimes, and that man, I hope We can be a denomination like what he represented. And then you think about how he pastored, in some sense, the nation. I mean, CNN and the New York Times have articles about his death. That's amazing. He's in our little denomination. But he's not the most famous Presbyterian. You know, the most famous Presbyterian of all time. Do you have some favorite neighbors where you live? Mr. Rogers, right? Mr. Rogers from Pittsburgh. Um I'm not saying he did ministry like what we'd think of. Stop talking, Mr. Rogers. But he uh you know from 1968 to 2001, 886 episodes. Of Mr. Rogers' neighborhood. And have you guys seen the movie that Tom Hanks is in, being Mr. Rogers? I took my daughter, thinking, oh, this is going to be nice nostalgia. I lost it I couldn't believe the story they told. And there's one point you you definitely gotta watch it, there's one point in the movie where he looks into your soul. I was not expecting that, Mr. Rogers. He was talking to latchkey kids. Kids who didn't think anyone cared about them? Um what's his most favorite question? Won't you be my neighbor? It's a good question, right? So here we have Jesus, a hundred people walking through Samaria, walking and talking, and this lawyer comes up. Insert lawyer joke here, right? I wanted to ask Jen if she had any her favorite lawyer jokes. Um So this lawyer comes up and he asks a a great question and of course Jesus as he does often he answers the question with a question which is never really exactly fair but he does that a lot. And so, but then he gives a great answer. The lawyer gives a perfect answer, and he's done, but then Jesus Keeps going, right? Because then the lawyer says, and who is my neighbor? But he says it, he asks that question, it says, to justify himself. Interesting, to justify himself. He asked, who is my neighbor? Is that to catch Jesus in a trick? Is it to sound smart? And you know, honestly, it's not a crazy question because are we going to define neighbor literally? the person next to me in my apartment or house? Or is it generally and is it does it mean Um people that I like that are my neighbor? Or what about people that are doing wrong stuff that are my neighbor? How do I love what they're doing if they're doing wrong things And so Jesus tells us parable. Parables are short, earthy. Little stories that involve the listener. The listener has to have something at stake in these stories. And he tells a story, as you know, if you've been in church, that this man, Jewish man, Israelite, goes from Jerusalem to Jericho. So switchbacks, hidey holes, it's dangerous, uh it's known to be dangerous, but he has some reason he has to take this trip on this dangerous road, and sometimes you just gotta take your chances, right? And so the man was robbed and stripped and beaten and left. And it's fair to wonder, didn't he deserve it? I mean he was on the dangerous road. That's what happens on dangerous roads. So the priest walks by. The priest knows the law. The priest knows what he's supposed to do. And does he love his neighbor? Does he stop? No. He's maybe thinking, yeah, we don't need people like this. I'm too busy. There's reasons, right? The the Levites that knows the law. He knows what he's supposed to do. This is one of his kinsmen. Does he stop? Professional religious person doesn't stop. Too busy. You know, and also maybe the robbers are still around Right? I'm gonna get the same thing done to me. So the robbers left him, the priest left him, and the Levite left him. He's left. One person stopped. Who was that? The Samaritan It's an amazing story, and it's told in Samaria to Jewish people. Right? So the hero of the story is the least likely person It's a shocking hero to the listeners. A Samaritan followed God's law. They have no like this is not normal, not the way we're taught to think. And the Samaritan paid a tremendous cost to help this guy. To love God and his neighbor took time and effort and money, sacrifice, right? And Jesus tells the story and he says, you know, go and do likewise This is how you should be. That turns the table on the lawyers, right? And it calls the man into the story. Won't you be a neighbor? You guys may have heard of their this famous experiment, something. There was a a chapel service. That was taught just like this, right? They taught on the Good Samaritan, and then all the students went out, you know, seminary students, look wanting to become pastors, just hearing the story, and they recreated this exact situation. To see if anyone would stop and help. And it is not in our nature, even though we know the history to stop and help. There was one Sunday in in Oklahoma City and there was someone outside like a half hour before church who needed help and I'm like, oh no. Ah, the story And I was like, okay, am I gonna help this guy? And it you see it's like, you know, hey, I got church in a half hour. Uh I got I don't have time for this. I mean there were legitimate reasons, right? But I'm like, mmm I've got to be a neighbor. I've got to help this guy. It's probably the most important thing I'm going to do today. Is that right there? And I don't want to do it, Jesus It all sounds great in theory until we gotta stop and help somebody, right? Okay, so what is this this helps push us out of policy debates. It's okay to have policies, but loving a neighbor means loving a person. It's not a concept, it's an action Seeing and knowing and caring and helping My son Drew, our son Drew, graduates from Cornell. And Cornell still has one of these uh policies that you have to take a PE class during your time right and there are like a hundred different choose one. One of the PE classes you can take is thinking about exercise. I'm not joking. I'm I'm thinking about thinking about exercise, right? So like talking about tasting isn't tasting. Talking about loving isn't loving. Talking about giving isn't giving. This dishwasher isn't going to unload itself, right? Someone's got to put gas in the car. We just think about it So we can stop and ask people if they need help. We can know our neighbors' names. We can walk around Talk to them. Now the second thing I want to say is, you are not the good Samaritan in the story. I want you to think about how many times someone has helped you. When you have been left and needy and needed help, and someone helped you. So ultimately, when you think about that, who is the Good Samaritan in this story? It's Jesus, right? He stops and helps. He he came. Not only did he walk through Samaria, he came to town. To meet us, to know us, to redeem us, to rescue us, to pay for us. Amen? Right? He got born for us. He did ministry. He he's walking to Jerusalem to die for us, to rescue us, convicted of things he didn't do, suffering. As a criminal on a cross, God turned his face away, so he suffered his wrath. He was abandoned and betrayed. He is the true neighbor, the good Samaritan, the rescuer for our souls Now we live in a world, and I'm almost finished, and I need to be finished, um, in a world of tremendous cynicism And if there's anyone who's cynical, it's me. But this guy right here, Mr. Rogers, I want to not like him. He's too nice. Nice people make me nervous. And he has this one famous song story with this kid in the wheelchair. You remember this? And he says, it's you I like. Okay chick kids. It's you I like. It's not the things you wear. It's not the way you do your hair. It's you I liked. The way you are right now, screaming The way down deep inside you. Not the things that hide you. It's not your toys. They're just beside you. It's you I like. Every part of you Your skin, your eyes, your feelings, whether old or new, I hope that you'll remember, even when you're feeling blue, it's you I like It's you, yourself. It's you. Not the things you do. Not even being a good neighbor. But God loves you. Just like Julie preached to us. Because he died for you. That's the good news for us today, right? It's easy to be cynical about even that good news. But I hope you'll hear it and we'll respond. And then let's pray. But we come to you asking you To work in our hearts, draw us to yourself, minister to us and remind us that you love us, that you rejoice over us with singing, because you have redeemed us. Written your name on our hearts, given us a new future, a new relationship as your sons and daughters, adopting us into your kingdom Now work, work in our lives. We ask this in your name. Amen.