Good morning. This morning we continue with our very short study of uh and series on our advent uh advent series as we look at um A text this morning from the Old Testament, from a book that we probably don't look at or read uh as much. Uh so you may have trouble finding the book of Zephaniah. And we're reading from chapter three. And if you're able, would you please stand to your feet as we honor the reading of God's Holy Word, reading chapter three of Zephaniah, the last chapter in fact, we're reading verses fourteen all the way to the end. So the prophet writes and says, Sing aloud, O daughter of Zion, shout, O Israel, rejoice and exalt with all your heart, O daughter of Jerusalem. The Lord has taken away the judgments against you. He has cleared away your enemies. The King of Israel, the Lord is in your midst. You shall never again fear evil. On that day shall be said to Jerusalem, Fear not, O Zion, let not your hands grow weak. The Lord your God is in your midst, a mighty one who will save. He will rejoice over you with gladness. He will quiet you by his love. He will exalt over you with loud singing. I will gather those of you who mourn for the festival so that you will no longer suffer reproach. Behold, at that time I will deal with all your oppressors, and I will save the lame and gather the outcast, and I will change their shame into praise. And renowned in all the earth. At that time I will bring you in, at the time when I gather you together, for I will make you renowned and praised among all the peoples of the earth, when I restore your fortunes before your eyes Says the Lord. The word of God this morning, would you pray with me? Lord Jesus, we do ask for your blessings this morning as we consider your word which you've given to us, preserved for us for such a time as this Lord, we know that we are completely incapable of believing, understanding, and being transformed on our own, apart from your Spirit. So we would we ask that your Holy Spirit would come upon us and would sense his presence in omitts and that he would make this word come alive. And give us joy. Pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. May be seated. I uh grew up as a normal kid. A normal kid, I mean uh uh a young boy who loved being outside, like my son does, but I love doing one thing in particular And I'm sure many of you may identify with this. I think kids these days just want to s stay indoors and play video games and all of that. Well I you know, I grew up in those days before those things were ever there. And so I just love being outside riding a bike That's all I wanted to do. Just get up in the morning, not go hurt goats, but go ride a bike. The problem was I did not have a bike, a small bike that would fit me as a six-year-old or seven-year-old, and so what did I do? I would take my dad's big heavy bike. And somehow I learned how to ride that bike. I would put my hands up on the On the handles, and then I would let the bike lean on one side and then I would put my right leg on the pedals and slide down and go. Now of course you know what's coming next, right? I would find myself on the floor. It would hit me, I I would get injured, but I didn't care. I would get up, take it, get back on it, until my father said, Son, you gotta stop because you're messing up my bike. So through all that struggle, one day a family friend decided that they were going to gift us. A bike. A little BMX bicycle that was just right size for me to ride I couldn't contain my joy. I mean that that day feels like it was yesterday. I was just so happy that nobody was gonna stop me from enjoying my gift. Not even the fact that I had to fight two younger brothers to get a ride Now we all know how that went down. I was the older brother, so we know who won the battle. But I was so joyful. I was so happy that finally I could ride a bike. Now, you can also imagine how devastated and sad I was every time I got a flat tire. We lived in the village. There's thorns and stuff all over the place. So almost every day we'd have a flat tire. Of course I had no idea how to fix it So the frustration and just the misery of just waiting for my dad to come home so that he could fix that flat tire, I was miserable Now we all can identify with my story because each one of us can look back and point to an event or gift. Or circumstances or something that happened to you in your past that just caused you great joy, right? You can think back and almost feel like it was yesterday You could almost touch it, you could almost feel it, that you were filled with so much joy because of an event, because of something that happened to you The truth of the matter is, as Christians, we are called to be joyful people. Not because we get bikes or circumstances or any of that matter, but we are called to live joyful lives. But there's a problem. How do we live joyfully every single day, knowing that life does not allow us to do so? Life is messed up. So so how how can how can we then live joyfully, not because we're receiving the gift that we are longing for this Christmas, and not because of our circumstances. Not because of anything that's temporary that comes and goes. If you give me a BM BMX bike, I wouldn't go like yay. I would just probably go, oh. So, how can we live joyfully as Christians? I think Zephaniah is reminding us this morning that the way for us to live joyfully is understanding one thing that is very important, and it is this. That as Christians we live joyfully because we know that our God is with us. God is present with us. God is the source of our joy. See Zephaniah is here in his prophecy, in fact, looking forward, putting himself into the future, if you will. The future when the remnant who've been saved by God and spared judgment will actually be able to enjoy and rejoice in in the presence of God. Enjoy and experience the blessings that God has promised to experience And so Zephaniah the prophet is summoning his people and saying, Come alongside me and experience this joy and shout aloud. Give God all the blessings for what He has done, not just in the past, but for what God is about to do. The song that we're considering this morning is a glorious song, a celebration of God's faithfulness. And you know what's even amazing is that this song is not just a song for the remnants to sing. This song is not just a song for Israel to sing This is our song. This is the song for the church to gather before God and to sing together because of what Jesus has done for us, what God has done for us. So that's what I want us to look at, verses fourteen through seventeen and see how we rejoice by looking back. Look back and rejoice for what God has done. for you and then we'll look forward and rejoice even more for what God promises to do for us. Again as I mentioned, Zephaniah is here being given this vision of a distant future that's about to be fulfilled and it will be fulfilled as the remnant will be blessed. If you look at verses 1 of chapter 3, it begins by saying, Woe to her who is rebellious and defiled the oppressing city. That's the language that begins in chapter 3. So you may want to ask yourself, how do things change that now in verse 14 we read of the once shameful nation and city of oppressors is now being called daughter of Zion? They're now called Israel. They are now being described as the the daughter of Jerusalem. This poetical personification, something that is Beautiful. You're no longer the oppressed or the oppressive city. You're no longer the defiled people, but you are the daughter of Zion. Now we're not gonna go into details of what those names mean, but I just want you to To keep in mind this: that every one of those names recalls to Israel, to to God's people, of significant things that God had done for them in the past. It would take them down memory lane of how God has been faithful, how God has been guiding them, how God has been good to them Throughout history. And so the people are called to rejoice. And the prophet is here, in fact, emphasizing that point of why they're called to rejoice. And he does so by repeating the same idea four times. Verse 14 and following it says, Shout, sing, exalt, be glad. It's all the same thing. But he has to repeat it enough times so that people can pay attention. In essence, rejoice not because of what you've done. Done, not because of anything that you have, but because of what the Lord has done for you. Behold, salvation is at hand. Restoration is about to happen. So rejoice. But notice also That God in verse 14 is in fact reacting to the people's joy. Look at verse 17. God reacts. You know, you can you can almost imagine as an an abandoned parent whose whose child returns home or a jilted lover whose lover suddenly be you know comes back home and and the joy that that just fills uh the parent or the lover as as they're joined together And there's one commentary to put it, he says, the battle cry on the day of judgment that we so we see in chapter one actually of this prophecy is now being replaced by this poignant hush of the uniting, reuniting of two lovers. So what's the reason? What is the reason that God's people are being given here to rejoice? Three of them. Quickly. One God is telling his people to rejoice and be glad because he has in fact reestablished his covenant with his people God has re-established his covenant with his people, covenant of grace with his people. See, again, who are the remnants? The remnants are the people whom God, by his own grace, by his goodness, has chosen to save. To spare from judgment. Again, just think about that for one minute. That God makes promises to his people, and that those promises cannot be stopped Not even by people's rebellion. God will find a way to make those promises come true. And so He spares a remnant from His judgment so that they may experience God's blessing, so that they may experience His promises. Verse 15. The second reason that he is giving them is God has not just simply spared the punishment or spared them from distraction, but he has actually removed their enemies from them. He is their victor. He's their mighty warrior. He's rescued them from their enemies. He says in verse 15, the B part there, he says He has cleared away your enemies. Again, the enemies are not mentioned. We're not told what enemies they are, but we can we can go back to the book of Isaiah and remember uh the Assyrians, remember the Babylonians that God in fact used to punish his own people. He said he has cleared them. He has cleared away so that he God may be in the midst of his people as their king. People were rebellious and living in exile and living under another king. God was not in their midst, not in that sense, because they had forsaken God. And that's actually the Third reason why the people are called to rejoice. So God has re-established a covenant of grace with his people. He has rescued them from their enemies, but he has come to dwell with them. as their true king. God is in their midst as their true king. See, he has been on the throne all along. It did not mean that God somehow uh left his throne and was not with his people, but as long as people were rebellious and sinful, they had refused to acknowledge him as their God. But as as as a king who comes to dwell with them, he comes as their mighty warrior. He comes to protect them. He comes to shield them from danger. There's a reason why Jesus is our king, isn't there? There's a king why Jesus was born as our Emmanuel, God with us. And the question we all have to ask ourselves is: do we really believe that Jesus is our King and Lord and that we go through life safe and secure because we know who is in control? Or do we live ourselves in utter despair and living in fear? God promises his people that he is not absent, he is not impotent. He is present with his people in a very, very real way. So, God, people must understand that to be without God in their midst is to live in fear. That's what verse 16 is really reminding us, right? Verse 16 says, let not your hands grow weak. What does that mean? Let not your hands grow weak. You see, in Hebrew thought, the hands signified strength and power. Okay? And so to let your hands hang limp referred to a feeling of weakness and powerlessness, a sense of discouragement and fear and anxiety, a gesture of paralyzing. Fear and numbing despair. But when God is present in your life When God is present in a real way in your life, though trials may come, there's no reason to be alarmed or be anxious because God, Emmanuel. His present. So the question we want to ask this morning is how does this all apply to us in our lives as a church today? While this prophecy may seem real and encouraging to to people in Zechariah's time, in Zephaniah's time, how does it apply to us? How can it be encouraging to us? One of the things I want us to think about this morning is Thinking about God's judgment, even as he's talking about God's people passing through affliction, you know, fiery affliction and being disciplined and all of that, that when we think about judgment, it should actually give us joy Uh oh. Then when you think about God's judgment, it should actually give us joy. I guess you guys can't hear what I'm saying. You know why? Because it's in that that we actually find hope And true joy. What do I mean? What is sin? Sin outrages the character of God Sin offends the holy and perfect and righteous God. See, sin demands or constitutes a deeper and more necessary work. to be done because there is no salvation unless God is satisfied. Done. But that's exactly where the good news is, right? Because Jesus comes to us He is born as one of us. He lives a perfect life. He dies on the cross. He rises again, defeating death, and all of that. And he atones for every sin. So every time we think about judgment, it gives us joy. Because Jesus has demonstrated his love to us by dying on the cross, by defeating our enemies, sin, Satan, and death, and giving us victory. And you know what is even more joyful is the fact that understanding what Christ accomplished on our behalf, dying on the cross, of the same power that raised Jesus Christ from the grave is available for you and I who trust in him today if you call upon him. Isn't that great news Great news that should cause us to rejoice. But the very judgment of God used it so that he may bring salvation to us. And you know what we do? When we're going through hard times, when we're going through trials in our lives, we are making a declaration, we're making a confession, and this is where our joy comes from. And our confession is this: we are confessing our hope in the midst of our trials. We're confessing that Jesus Christ is Lord and He is with us, and that should cause us to be grateful and joyful. Through it all, he is with me. I am not alone. But notice the Lord is here being presented as this mighty warrior in verses 17. Do you notice through judgment God was fighting his own people? Who is he fighting now? Is he fighting his people? He's fighting for them. He's fighting on their behalf as their deliverer. But I want to point you to verse 17 and what it says on here towards the end. What does he say? God says he will exalt over you with loud singing. Not the people will exalt over God. No, God will exalt over you with loud singing. What? Wait a minute. God is exalting over his people with loud singing. God is rejoicing Finding pleasure in having fellowship with his own people? How is that possible? Friends, that God, the holy, perfect, righteous creator, God of the heavens and the earth, should find Delight in miserable sinners that are saved by grace can only be described as incomprehensible and unfathomable to any mind that is willing to listen. Listen, your mind can never, your mind can never make this stuff up. All minds can never dream of such a God who is so loving. Do you know what else is true? Your hands can never create such a God. Your actions, your thoughts, your good works can never deserve such love. Nothing, absolutely nothing that you can do that would deserve God's amazing love. That she would say I find delight in you with your misery with your sin with your brokenness with your flaws with everything else that you and I are that God would find plans In you because of Jesus. Do you notice God is not just simply showing his people love? God is not just simply loving. God does not just simply show love In his core, in the core of his being, God himself is love. Surely. Surely, surely the greatest reason for us to have a praise is found here. Amazing love, how can it be that thou, my God, shouldst die for me And he says he will quiet you with his love. He will quiet you with this love. It's really an expression that is used to be Denote a love that is deep, deeply felt, but a love that is also absorbed in its object to the receiver of that love with thoughtfulness and admiration. See God's people have gone through the fires of affliction of discipline and judgment. Let me ask you a question. Can you ever find joy in the chastisement of God? It hurts. But can you ever find joy when God is disciplining you and taking that chisel as I've given the illustration before and just going right on? And working on you. The answer has to be absolutely yes. You know why? Because one day When it's all been said and done, and Jesus presents us before the Heavenly Father, we will look back and say, Praise be to God that you've been working on me so much, because now I can be presented to my Father, blameless. Not because of what I've done, but because of everything that you've done for me I can't wait for that thing. Look back and rejoice. But look forward and rejoice even more. I mean, if if that was the reason for us to rejoice, can we even rejoice more than that? And yes, we can. Again, verses 18, look at the tone of the voice that changes. Look at who is speaking here. Instead of the third person reference, now it's like one, you know, the first person, right? It's God now speaking Speaking and saying, I will, I will. And so while God's people must pass through this judgment, there's a promise that's being given here. And verse 18 says, I will gather those of you who mourn for the festival so that you will no longer suffer reproach Wow, what a great hope. Again, we know that God's people were in exile for 70 years. They were going through the fiery afflictions of food from the Lord. And Jeremiah, who is a contemporary of Zephaniah, will speak about the restoration of God's people and how they're they're being restored and enjoying all the uh you know being together and rejoicing in the presence of God. But verse 18 is here Really giving the people a hope that their faith could rest upon. A hope that their faith could rest upon. That God will bring his people home. I love that language. I will bring you home. Again, because some of the people were scattered and are not able to join in the festivals and worship the Lord. This this are the people that are born. These are the people that are suffering. God is promising to abolish Their misery and to turn it into salvation. And people of God can take comfort. Not just in those words that God says that He will restore them. But people can take comfort because of the person who is speaking. It is God Himself who is speaking And that means, or you can vet on it, it's gonna happen. Because I am the Lord who is speaking, I'm the one who's gonna make this possible. He says, I will make it, I'll I'll make sure that it comes to pass. And that's what verse 20 says, when I restore your fortunes before your eyes. Do you remember the story of Jesus? After he's born and his parents, Mary and Joseph, present him into the temple. And this this old man, Simeon, who has been waiting for the consolation of the Lord And he takes the baby in his arms and what does he say? Oh Lord, let me go now. I can die. I can die in peace. Why? Because I have seen the salvation of the Lord. See, this picture of the future is the ground of the hope of God's people throughout the ages. This is not just hope for the people in Zephaniah's time, this is the hope for the church today. Knowing that we have assurance, certainty of what God has spoken to to us as his people, his sovereignty over all the earth But also his loving purposes over his children to us all. Now, yes, Zephaniah has in mind the immediate future that's about to be restored and what's going to happen in Israel uh future and in their life. But guess what? Guess who else who else is included on this prophetic message? You are You are the salvation of the Gentiles through Jesus Christ. Guess who else is included on this particular prophecy? It hasn't been completely fulfilled. Why? Because God is in the business of bringing all of his elect together. God is in the business of bringing all his people together in one day. One day he will come again. And one day he will gather all his elect from every nation, tongue, and tribe, and they will sit sit before God and enjoy him and worship him forever. This prophecy is for his church throughout all the ages. And so this language That we see in in verse 11, which I'll read for you in chapter 3, verse 11, says On that day you shall not be put to shame because of the deeds by which you have rebelled against me. That's the day of the Lord. A day that declared and showed people that there would be doom that would come upon them. The future, however, the future for God's people is completely different. And it's only by God's grace, and the people of God can rejoice because there will be no doom for those who trust in Him. Again, the language here is that God will intervene in the lives of His people. We know he's already done that, right? Galatians 4:4, what does Paul say? When the fullness of time had come, God sent for his son. Born of a woman, born to save us. That's the intervention that's being spoken about here. As God is intervening into our lives by sending His Son to come and live a perfect life and to die for us and to rise again. And that's the hope, the lame, the outcast, those that were scattered, have in God that God will intervene and by his action he will bring his people under his control. But notice the highlight and the end of this prophetic message is not God's people rejoicing evermore, is it? How does it end? What's verse 20? It's not saying, oh, and because you have this great hope and all these things that have happened, rejoice even more. No. What does it say? I love it. It's actually ending with God adding more blessings and promises to his people. I will restore your fortunes before your very eyes. For what the Lord has done, making his promises come true. But God is promising that there will be relief for those that are oppressed, for those that have suffered All those trials are being replaced by repatriation, going back home, by acclaim, and by plenty. Even more blessings. Says he will restore your fortunes. Again, we must be careful here because we may think that when God says that He will make uh turn their shame into praise, that they're being praised because of some merit or because they deserved it. Far from the truth. In fact, the glory there is the glory of God And I think what we ought to hear from these words is how we ought to live our lives so that we are not the ones who are boasting or the ones receiving glory, but that God may receive the glory. The Lord will bring you home. As I said, I love that language. But that's really the idea of restoration. Restoration means going home. Whatever grief the Prophet had seen before the people now can be promised relief. So their blessings, their promises will be fulfilled. Again, because it's Yahweh. It is the covenant keeping God who makes the promise. Again, you can take that to the bank. It's going to happen. God will bring that together. But our joy and hope is not only because our miseries will one day be over. That's not just our hope, you know, when when God promises that when he returns, he will wipe away every tear. He will Take away our sorrows, no more sickness, no more dying, no more struggling with sin and struggling with frail bodies that get sick and weak and all of that. That that's not the only thing. Do you know what else is great for us to know? As one commentator Putri says, you know, the church today lives in the knowledge and hope that one day, one day the whole heaven the whole earth will know its true king. This is what I mean. Are you ever frustrated with the corruption in this world? Are you ever broken by the thing that you see they're not the way they're supposed to be and you really want to fix them and you realize that they will never get fixed on this side of heaven? Do you ever get discouraged by seeing just what's wrong with all world, whether it's poverty, whether it's politics, whether it's racism, whether whatever it is, you just get frustrated with all of that And you just want it to come to an end. I do. Every day. I want to fix people. I want to fix me. I want to fix everything. I want to fix this. So here's the good news. Here's the good news for the church to take heart. One day. One day, as Paul tells us, every knee shall bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue will confess whether they like it or not. That Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of the Father, I cannot wait So chapter three is the end of Zephaniah's prophecy, and the book ends with unimaginable joy. Joy unspeakable. It's unexpected. It shouldn't end this way. It really shouldn't. Do you know why? If you go to chapter one, The second verse says this. I will utterly sweep away everything from the face of the earth Declares the Lord. I will sweep every man and beast. I will sweep away the birds of the heavens and the fish of the sea and the rubble with the wicked. I will cut off mankind from the face of the earth. Declares the Lord. Huh? So how did we get here? You know how we got here Because with God, all things are possible. Because with God, the end can be different. That the message of hope and encouragement comes only because God is Lord. You know the the promise of Unspeakable joy is real. It is so real That I was reminded this week of how much I miss it and how I often don't see That there is joy unspeakable with God. I was reminded this week because if you've been following the news in China, A pastor and his wife and about a hundred members were arrested last week in jail. As we speak today There is police standing on the doors of the homes of every church member that was not arrested to make sure that they don't pray and don't worship God. One of the men that was arrested is an elder at this church, and his wife was not arrested. So she wrote him a letter On Wednesday night, actually Thursday morning at 3:52 a. m. I was gonna paraphrase the letter, but I can't. So I'm gonna read it to you. And see how real God's joy is. Let's listen. Dear husband Last night I slept well. When I woke up this morning, I heard that you had been taken away. At that moment, my heart had great peace because I knew you had already prepared for this moment long ago. I haven't been able to sleep tonight. I'm sure things are hard for you right now, too. So I'll just accompany you in your sleep in your sleeplessness. I want to tell you a few things in case you might see this I heard that they usually bring you back to your home after they search it. I subconsciously hope to use that opportunity to see you for a moment, but they still haven't come. I'm not going to wait any longer I'm not afraid of them at all. On the contrary, I pity them. I hope you do too. I know you must be worried about me because you've seen how much of a mess I've been lately But I'm doing very well now. I've loved the Lord more these past days than I ever have before. More than anything, my heart is joyful and at peace At night, tears flow by themselves. But it's not grief. It's hard to say exactly what it is. I just spent a long time thinking about it, and I'm still thinking to myself, why are you crying? I finally asked myself, aren't you willing to experience this tiny little bit of pain for the Lord? My conclusion was, uh, I'm willing. I am very willing. Because I know that this slight momentary affliction is not worth comparing to that eternal glory that is to come. I'm willing to put that bill. So why am I crying? It might just be because I'm human, but you can completely relax. Crying is one thing. Finishing to cry is enough. I allow myself to cry, but I haven't felt the least bit of despair. Even if I look for it, I can't find it. Sometimes I want to despair for a moment and grieve a little bit, but I but really I don't feel like it, so forget about it. I think the Lord has replaced that despair with its fullness. The little ones Miss you. I told them, missing daddy is normal. It would be strange not to miss him. If you miss him, then miss him. Little G said, if we fall asleep, if we fall asleep, we won't miss him. And then he immediately fell asleep. This afternoon I prayed with you according to agreed upon time. Sorry I was late, ten or so minutes late. Lastly, I want to say that knowing what I'm going to receive As a result of what I'm going through now makes me feel so much better. I really do thank our Father in heaven. His plans are most certainly the best. So what is there for me to say now? I will joyfully accept. I love you. I'm going to bed now. I love you. I'm going to bed now. Can you rest in that Can you go to bed now and be joyful? Because the unspeakable joy that Jesus promises Israel. Thank you, Lord, for reminding us in such a tangible and real way. Through this sister in China and the church there that's going through persecution, and yet they remind us that your promise is truly real. That one day we will experience this unimaginable joy because we will be with you forever. Ever. Thank you for your word we pray in Jesus' name. Amen