Merry Christmas. Are you excited this evening? As I am. I made a promise. When we started the Advent season, we began our Advent season on December 3rd by looking at a psalm. It was a rather dark Psalm, Psalm 80, and we lamented. And we talked about the brokenness in the world and how it makes us just want to lament. And cry out to God and say, Maranatha, come, O Lord. The promise I made was that we would end this advent season by rejoicing. And that's exactly what we're about to do this evening for just a few minutes. And so as we started with a psalm, we're going to end with a psalm. We're reading from Psalm 98. And I will ask you if you're able. Would you please stand because we love to honor the reading of God's Word? Psalm 98. A Psalm. Or sing to the Lord a new song, for he has done marvelous things. His right hand and his holy arm have worked salvation for him. The Lord has made known his salvation. He has revealed his righteousness in the sight of the nations. For he has remembered his steadfast love and faithfulness to the house of Israel. All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God. Second stanza. Make a joyful noise to the Lord, all the earth. Break forth into joyous song and sing praises. Sing praises to the Lord with the lyre, with the lyre and the sound of melody, with trumpets and the sound of the horn, make a joyful noise before the King, the Lord. The final stanza. Let the sea roar, and all that fills it, let the world and those who dwell in it, let the rivers clap their hands, let the hills sing for joy together before the Lord, for he comes. He comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world with righteousness and the peoples with equity. The word of the Lord this evening. Father, we do come to you, being filled with so much joy in our hearts, not because of anything. But because of the marvelous things that you have done in our lives. Allow us this evening to rejoice, to be glad. For the gift of salvation that you've given to us through your incarnate Son of God. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. Now as I mentioned, we started this Advent season by talking about lament and the brokenness that fills our h our lives and and our world and And we may be experiencing some of that even this evening. We may be wondering, uh do we really have a reason to rejoice? Do we really have a reason a reason to be glad? Do we really have a reason to shout before God, to sing a new song, to celebrate his goodness, and to be joyful. Now we are all in very different places and some of us may have a reason to celebrate. Maybe you got a really nice well, you haven't opened your gifts yet. But maybe you you're hoping you're gonna get a really nice gift, or maybe things have been really well, d d going really well for you in your life, and praise be to God for that. But there are others, there's some of us that May not feel as if they want to celebrate, to be joyful. And so this this evening I really want us to ask ourselves what what is this idea of being joyful and singing a new song to the Lord? Especially during this time of Christmas. And how can we truly find joy, a lasting joy that can only come from God? And as we've read, you heard me mention the first stanza, the second stanza. This is a song. It's a song of celebration that God's people were singing in the temple. And the song is divided into three verses or three standards if you will. The first verses one through three gives the people the reason why they ought to come before God and be joyful, celebrate before his presence. And he tells us, the psalmist tells us why. And then verses four through six tells us the or answers the question of how they are supposed to do that. How then are the people of God supposed to come together? and praise him. And so it talks about bringing all these wonderful instruments to enliven their worship as they come before the presence of God. And then finally, uh verses seven through nine is answers the question as to who is supposed to do it, or where are they supposed to do it And it has this beautiful figurative language of the hills and mountains and and seas cla uh roaring and and and and and and clapping their hands to praise the Lord. I just want us to look at two things. We'll look at the how question or the reason why and then we'll combine the last two stanzas together. Now this this song is a is a victory song. It's a victorious song. It's a song that God's people would sing because the Lord has procured salvation for them. But salvation is for his friends, for those whom God has rescued from sin and redeemed them. But the victory is also against the enemy. That God has actually trumpled the enemy. He has defeated their enemy on their behalf And this is not new for God's people, right? It's not new. They've done this before. If you read the book of Exodus, chapter 15, verses 1 and 2, you sing the see the song of Moses. What had happened after that? It was the Exodus. God had demonstrated salvation for his people, Israel, by defeating the Egyptians and bringing them out of Slavery. And what do the people sing? They come before God and say, I will sing to the Lord, for he has triumphed gloriously. The horse and his rider have has been thrown into the sea. The Lord is my strength and my song And he has become my salvation. This is my God, they say. And I will praise him, my father's God. I will exalt him. Salvation and victory. But here the psalmist is actually telling us why he wants to praise the Lord, why the people are supposed to praise the Lord in verses 1. It says, Because he has done marvelous things. What are marvelous things? What are these marvelous things that God has demonstrated, done for his people that they need to bust into a song and sing to him? What does that mean? See, here it is God intervening in history on behalf of his people to redeem them. We just mentioned Exodus, but God has done so much in the lives of their people, in the lives of of the people to save them. And here the in particular reference is actually uh m making mention of God procuring salvation. He talks about it. He says, You you you you you have revealed your righteousness in the sight of nations You have remembered your stepfast love and faithfulness to the house of Israel. But there's something beautiful here that we see that God bringing a salvation to his people is through his holy arm. Meaning that it's not by any human inventions. It's not that the Israelites have somehow found a way or means to save themselves. God himself has worked salvation for his people. Isaiah 59 captures the same idea of salvation and victory and God is the one by his arm that he he he he is opposed to human and ordinary means that come and save or people saving themselves. What are we celebrating today? The incarnation. God becoming man, dwelling in the lives of his people, who is the initiator of the incarnation, of Jesus becoming the Son of God and being born of the virgin birth uh birth. Who does it? God, by his holy hand, his holy arm, to show that he is the author of our salvation, not us. But God is the author of his salvation. It's a supernatural, a miraculous thing, an act of God, acting in history, as Paul captures it elsewhere in Galatians, that when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his Son. To be born of a woman, born under the law. And that this supernatural, this extraordinary event that happened in the lives of people deserves an extraordinary, exuberant joy and praise. Because God has acted in such a marvelous way, we ought to come before Him and praise Him. The whole earth is he has summoned to sing a new song to the Lord because he has done wonderful things. You see the marvelous things that God has done for us by sending his son. His son comes and is born of this virgin, uh of this virgin little girl. And and and Jesus comes and ashes in his kingdom that he establishes here on earth. That's a marvelous thing. But he goes beyond that. He lives a perfect life. He obeys his father. He's doing the will of his father. But you know what else he does? He goes to the cross. Taking upon our sin and shame, defeating sin and death and Satan on our behalf, conquering all of evil. It's an everlasting kingdom, a victorious kingdom, a saving kingdom. And that's why we come to Him and sing praises to Him because we are filled with so much thanksgiving because of what Christ has done. And then he said in verses 3 that the nations will see his salvation, his righteousness. What is his righteousness? If he's saving us, what is his righteousness? See, righteousness is actually God putting things right, righting the wrongs. And how do we see God do that in all lives? I love the the old man Simeon when and his testimony When he holds Jesus in his arms and he was waiting to die and he says, Lord, you now let your servant depart in peace according to your word, for my eyes have seen your salvation, that you are prepared in the presence of all peoples a light For revelation for the gent to the Gentiles and glory for your people, Israel. He is praising God because he has been able to witness, to see, to behold, to touch, to feel, to smell. The salvation of our God. And then secondly, the the how question. Do you see the spontaneous uh singing that happened in verses 4 through 6? Make a joyful noise to the Lord over the earth. Break forth into a joyous song. You know, this is the kind of a song that would welcome a victorious king coming from battle. As people would just see him walking majestically after war and they they give him all the glory they give him all the praise because he is he is great he has conquered he has done such wonderful things And here is a a jubilant song that is too great to contain. I mean the people are just filled with so much joy that they cannot contain their joy. And they add instruments, the trumpets and and and and the lyre and the horn, which is a uh a source of strength And we see this universal choir that is singing before the Lord, the figurative language. When did the seas roar like a lion? How do the rivers clap their hands as if they were human beings? How do the hills sing as if they had a voice to sing? Do you know what the psalmist is doing here? He is declaring that when the kingdom of God comes to redeem his people, you know the ushering of God's kingdom is just is not just a blessing and a good thing for humanity It's not just salvation for humanity. God's kingdom affects every facet of life. But sin had corrupted everything. But God comes to redeem and transform all things that the mountains and the hills and the rivers and the seas all exist to the glory of God, to bring glory to God. And that's why they are praising him. But what is the source? What is the source of the psalmist joy? Look at verses 9. What does he say? Let the rivers clap their hands, verse 8, let the hills sing for joy together. And then he says in verses 9, Before the Lord, for he comes. He comes to judge the earth. That's the source of the psalmist joy. The fact that God Himself has showed up. Has come. That's our Christian hope. My hope is knowing that God Himself has come to dwell in my heart. Do you have that hope this evening? Knowing that Jesus, that God Himself has come through His Son, and that's a reason for joy. He has come to establish His everlasting reign. in our hearts, in our lives. And that we don't just in Advent talk about waiting and and and and on Christmas Eve we say, well, this is it. This is the end of Advent. This is the beginning of Advent It never ends until Christ returns when he comes to rule, when he comes to completely destroy sin and death in Satan. In the meantime, as I mentioned, some of us may not feel that we have a reason to rejoice. Because there's so much pain in the world, isn't there? There's so much brokenness. You know, even during a time as this when there's so much joy to go around, we we are still reminded of Every brokenness that we experience. Some of us I can hear you coughing. You want that cough to go away But we have a reason to celebrate. We have a reason to be joyful because our joy is not determined by circumstances Things can be wrong. Things can be dark. There may be pain. But the source of our joy is because the Lord has come and it's not because of our circumstance. Jesus is the reason that we are joyful. Jesus is the reason that we have a song in our hearts. If our joy is only because of our circumstances, it will not last long, right? But if Jesus is the reason for joy, if the good news that gets better every day, because the good news does get better every day, it doesn't get old. Then we will rejoice forever. So I ask you this evening, what's your reason for being joyful? I know my reasoning. I rejoice because I know that Jesus has come. But I rejoice because I know he's coming back. And when he's coming back, he's gonna right all the wrongs. I know he's going to make things to be the way they're supposed to be. I know he's coming back, and there will be no death when he returns. I know there will be no sickness. I will not have to struggle with sin anymore. It will be over. I know there will be no addictions. There will be no evil. There will be no sorrow. No more tears anymore. No more hatred and corruption. I know when Jesus returns, he will bring about perfect peace in the new heavens and the new earth. I know he will wipe away all my tears. And I know that I will sing a new song with the Lord face to face And be joyful in his presence. Praising him for all he has done. What a day that will be. In the meantime, I know I have to live in the tension of the already and the not yet. But I have a song in my heart, and it is this, Maranatha, come hold it. Maranathha, come all the way. Father, we thank you this evening that you give us a reason to be joyful. And that reason is our Savior, our Redeemer, Jesus Christ May we glory in the fact that we have been called by Him, that you have given us such a wonderful gift, and we can truly be joyful in your presence May this be true for all of us, today and forever. In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen.