If he stand as we read God's word and the People of Israel again did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. So the Lord gave them into the hand of the Philistines for forty years. There was a certain man of Zora, the tribe of the Danites, whose name was Manoah, and his wife was barren and had no children. And the angel of the Lord appeared to the woman and said to her, Behold, you are barren and have not borne children, but you shall conceive and bear a son Therefore be careful, and drink no wine or strong drink, and eat nothing unclean, for behold, you shall conceive and bear a son No razor shall come upon his head, for the child shall be a Nazarite to God from the womb, and he shall begin to save Israel from the hand of the Philistines. His father and mother did not know that it was from the Lord, for he was seeking an opportunity against the Philistines. At that time, the Philistines ruled over Israel. Then Samson went down with his father and mother to Timnah, and they came to the vineyards of Timnah, and behold, a young lion came toward him, roaring. Then the Spirit of the Lord rushed upon him, and although he had done nothing had nothing in his hand, he tore the lion in pieces as one tears a young goat. But he did not tell his father or his mother what he had done. Then he went down and talked with the woman, and she was right in Samson's eyes. After some days he returned to take her and he turned aside to see the carcass of the lion, and behold there was a swarm of bees in the body of the lion and honey. He scraped it out onto his hands and went on, eating as he went And he came to his father and mother and gave them some, and they ate. But he did not tell them that he had scraped the honey from the carcass of the lion. His father went down to the woman, and Samson prepared a feast there, for so the young men used to do. And as soon as the people saw him they brought thirty companions to be with him. And Samson said to them, Now let me put a riddle to you. If you can tell me what it is within the seven days of the feast and find it out, then I will give you thirty linen garments and thirty changes of clothes. But if you cannot tell me what it is, then you shall put m give me thirty linen garments and thirty changes of clothes. And they said to him, Put your vital that we may hear it. And he said to them, Out of the eater came something to eat. Out of the strong came something sweet. And in three days they could not solve the riddle. On the fourth day they said to Samson's wife, Entice your husband to tell us what the riddle is, lest we burn you and your father's house with fire. Have you invited us here to impoverish us? And Samson's wife wept over him and said, You only hate me. You do not love me. You have put a riddle to my people, but you have not told me what it is And he said to her, Behold, I have not told my mother or father, and shall I tell you? She wept before him the seven days that feast the feast lasted, and on the seventh day he told her, because she pressed him hard. Then she told the riddle to her people, and the men of the sea said to him on the seventh day before the sun went down, What is sweeter than honey? What is stronger than a lion? And he said to them, If you had not ploughed with my heatwe, you would not have found out my riddle. And the spirit of the Lord rushed upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon and struck down thirty men of the town, and took their spoil, and gave the garments to those who had told the riddle. In hot anger he went back to his father's house, and Samson's wife was given to his companion, who had been his best man. Amen. Please be seated. So before I start, I just want to um mention this. I've mentioned it before, but it's a good time since Lavender and Ryan shared that um I do some consulting with uh churches now and then and a lot of them are about our size. And most of these churches are doing nothing. They've stopped BBS, they don't have outreach. Uh one of them is next to a college campus. Another one is next to all these baseball fields, and they just don't have any outreach. And I'm just amazed at what we'd get to do, what you do. I'm amazed that this is happening with Equipping Farmers International. Our church has members who have done the only equipping in America. Right? What in the world? We can hold a class here next year. Yeah, we can do one. We could have a whole class here. We can put a little plot out there and figure out how to do it. We can all be trainers. That's her vision, by the way. But not only that, uh ESL, BBS, and the Living Nativity, that this is a lot of outreach to our community. Um I tell people all the time I'm just amazed at what's going on here. So I'm very thankful for you and proud of you. Um it's one church next to the ball fields they don't know anything. We are hosting people but you know like if I gave him a key that was but he's just amazed and everyone's very thankful and that's a little thing we can do for him over Up our building and show hospitality. So thank you so much. I get to tell people this all the time. Okay. Um, what a story. Right? Samson. I'm going to start by telling you about a guy named Chris McCandus. He was in his early 20s. This is the 1990s. And his main goal was to get off the grid in backwoods, Alaska. There's a lot of backwoods of Alaska in Austin, right? You can read about this in a book called Insta I think it was made into a movie too. He apparently was wonderful, he'd made friends easily, he'd work any job, um, and then he'd make enough money to make the next Because he wanted to be ultimately free. Free from all society, free from all people, free from money, free from obligations, right? And he wanted to be alone and survive out in the woods. And he accomplished it. He did it. And he died of starvation. A moose hunter found him four months later in an abandoned bus Because what he wanted to cost him is life. Samson. Movie, script, attention. For sure, right? No problem making a movie with Samson, right? He has an exciting life, their sex, their violence, there's injury, there's tragedy. I went back into the scrolls and I found some slides, some pictures of Samson, some here Okay, here's another one. Whoa. I think I've got some more coming later, right? Um sort of picture a young Arnold Schwarzenegger in Conan the Barbarian. Um is Samson Is Samson a hero? Is he a judge? These are supposed to be warriors and champions and deliverers and rescuers, or is Samson a juvenile delinquent? That's our question. Petulant, selfish, strong for sure, and But we have been talking about how God does not use perfect people. There ain't none. There was one Okay, so let's talk about how we get here. Samson's plunge, and it's really Israel's plunge, right? The key verse in Judges is which verse? The last verse? And what is the last verse? There was no king and everyone did what was right in his own eyes. I don't even need to look it up In those days there was no king in Israel. Everyone did what was right in his own eyes. So we've been talking about infidelity, whoring after the bales, and now we have a new people group. We've been talking about A lot of different ones. This is in verse thirteen. Chapter thirteen, verse one. And the people of Israel did what was evil in the sight of the Lord, so the Lord gave them into the hand of the Philistines Philistines for 40 years. The Philistines. Now, who's the most famous Philistine you know? Elias, right. And this is the first mention of the Philistines. So like the people hearing this being like, oh no, the Philistines Boo. Boo, Philistines. So we can do the Philistines too, right? Now remember in chapter 10. They had thrown out all their gods. They said, okay, we're gonna get right. They threw out all their gods. Only Yahweh, we're only doing Yahweh now. But they knew where they Through. And they picked them back up. And once things are right again, we'll go back to Yahweh and Baal. No big woo What's interesting in this chapter is there's no cry for help. We've seen the cycle. They go back to evil, then they cry for help, and then God sends a judge. There is no cry for help in this one. They have sold out to the culture. They are now okay with being enslaved to the Philistines and the Baits. Somehow they've sort of negotiated all this. They're not crying out in misery Like they did even just last time with Jephthah, who's not a likable person. But we do know this, right? God gets impatient with his people's misery. In the Samson cycle, they're content with their own misery. And so in this account in Judges 14, there's not a conflict. Samson is free to come and free to go, right? Uh no one's a real threat. They're under bondage, but it's a peaceful bondage. They've made peace with it. For example, Samson's marriage to this Philistine woman. Normal No one bats an eye, really. But they're not supposed to do that, right? God's people aren't supposed to marry Philistines So whenever we get to this, I want to back up and just remind ourselves, the Bible teaches that believers marry believers. Christians marry Christians. And that's because if you are a Christian, if you follow Jesus, that's your deepest heart motivation. That's the deepest thing that drives you, right? And that should be in sync with your spouse. The most closest relationship you'll ever have. So you're going to share the part of you that matters the most, your ultimate beliefs, your ultimate motivations. And if you marry a non-Christian, you don't share that. You're not on the same page, right? That most ultimate place doesn't get touched with each other and you feel alone. I mentioned to you I sat with a woman whose husband had been an elder of a church who walked away from the faith and she was completely devastated. Like 14 years later, we wept together. She's raising her kids in the faith on her own. Now, it doesn't matter what race you are with each other. Doesn't matter what nationality you are with each other. It doesn't matter the intelligence level what you are. The age level, okay, maybe, yeah. We should be in a range with each other But the Bible teaches that men marry women and believers marry believers. Now, whenever I say this, I also want to point out we've already read about a bunch of crazy relationships. Okay, Gideon 71. So let's just not think that settles everything. As long as we do it the Bible way, we're good. God uses People that have messed up. God uses people who've divorced. God uses people that aren't in biblical marriages. Still, we know this. We've already read it. So don't think it has to be perfect. Through judges, God's people have been drifting away But they've been coming back. But now they drifted away and they just keep drifting away. They're stopped fighting. And it's a scary moment when someone who's struggling stops fighting. We've been talking about, at least you're going to battle, at least you're going to battle Still battle, but whenever we're not at all, stop fighting is scariest. Um The Dark Knight Rises Batman movie Of course. Um Bane the bad guy sticks Batman in a tunnel, in a cave. And what he's trying to do is break his spirit, make him give up. So so that Batman watches as Gotham gets crushed and he can't do anything about it, so then he just gives up forever and says, What's the point? Just let me go. But Batman wants to get out. And he does, and he saved the day. That's how a movie works. Israel. Israel Is stuck. It's a very low moment. They've decided to follow other gods And I think we you know we just have to ask ourselves, are we stuck? What what are we going for? Are we have we been assimilated into the culture? Are we Christians first or Americans first? Are we following other loves? Are we following other gods? And this is this is a bad moment for Israel. They've renounced the conflict, their conflict avoidance. They recognized Dagon. They blurred the distinction between God and his people. So we just gotta remember this happens. And for us as the church, this church and the church, that doesn't mean about being against the world. Right? Like we get in our own little Christian bunker. It also doesn't mean that we bank on traditions. That we cannot change. That's one way to think, okay, I'm not going to be in the world, so I'm never going to change anything. And everything's going to always be the same. But we pledge allegiance to the king of the universe. And we work for his kingdom. And um they were not doing that. Okay, let's talk about Samson now. Uh Samson in chapter fourteen, uh it's very wrong and also very entertaining Uh this seems like a spring break trip going wrong or a spring break trip just exactly the way you wanted it. He goes with his buddies to this place called Timnah and he sees one of the daughters of the Philistine. She knows his where he's where he went. Um And she's proud of him. We'll talk about this more later, but he's a Nazirite. She's she's thankful. He's a miracle baby. So he comes home and you know she starts asking questions, how to go He doesn't answer. This is the way I think it went. He's just eating. Uh did you have fun? No answer. Did you stay safe? He chuckles Did you make your choices? No. Stop. Then she said, did you meet someone? Oh. Then he came up and told his father and mother, I saw one of the daughters of the Philistines at Timnah. Oh, great! What's her name? We never find out her name. He doesn't. Maybe he doesn't know. But he directs an order. Now get her for me as my wife. Uh really? A Philistine woman? So she says back? They both say back. Is there not a woman among the daughters of your among other people that you must go take away from an uncircumcised Philistines? There's girls around, man. Hey. But Samson says to his father, Get her for me, for she is right. in my eyes. Case closed. I get what I want. Now surely this is not the first time he ever directed in order and got what he wanted, right? Samson must have been a very difficult child A very difficult teenager. Now he's a very difficult man. That's how it goes. Case close. So he goes to see her, right? And of course what happens when you Do you stuff like this? A lion jumps out of from the woods. Or the Sahara Desert orever And behold, a young lion came for him. Then the Spirit of the Lord rushed upon him, and although he had nothing in his hand, he tore the lion to pieces as one tears a young goat. I think I have a picture of this, don't I? Oh! Look at that! Do I have another one or just one? Oh look at that! That guy can tear a lion in half. I don't know how one tears a lion in half. It's also weird that the Spirit of the Lord came upon him so he could do it. So I wonder what the Spirit of the Lord was thinking. We'll have to ask the Spirit of the Lord at some point about the story. Um so the lion was in a really wrong spot at the wrong time, wasn't it? And Samson keeps it a secret. Now let's go back to the Nazarite thing, okay? Nazarites come up in Numbers chapter 6 A Nazarite is sort of like a temporary priest in times of distress or war. And again, I want to mention where are the priests? Don't hear about them. So here we sort of have a fill-in priest. You don't have to be a Nazirite for a lifetime. And the a couple ideas are that this person is uh connected to God, sort of like if you're uh have a big decision and you fast so you like stop doing things that you would normally do and then the idea is then you can hear better from God That's that's what's going on here. So Nazareth's no alcohol. You're not supposed to touch or eat anything unclean. There's designated foods, right? You don't cut your hair. It's probably true that John the Baptist was a Nazorite. It's very likely. A Nazarite is like a walking bridge between God and people. Sort of like Like a priest. A Nazarite um reminds people that God is present. Because of the way a Nazarite looks. Sort of like a walking billboard or a remembrance that the God is present. Sort of like a collar. The collars are not only Catholic collars. In fact, they actually come from Presbyterians. And so I would wear my collar sometimes. I normally wear my collar on Holy Week And uh people come up to you that you never would ever talk to, and they they they know that they can talk to you and they ask for prayer. And that's not true when I'm walking around like this Um I think I mentioned one time I went to a Black Lives rally, Black Lives Matter rally, and I don't agree with everything they agreed on. with and I wore my collar. And in some sense I was standing between the people that were there for good and the people that were there for evil. And there were people that there were for evil. Yelling the vilest things I've ever heard about And I was stating I don't want this to happen, I don't want this to be hurt. Okay, but also you know it can be a sign of hypocrisy. If you're walking around in a collar and you're walking in places that are real bad or you're doing things you shouldn't be doing, it's not good. So Samson has neglected his sign because Nazirites are not supposed to kill lions. And they're really not supposed to scoop out honey from a dead carcass and eat honey. Now, of course, I want to say, why are bees in there at all? It's a weird place to have honey, but that's what he does. That's an eight and nine. So he he uh he later, you know, he goes back, he's seeing this woman, this Philistine woman And he turned to the side to see the carks of the lion, because it's sort of in the same place. And behold there was a swarm of bees in the body of the lion. Honey, well what would you do? You obviously would stick your hand in there. And he did. And then you don't tell your parents because you're not supposed to do that. Okay, so here's so yeah, you don't tell how you got it. Um So now we're gonna go to the wedding. The wedding's on. He has a little entourage. And weddings last a week. This is important. Weddings last a week and at the end of the week you get married and consummate the wedding. Okay, so she she's not really his wife yet. She's his almost wife Um and so they decide to have a riddle contest. They're bored, they don't run out of things to talk about. And so one of the Philistines says what word in the dictionary is spelled incorrectly? the word incorrectly. Another Phil seat and said, oh I got one ah this is so funny. Uh what two things can you never eat for breakfast? Lunch or dinner, right? You can't eat lunch or dinner for breakfast. That's right. Correct. Um what is so fragile that if you even say its name you break it? You guys would be perfect. Okay? And they go round and round and round and some people know the answers, some people know the answers. And so Samson was thinking to myself, oh man, I need a riddle. Because they keep on coming to me, he's done got one. Riddles are big in Philistine culture, right? It's not real good for the Israelites. The Israelites do not come across as a very funny people. in the box. There's not a lot of humor in here. There's a few little cases where the writer puts a little thing in there, but generally they're not telling a lot of jokes. So Samson doesn't have any, but he wants their clothes. I don't know why. Um he apparently has clothes because he's gonna put 30 of each Uh for grass. But he wants their clothes, maybe they're also. So he's got this big wager who needs the win. And so he pulls out a riddle and he said to them, out of the eater came something to eat, out of the strong came something to something sweet. I don't know if that rhymes in Hebrew. Um but it's not really a riddle, is it? No. It's based on a historical event. Um they weren't vape. How would they know the answer to this? I think I have a slide with this riddle. Oh yeah. Riddle contest. Alright, so there we have that. Um it's sort of like you remember in um uh The Hobbit? When Ilbo is doing a riddle contest with Gollum and eventually he gets stuck and he says, What's in my pocket? That's not a riddle. So they can't figure out what obviously how would they know this answer to this riddle. Four days go by, so they enlist a secret agent On the 14th, 15. On the fourth day they said that Samson's wife entice her husband to tell us what the riddle is, lest we burn you in your father's house now with fire. Pretty big threat. Okay, okay, okay. Use your girl powers to figure this out. We don't want to give up our clothes. We're gonna burn your house down. Well that changes things, Philistine lady. So she goes to Samson and says, Oh Sam Cam Bootie Pie Goju Jang Tookie bear, whatever your little pet names are. Hmm, I would love to know the answer to that little. Now, you know, the marriage isn't done yet, right? And Samson really likes her. There's some things he hopes happens. He won't tell her, so what does she do? Cries and cries and cries. Uh our little dog Charlie whines when he wants to go out, which is what dogs do and but he's in Drew's room and Drew gets so mad And he's like, stop whining! And we can hear it at 7. 15 in the morning. He doesn't want to get up. The dog is gonna whip. You are going to let this dog out. The dog doesn't understand, so stop whining. The fact that you recognize the dog whining only encourages the dog all the more. Right? I will break you down. Dog always wins. Um so this woman she cries all week and Samson has had enough. Stop I haven't told my father or mother. I know, I know, but I'm just gonna cry until you tell me. Okay. So he tells her. She tells the road to her people. They get the stuff. He's thinking before she tells him, like, okay, are we good? Are we happy? Happy wife, happy life, you know? So they come to him and they solve the Wither for Grill and he freaks out. Uh he says, Well I'm gonna get these anyway. And then again the Spirit of the Lord rushed upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon and struck down thirty men of the town and took their sword and gave the garments to those who had told the riddle. In hot anger, he went back to the father's house and in the coupe de draw, Samson's wife was given it to his companion and then his best man. Perfect. What a week he had. So he gets what he wants, right? Uh except he didn't get hurt, but he got the clothes. Okay, so so Samson the Nazareth. Let's assess Samson for a minute right now. He's not truthful. He's not honoring his parents. He didn't go up for their advice. Is he a judge? Is he a savior? He's marrying a Philistine? He uses words to manipulate people He uh gets what he wants. I saw a woman get her for me. Is this a love match? Is this a commitment? She's like looks good on Instagram, so that's why I want to marry her. He he's not looking for a wife to be married for life A covenantal commitment? He's led by sensuality. He doesn't seem to have any real friends. He's not really talking to people. He's walking alone. Which is the basis of the book, The Samson Society. Which we've handed out and talked about. He lives for himself alone. He doesn't seem to have any picture of God's kingdom. He's not talking to the Lord Can we ever see ourselves in any of this? Now the question is, can Samson point us to Jesus? Of course it can. That's what all the Bible is about. We cannot use a sermon that says be like Samson. That's not gonna work, is it? And we're getting to 1st and 2nd Samuel and 1st and 2nd Kings. I mentioned this a couple weeks ago. So we're getting to David and Solomon, who are not exactly perfect people by any respect. We're also getting to Saul. And so when we read that last verse, because there was no king in Israel, everyone did what is right in their eyes. Maybe there needs to be a king in Israel That's what they eventually come to. God even says, no, I don't want that for you. I want to be the king. I'm the king. Okay, I'm gonna give you really weird kings, like I gave you really weird judges. Right? But the thing is we cannot be the Lord of our own lives When we do whatever we think is right all the time, it does not go well. And in verse 14, in chapter 14, verse 14 14. 4. His father and mother did not know that it was from the Lord, for he was seeking an opportunity against the Philistines. God was seeking an opportunity against the Philistines. Our Lord is impatient and tired of misery. So he doesn't want his people to be in perfect harmony with the Philistines, which it seems like they were, right? Israel is speaking with the enemy. Israel is drifting farther. Israel is losing track. But God knows and God sees and God stimulates and agitates. And when we go back to chapter thirteen and you start reading about how this happened, the birth of Samson, which we didn't read very much, but we did a little bit. Does it sound familiar at all? Stamson comes from a woman who's very obscure. We don't even know her name Comes from a barren woman, hopeless. Barren women were useless in society. Manoah, this husband, stays with her. He's faithful. And in 135 we read this. He's talking about the um The Nazarite vow, no razor shall come upon his head, but a child shall be a Nazarite to God from the womb, and he shall begin to save Israel from the hand of the Philistines. Begin to save So key, right? So so he's gonna be conversation. And then they start having these visions, and angels start coming and talking to them, and they have conversations, right? And then the the the man says, we are gonna die. This is 1322. When we see these angels, they're doing offerings, we're gonna die. And the woman who's closer to this says, no, we're not If we were gonna die, we'd already be dead. She's very logical and right. And so they have a miracle baby. Who grows outside of the public eye? This all sounds so familiar. With the one who didn't become to begin to say, who saved. We have Jesus coming to us and he's born off camera, out of the spotlight, born to marginalized people. Because God works with the least of these, doesn't he? Foolish, weird, weak people And Stanson is not the true Savior at all. We know the true Savior was coming from the foundation of the world. Ephesians 1. We know the true Savior was raised up for the true purpose. Mary wasn't barren, she was a virgin, which is even harder. Jesus was not ignorant, was not disobedient, was not overcome by passion. Jesus was the word made flesh who always obeyed. It's passionate rules his gospel. Jesus was truly free, like Samson was free, and he just went out and just destroyed. I mean Jesus walked on water, fed 5,000, did miracles, truly free. But he used his life, his freedom, to serve to give for his real bride, which he did say, get her for me. Jesus didn't walk alone. Jesus left the legacy not for himself because he came to live and die for us, to rescue us, not just to start the rescue, but to make So Flawed Samson points us to King Jesus, who we follow, who we serve, who we sit under. And we follow servants and under flawed leaders all the time. Presidents, our parents, we have been flawed leaders. Right? Chris McCand just pursued his idol of freedom and it ended up to openly destroy him. His idol of freedom devoured him a lot like Samson. We need a savior who rescues. We need a king who leads and defends wisely. We need a prophet who speaks the truth of God. And we need a priest who sacrifices for us. But we have that of Jesus. There's a hymn, come thou long, expect to Jesus, right? That they were singing. Not knowing who they were talking about. We need a king. We need a prophet. We need a priest. We need a savior. We need a rescuer. We sing it knowing who it was, but knowing he's going to come back again. Come, thou long-expected Jesus, born to set your people free from our fears and sins release us. Let us find our rest in thee. Born to people to deliver, born a child and yet a king, born to reign in us forever, now the gracious kingdom bring. By thine own eternal spirit, rule in all our hearts alone. By your own all-sufficient merit, raise us to thy glorious throne. Amen.