From judges six six through eighteen and thirty-six through forty. Thank you for that. And Israel's and Israel was brought low very low because of Midian, and the people of Israel cried out for help to the Lord. When the people of Israel cried out to the Lord on account of the Midianites, the Lord sent a prophet to the people And he said to them, Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel I led you up from Egypt and brought you out of the house of slavery, and I delivered you from the hand of the Egyptians nations and from the hand of all who oppressed you, and drove them out before you, and gave you their land. And I said to you, I am the Lord your God, and you shall not fear the gods of the Amr Amorites, in whose land you dwell. But you have not obeyed my voice. Now the angel of the Lord came and sat under the Terebineth of Oprah, which belonged to Johaz the Abizarite, while his son Gideon was beating out wheat in the wine press to hide it from the Midianites. And the angel of the Lord appeared to him and said to him, The Lord is with you, O mighty man of valor. And Gideon said to him, Please, sir, if the Lord is with us, why then has all this happened to us? And where are all the wonder his wonderful deeds that our fathers recounted to us, saying, Did not the Lord bring us up out of Egypt? But now the Lord has forsaken us and given us over into the hands of Midian. And the Lord turned to him and said, Go in this might of yours and save Israel from the hand of Midian, and do not I send you? And he said to him, Please, Lord, how can I save Israel? Behold, my clan is the weakest in Manasseh's And I am the least in my father's house. And the Lord said to him, But I will be with you, and you shall strike the many nights as one man. And he said to him, If now I have found fit favor in your eyes, strike the Midianites as one man. And he's sorry. And he said to him, If I now have found favor in your eyes, then show me a sign that it is you who speak to me. Please do not depart from here until I come to you and bring out my present and set it before you. And he said, I will stay with till you return. Then Gideon said to God, If you will save Israel by my hand, as you have said, behold, I am laying a fleece of wool on the threshing floor. If there is dew on the fleece alone and it is dry on all the ground, then I shall know that you will save Israel by my hand, as you have said. And it was so. When he rose early next morning and squeezed the fleece, he wrung enough dew from the fleece to fill a bowl with water. Then Gideon said to God, Let not your anger burn against me Let me speak just once more. Please let me let me test just one more with the with the fleece. Please let it be dry on the f on the fleece only and on the ground let be And God did so that night. And it was dry on the fleece only, and on the ground there was dew. Amen. Thank you, Angel. Please be seated. This Sunday we have no stabbings. Zero stabbings in the text. Sad, sad, sad, sad. No watermelons will be harmed. Um Gideon this is a transitional narrative in the book of Judges. We've been talking about the the uh spirals you know the cycles and now we start going into an abyss things start to get really bad uh gideon and sampson the two most known judges, right? Sure. This is a very famous story, this fleece story. It doesn't really have that many verses that people really remember this. They remember it more than the tearing down of the Baal poles and the Ashra poles. Which is something m amazing that Gideon did. People remember this story and then most likely Samson's hair and Samson and Delilah, right? So those are these are classics. Gideon is about a man filled with fear. So what are your fears? I'll go first. I'm afraid I'm an inadequate pastor. I'm afraid I'm preaching brad bad sermons I'm afraid that I will be unliked. I'm afraid that people will leave and we won't have people come. And that in the end I'll be a big disappointment I'm afraid that my two sons won't come back to the faith. I'm afraid sometimes I can't pay the bills, afford the rent. I love going sailing and I'm afraid I'm gonna wreck the boat. My parents own these forty acres of land and now that my dad's passed away and my mom's getting older, I'm afraid we're gonna sell the land. And I'm not gonna have it anymore. Who wants to go next? Can stay in and go around the room Let's talk about Gideon's fears, right? We talk about his fears, but really we're talking about the God who casts out all fear Who brings peace in our anxious lives. Now Gideon gets a hundred verses. There are so three whole chapters. We'll talk about Gideon again next time. Now let's let's remember our uh our judges thus far. We have Othniel, who is the very first one. And remember he's the one where nothing really bad happens. He's the only judge where they don't have anything negative to say about him, but that makes him boring. Super boring. I don't get a stab, nothing This we talked about how he's sort of like Superman and honestly Superman is boring. This is why you don't have a lot of Superman movies He doesn't have conflict, really. He has complete power. He doesn't lose his cool. That's not interesting. Why do we have a lot of Batman movies? He is crazy He doesn't have unlimited power. Technology breaks and he gets mad. So Athnium. I don't know if you remember Shamgar only got two verses. Shamgar got two And then we get to Ehud. What was his big thing? Left-handed stabber. I didn't bring in a big glob of something to stab. That would have been awesome. Right. Should've should think I that would have been like a big lard pile. Uh and then then last week we talked about Deborah and Barak and J. L. Three judges in one state. story. Very unlikely, especially JL. She is bad to the bone. So now we have longer stories. We're getting a little longer. And the big thing is to remember that Gideon is a normal person like us. A normal person. Now, not many of us thresh wheat in a cave. But still imagine yourself at work or at home doing whatever you normally do in a week. And we're going to talk about Gideon's fears, God's answer, Gideon's fragile faith And then his action. So his fears. So the end of chapter five, like normal This is the end of the Deborah song. So may all your enemies perish, O Lord, but your friends be like the sun as he rises in the might. And the land had rest for forty years, and you turn the page And the people of Israel did what was evil in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord gave them into the hand of Midian seven years. That's the cycle, right? So God gives them over. Sometimes, oh, I was going to mention the key verse in Judges is at the very end, the very last verse of the whole book. You've heard this. In those days there was no king in Israel. Everyone did what was right in his own eyes. For sure, key verse in judges at the very end. So this is how we're seeing that. And sometimes when God disciplines us, He gives us what we thought we wanted. If we serve the bales and accommodate to the culture, he gives us to the bales and to the culture. Here now we have the Midianites. We haven't heard of the Midianites in a while. This is a new oppressor. They're pitchers, they're looters. We keep going and the hand of Midian overpowered Israel and because of Midian the people of Israel made for themselves the dens that are in the mountains and the straight and the caves and the strongholds For whenever the Israelites planted the crops, the Midianites and the Malachites and the people of the east would come up against them. They would encamp against them and devour the produce of the land, as far as Gaza. Oh yeah, this is a real place, right? We're still talking about Gaza. Sometimes we think this is like Star Wars or Harry Potter. Oh, we know where this is. As far as Gaza, and they leave no sustenance in Israel, and no sheep or ox or donkey, for they would have come up and their livestock and their tents, and they would come like locusts in number. Both they and their camels cannot be counted. So they laid waste the land as they came in, and Israel was brought very low because of Midian, and the people of the Lord cried out for help to the Lord They're starving, right? They're afraid. They're hiding. And they cry out. And God hears them. He answers them. When the people of Israel cried out to the Lord on account of the Mizraites, the the Midianites, the Lord sent a prophet to the people of Israel. God sent a prophet. God sent an angel. God sent someone to get their attention. Angels will do that. And Gideon answers with this, verse fifteen. And he said to him, Please, Lord, how can I save Israel? Behold, my clan is the weakest in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house. Like sort of like Moses, when God told Moses what he was supposed to do, he's like No dude, you picked the wrong you picked the wrong guy. I can't do that. I stutter. I'm wrong. Gideon is the same place. God doesn't work with people like me God doesn't work with people from this clan. God doesn't work with the least of the siblings God doesn't work with people that have my skin color. You pick the wrong tribe, the wrong temperament, the wrong skill set. You know, the opposite of that is God totally uses people like me. Right? I am perfect for the job. Pick me. I am the right skin color, the right gender, I have the right background, I come from the right people, I live in the right place, I have the exact skill set. Both of these are wrong, aren't they? The first one isn't humility. It's not trusting in someone who says you can do it. The second one is hubris, completely pride and arrogance. God uses who he wants, doesn't he? These are both performance based thinking based on our natural instinct of a meritocracy Gideon thinks the world will crush me. I was looking into um Underdogs, when underdogs win. And in college football, underdogs win twenty-four point seven percent of the time. That happened yesterday when Notre Dame lost to Northern Illinois. I'm sure you were all watching. In the NFL it's thirty-four point two percent of the time. Underdogs win more, but that's because there's only so many teams. And think about Northern Illinois budget for football versus Notre Dame's budget for football. We are not on the same track Now we have good and bad NFL teams, but they are basically sending s approximately the same amount of money. In the NBA it's 32. 1%. In tennis, it's almost never. So we have a very unlikely candidate in Gideon who doesn't And think he can do the job. But we're used to that, aren't we? Now that we've been reading, we're used to left-handed salvation. We're used to JL coming out of nowhere. She knows how to wield that tent peg, doesn't she? And then we read some in there's some editorial comments in here Verse twenty-seven, which I don't think we read. So Gideon took ten men of his servants and did as the Lord had told him. But because he was too afraid of his family and the men of the town to do it by day, he did it by night. Gideon is like, okay, God, you want me to do what? Me People are gonna think I'm a Jesus freak. If I do what you're telling me, it's like way beyond normal, right? I'm gonna look crazy. I'm gonna look like I'm in a cult You know, we know a lot of people, and maybe we can relate to this, that are involved in nominal Christianity Nominal Christianity doesn't ask you to do stuff. You just do what you want. Right? If God's asking you to do stuff and you do it, that's not nominal Christianity anymore. And Gideon is like, if I start to follow you, what are people gonna say, right? Because we've been operating this Yahweh plus Baal is fine. Yahweh but no Baal? The Baal people don't like that So this is a big deal for him. And and and Gideon is sort of like sorting through this, right? He says in 6. 13, Please, my Lord, if the Lord is with us, why hat then has all this happened? And where are all his wonderful deeds that our fathers recounted us, saying, Did not the Lord bring us out of Egypt? But now the Lord has forsaken us and given us the hands of Median. We've been talking about this is a normal reaction. Where have you been, God? How can I trust that you're going to be with me now when I haven't seen or heard from you all these years? You're asking me to hope I am going to be disappointed, aren't I? And so just again, as we've said, Gideon's fears are our fears. His disappointments are our disappointments. We've wondered the same thing, haven't we? Where are you? Are you listening? Do you care? I don't feel safe I don't know that this is going to go good. I feel like hiding what I believe. Where are you? We have heard many times the only thing to fear is fear itself. That is not the only thing to fear, right? That's a really great line. That is not true. I can think of more things to fear than just fear. Okay, so how does God answer? First of all, God hears them, he sends a judge, a prophet. This is unusual to send an unnamed prophet. It's very rare in the Bible. The unnamed prophet starts to talk. And he said to them, Thus says the Lord the God of Israel, I led you up from Egypt and brought you out of the house of slavery, and I delivered you from the hand of the Egyptians and from the hand of all those who oppressed you And I drove them out before you, and I gave you their land. And I said to you, I am the Lord your God, you shall not fear the gods of the Amorites in whose land you dwell, but you have not obeyed my voice We've mentioned before that they keep on forgetting this. You know, they took over Jericho And it doesn't come up. They have the Ark of the Covenant, the t the tabernacle, but they don't talk about it. But you have not obeyed my voice. That's not what they wanted to hear. It doesn't make me feel good, Angel. I'm doing some research on what is called the nuns. I probably mentioned this. N O N E S, not nuns These are people that check on a survey they wouldn't check Protestant, Catholic, Buddhist. They check none. This is growing and growing and growing. There's more and more people that are opting out of everything. But it's interesting that they're doing more research about what are they leaving You know, how involved were they? Or were they never raised in the first place? Are they opting out or were they just never raised religious at all? And I had never heard of this term, but there's a growing sense that I was talking about nominal Christianity. Another name for that is moral therapeutic deism. Moral therapeutic deism. This is where you believe five things. God does exist and he watches over the world. God wants people to be good and nice and fair and play by the golden rule, which is sort of common in other religions. Number three, the biggest goal in life is to be happy. Fulfill. Successful. However you want to design, happy. Number four, God doesn't need to be involved unless you have a problem. And number five, good people go to heaven when they die. That is moral therapeuticism. And a lot of people believe that. So when you believe moral therapeutic deism, being told you have disobeyed God, that you have whored after other gods, that there is judgment for disobedience What? How is that possible? I don't want that. I'm going to check none. But God sends a deliverer anyway. He sends a prophet, and then a judge, and a champion, and God answers us in our fears and in our sins, even Not always obviously, not always immediately, but can we hear God's voice when he's talking to us? Number one place is right here. Number two place is here. It's there that we serve a God who judges and a God who gives mercy and grace. Moral therapeutic deism does not require any grace or forgiveness. You can say you're sorry because that's because you're trying to be good What about Gideon's fragile faith then? He's not only afraid. He's not only afraid But listen to this, when the angel uh talks first, and the angel of the Lord appeared to him and said to him, The Lord is with you, O mighty man of valor. What? He does not seem to be uh carrying that quite yet He's hiding from the Midianites. He hasn't done anything. But this is a prophetic voice, right? You are going to do this. And Gideon respectfully asked, we've already read this Me? Uh I'm the weakest clan, and in my family, I'm the weakest dude But the Lord says And the Lord said to him Now notice that we switch over from the angel is talking And talking about the Lord, but in verse 16, and the Lord said to him, But I will be with you, and you shall strike the Midianites as one man. I will be with you. Emmanuel, I will be with you And you're gonna do it. So Gideon is being commissioned, right? He's being sent, but he's being sent with a very important promise. On my honor, I will be with you. You have my word, you have my covenant. Now Gideon started thinking, okay, what's the plan? Doesn't tell the plan It's often how God works, right? I will be with you. I'm not going to tell you how it all is going to go. If I tell you how it all is going to go, it doesn't require faith. It just requires execution. But when I say go and you see what happens, then you get to believe me. I will be with you when I ask you to move to Baltimore. I'm not going to tell you the plan When when you buy a farm, I'm not telling you the plan on that. There's a lot of these, right? That's why it's faith, that's why it's risky And that's why Gideon has it, but it's fragile. This is important because Gideon doesn't really know Yahweh. And he says, Show me. He's a very good Missourian. Show me state, right? And he said to him, If now I have found favor in your sight, then show me a sign that it is you who speak with me. Please do not depart from here until I come to you and bring out my present and set it before you, and he said, I will do as you return. So what Gideon does next is he knows he does what he knows to do. He makes a meal fit for a king. He knows he's n in the presence of somebody, at least famous, very prophetic. He gets an epha of flour. Now that's thirty-five to forty pounds. Pounds of flour. What do you make with thirty-five pounds of flour? I don't know. A whole bunch of pasta. He kills a goat. That's not easy, I think. Uh this is gonna take a couple hours to butcher a goat I mean, I wish there was a grocery store nearby, walk the Whole Foods. So in and us he's sort of making a sacrifice, right? He's sacrificing Things that the Lord would want. He puts them on the rock, he pours the broth over them, and he did so. And the angel of the Lord reached out the tip of the staff that was in his hand and touched the meat and the unleavened cakes And fire sprang out from the rock and consumed the meat of the unleavened cakes, and the angel of the Lord vanished from his sight. That's not a normal way to eat. It's very dramatic. I love dramatic. It's very dramatic. He consumed the meal by fire. God ate with Gideon. God ate with Gideon. He accepted the offering. He accepted the sacrifice. And it says, Then Gideon saw, verse 22, then Gideon perceived that he was the angel of the Lord. And Gideon said, Alas, O Lord God, for now I have seen the angel of the Lord face to face. The Lord is still there, still talking, but the Lord said to him, Peace be to you, do not fear, you shall not die. Gideon freaked out. When he saw what he saw, just like Isaiah, he said, I am done for He didn't say, let's go play video games. We're buds now. Like this is so cool. I love seeing this stuff He knew he did not deserve to be in that place. We we we know these things too, right? When we're in the presence of people we f we can feel exposed. We all have power over others and it's easy when you're in somebody's presence that you're trying to impress to hide things. I don't want you to know about these things No one's being super o honest on online dating apps. No way. But we don't want to be rejected. Because we know that there have been so many times when we have been honest or we got found out and we were left by the curbside or fired or lost our scholarship, didn't get picked. But this is what happens. The Lord said to him, Peace be to you. Do not fear. Gideon, I know you think you're about to die because you are right. I could do it. You just saw what I did. You are no Problem to consume either. You are right, Gideon, but peace be to you. Do not fear you shall not die. Peace be to you. Shalom be to you. It's gonna be okay, Gideon. I'm still not telling you exactly what to do. And Gideon builds an altar. So we have a holy God who hates and judges sin, condemns sin, knows Gideon, knows who he's talking to, knows he's not wrong. And gives him peace. Shalom. Yahweh is not soft on crime. He demands perfection, but he gives grace. Keep on coming back to this very beginning in Luke 2. The angels were back again. The angels are back with shepherds. Super unlikely people Well you could have showed up in a lot of places besides a sheepfield. And what does these what do they sing? Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among those with whom he Fear not. The glory of God is a demanding presence A consuming fire and he gives us peace. God works with nobody, doesn't he? He works with sinners, not winners. He's not for achievers or even underachievers, honestly. He's he is for scared people, needy people The God who destroys also delivers. The God who shatters also saves. This is what grace is about. We are sinful and lost, but God sent Jesus, a prophet, priest, and king, to judge evil, to deliver us, to be our champion, to save us, to love us. And if we forget our sinfulness, we become overconfident, unloving, and judgmental. But if we forget our acceptance and love, we become anxious, guilty, and driven. God gives us peace and shalom in Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. But it doesn't end here. It doesn't end right there. That would be a great place to end. But Gideon has something to do. Grace brings action. When we hear God's declaration that we're okay, we want to go and do stuff. We don't do stuff so we can hear that. When we hear it, we go do stuff. And God says, I want you to do something real scary, Gideon. I haven't even told you this yet. Take your father's bowl and the second bowl, seven years old, and pull down the altar of Baal. that your father has, and cut down the asher that is beside it, and build an altar to the Lord your God on top of the stronghold there, with stones laid out in due order. Then take the second bow and offer it as a burnt saffering And this is what we read. He took takes ten men, so he has he has influence. Right? He can gather a a small little army. But he doesn't want to do it in daytime. Fine. And did you notice this bale hot spot? It's connected to his what? Father. This is his dad's place. His father worships Baal. This is why we don't think Gideon really knew much about Yahweh. It was a mix, it was synchronous, right? Because his dad built this altar And Baal is way more tolerant. Asherah too. These are fertility gods. They're happy. And of course, we think we're so much smarter. So much more sophisticated. We have the internet after all. We know there's no such thing as Baal or Astra. We just worship philosophy Entertainment, achievement, beauty, comfort, ambition. And God says tear those down too If that's what you worship, you gotta go into those places and tear those down. And it's costly Uh God is not tolerant on these things. He refuses to be cheated on So I think the point here is Israel is being oppressed by the Midianites for sure, right? There are outsiders attacking them, but there's insiders. Their own hearts are also led astray. to be awake on our own idols. And so Gideon did it, however reluctantly, at night is fine, no problem. Obedience was essential. Heroic action optional And then there's an aftermath. Of course, this is what he's afraid of. Okay, so when the men of the town rose early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal was broken down. Yo The ashra behind it was also cut down. There was a bowl on an offering, then an altar that had been built. And when they said this, one another, who had done these things? And after they had searched and inquired, they said Gideon, the son of Joash, has done this. Then the men of the town said to Joash, Bring out your son. He's gotta die. For he has broken down the altar of Baal and cut down the asher beside it. But Joash said to all who stood against him, Would you contend for Baal, or will you save him? Whoever contends for him shall be put to death by the morning. If he is a god, let him connect contend for himself, because an altar has been broken down. Some logic here, right? Bail so awesome, let Vale do it. I'm also trying to say my son this is a persuasive speech And to make it more persuasive, he he nicknames, therefore on that day, getting was called Jerobaal. That is to say, let Baal contend against him, because he was he broke down the altar. So sort of like he gets a nickname that's sort of a reverse nickname, right? There are good nicknames. Pudge, Mookie, Moose, The Bus, The Galloping Ghost, The Glove, Ed Two Tall Jones Magic Johnson, Charlie Hussle, The Fridge, Babe Ruth, Jeru Bale, Maybe try that one out on somebody? Let Baal contend against him because he broke down the altar? I don't think it's that good But anyway, he has it. So we're almost done. We have this in the fleece. He gets the spirit of the Lord, sounds the trumpet, people respond, gets an army. All is great. There's still more to go though. We are not done with Gideon, so he's got lots more to do. So then we get to this fleece test. The famous fleece test test the thing everybody knows about. If God is real, the fleece is wet. If God is real, the fleece is dry. And God does it, and I mentioned to the kids God didn't have to do it. And a lot of people are really mean on Gideon on this point, but I don't think so. He wanted a sign. He doesn't have a Bible He doesn't have a church. He didn't get taught the stories. He doesn't know them. He's been hanging around the Baal, Asherah, Yahweh mix. So he wanted a sign for his weak, uninformed faith. Amen. He'd done a lot of stuff already, right? He had followed the Lord, so he knew some about it. He had done risky things. And we are asked to do those things We have poles to tear down. We need to embrace grace too. And grace is for losers, helpless people, weak-faith people, afraid people, people who hide things. Yes. Even after Gideon had seen all those things, he's still afraid because he's a normal person. And there are Midianites around us, aren't there? And there's stuff inside us. Ever since the serpent showed up, the serpent said you cannot trust God. He is not for you. Did God say these things? That serpent's still chirping Chirpin chirpin. We still doubt. But today we have signs, don't we We have the word to read. We can hear the word preached. We can sing the songs of faith, we can recall the stories, we can tell our own stories. And every week we're coming and remembering God sent a sign. We forget And then we come back and you're like, oh that's right. He sent a sign. I wanted a sign. I'm like Gideon who wanted a sign. I have one. It cost Jesus his life to make this sign for us. And we get It's a very different meal of course. But we can say like Gideon who's in Hebrews eleven. Fragile faith is faith after all. I believe help my unbelief. This dog's about to come in I'm surprised he's not come in. I was waiting for him to come all the way up. Come on doggy. I think a barking dog is a good end to a sermon anyway. Just the point is God eats with us, so we get to eat Be with him, not be consumed. Amen.