Today is uh selections from Judges four. And the people of Israel again did what was evil in the sight of the Lord after Ehud died. And the Lord sold them into the land of the into the hand of Jaban, king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor. The commander of his army was Sisera, who lived in Heresheth Hegoyam. Then the people of Israel cried out to the Lord for help, for he had nine chun nine hundred chariots of iron, and he oppressed the people of Israel cruelly for twenty years. Now Deborah, a prophetess, the wife of Lepidos, was judging Israel at that time. She used to sit under the palm of Deborah between Ramah and Bethel in the hill country of Ephraim And the people of Israel came up to her for judgment. She sent and summoned Barak the son of Abinoam from Kedesh Naphtali, and said to him, Has not the Lord the God of Ithra Commanded you, go gather your men at Mount Tabor, taking ten thousand from the people of Nephtali and the people of Zebulun And I will draw out Sisera, the general of Javan's army, to meet you by the river Kaishan, with his chariots and his troops, and I will give him into your hand Barak said to her, If you will go with me, I will go, but if you will not go with me, I will not go. And she said, I will surely go with you. Nevertheless, the road on which you are going will not lead to your glory, for the Lord will send Sisera into the hand of a woman. Then Deborah arose and went with Barak to Kenesh. And Barak called out Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh, and ten thousand men went up at his heels, and Deborah went up with him But Sisera fled away on foot to the tent of Jael, the wife of Hibor the Kenite, for there was peace between Javan the king of Hazor in the house of Hebre the Kenite. And Jael came out to meet Sisera and said to him, Turn aside, my lord, turn aside to me. Do not be afraid. So he turned aside to her into the tent. And she covered him with a rug. And he said to her, Please give me a little water to drink, for I am thirsty. So she opened a skin of milk and gave him a drink and covered him. And he said to her, Stand at the opening of the tent, and if any man comes and asks you, Is anyone here? Say no. But Jael, the wife of Haver, took a tent peg and took a hammer in her hand. Then she went softly to him and drove the peg into his temple until it went down into the ground while she was while he was lying fast asleep from weariness. So he died. And behold, as Barak was pursuing Sisera, Jael went out to meet him and said to him, Come and I will show you the man whom you are seeking. So he went into her tent, and there lay Sisera dead, with the tent peg in his temple. So on that day God subdued Jabin the king of Canaan before the people of Israel. Amen. Please be seated. Thank you. Um in judges more than maybe normal, especially in the New Testament, we're going to get some of these names. So just do your best or Say the K place, you know, whatever, it's all fine. Today we're gonna talk a lot about or our theme is how we process God's sovereignty. considering the events around us with the events we're going through, um, you know, was this thing that happened to me or my people or my country Good or bad? How do I evaluate this? Because we understand God being sovereign means nothing is out of his control. And yet we have human responsibility. So we don't just say God's sovereign, I don't have to do anything. So somehow there's a way that that God's sovereignty and human responsibility fit together, and it can be two truths that are very perplexing, especially when things aren't going our way and we wonder if God is in charge. When I got in the car this morning to drive over, a Lauren Daigle song came on. And it said, Where are you now when darkness seems to win? Where are you now when the world is crumbling? It's a good question. Where are you? Where's God in this? So we're going to look at that through uh Judges four and five. But before we do, we finished with Ehud last week. And remember there was a king that died in a sort of crazy way, a gross way. But there was one more judge at the very end of chapter 3 Only gets one verse. After him was Shamgar, the son of Anoth, who killed six hundred of the Philistines with an ox goad, and he also saved Israel. That's a pretty short description. Especially compared to all that we read about these other people. So it's a little interesting to think about why that is that way. And in chapter 5. Pretty much the same thing. In the days of Shamgar son of Anish, in the days of jail the highways were abandoned. The travelways travelers kept to the byways. So he does get mentioned. One more time. One more little interesting thing about this, just as an aside, this word ox goad, this is the only time this appears in the Bible, this word. And there's a term for that. It's called a hophslagaman. So that's a cool word, right? Hopaks legamanon. Stick that in your vocabulary sometime and pull it out. But there are quite a few of those in the Old Testament and then a decent number in the New Testament. Just one occurrence words Doesn't matter. Okay, so four, one, and two. This is we talked about these cycles. We've been doing these cycles, and here we are again, see? He saved Israel. And then the people of Israel again it was evil in the sight after the Lord of the Lord after Ehud died. And the Lord sold them into the hand of Jabon, king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor. The commander of his army was Sisera who lived in Hosheroth Hogaiam. So that's the pattern, right? They get saved, they go back, things are word. Um this is King Jabon, a Canaanite king. And so now we have a renewed aggression by a familiar oppressor. The Canaanites have been around before. We had the Moabites before. But these are the Canaanites. Back to the Canaanites. And uh one of my points about this is um sin is back If if we were in a reality game show, we would want to get immunity. Right? But there's no immunity from sin. Except not sinning. But other people around you are sinning too. So you don't get to just live in a non-sin world So it comes back. And and I want to tell you that because it's easy to then read these chapters and stories and think that we're talking about a piece of land still being contested, but this is just a story from a long, long time ago. But I keep on pressing to you. Which is my job as a preacher, that we are these people. That um our unfaithfulness is in this story. Whoring after Baals is a description of things we do. We don't always drive out the Canaanites. We often work with things and people that will oppress us And we take on the world's ethos so often, the the world's worldview so often, even the world's gods sometimes. God plus Baal, God plus anything. So here in this story Jabin is the general. Jabin is the king and Siser is the general. He's a Canaanite mercenary, really. There's 900 iron chariots. This is exactly what they were afraid of. Back in chapter 1. They have iron chariots. He's got 900 of them. They're getting more and more. And so chapter 4 and chapter 5 go together. Just we'll look at chapter 5. But chapter 5 is a poem. In the middle of Judges, you get this long poem, The Song of Deborah and Barak. But it's a true poem. It's a poetic commentary that gives more life to chapter four. There's another place like this in Exodus. Uh with the song of Miriam in chapter fifteen. Uh so do you know we don't want to discount these songs. They're a different way to tell the story. A different way to tell the story. My place. But we read in chapter five. Ah, Joshua, come on, we're judges. Five, six through eight, we were we read this first part. The travelers kept to the byways, the villagers ceased in Israel, they ceased to be until I arose. I, Deborah, arose as a mother in Israel When new gods were chosen, then war was in the gates, with shield or speed spear to be seen among forty thousand. So she is crying out about how bad things are. Just like the pattern goes. Everything's been confiscated. They don't have weapons They're gonna fight wars with sticks against an army that has 900 iron chariots And the mu even the mother of Sisera, the general, cries out. Out the window she peered, the mother of Sisera wailed through the lattice, Why is the chariot so long in coming? Why tarry in the hoofbeats of his chariots? They have gone to find the spoil. Things are bad all over the place. This is scary stuff, so let's start with Deborah. Israel cries out, chapter 4, verse 3, then the people of Israel cried out to the Lord for help, for he had 900 chariots of iron, and he oppressed the people of Israel cruelly for twenty years. Now Deborah, the prophetess, the wife of Lapidoth was judging Israel at the time. Deborah's name means bee, like a bummel bee, which doesn't really matter in this story. Sometimes it matter does matter, right? And we find out that she is a prophetess. So there are women prophets. They're not super common, but it's certainly not impossible, right? She is judging, she's a deliverer, she's a champion, from a palm tree. She used to sit under the palm of Deborah between Ramah and Bethel in the hill country of Ephraim, and the people of Israel came up to her for judgment. Now this isn't really like Judge Judy. We're coming up to render me a judgment. This is coming and they're coming up and say, who will save us? Who will judge them? Who will help us? Does anyone care? Just like we talked about at the beginning. And she gives divine answers. So she's more ever one of these all these prophets have or judges have different personalities and mixes. So she's more of a prophetess judge than a general judge. Okay? And she sends for Barak, we'll talk about him later, and she tells him God's plan to deliver, and she goes through the logistics, right? And Barak says, I'll go if you go. And and she says, No problem, but just so you know, the glory is going to a woman. Now this is w one of the greatest girl power chapters in the Bible. Right? And girl power is strong. For sure, I would tell my RUF girls, use your girl powers for good If somebody wants to go out with you, you could say, well, I'll be at church at 10 a. m. I'll meet you there. I bet you we'd see a lot more dudes in church. So he has the plan, right? The plan's fine. Let's go to Kedesh. Uh Deborah in 514, we read this. The princes of Essachar 514. From Ephraim their route, they marched down into the valley, following you, Benjamin, with your kin. From Achir marched down the commanders, and from Zebulun those who bear the lieutenant staff. So they come down, and what we read is that Deborah is not the main character in the story. Barak is not the main character of the story. We'll talk about him. Jael is not the main character of the story, but the Lord is the main character of the story. It's the Lord who fights the battle and wins the day. Who saves. Have you ever watched BattleBots on TV? It's like super nerdy. People build these robots and they go into this arena and they It's the last one standing, right? And they um there's always different ways to do 'em. There's ones that smash, there's ones that spin. There's ones that flip. I really like it because um You I don't care who wins. I don't know these people. I don't care who wins. It's very just pop in for 15 minutes, see a couple robots battling it out, go do something else. I highly recommend battle box. Okay, that's a Deborah is saying, let's go to battle. They don't have robots But God is a warrior God and she knows he is on the on their side, right? Now interestingly, we don't hear of Deborah again. Another interesting thing is Barak does get some glory because he's in Hebrews 11 and she's not. I think it's sort of weird. But what's important just to think about a little bit is, you know, this chapter confounds conservative Christians. And liberal Christians have a problem too. Men and women are not just interchangeable parts We are obviously not all the same, but there are some people in our even denomination that would say women can't lead. Women can't give advice. Women can't read scripture. That's ridiculous, in my opinion. Women, we n we need your voices, we need your strength and your courage. We need your thoughts. We need you to lead. We need you on the team. You know that, but I'm saying it out loud because sometimes you hear People say that's not true. At least hear from me, that it is completely true we need each other. And so Deborah builds this team with Farak, right? And they both lead, but they lead a little differently. They don't lead the exact same way. They need each other. She is more of the prophetess part, queen judge, prophetess. He's more of the general judge. They're equal, but they're not equivalent. Right? The differences are something that we rejoice over. And Deborah was wise and talented and brilliant and godly Amen. She's on Team Deborah Barack. She doesn't lead the battle. I think she's awesome. But then there's JL. Because Sisera got away. They have this big battle, but the general gets away, and that's bad, because he can do it again. And we read that JL, the wife of this guy, the Kenite guy, 411, he they pitched this tent. It's a weird sort of weird deal detail in this story of this battle. Jesus is tent. But the writer, author of Judges is a master storyteller, so we're going to pick this back up. Because this her husband made an alliance with Jabin the king and Sisera the general. They got peace. Peace, what's the word for peace? Shalom. So they're good. So this general running away can stop at her tent, right? So JL comes out. Now Jael I think she's Sigourney Weaver and Aliens. She's Angelina Jolie and Tomb Raider. She's Sarah Connor. She's in the hunger games. This is not Laura Ingalls Wilder by any means. Um, she uses her girl powers in a very different way. But And there's some like undertones in here of like we're not exactly sure how she's using her girl powers until the one moment. But before that, it's like, hey buddy, you look tired Uh let's be alone in the tent. I'll pour you a drink. Now, it turns out the drink is milk, so it's not that amazing. Um, right? He was probably hoping for something different. And it says, I think this I thought this was funny today. Um So she covered him with a rug, right? And he said to her, please give me a little water to drink, for I'm thirsty. She opened a skin of milk and gave him a drink and covered him. I mean it sort of reads like she covered him with milk. Because we already talked about covering him with a rug. I'm assuming the cover came off or something like that, right? So here's the guy covered in milk, no covered in a rug, drinking milk, right? And this woman w she lived in tents, so she knows where tent pegs are, she knows how to use them. And she goes softly in and I imagine it's looked sort of like this. I was gonna do a live stab stabbing, but then I realized not all the kids would be gone. Might be traumatized in church today. But if you look at chapter 5, it goes even better. It's even better. Verse 24 More blessed be women of Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite, of tent-dwelling women most blessed. He asked for water, she gave him milk She brought him curds in a noble's bowl. She set her hand to the tent peg, and her right hand to the workman's mallet, and she struck Cicera, she crushed his head, she shattered and pierced his temple Between her feet he sank, he fell, he lay still. Between her feet he sank, he fell. Where he sank, there he fell, dead. Well, it's like Edgar Allan Pope. Boosh! JL kills the general. Then Barack shows back up and JL says, hey, guess who was in the tent? And so I'm thinking Barack's going like Is he tied up? Is he drunk? What's going on? What am I about to walk into? And he did not expect to walk into this. Then he's like, whoa That is awesome. Way to go. You totally saved the day And she gets credit for this amazing victory. And it says in the text, she's the most blessed among tent-dwelling women. It's not the greatest compliment of all time, right? There's a flight of the Concord song that starts off, you're the most beautiful woman. in the room. So not in the world. Not in the town. You're the most beautiful woman in the whole wide room. Sort of feels like that. The best tent dwelling lady we've ever heard of. And we never hear from again. Okay, so this is now an important point. I do not want y'all to start a daughters of JL group. That would be more scary, that's not the application. Okay, Barak. Barak's name means lightning. That might matter. Barak is a little more of a typical judge, savior, deliverer, champion, the general for the Israelites. It says obviously I've mentioned in Hebrews 11 he was a man of faith. Other men of faith don't get into Hebrews 11. It's interesting how the author has chosen some of them, but I think there's four judges that are in there, which is interesting Uh Deborah sends for him, right? She's creating this team, and it just sounds like a suicide mission. Draw out sister, camp on the mountain. He's not super sure, you know, the chariots thing is scary. But he says if you go, I'll go. And so they negotiate this little bit. And then Deborah finally says, it is go time. We are doing this. And Cicero rolls out the chariots. And what does five? Five, four, and five say. About how this got won. Lord, when you went out from Seir, when you marched from the region of Edom, the earth trembled and the heavens dropped. Yes, the clouds dropped water. The mountains quaked before the Lord. Even Sinai before the Lord, the God of Israel. Who won the battle? The Lord won the battle. And what is one thing the Lord did? He sent a storm. And that messes up chariots real bad. Chariots ain't can't do nothing in a storm like that. So Cisera even, you know, these people serve weather gods, and they got chopped down because Yahweh sent A storm. God used Yahweh. God used JL. God used Deborah And we need courage to fight against our foes and humility. Right? We need partnerships with other people, maybe unlikely partnerships that we wouldn't normally choose. But the goal isn't really be like Deborah, or certainly not be like JL, or be like Barak. God is using broken people. Who needs saving. And he uses us in some of those stories, right? And sometimes we look and we say, this is chaos. And we need each other even to remind ourselves God is sovereign and he is good and he loves you. And maybe we can see something that someone else can't see in the moment. Because we know God, Barak didn't know that storm was going to come, but he went out in faith because he listened to the words of Deborah, the prophetess, who was speaking the words of the Lord. But he didn't know how it was going to turn out. We no one certainly thought JL would stab this guy in the head in a tent It was placed at the exact perfect place for him to walk by and walk into, right? God uses all things for good. We may not always figure out when that comes around. God used Judas to betray Jesus. God used a corrupt court to render a corrupt verdict. And crucify the Son of God. That was ordained, that was allowed, that was overseen, and that brings joy to the world. Right? We are loved by a warrior god, a judge, fighter who fights for us. And I asked Steve to put up or Warren to put up this slide. This is the most famous picture of Jesus ever in the world. I'm sure you've seen it. It would be true before the internet. This would have been the only picture of Jesus some people ever saw It's estimated there are 500 million copies of it. It was painted by a guy named Warner Smallman in 1940. And if you can find this on the internet, there are people who say this is an exact likeness of Jesus. This is what the real living Jesus exactly looked like. People will say he looks so inviting, so reassuring, so comforting, so friendly. So white and super wimpy Right? Does this look like a warrior? No, I want to see blood. If you're a warrior, show me some scars. You look like you just had a facial. I'm sure some of you have parents that love that painting and I'm not just think we need to do a little better, maybe. We have you can take that down, Warren. We have a warrior, Jesus. Fighter Jesus. Who fights for us. Right? That's super important. Now he also says words of wisdom, of course, prophet, priest, and king. But he is also going to battle. to save his people, whatever it takes. God sold his people into slavery. And then he redeemed them out of it. God is not fully understandable and predictable, is he? There are times when we won't fully understand what he's doing, but he is the chief operator. He raises generals. He deploys armies. He dictates strategies. He affects victory for the saving work of Yahweh. Amen. Deborah was a prophet. Barak was sort of a king. But there's no priests. Where's the Ark of the Covenant? Where's the tabernacle? Where are the Levites? We're looking for a redeemer. Sometimes the absence of something is something that is important. We also need a priest. Who sacrifices for us becomes the sacrifice for us to redeem us. So God is sovereign and he is good and we live for his glory. We have a mighty fortress in our God, but we also have a mediator. Jesus is a judge, a savior, a king, a prophet, a priest, a champion. a Messiah, and he gives us full redemption, victories over Javans or Ciceras. Sometimes they nip at our heels, but he crushes their head. That song, another line in it, where where are you now when all I feel is doubt? Where are you now when I can't figure it out? But the song's title is called Look Up, Child. So when we feel this way, the events in our lives are like The song I think is right says look up. Amen.