The anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines and into the hand of the Ammonites, and they crushed and oppressed the people of Israel. For eighteen years they oppressed all the people of Israel who were beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead. And the people of Israel said to the Lord, We have sinned. Do to us whatever seems good to you. Only please deliver us this day. So they put the misery so they put away the foreign gods from among them and served the Lord, and he became impatient over the misery of And the people, the leaders of Gilead, said to one another, Who is the man who will begin to fight against the Ammonites? He shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead. Now Jepsah the Gileadite was a mighty warrior, but he was the son of a prostitute. Gilead was the father of Jepsah, and Gilead's wife also bore him sons. And when his wife's sons grew up, they drove Jephthah out and said to him, You shall not have an inheritance in our father's house, for you are the son of another woman Then Jephthah fled from his brothers and lived in the land of Tob, and worthless fellows collected around Jephthah and went out with him. Then the Spirit of the Lord was upon Jephthah, and he passed through Gilead and Manasseh and passed on to Mizbah of Gilead. And from Mizpah of Gilead he passed on to the Ammonites. And Jephthah made a bow to the Lord and said, If you will give the Ammonites into my hand, then whatever comes out from the doors of my house to meet me when I I return in peace from the Ammonite shall be the Lord's, and I will offer it up for a burnt offering. Then Jephthah came to his home at Mispah, and behold his daughter came out to meet him with tambourines and with dances She was his only child. Besides her he had neither son nor daughter. I did have fun going to RUF on Monday with Trip and Joy and Ruth and uh with with doing getting to preach to RUF students and being on campus on our RUF back to school Sunday, I felt like a campus minister. again. It was so great. So it's good to be in partnership with each other with um Monday with RUF and then Friday the Balance Farm. It's been a great week. Okay, I want you to think of iconic images of the twentieth century. Iconic images of the twentieth century. Marilyn Monroe. Not yet. Not yet. Not yet. Uh Marilyn Monroe in the dress, of course, right? James Dean and the car. How about Muhammad Ali standing over Sunny Listan? But how about this one Elvis and Richard Nixon in the White House. This happened in 1970. Let me tell you a little about it. It's interesting. That December, Elvis had spent $100,000 on Christmas presents that included 32 handguns and 10 Mercedes. And Priscilla was not happy. So he decided to fly to DC, and then a day later he decided to fly to LA, and then he had an idea, and he flew back to DC. He wanted to get a federal narcotic narcotics badge Because he collected badges and he thought this would be the coolest one he could ever get. It would be awesome. So this is what he wants. So he goes back to DC and he's there and he writes a letter to the president He says, I can and will be of any help that I can do to help the country. I will be here as long as it takes to get the credentials of a federal agent His thought process was not only would this be cool, but this would get him access to other countries easier when he flashed his badge, right? So this is not going to happen except this letter got into the hands of a staffer who loves Elvis and says, let's do it. So he they have this meeting and he shows up. Oh so this is what he gets. He does get it. But it's not real. It's just ornamental. But he doesn't know that. Okay, let's go backwards. So he he gets in there, he shows up in his purple velvet suit with his buckle, and he gives Nixon a Colt 45 from his collection that he pulled off the wall. And there wasn't a recording of this. No recording. This was before the recording devices had been installed. Which is a juicy little detail, right? From the way things turned out. Uh the meeting was kept secret for a year. Um Elvis and Nixon. Okay, now here's a little aside. I had a student in our UF who grew up in Memphis, and her mom was a nurse in the hospital, and one night Everyone was acting really weird. They wheeled in a dead person who had been obviously dead for a while, and they pretended like he wasn't dead, and tried to resuscitate him, but he'd been dead for a long time. And so nobody you know, he had a sheet over him, nobody knew who it was. When they would walk outside into the lobby, you know, or the waiting room, it was packed, packed with people, and that was never true at midnight or whenever it was, two in the And and everyone was acting very weird and she finally realized she had to tagged Elvis Presley. He's really dead despite the rumors. She wants to write a book. I toe tag Elvis. Interesting, right? Elvis and Nixon, one from Mississippi, one from California, both grew up poor, ordinary, gifted people. You would never expect to grow up to be the President of the United States and the king of rock and roll, right? We have Flawed leaders. Nixon left the presidency disgraced because of the recordings, and Elvis overdosed unless he's still alive in Mexico. Both made an impact on our world and we are looking at flawed people all throughout the book of Judges. Israel wants rescue. Israel needs rescue. They repent, cry out, they need a hero, so there's hope. in this passage too, because God is faithful and God uses sinners and saints to accomplish his purposes. Okay. Let's talk about Israel's repentance We have another cycle, just like we're used to. This is 10, 1 through 5. I didn't really think we wanted to read three chapters. So 10, 1 through 5, we get another cycle. There's these short little two judges. Uh Tola and Jayer, similar to that one short one we saw at the very beginning, Shamgar. So obviously I don't know why, if they weren't very interesting. They just did normal judging, or they didn't have like crazy problems. But they don't get talked about very much. So then they wake up. This is in verses 8. ten eight through uh six through eight. The people of Israel again did what was evil in the sight of the Lord and served the Baals and the Asherah, the gods of Syria, the gods of Sidon, the gods of Moab, the gods of the Ammonites, and the gods of the Philistines. So the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hands of the Philistines, and they crushed and oppressed the people of Israel. Israel that year. So fourteen more years. So then they cry out again. This starts in verse 9 of verse 10. And the people of Israel cried out to the Lord saying, Okay, we sinned against you because we've forsaken our God and served the Baals. And the Lord said to the people, Did I not save you from all these places? Yet you have forsaken me and served other gods. Therefore I will save you no more. Go out and cry out to the gods whom you have chosen, let them save you. And the people of Israel said to the Lord, We have sinned. Do to us what seems to you, only please deliver us this day. And they put away the foreign gods from among them and served the Lord, and he became impatient over their misery. He became impatient over their misery. He became impatient over their misery God heard them, cared, and responded. He was moved. His covenantal response toward people is mercy and graciousness and compassion, just like in our passage. When they repent. But all the time, but when they repent, especially. Read about a guy named Brian Widner, who was a white supremacist The leader of a neo Nazi group in Philly, certainly racist, and he was tattooed from head to toe, swaskins on his face, hate on his knuckles, periods Let me just give a PSA. I don't think you should get a tattoo on your face If you want to, go for it. I don't think it's the greatest look, but hey, let every everyone be themselves, right? So he's this guy. And then miraculously he changed Changed. He repented. He decided that was not okay anymore. He and his wife left the gang that they were in, and now instead of wanting to kill people, they were gonna get killed. It's not cool to leave a neo-Nazi gang apparently. And he had all this shame and all this despair, so he went to the Southern Poverty Center for help. The Southern Poverty Center helps African Americans. So it's a big huge twist, right? And show the slide. He someone gave him $35,000 to get him all off his face. And he started a group called erasinghate. com because of his life transformation. One time when he told his story, an African American woman came up and hugged him and said, I love you. Wow, that's big change, right? Big change can happen. God responded to Israel's repentance And he did not shame them anymore. Their shame was not too big for him either. And we gotta be honest, churches often deal not in hope, but in shame There's a lot of shame. God hates sin, yes, but he has grace and forgiveness and mercy He is impatient in our misery because he wants flourishing for people. We can approach him even when we failed. He is a faithful deliverer. He does discipline But no one is outside of his grace. We don't always know exactly how it happens. We live in a microwave culture, we expect everything on the snap of our fingers Sometimes he takes a long time. He takes circuitous routes. But we often are quick to tiss-tisk people I have several pet peeves, right? One of them is uh this is Probably not uncommon, but I don't mind it when someone's talking on the phone in the restaurant, especially if it's a quick phone call, whatever. But having it on speakerphone is obnoxious There's no reason to do that. And then other people will watch sports. We're watching sports. We don't watch, but you don't have to have the sound on And so my my first instinct is not to ask them to stop because I don't really want to have that confrontation I certainly think about it. I play it out in my mind, right? But my first is like to to shame people on Facebook. Like I just want to say, oh this is happening. I hate this. Everybody else hates this. That we should never do this in our culture anymore And it's like this instantaneous reaction for me to share my opinion about what I don't like about other people. And I I think that's not a good place in my heart Um that's that shame instinct. And we are so quick to be so critical. God is faithful in the long run. Sometimes this change is fast and sometimes it's changes slow, but God's love will not let you go. He was impatient with our ministry and he sent Jesus for our redemption. The time was right. much of the world. That meant that there was relative stability. And of course what were the Romans good at? Building roads. Nobody built roads better than the Romans. And so they built roads everywhere. Now there's a way to get places. And instead of all these nations fighting each other, I'm not saying it was done, there was a time when information could get out and go places. That had never happened before. The time was right. He didn't wait any longer. The time was right to get forgiveness, acceptance in Christ by his life, death, and resurrection. And then. So Israel gets rescued by this guy, Jephthah, who's super unlikely. He's not a judge that's sort of like Tom Hanks, funny and cool. And witty. He's more like Clint Eastwood. Whoa. Rough around the edges for sure. Now remember, this guy's the son of a prostitute, he's a warrior, he's a bandit, Abemelech, the son of the king, Gideon's son. killed seventy of his brothers or half brothers, but this guy gets away, and so they come to him. Verse chapter eleven. Verse 1. Now Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty warrior, but he was the son of a prostitute. Gilead was the father of Jephthah. And Gilead's wife also bore him sons. And when the sons grew up, they drove Jephthah out and said to him, You shall have no inheritance in our father's house for you the son of another woman So he fled. And after a time they they come to him, this is verse six, and they said to Jephthah, Come and be our leader that we may fight the Ammonites. And Jephthah is like, hey, remember what happened? Did you not hate me and drive me out of my father's house? And now you want to come to me when you're in distress? Like, oh oopsie, that was our bad. Don't be mad. You're gonna be awesome. That's why we've turned to you now that we may go that we you may go with us and fight against the Ammonites And be our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead. And he said, If you bring me home again to fight against the Iliads, and the Lord gives them over to me, I will be your head. Sort of like a king The Lord will witness between us if we do not do as you say. So okay, he reluctantly agrees to be their warrior. Deliverer, rescuer, and their head, if it all works out, if the Lord gives it over. And he starts with this shrewd um diplomacy. This is in verse eleven. So Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and the leader over them, and then he spoke all the words before the Lord at Mitzpah And then he sent messengers to the king of Ammonites. What do you have against me that you have come to fight me in against my land? Well, I mean, that's true And he recites some of this history. Look at he tells about the land verse sixteen. But when they came out of Egypt, Israel went through the wilderness to the Red Sea and became the Kadesh. Israel then sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, so he's going through some of the history that no one else seems to know. This is sort of the most we've heard of a background of how they got here. So that's positive. Maybe more positive. Maybe G Gideon has been learning as they you know Had these generations go by, and has he met the Lord? And has he met it? Has he met an angel? Maybe they recovered some of these things. He's saying, This is my land. But the diplomacy fails. As it often does. So let's fight. And so they go to war, and it says the Lord, the Spirit of the Lord defeated the army. So God uses people to rescue. He uses leaders who have limps. Jephthah was despised and rejected. But he didn't have to clean himself up to do. the job. God used a despised, rejected person to deliver his people. Sometimes we think, yeah, I'll do this thing whenever I get my life cleaned up. I can't serve the Lord this way. That's really not true. It depends on sort of what it is again. But this guy had a bad pedigree. It's another left-handed judge. Another wrong judge, another Gideon, half brother of Abimelech, son of a prostitute, God enters into the mess and he uses mess Messy people to rescue. After all, Jesus was not what they expected either, right? Keep on coming back to this. He was the child of an unwed mother Which was difficult to explain. I'm sure when Mary told the story, they were like, meh, no. That's not how it works. I don't know anyone else. I don't know anyone else. I mean, I know what they told me in eighth grade. I I didn't say this is the way it goes, Mary. And and you know, he grows up in this little town. He's he's not a connected person, like he didn't go to Yale or Harvard to meet all the people so he could become president. He knows nobody But he came to seek and save the lost. He came to rescue us from our sins. Nonetheless, to deliver us from evil. To bring us into his family, to show us his love. Unfortunately, the story doesn't end there. Two more things happen. And one of them is one of the most difficult passages in the Bible, honestly, to wrap your head around. So before he goes to war, he makes this vow Verse thirty, chapter eleven If you will give the Ammonites into my hand, then whatever comes out of the doors of my house to meet me when I return in peace. So he's probably expecting you know this is the tent culture, so the door of a tent, not a door like that. Um he's probably thinking, what's gonna come out? A goat, a lamb, pig, a dog, fish something. And they'd be like, no, this is going to be cool. I'm going to get to show my piety and my devotion to the Lord, to all the people. This is probably a public display so everyone can see this. He is not expecting his only child daughter to come out. Oh no. A virgin And the sort of shocking thing is they all go through with it without sort of a blink. And she di she says, No, let's do it Which is Very odd, isn't it? My take on this is this is a part of the mix of the Yahweh Baal culture The Yahweh Bea culture is not then totally, you know, we can put away our gods, but we still know where they are. And we still know what they do. And so we don't need to see them to follow them. And of course these cultures are child sacrifice cultures for sure. And there's some part of your brain And this is true out throughout the ages, that it's it's the coolest thing in the world to be a sacrifice. People want to be sacrificed. Some you know in cultures, uh girls especially, we were raised to be sacrificed Think of think of the Aztecs, stuff like that. But Israel is not a sacrifice, child sacrifice culture at all. There's one place, right? What's the one place where it really looks like it's gonna happen? Abraham and Isaac My belief on that was it was never going to happen. Um and and my opinion is Abraham knew it was gonna it was not gonna happen Because he knows God. So he knows he's going to go all the way through with this, and he is not going to bring the knife down because God does not kill children. Except for one time. Right? One time he killed a son. Um this virgin sh her womanhood was forsaken after two months. So I've got sailing on my mind. It's coming up twenty five days. Twenty five days But who's counting? Do you know why Christopher Columbus named the islands the Virgin Islands Okay. I I wouldn't have known either. So let me be your Google for a second. Um there is a legend that it's called the Virgin of Saint Ursula. Saint Urs Ursula the Virgin. And the legend, supposedly, this doesn't seem like it could be true. Uh this is like the eleven hundreds. Uh Ursula went on a pilgrimage to Rome. And she's coming back. And guess what she has with her? Eleven thousand virgins are her posse. I don't know how that happens. Was there like sign somewhere? Meet here. Um but there's certain conditions you gotta like be able to prove. So so the legend is that on their way back home, the Huns come down out of the woods and slaughter every single one of them. Saint Ursula the Virgin. And so for some reason that's on his mind And he names it after her. I don't know, maybe they read that part of the book that day. I don't exactly understand that either Okay, so that's why I named it. So we have this other sacrifice, this tragic sacrifice, because Jephthah goes through with it. So obviously he's not a white knight, he's not a good hero. He's in this Yale, uh Yahweh Bale culture Yale, maybe right. Um it it's it is possible It is possible, and I like to believe maybe this is his little compromise that he sacrificed her womanhood and put her as to help in the temple of Yahweh. That's how he sacrificed her. That would be awesome. I want that to be what happened. I don't get to decide. We'll find out someday Don't make bargains with God. If you do this for me, God, I'll do this for you. It's not a it's not a great strategy. Um Jepha knew God somewhat, he knew the script somewhat. Remember he he'd understand some So he understands some, but he's still bargaining with God. That's not good. And then at the very end here, we have another conflict, this conflict with Ephraim This is a large tribe. They felt really left out of this war. Um it's sort of like a rogue state also. Uh they sort of did whatever they wanted, so it's sort of like Texas. And and they had messed with Gile uh Gideon before. Now they're going after Jephthah. And they fought and they had access. So this is the sort of famous part where you sort of forget where it comes from, the Shibaleth part, right? So they have this war and they don't all get killed and so they want to run away, but they're Israelites. So they're they're dressing up like Gideon's people, Jephthah's people, and they're trying to get through. But there's a catch, right? They have this accent, so they don't I don't know which other ways you could say it personally. Um this word means ear of corn or flood. No one really knows. And it's the way to tell if somebody's from around you. And it's been used throughout time. Um in Sicily there was a rebellion in in twelve eighty two and the word they use to figure out if you were from here is chickpeas. Well in Sicilian. Um in nineteen thirty-seven on the Haitian border or on the Haitian immigrants they were hunting them down on the Dominican Republic border and the word was parsley. Can you say parsley? So this is called the Parsley Massacre. And it's estimated between twenty thousand and thirty thousand died. There are this is views today. There's a um a famous restaurant or maybe a street in New Orleans called Chopitulas. And if you don't know how to say it, they say, get out of here if they're voting on something important, right? And so I'm not passing as a New Orleans person. Which I'm not trying to. So we still have these things. Um sometimes they're marks that only the people in the know know what they mean. So it's the club marks. But there's this zeal that's misplaced. They want their own glory Uh I feel this way somewhat about Birmingham, Alabama, where my daughter lives. I've recently found out it's a delightful place, but it has a very terrible history. Um obviously that's the reason why Martin Luther King was there, because it was called Bomingham. This is the place where the children were sprayed with the hoses to get They're supposed to get the dogs away. This is the place where Martin Luther King is writing the letter from the Birmingham jail to People that were moderates. It was a very, very bad place. But God uses places like Birmingham in his story, doesn't he? It's very human, so we can relate to these things. And we've said this before. They will know we are Christians by our Yep, course. But you know what? It's not on how we always disagree all the time, but but we're Protestants, so what do we do? Protest Protest. I'm gonna protest all this stuff. We are known we are Christians for how we vote. You didn't vote right. We are known we are Christians by how we parent and ho put our kids to school. You didn't do parenting or schooling right. We will know we are Christians by who worships the right way. Not that way. So we can understand what it's like to be Israel. And we here at grace are called to be a light to the nations. To be a blessing to people, to help people flourish. But it's a lot easier to tear up than build up. It's a lot easier to fight. But we want to be a community that that loves and cares even when we do disagree. We disagree graciously and patiently and kindly because we are not going to agree on everything. But pride can control and damage all of it. That misplaced zeal. Sometimes we do need to battle, but it takes wisdom to To figure out when, and sometimes you do need to break a vow. Rarely If you promise someone that you would go on that beach vacation for a week, you should break that promise if that person's not your spouse. Um obviously our marriages are very important and we do vow till death to us part. But you should break that vow if there's abuse Or if people are in danger, or if you married a narcissist and you didn't know it, which means you're gonna find out A whole lot of things out. Most of them you will never have known until it all comes crashing down. Narcissists are very good at hiding everything and making excuses for the little things and they gaslight you so you think everything your fault until you find out your basically whole thing was a lie. So that's not a marriage. Should break that vow We need a zeal for the Lord, Jesus and the Holy Spirit, not a pride for it. After all, his life was sacrificed for our daughters. And in some way if Jephthah really wanted to be a picture of Jesus, he would say, Take me. Take me. Save her. Take me Jesus of course sacrificed himself. He didn't say, Oh meh, what can you just take Judas? He's not very likable. I don't mind if he dies. He's just gonna kill himself anyway He didn't say Peter. He didn't even say Barabbas. Can we put Barabbas back online? You know, God also uses messed up churches. Paul's letters to Ephesus, Galatia, Paul's letter to Corinth Not pretty. John writes the churches, yes, some good things to say, but they're not perfect churches, are they? Fill of messed up people And so God can erase the vile tattoos, metaphorical vile tattoos in our lives. life and wash us white as snow and give us new stories like Brian Whidmer's new stories. And he still uses flawed heroes to point to The point of the true one who rescues by his own sacrifice, not others. That's the one we serve, right? And he's impatient in our misery. Amen.