Now the lords of the Philistines gathered to offer a great sacrifice to Jagon their God, and to rejoice, and they said And when the people saw him, they praised their God, for they said, Our God has given our enemy into our hand, the ravager of our country, who has killed many of us. And when their hearts were merry, they said, Call Samson that he may entertain us. So they called Samson out of the prison, and he entertained them. They made him stand between the pillars, and Samson said to the young man who held him by the hand, Let me feel the pillars on which the house rests, that I may lean against them. Now the house was full of men and women. All the lords of the Philistines were there, and on the roof there were about three thousand men and women who looked on while Samson entertained. Then Samson called to the Lord and said, O Lord God, please remember me and please strengthen me only this once, O God, that I may be avenged on the Philistines for my two eyes. And Samson grasped the middle pill two middle pillars on which the house rested, and he leaned his weight against them, his right hand on one and his left hand on the other. And Samson said, Let me die with the Philistines. Then he bowed with with all his strength, and the house fell upon the Lords and upon the Philistines people who were in it. So the dead whom he killed at his death were more than those whom he had killed during his life. Zorah and Eshtel in the tomb of Manoah his father. He had judged Israel twenty years. Judges sixteen twenty-three to thirty-one. Thanks. Please be seated. I don't really need this microphone for this room, but it's really for the uh audio on the thing. Okay, this is my next week is the last week of judges. Um it's also the sort of even worse part of judges And then you're going to get Jacob, the R-U-F at Johns Hopkins that we just prayed about. And then it will be Carl, Pastor Carl, and then Pastor Dan, and then I'll be back. So that's preview of coming attractions. I have told you, if you've been here, about my love for Mark McGuire, the Cardinals. He he also played for the A's. Uh Um in nineteen ninety seven he broke Roger Maris' record, which had been at sixty-one home runs, and he hit seventy home runs Uh he hit two on the last day of the season. So I was there when he tied the record, when he broke the record, and on the last day of the season, and it was awesome. Pandemonium. Um he was so great and he was so strong, his legs were this big, his biceps were this big, it seemed at least. And some of that was due to a little thing we call steroids. Um he was back in the day, this is now in the what two early two thousands, mid two thousand Uh the Congress investigated this. And he was in front of Congress and they were asking questions and he kept on saying, I'm not here to discuss the past. Which sounded a lot like a guilty admission. Sure sounded guilty. Now, Mark McGuire has the fifth most home runs of anyone in all time five hundred and thirty-eight. He won two World Series and he's not in the Hall of Fame. Because like Barry Bonds, he He enhanced his strength. Now that doesn't mean he wasn't strong by his own accord, but he worked hard with drugs We don't ask that about Hank Aaron or Roger Maris or Mickey Mannle or Babe Ruth. And so when this realization came to me And I fought it for a while. No, no, these were legal. No, no. The they weren't banned yet. All this stuff. I finally put away his baseball card, tore down his poster that I had that said power That was very sad for me. Now we have doping sex scandals all the time. Lance Armstrong won seven Tours de Frances and they're all stripped away and he's banned for life. So we're gonna talk today about strength. And remember this is it's gonna be a special pointing at the end. The God's people have stopped crying out for help. They used to be crying out. The last time that I I just looked at this morning was It was in chapter eleven, verses ten through sixteen. They cried out, they put away their bales, but they have stopped doing that, they have given up, and they still have a deliverer, a very weird one. But let's talk about the Philistine strength first. What keeps on happening to the Philistines is these reversals of fortune. They always think they got it, right? They're at this wedding, they figure out this riddle. It wasn't the best riddle. Uh and so they get him. They they trick him, so they get the things he was offering and he doesn't get the things he wanted, except then he gets real mad, he's got a temper. Samson does. And he opens up a can on them and kills them all and gets his stuff. And so they're dead. Reversal of fortune, right? Then they go back and uh Samson goes back just as recap a little and um his wife gave his his wife's father gave her away to the best man you know like soap opera And we know this isn't going to go well because we know uh who Samson is. And so when he goes back, the the father says Uh you know, I thought you hated her, so I gave her to your companion. Is not her younger sister more beautiful than she is? Please take her instead. What a loving dad This is good fatherhood lessons, right? And he says, No, no, I'm gonna chill. This time I'll be innocent in regard to the Philistines when I do them harm So Samson went. I mean what would you do? Obviously this is in the list of things to do So Samson went and caught three hundred foxes and took torches and turned them tail to tail and put a torch between each pair of tails. And when he had set fire to the torches he let the foxes go into the standing grain of the Philistines and set fire to the stacked grain and the standing grain as well as the olive olive orchards. So we have some pictures of this. I've dug up in the archives. Bible Museum, okay. So the big question of this is, how does one go about doing this? How much time does it take to catch three hundred foxes? They're alive. He's not shooting them dead. Where's he got all these fox farms? Okay, and then here's he's so happy at the end This is one of the weirder little tiny stories. in the Bible. Okay, so now the Philistines are mad. So what do they do? 15, 6. Who has done this? And they said, Samson, the son-in-law of the Temnite, because he has taken his wife and given her to his companions. And the Philistines came up and burnt her and her father with fire. This feels like a big overreaction to me. But Samson then says, Okay, if this is what you do, I swear I will be avenged on you, and after that I will quit And he struck them hip and thigh with a great blow, and he went down and stayed in the cleft of the rock of Edom. So Samson says, I'm gonna mess you up one more time, and then I'm gonna chill out. Right. I don't believe him. But the thing is, Samson now, it's not only the Philistines that don't like him him. His own people don't like him either. They are all tired of Samson. We need to get him out of here. Stop the madness, right? And so they come, the Philistines come into Judah. And they say, Bring us Samson. We'll take care of this problem. Another reversal though, Samson gets wind of all this, and he strikes him down with the jawbone of a donkey, and he writes what he thinks is a really awesome poem With the jawbone of a donkey, heaps upon heaps, with the jawbone of a donkey I have struck down a thousand men. Now donkey and jawbone rhyme in Hebrew. So that's why it's so funny. Um and he then they call this place Ramath Lehi, which means jawbone hill So another defeat, another poem. We sort of have this gladiator, crazy man. At the very end of this chapter, he gets thirsty. And he was very thirsty, and he called upon the Lord and said, You have granted this great salvation by the hand of your servant, and shall I now die of thirst and fall into the hands of the uncircumcised? And God split open the hollow place that is Lei, and water came from it. And when he drank, his spirit returned, and he revived. And he said, Thank you, Lord, for you have saved me. No, he doesn't say that. This isn't his first prayer. It's really sort of I mean, I don't know, is he dying? He's very superfluous all the time. So he could just be a little thirsty. But he he he does talk to God and God does answer his prayer. So it's a miracle. But he doesn't say anything in response. 162, we we see Samson's character. 16 161, Samson went to Gaza and there he saw a prostitute and he went in with her. The Philistines, uh, the Gazites, a part of the Philistines, say perfect This is a good chance to get him. They kept quiet all night. But Samson lay till midnight, and at midnight he arose and took hold of the doors of the gate of the city and the Two posts and pulled them up, bar and all, and put them on his shoulder and carried them to the top of the hill that is in front of Hebron. Not exactly sure why he did that, but he ruined their gates. That was the point. Okay, so then we get to a very famous They come up with a new plan, they have a new secret agent, but we're gonna wait on her for a minute. Samson is a larger than life flawed anti-hero. And so do we root for Samson? Do we like Samson? Are we going go Samson? I mean he is pretty awesome in some part Oh I think Oh the jawbones. Oh I do have jawbone pictures. Oh here he is, jawbone. One, two Two. That's the that's the we've been using that one a lot. There's only three, right? Job and patient. He's a violent character person, isn't he? Um we see the Philistines' blunders, Sampson's anger, his strength, his repu re retribution. He's ripped up a lion, killed thirty because he'd lost some stuff. Then he kills a thousand. He ties up these foxes, he carries a city wall up a hill. Uh ph the Philistine strength keeps on being folly. When I was in RUF I took some of my students to Peru And we were on a work project. And some of my guys on the trip, these college guys, were strong. They worked out a lot And they would flex for you, they were very happy with their strength, right? And we were working on this building, but we had no power tools. We had 30-pound sledgehammers And um we would take twenty strikes to accomplish the thing, and then we'd have to stop for an hour. We were exhausted And these Peruvian workers, like this tall, they would do two strikes, and they never stopped working all day long. So we saw, okay, wait, there's a different type of strength It's not barbell working out strength. It's actual strength that matters in the world of doing something. It was a good lesson for them, right? And so God also sometimes uses our strength what we call strength against us. He has this also reversal thing, and it could be Mark and I were talking about this This morning he's boxing us into a corner so we eventually need him and cry out to him. Because until that happens, we're like, I can do it on my own. I'm self-sustaining, I'm self-sufficient. And so he's teaching Okay, let's get back to Samson. Is subdued and stripped. And we've been talking about how God uses very flawed people. Samson's pretty unsavory, but he keeps on winning. Uh he's unstoppable. He's supposed to be a deliverer. If you go back in the very beginning, and he has a miracle birth And in chapter thirteen, verse five, it says, No razor shall come upon his head, for the child shall be a Nazarite to God from the womb, and he shall begin to save Israel from the hands of the Philistines. Philistines. He shall begin to save Israel from the hand of the Philistines. These judges, and and we read at the very end, he judged Israel twenty-three twenty years. They're they're sorta like a king, but they're not a king. Uh Gideon tried to be a king, and Jephthah tried to be a king Uh uh they're they're deliverers, they're strongmen, they're warriors, they're champions. But this guy's a Nazarite too. But he doesn't Seem to care too much about it. And he has a woman problem, for sure. The very beginning he says, I saw a woman, go get her for me And then he gets tricked, and here he is again, right? Remember he got tricked before because his wife cried all week? And that's how she told she told her the riddle Uh now he's he's been with the prostitute already. And and you know obviously this is classic weakness Fodder for any movie, right? Sexuality. It happens all the time. In real life, of course. But there's there is uh repentance and freedom. And change, forgiveness. Being real in the struggle. Surrounding yourself with friends. Accountability to walk in a different direction and seek restoration. Samson doesn't do And so we enter Delilah. Famous, famous, famous Delilah. She has a Hebrew name, but at this point Israel and the Philistines are completely intermittent. And Samson has fully trusted his strength. He doesn't think about his miracle birth. He doesn't Think about his Nazirite vows. He's supposed to be standing in the gap and walking among the people to remind them of Yahweh. He's not doing that He's supposed to be giving glory to God. He's supposed to know the Bible and pray. We got the one sort of prayer because he's thirsty And he is not trusting in God's strength, is he? He's saying, I am the man. I can do whatever I want, whenever I want, to whomever I want, I am in charge. I am the man. And when you think that you are actually in trouble. So he's in trouble and he doesn't know it. And Delilah uses Samson's arrogance, lust, and strength. Because the thing about Delilah is she's strong too. Right? There's different ways to be strong. And she has a superpower that is gonna get to Samson. And she's very persuasive. And it turns out the Phil Philistines are desperate, of course. So they send her in They tell her that she's going to pay him. So here we are in verse 5. Verse 4. After this he loved a woman in the valley of Sorak, whose name was Delilah, and the lords of the Philistines came up to her and said, Seduce him. See where his great strength lies, and by what means we may overpower him, that we may bind him up to humble him, and we will give you a 1,100 pieces of silver. So she'll be rich and famous. And you know what? She is famous, right? It happened. I don't know what she did with her eleven hundred pieces of silver. So Delilah said to Samson, please Sam C Oh, p these biceps are so nice. Please tell me, oh, I'll get you a drink. Please tell me where your great strength lies and how might you be bound. I'm just wondering. Why are you asking? No, for nothing. Don't worry about it That one could subdue you if anyone would want to. So he tells her, of course, which makes total sense. Uh it's seven fresh bowstrings. The Philistines are coming. The Philistines are coming. No, that's not true. Um Well Delilah doesn't like that so much. Um the Philistines are upon you, Samson, but he snapped the bowstrings as a thread of flat snaps when it touches the fire So the secret of his strength was not known. Verse 10. So Delilah said to Samson, Behold, you have mocked me and told me lies. Tell me how you might be bound. And he says, Oh, you gotta tie my hair up with seven uh ropes. We need it because ropes first, right? And then it's uh weaving the seven locks. Uh none of this is true. And she says, You don't love me? We don't have secrets from each other. Well who have you been talking to? Because it seems like every time I tell you something, the Philistines show up. Is this a weird coincidence? It's totally a coincidence, Samson. I just have a Philistines alert over here and it just they keep on coming. Has nothing to do with my questions. You don't love me. You're lying to me. And so he tells her. How can you say I love you when your heart is not with me? You have mocked me these three times, and you have not told me where your great strength lies. And when she pressed him hard with her words day after day, and urged him, his soul was vexed to death. And he told her all t all his heart, and he said to her, A razor has never come upon my head, for I've been a Nazarite to God, not that I've cared about it too much, from my mother's womb. If my head is shaved, then my strength will leave me and I shall become I'm weak and like any other man. Um he certainly believes this is true. It's you know it's hard Hard to substantiate. Um but it's connected at least to that. So he tells a secret and the Philistines Philistines come weirdly, like Come again. And uh coming up again for he has told me all his heart. The lords of the Philistines came up to her. They're sort of getting tired of this, I think. They're like, can you actually seal the deal, please? And she made him sleep on her knees, and she shaved off his head, and she began to torment him, and his Strength left him. And she said, The Philistines are upon you, Samson. And he woke up. He said, No problem. But he did not know that the Lord had left him. And the Philistines seized him, gouged out his eyes, brought him down to Gaza. Remember this is a real place, Gaza. And bound him with bronze shackles, and he grounded the mill in the prison, but the hair of his head began to grow again after it had been shaved They can't believe it worked. They are gonna make him pay. He has wreaked havoc for all these years. So they gouged out his eyes, they he put him to work in shackles to make grain. Uh he's enslaved. His lust and his power is ignorance. Has turned it into a very bad place. We keep on asking, how can we relate to this? Where do we see lust and power and ignorance wrecking our own lives or our own communities. Do we glorify God in our victories and our defeats? Are we Drifting away from the Lord all the time. Are we ruled by our passions? The scary verse in here is verse 20 at the very end, but he did not know the Lord had left him. Emmanuel, God with us, left Samson for a time. And we wonder many times, is God absent altogether? When will I see God Again. Samson really doesn't know a lot about God, although he got taught by his mother, he did know to pray and he saw a miracle. That's as far as we can see his spirituality life. And we talked about how sometimes one of the things that God does is He gives you what you want. And that can be very Terrible. Samson trusted, unlike in Jeremiah, on his own strength. He loved danger. He was an adrenaline junkie Uh he trusted in his own power. He loved conflict because he knew he would win. But now he's got no odds. And he's he's in slavery. God has saved his people over and over in these cycles. Israel has flaundered it over and over in these cycles. They had whored after other gods, very provocative language. They had given themselves away. They have lost themselves. We've seen some great warriors and we've seen just the warriors. But Israel has stopped battling. It's gotten worse. Fifteen eleven we read this One of the people said to Samson, Do you not know that the Philistines are rulers over us? We're done Maybe we should ask ourselves what rules over us? It's not Philistines. But what's the Philistine thing that rules over us? Where have we given up? The savior, defender, judge has been captured by the enemy Samson was raised up by a godly mother. He was richly gifted, but he panders, plays, fights, and always expects to have Yahweh's blessing. Blessing. His thought process is Yahweh is at my disposal. Until he wasn't But all hope was not lost. Samson was a really terrible redeemer. He was real bad at it. But we have a real redeemer because Samson is not the Redeemer. Amen? And I feel like at the end of this, he's rubbing his head. There's some wheat in there. But there's some stubble growing a little back. He feels it and I think he's feeling this buzz cut now. And he has a lot of time to think when he's going around on this grain meal, right? Round and around and around. I think he's replaying his life, his mistakes. Um he's thinking, praying He's been faithless. He's been foolish. Now he's fallen. He's thinking about this treacherous lover who played He's thinking about how God worked with this barren woman, his mother. How how God works with broken people at the bottom. And he thinks to himself, maybe there's something else I can do. So they bring him out. Philistines three thousand. Big party. They're worshiping and making sacrifices to to to Dagon Now we're at 1623. Now the lords of the Philistines gathered to offer the great sacrifice to Dagon their God into rejoice, and they said, Our God has given Samson our enemy into his our hand. And when the people saw him, they praised their God, for they said, Our God has given us our enemy into our hand, the ravager of our country, who has killed many of us. And their hearts were merry, and they said, Call Sam so that they may Entertain us. So he came out and he entertained them. Now this is not juggling, right? He's not riding a unicycle. He's broken man. They're laughing at him, mocking him. And he says, just put my hands on these pillars. It's hard for me to walk. I can't see where I'm going. And he prays. A real prayer. A real prayer this time. Samson called to the Lord and said, Oh Lord God Please remember me, and please strengthen me only this once, that I may be avenged on the Philistines for my eyes. This is a I I think I said before um the the prayer about the water seems pretty whiny to me. I don't want to say something bad about Samson, heaven forbid. But this is a real prayer, right? This is a I need help prayer. It's also a prayer of like I want to do my job to be a deliverer, to be a savior, to be a judge, to be a redeemer, even if it kills me. He has never said that before. I don't think that's thoughts it entered his mind Until he was backed into this corner and had nothing left. Remember how we said in the earlier Jepta he bowed his daughter to die. He du bowed the thing that came out of the tent next to die, and it was his daughter. What we said is he should have died in her stead He should have done the sacrifice. And now here we have Samson, finally, finally, praying And saying, I have nothing. I need everything. All I want is to serve and glorify God and help God's people and promote God's kingdom because we are in the throes of death with this God. And it's okay if I die. And you know, I mean we all die. So he got grab to perform, but he takes the house down, doesn't he? Rubs his head, smiles, they're all like, what's he doing? What's he doing? They say he's not doing nothing. He look he's he's done. He can't do anything. We've seen him walk around this thing, he's making our bread for us. And he's He says, give me one more shot. Last out of strength, his last ounce of strength was God's strength, wasn't it? It wasn't his strength It was God's strength. And in this false temple with these false gods, they're destroyed, and Samson is destroyed. It's a substitutionary death by a flawed deliverer, for sure, right? So what does that mean? It's a dim picture of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. The good news is God didn't leave us in our sins. The good news is God hears us in our dark moments. Samson was really weak after all, right? I mean he was sort of strong, but he was super weak. Jesus is strong and wise. Samson certainly unchaste, Jesus faithful, command Committed to his covenantal bride. Both died for the people, though Samson had killed a lot of people And Jesus easily could have wiped out everyone. Easy. The three hundred fox trick would have been simple for him. Just poof, it would happen, right Jawbones of donkeys don't need 'em. God's people in when Jesus' time would have loved to have had Sam's Back. They were praying for a Samson because they wanted every Roman person they saw in the whole world dead. And Samson can do the job. So they were praying for Samson. And they got Jesus, who was abandoned by his disciples. disciples and was abandoned by God on the cross. The Spirit of the Lord left him to death die. He bore the wrath of God for us, for us, in our place. Substitutionary atonement for us. And we find God most of the time, most of the time we find God in our weaknesses. In our weaknesses. That's where Samson found it. So just where are our eyes gouged out? Where do we feel enslaved? That's where we cry out to Jesus. to meet us and save us and to give us strength, that we may do something for others, not even just for ourselves. Right? And it's amazing. It's amazing. I'm saying all this smack about Samson, right? But w I go back to Hebrews, and what shall we say? For time would film me, just have Gideon. Gideon He's not a good person. Who who reads Hebrews, what are you saying? Barak. Okay, I'll give you Barak. Deborah should be in here. Samson, Jephthah, Samson and Jephthah and Gideon are in this Book of faith, but then look, who through faith conquered kingdoms, enforced justice, obtained promises, stop the mouths of lions Quenched the power of fire, escaped the said edge of the sword, were made strong out of weakness, became mighty in war, put foreign armies to flight. Women received back their dead by resurrection. What Whoa! Some were tortured refusing to accept release so they might rise again to a better life. Others suffered mocking and flogging. And even chains and imprisonment, they were stoned, they were sawn in two, they were killed with the sword, they went about in skins of sheep and goats, destitute, afflicted, mistreated, of whom the world was not worthy, wandering around in deserts, in mountains, and in dens. And in caves of the earth. And in all these, though commended through the through their faith, did not receive what they had promised, since God had provided something better for us. That apart from us They should not be made perfect. What is that thing that's better? Jesus is better, right? That's what the book of Hebrews is about. Jesus is better And some of our greatest triumph is recognizing our need. And our light shines in the darkness. And God didn't ultimately abandon Samson, and God did not uh ultimately aband his people. And I want to point out this and then we're gonna do something that I've not done before either When Jesus enters Jerusalem, remember this? He weeps over it. I I am pretty sure. You know, so when he comes into Jerusalem, they've been hearing stories about him. They've been hearing these stories I I think they thought they were getting a Samsung. And what does he do? He draws near the city and weeps Over it. Would that you, even you, had known on this day the things that made for peace. You're not crying out for me. You're not crying out for me. You think I've come to do something I never intended to do. I am not Samson. I'm way better than Samson. But you can't see. I'll show you