I took your mother. The 1100 weeks of children are taking something without which you utter a curse and also spoke in it in my ears called the bullet for these reasons. I can't. And the mother said, let's just do my time. And he sword 1100 pieces of silver to the mother. And the mother said, dedicated silver to Lord. By my hand, when I started to make a card image and a metal image. Now therefore I will restore it to you. And when you restore the microphone. And gave it to the silver swift, conveyed it into a parking and a bathroom. And that and It was in a half of like a and hand like a shine. And then they didn't know. Okay. And now And now go to God and ordain one of his arms to be king's truth. And those days there will be no king against your Everyone knew weapons were in the same time. But people who had took up my hand name and the priests who along the next and they came to mention to a people quite And the cycling and showed them the edge of the shore and where the city was ironed. And there was no deliver because it was hard on the side, and they had no human They would really have a lot too fast. We have um the same result at the end of the day. But the name of the city was like Western at the first. Serves and people can set out apartments, set out parking for themselves and time and find personal three. And in front of the tribal the day, until the day was the cap captivity of the day. So they try to make this hard And those days when you're 13 and issue everyone's day is great at the end of the time. Judge 3 Um thing that kind of people are Okay, here we are at the end of judges. It's good to be done. What have we learned? That's right. We learned that for sure. No king. They had people some people that sort of acted like kings sometimes. Who is the the one who did that the most? Gideon. Right. Um, who are some of the awesome women we've talked about? Deborah. Deborah. Deborah. JL. Um there was another woman that dropped a stone and killed the bad guy from a tower. She's unnamed. Okay. Um what is what is how does the cycle go? Pretty much. Uh s in captivity doing terrible crowd to the Lord, fix some things. God sends a judge, the judge wins the day, then they go in peace until it all starts over again. And what what have the people of God not been doing lately? And then the other thing we've learned is God uses really broken people and really messy stories. And left easy long hairs. We talked about a left-handed salvation, these strange ways that God works. And we've been really also talking about how all of this points to Jesus. No matter what and where we are, it points to Jesus. Sometimes because we need him to show up. And we have this these very, very imperfect rescuers awaiting the perfect rescuer. And today we're going to talk about what you know what would we do if we could do whatever we want. You could do anything you wanted. How would your day look? How would your week work Some of us would sleep all day. Some of us would play video games all day. Some of us would just really slack off and screw around and be degenerates. That's what they're doing a lot here. Other of us though would tow the line because that's our personality. Why would I stop? We would uh boss people around, because that's what we love to do. We would have perfect attendance, right? And so these sons and daughters of anarchy, you can be an anarchist in different ways There's not just one way to be a son or daughter of anarchy. And what we're talking a lot about is how it's not true that the problem is just out there. It's in here. Right? The problem isn't just what's happening in schools these days. or what the mayor's decisions are, or the governor, or the president's, or what Disney's doing, or Chick-fil-A is doing, or the LGBTQ plus community. There are problems in all those places. But we're looking at our own hearts. We're looking at the covenantal people of God, the church And trying to remember where we, the covenantal people of God, God's church, break God's heart. To where he eventually gets weary of our misery. And he sends a deliverer. Our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And so this ancient text is relevant right here in Relay in 2025. Let's look. My first point is the bad way is bad. The bad way is bad. Hammered on this end of the passage, the very last concluding verse in the book of Judges. But it's a recurring verse. It's not the only time we hear it, but it sort of thuds In those days there was no king of Israel. Everyone did what was right in his own eyes. That's been working its way out in the cycles. We've been talking about how God's people have been drifting. accommodating, the Bible uses the word whoring, and God gives them over to what they want. God judges them because He is holy, sovereign, just And he's also good. And he gives them to what they loved or what they thought they loved. And they cried out sometimes And so he sends a judge, a deliverer, a redeemer, a savior, and they get saved from whatever's going on, however weirdly and strangely, dramatically And we all cheer, yay, they got saved. But we know what's coming next. In chapters 19, 20, and 21, really 17 through 21, are the worst of it all. Things have gotten to this place. It's not good. So we're going to talk about the big the end first, and then we'll go to back to chapter 17. In chapter 19 Let's read chapter 19, verse 1. In those days when there was no king in Israel, a certain Levite was sojourning in the remote part of the hill country of Ephraim, who took to himself a concubine from Bethlehem in Judah. So here's God's people doing whatever they want. They are leaderless and they are lawless. And we get this concubine story that ends very, very badly. uh this wife concubine um from this Levite guy. Oh we hear about a Levite. Has we've heard we hear about him in seventeen different ones. Uh, that wants to go visit his wife concubine, so he goes to her father's house, they stay, they go, he wants to leave, no, stay another day, go back and forth, on and on, lots of staying, lots of going. And then finally, he goes. But the man would not spend the night. This is verse 10. He rose up and departed and arrived opposite Jebus, that is Jerusalem. That's because it's not yet Jerusalem, right? David is the one who really starts Jerusalem. And he bought or bartered for Jerusalem from the Jebusites. So this is being written after that But in the story, there's no Jerusalem yet. That's why it's like that. Okay? Interesting. Um and so he meets this old man, this whole so he finally does leave, right? And he says, Stay with me, stay with me, stay with me. And then these Really bad guys come in and they want to do stuff, and he says, No, no, don't do that. Take our daughters. And this concubine, take them, do what you want to do to them, because that what you want to do is outrageous. This is not outrageous. It seems outrageous still, right? And so um they do that, and she ends up dying, and so he cuts her up in twelve pieces. That's what we've gotten. Um instead of fighting Midianites and Amorites, they fight each other. So it starts this war. And in the war, the tribe of Benjamin, that's the right-handed tribe, right, remember They are wiped out. And now all of a sudden people go like, we need wives. They probably didn't need some wives. They're afraid that this tribe of Benjamin won't go anywhere. And they all vowed not to give them their daughters. So now they gotta go find some women for these desperate dudes to marry So they have all these plans. One of them is snatching up 400 brides. So this is 400 brides for 400 brothers. A new musical. Oh great new musical. Funny. Funny hilarious musical, right? Uh but that didn't work all the way, so they just come up with another plan to uh steal women when they're working in the vineyards. So they just go steal their wives. Um this is what they do and they're free to do whatever they want. This is what people do Read stories like this all the time. Inappropriate relationships of all types, we end up being the kings and queens of our own lives. Setting our own rules, ruling over people, taking what we want. And when we do this, it causes destruction and death and chaos. And we form communities around these types of things like fraternities, gangs, also white-collar crimes in offices. Scans, dictators, slumlords, Jeffrey Epstein. Doctors can do this, nurses can do this. I decide who lives, I decide who dies. All of these people have rules and codes and ethics and standards and positions. They're just their own ones. That they've made. This is why I get to do this to people. This is why they deserve this. This is why I deserve this. And you know, along the way, there's philanthropy and parties and nice things too. Masters of their own fates, lords of their own hearts. And we have to wonder, what if our story was written in Judges? People think probably Samuel wrote Judges. the historic theory, and Samuel ends up being the last judge because next there's a king. Who's the next king? King Saul. Right? So what if Samuel wrote down, put us in the story? Because he's not saying how great everybody is, right? So we have to remember our stories are not the same, we're not this dramatic, we are nicer We're not living in these days back then. We have other ways to express ourselves, but we have stories of rescue because we need a rescuer. The bad way is bad. But I want to tell you the other piece is the good way is bad. You know there's two types of people. People that say there's two types of people and people that don't say there's two types of people. There's two types of people in the world, the good people and the bad people. Let's look at Micah. So Micah uh stole from his mom. Now I have stolen from my mom pocket change. Um Maybe you have too. But this is eleven hundred pieces of silver. This is a big steal. Right? I don't know where they went, mom Silver's missing. Somebody must have come in the tent. Why weren't you watching? Well who was in the tent? I only saw you in the tent. Oh no, not me So she she gets mad and then for some reason he's repentant which is great. That's this is the good thing in this whole thing. Something nice happens in this book of Judges. A person gave back money to his mom, although he had stolen it. Still, not a lot of people have done that much. So she decides, hey son, I love you so much for giving back my money back to me. I'm gonna make two statues, one of wooden and one of metal, for you Awesome. So he gets these statues. Um and then he they make this memorial, seventeen seventeen Oh, but then look. So there's this sort of nice story. The man Micah had a shrine and he made an Ephid, another Ephid, the second Ephid we've heard about In household gods, not good. And he ordained one of his sons who became a priest. This is our first priest. Ordained by his dad with the household gods, with an ephod, which is sort of like being a king, with money he stole, with statues. Whoa. In verse 6, a reminder, the author reminds us, in those days there was no king in Israel, and everyone did what was right In other words, this is not good. And then he does more, he ordains more, the Danites another a priest, a Levite, we have Levites again, we have priests. Finally, that we have Nazarites. Who is a Nazarite? Samson. These are Bible things we don't hear a lot about in And so uh so Michael ordains this guy, and it says in 713, and Michael ordained the Levite, and the young man became his priest And it was the house of Micah. Then Micah said, Now I know that the Lord will prosper me because I have a Levite as a priest. God will bless me because I'm doing good. God will bless me because I have done the right things, I have made the right choices, I attend the right church, I have the right Theology, I'm not like them, the bad theology people. I have the right sexuality I have the right morality. I don't speed, I don't cuss, I don't dance, I don't drink, I don't smoke, I don't bet, I don't even watch our movies. I vote the right way. So God shows me favor It's my devotion, my generosity, my holiness that makes me good. My clean moral, I follow the rules, I'm a good citizen. So, you know, spending time in college, campus You have the fraternities and the sororities. The fraternities obviously have a very terrible reputation, well earned, but they admit it They will tell you this is what we are doing. This is what we want. We're very honest about it. On the other hand, the sororities, very different We are trying to make uh ideal, smart, beautiful, successful young women It's a very different model, isn't it? We are a sisterhood. We smile. We clap. And we will stab you in the back the minute we want to. With a smile. They have ruthless evaluations on who they let in. And they're not allowed to do that, so they use code words. They don't think someone's pretty enough, they say her star will shine somewhere brighter, brighter somewhere else. That means she's not pretty enough. If they don't like your car, they won't They set up the cars they want in front of the sororities and put the cars they don't want in the back. So when peop people come up when they're recruiting, they see the night This is the way it goes, right? Evaluating bodies and cars and clothes with code words, this is beautiful gone wrong, and it's still its own way. And all of these organizations have their own priests and pastors and kings. Queens. They have their own liturgies. They have their own histories. They have their own rules. And they're proud of them. One of the sororities, one of their rules is we don't dance on tables. Wow, we're so good. And we say, I'm gonna do good and I'm gonna do good and I am good and I am in control and I am the older brother and I deserve Whatever I get. The church is filled with people like this. But in eighteen one, we read this. In those days there was no king in Israel. In those days the tribe of the people of Dayan was seeking for itself an inheritance. And they came through and they took this priest and he's lost. This is twenty seven to the end of the chapter here. But the people of Daan took what Micah had made and the priest who belonged to him, and they came to Glaish to a people quiet and unsuspecting, and struck them with the dead of the shore, and burned the city with fire. But there was no deliverer because it was far from Sidon And they had no dealings with it. It was in the valley that belongs to Bethrahub, and they rebuilt the city and in it, and they named the city Dan, after the name of Dan, their an ancestor, who was born to Israel, but the name of the city was Lyesh at first. And so they and they set up it like this card image that he made it as long as the house of God was at Shiloh. It didn't work out. The blessing that he wanted, he got unblessed. Right? So goodness can be bad. Goodness can keep It's a different strategy. It's a different strategy to stay away from God. It's a smiling strategy, an obedient strategy. So this is the strategy where something good, the score the idea, or the English department, or the engineering room, or the athletics department, or the administration department. There are pockets of all these things in Relay, in Catonsville, Hailthorpe, Arbutus, Baltimore, and Hunt Valley. Very principled people. So one day she went, she was left, she came back with a Feed sack of sugar, a whole thing of sugar. Went to the barn, he follows her out there. She cuts the feed sack open and dumps the sugar out into the manure That'll show him, and she never talked to him for 40 years. That was the last conversation they ever had And so they lived in the same house, slept in the same bed, she still made all the food, and they never spoke again. That's a principle, right? I'll show him It's honor, devotion, pride, and a hard, hard heart, isn't it? Instead of crying out, instead of crying out, deliver me, deliver me Deliver me. We just keep on trucking. So we're gonna sing Deliver Me Again right now. We sang this last week at the end, and uh I think it really fits here because what was our point God's people are not lamenting where they are. And so we in a sense are lamenting even that. So let's sing it again and then we'll go on with the sermon. Enemy I capture is too fair on the night I toilet not the mud, no brick, no sand Our angle banner palaces from changed Lord were bond In prison here we dwell in our land And you have must be need your wings tonight In all the lands we slay. I shuttle they were made with our own head. Tall is our torment and afraid of give to how we break The silent thing you can deliver us. Deliver us I always pride and gather us beneath your wings. She nice deliver us, deliver us, I always try. And gather us beneath the wings tonight Jerusalem, Jerusalem, how did I have lost? Together you beneath my gentle weeks The good way is bad, the bad way is bad, the Jesus way. Um every relationship has rules. Some of them are implicit, some of them are explicit, right? There are rules for an insurance agent There's rules for buying and selling houses. Putting in a contract for a house, getting work done in your house. There's rules at Starbucks. There's rules at Uber. There's rules when you get on the airplane. There's rules for waiters and waitresses Rules for our friends, our spouses, our siblings, our parents, pastor rules. All these rules, and they're some of them are very similar, some of them are very unique, some are very strict, implicit in expression And rules can make you get off kilter. You can get off kilter with the rules. And you have to recalibrate, reset. Um since I've been I told you I've been playing pool, I've been learning rules. Now the rules of poor are fairly simple, but different p people play them in different places, right? And then there are unspoken rules like that I didn't know, the stuff you can't do. And people get mad Okay, chill out. But it's not there are no rules. That's not a rule Very fun way to play pool. And it's also not I make all the rules. Jesus rules because it is his kingdom Right? He's the king of the kingdom. It's Jesus' rules because he's the creator of the world. He's the designer and author of all of this. And so we break his rules all the time, don't we? Sometimes they're overtly breaking the rules. This is completely ignoring them or some of them. I not even caring to even bother to follow his decrees. I'm happy to follow other leaders and other lovers. Samson says I saw a woman. Get her for me. Okay, so there's no king. So who's going to be the next king? Saul. Who's the next king? David. David is considered the greatest king of all time. And you know what he said? I saw a woman on the rooftop. Get her for me. That's the golden era. The other sneaky way is to follow all the rules. To be a good person, to never call trouble. These are the Pharisees. Um remember when Gideon became the king? Not really, and then it says and he had seventy wives. You know how many wives Solomon had 666. It's the only other time that number's in the Bible. The Golden Era. The Golden Era. This is good Israel right here. This is good Israel. They're killing it right now in this time of David and Solomon are the two best, and they cannot take it, can they? What we end up doing is giving him our obedience, but not our heart. We follow rules on the inside, but on the inside, I'm the ruler. This is like a relationship where let's say the wife says to the husband, You don't love me, and the husband says, Hey, hey, hey, I'm not messy, I clean Up after myself, I wash the dishes, I wash the clothes, I bring in money, I buy you what you want. She's like, yo, that's not love. That's doing stuff. I want your heart. I want a people connection with you. I want conversation. I want repentance. And the thing about it is we follow a God of love. He's a just God for sure. We've seen it time and time again. Just, holy, but also loving, right? And when we follow a God of love, we want to care about what he cares about. Not say, I don't care what you care about And so we need to know what the values of the king are in his kingdom and follow those. The Jesus way is a way of love. The rules are about love. And of course the great thing is this, Jesus followed all the rules perfectly, with no deviance, with no rebellion, with no wasn't put off by them He knew they were good. He knew they were from the loving Father. We can't do that, can we? We cannot obey perfectly, not not even by a long shot. Jesus lived all of this out, a life of loving and faithfulness and obedience And he gave it up, didn't he? And he was punished for stuff he didn't do. Think of all of our mixed motives He was actually genuinely good. The only one who was perfectly good. And he was brutally murdered, crucified as a criminal, stripped, beaten, mocked, spit on, humiliated, regarded as nothing by God. Psalm twenty-two Because it's the beauty of the gospel, right? It's the beauty of the gospel. We have a king. This is hard to see in the book of Judges for sure. We've been really working on it. There's no king, no prophets, get a priest at the very end. But Jesus is there, the coming one. The word made flesh, the priest who died as a sacrifice for our behalf, who gave his life for people like who are in judges, who were some of them are in Hebrews. Because of love. And that changes us when we understand that There's a song that comes on sometimes when I'm driving home from church. It's called um uh Fix My Eyes. It's by a But the road less traveled is hard to walk. So this is me talking to talk, right? But doing and loving and going out. When we get transformed by Jesus, the idea is it transforms us. And he says, what would I do differently? I'd love like I'm not scared. I'd give when it's not fair. I'd live life for another. Take time for a brother. Fight for the weak ones. Speak out for freedom, find faith in the battle, stand tall, but above it all, I'd fix my eyes on you, Lord. That's a transformed life. It's not just doing what you would be doing even if you weren't a Christian Christian. It's doing different things because you are different. I'm becoming more and more the new person that God's making. It's more and more sanctified. Not perfectly sanctified. In any sense, right? But it's changing me because love turns it all on its head. Jesus turns it on his head by giving us his record and taking ours So we can be loved and accepted and forgiven and taken in, so we can become citizens of heaven, sons and daughters of the King, the bride of Christ, inheritance. Is ours. We are heirs. We have access to the King, to the Holy of Holies. We're members of this holy nation, the Church. And so we lay our deadly doings down. Give them to Jesus. Because He gives them Us himself. One of my favorite stories is by Pastor Wilson Denton in St. Louis, and he grew up in a very proper southern house. in probably the mm forties and fifties. And so on Easter Sunday, his mother dressed him up in a proper six year old white little suit, probably with knickers, bow tie, definitely a bow tie. Um and she had her white she was g putting on her white dress And she says, go out and play for a little bit. Stay safe. Instantaneously jumps into the mud puddle. And is completely covered in mud and he knows he knows what is gonna happen. He he doesn't have a choice, he wants to run away. Right So he opens the door and he's crying, Mom, I'm so sorry. I know I'm gonna get spanked. And she stoops down and picks him up and gives him a big huge hug. She takes his mud on her white dress. And he now knows he's so loved God loves us even when we do wrong stuff. Because we're in Christ. That doesn't mean do wrong stuff on purpose, right? But Look at what we've seen what we've seen. God's people do. It's truly incredible. And one of the things that we appreciate about the This book and other books like this is it's in there. Um You walk through that place and there's all little cherubs and angels and everybody's happy and smiling and white and There's no JL in that place. I doubt there's a Samson. He's not the most likable guy Jephthah gave his daughter away, Micah, Gideon, bad, bad, bad people. But that's It's people. It's people. Can God save sinners? That's our good news today, amen.