So I get to read from Judges chapter seven, one through nine. Actually, I feel like I'm starting at verse seven. No, I'm not. I'm starting at one. That one looks like a seven. When Jerubbabel, that is Gideon, and all the people who were with him rose early and encamped beside the spring of Herod And the camp of Midian was north of them, by the hill of Morah in the valley. The Lord said to Gideon, The people with you are too many. for me to give the Midianites into your hand, lest Israel boast over me, saying, My own hand has saved me. Now therefore, proclaim uh to the ears of the people, saying, Whoever is fearful and trembling, let him return home and hurry away from Mount Gilead. Then 2,200 or 22,000 of the people returned, and 10,000 remained. And then the Lord said to Gideon, the people are still too many. Take them down to the water, and I will test them for you there. And anyone of whom I say to you, This one shall go with you, shall go with you, and anyone whom I say to you, this one shall not go with you, shall not go So he brought the people down to the water. And the Lord said to Gideon, everyone who laps the water with his tongue as a dog laps you shall set by himself. Likewise every one who kneels down to drink, and the number of those who lapped, putting their hands to their mouths, was three hundred men. But all the rest of the people knelt down to drink the water. And the Lord said to Gideon, With the three hundred men who lapped, I will save you and give the Midianites into your hand. And let all the other men go every man to his home. So the people took provisions uh in in their hands and their trumpets, and he sent all the rest of Israel, every man, to his tent, but retained the three hundred men, and the camp of Midian was below him in the valley. That same night the Lord said to him, Arise, go down against the camp, for I have given it into your hand. And that is Judges 7, 1 through 9. Amen. Thank you, Bonnie. I love voices. Reading with voices is amazing. Okay, we're talking about upsets again. This is a a key theme of the book of Judges because all these judges, except for that first one, Othniel. are people we wouldn't expect. So these are unexpected deliverances, right? Um last Saturday we had a big one. Northern Illinois beat Notre Dame. Before the game, it was predicted that Notre Dame had a ninety-eight point eight percent chance to win. The predicted score was 37-10 Notre Dame winning, and Notre Dame lost 16-14. I remember walking into an OU game against Texas Tech. It was down in Lubbock. And when we walked into the stadium, I turned to my buddy Dan and I said, There is no chance We lose this game. That's not something you should say when you walk into a game because on the very first play from scrimmage, our quarterback Sam Bradford, who ended up winning the Heisman Trophy Handed off to a running back. The running back fumbled. As they were coming, Sam Brapper tried to cap uh tackle the guy who had the ball now, got a concussion, never returned. But the greatest upset is what? 1980, Winter Olympics, US versus Russia, Soviet Union, where Al Michaels says, Do you believe in miracles? So where in your life think about when you have felt like you were playing the Soviets in hockey. There has to be some moments you were against all odds, and it seemed like you were going to lose. Well, do you believe in miracles? So we're going to look at Gideon. We talked about Gideon last week. And we're going to start at the end for Gideon. Spoiler alert. So we have already read about how this happened, but at the end, in verse 19, so Gideon and the hundred men who are with him came out to the outskirts of the camp in the beginning of the middle watch when they had just set the watch. And they blew the trumpets and they smashed the jars that were in their hands. And the three companies blew the trumpets and broke the c jars They held in their left hands the torches, and in their right hands the trumpets to blow. And they cried, A sword for every a sword for the Lord and for Gideon. And when they blew the 300 trumpets, the Lord set every man's sword against his comrade and against all the army. And the army fled And the men of Israel were called out from Naphtali and from Asher and from all Manasseh, and they pursued after Midian. And so they won these three hundred men. They're in three different divisions of one hundred each, right? It's the beginning of the middle of the night, ten p. m. So one third of the Midianites are awake, keeping watch. Two thirds are asleep. They're going to be woken up, one of those thirds soon, to switch out. And Gideon's three hundred guys climbed up on this mountain with trumpets and jars. And they blow the trumpets and they smash the guards, jars, and the Midianites freak out. And they had already been afraid of Gideon I don't exactly know why, but word had gotten around that he had at least pulled down those poles, the Bale and the Ashra poles. He had pulled those down. And they think the Medianites when they look up and they see this noise probably echoing and they see they hear the noise and they see the jars, they don't know what they're up against. It could be three hundred thousand. Israelites. But it's only three hundred. Now in chapter eight we find out the Midianites had a hundred and thirty-five thousand men in their army. So this victory should not have happened. It was against all odds, right? But these 300. had a brilliant strategy to trick and scare the Midianites so they would run away and not have to fight them Now, there's another famous story, also true, about 300 men who fought. And that was for King Leonidas Spartan. against Xerxes and the Persian army in four eighty BC, and they were trying to block the Persians from coming over, the mightiest p force at the time. And they wanted to go through this pass, Thermopylae, right? And King Leonidas is the exact king you would want to do this job, to hold the line. He's the ideal For this type of thing. The ideal king, the ideal general, the ideal speaker, the ideal soldier. He's exactly what you would want. So what are you fighting against? Sometimes it's addiction, sometimes it's forgetting someone Seems impossible. And we look for strategies that can work. And you know the Spartan women, they would tell their husbands or lovers or whoever, if you go out there, you come back with your shield or on your shield Uh those are the only two options, right? So in other words, I might die. There's a real chance I'm gonna die And when we fight our battles like this, these really tough ones, we wonder if we'll lose and if we'll die. But there are times when Gideon wins. He didn't lose, right? The odds were four hundred and fifty to one, and it happened Now let's remember how it happened, right? How we got here. But then they got to tell this crazy story. How did this happen, right? Because God works with weak people. Over and over and over and over again. This is a massive pattern in the Bible. He usually chooses the least likely thing, the the what least likely brother, Jacob, not Esau. Joseph. He chose David, the runt of the litter. Over and over again, got God chooses the least likely. And in this one We Bonnie read it seven verse two. The Lord said to Gideon, The people with you are too many for me to give the Midianites into their hand, lest Israel boast over me, saying, My own hand had saved me. That is super important, isn't it? God will save his people, and God will get the credit. Now God had heard the people's cry, remember in chapter six? He had sent a prophet, he raised up a judge. Gideon said, I am not the right person for the job. I am the from the weakest clan, and I am the weakest of my family. Pick someone else. I am not King Leonidas by any means. You want somebody like that to save the day, not me. Remember Gideon's father had raised up that Baalpole, so he wasn't raised understanding only Yahweh He probably didn't know Yahweh that well, but God chose Gideon, a stumbling, unsure leader. He called him a mighty man of valor at the very beginning, and he was anything but that at the start. But he was getting to know God better. He asked for a sign and he got a sign. He did what he was asked to do and pulled down those poles. And now He's gathered gathered 32,000 men. 32,000 men. That's five to one odds. Still risky, but doable And Gideon knows God is with me. God has spoken to me. God has answered me. God is with me. I am trusting Yahweh. I've heard about Ehud. I've heard about Deborah. I've heard about Barack. I've heard about Badge to the Bone JL, right? So I know he can do this. But God says to Gideon, you have too many soldiers So he wants to winnow them down. This makes some sense, right? If you're scared, go home. We want good fighters. We need people to go home, love on their wives. I don't want people who are afraid or faint-hearted or who's going to head for the hills. So now he's got 10,000 left. 13 to 1 odds. 10,000, but it's sort of addition by subtraction, right? Ten thousand really good soldiers is better than thirty-two thousand questionable soldiers So Gideon is ready? This sounds good. I'll take these ten thousand. Let's start getting our strategy together. And what does God say? Mm Still too many. And the Lord said to Gideon, the people are still too many. Take them down to the water, and I will test them for you there, and any one of whom I shall say to you, this one shall go with you, you shall go with you, and anyone who I say this one shall not go with you shall not go. I think Gideon's going like We're gonna go down a little more. So he takes him down the water and one great thing about the children's sermon is I get to show you what that's like. It's easier to do there instead of up here, right? This is a very weird bedding process for soldiers. The way you drink water without a cup, and so you divide into the lappers versus the kneelers. The Lappers versus the Kneelers, right? And the Lappers have three hundred and the Kneelers have nine thousand seven hundred. Now it it could be that people have theoreticized about this, that uh you when you're doing it this way, you're you're able to pay more attention to what's going on. Then if you are looking down and doing this, it's a little bit less attention giving. Eh, maybe. I don't think the point is how to drink water, right? The point is there's three hundred and ninety You can go to this spring. It still exists. You can go visit it. And God says let's do the three hundred I'm sure Gideon was like, What in the world? You want the three hundred, not the ninety-seven hundred This is not gonna work. You didn't choose people based on fighting power at this point You didn't choose people based on being afraid at this point. You chose based on the way you drink water. Wow. But Gideon has a plan. We don't really know how he came up with this plan, if it was his own idea or if God spoke to him. But he has a plan. He's got a ragtag group of trumpet blowers. And torturators, and this is what it took. Because God's power is in our weakness, right? Jeremiah 9. 23 Thus says the Lord, let not the wise man boast in his wisdom, let not the mighty man boast in his might. Let not the rich man boast in his riches, but let him who boasts boast in this, that he understands and knows me, that I am the Lord who practiced steadfast love Justice and righteousness in the earth. God delights not in our boasting in our own abilities or wisdom or strength, but his power is in our weakness. He loves people who follow him, who delight in what he delights in. Covenant love, steadfast love, Hesed love, justice. Righteousness, peace, shalom, mercy Not in riches. Amen. God knows who he's dealing with And he has made Gideon's army as weak as possible. And he knows Gideon is naturally afraid, so he does one thing for Gideon. This is in verse 9, where um Bonnie stopped. That same night the Lord said to him, Arise, go down against the camp, for I have given it to your hand. But if you're afraid to go down And you are. I know it. I'm gracious to you to put it this way. Go down to the camp with Kura, your servant. I'm going to send a buddy with you. And ye shall hear what they say, and afterward your hand shall be strengthened to go down against the camp. So this is what he does. He sends his Serving with them on a mission into the camp, by the way, which is no small thing, but they can sneak around. Gideon does want to know So he's he's motivated to go down into the camp. And he sneaks down, and there's so many. And the Midianites and the Amalekites and all the people of the east lay along the valley like locusts in abundance, and their camels were without numbers. As the sand that is on the seashore in abundance. Also they have chariots, right? This is super scary. But he wanders up. When Gideon came, behold a man was telling a dream to his comrade. So they're they're they're sharing their dreams for the night before. First guy says, yep, I had a dream about a scary clown. So scared, woke up in nightmare. Next guy said, I got a dream that I got fired by the general. Next guy said I I had a dream where I was naked in front of my science class presentation Night sweats. But then this other guy says, I dreamed a dream, and behold a cake of barley bread tumbled into the camp of Midian And came to the tent and struck it so that it fell, and it turned up it upside down, so that the tent lay flat. And the other guys are going like, huh? What kind of dream is that? But one of them says this is no other than the sort of Gideon. Midian, the son of Joash, a man of Israel. God has given into his hand Midian and all the camp. There's a dream interpreter Who says, We are in big trouble. This is Gideon So the Midianites know about Gideon, he's really an obscure nobody. And what does Gideon do immediately? As soon as Gideon heard the telling of the dream and its interpretation. He worshipped. So immediately in the Midianite camp, when he hears this, he worships. You can worship God in really hard circumstances. In really strange places for reasons that no one else can understand we can worship God, right? And God gives Gideon confidence. He's not a great warrior. He's a fearful man, but God still meets him where he is. Gideon, because we often are afraid too, right? We're not all wonderful, strong, confident leaders. We sometimes think that leaders have to be dynamic, assured, confident, brash, fearless, witty But God takes fearful people too. He makes them strong in his strength, doesn't he? In very strange ways, he cares about fragile faith. We don't have to have perfect faith. And Gideon is in Hebrews 11. And God can use you. We talked about this in 1 Timothy. We're all leaders in some way, somehow. And God leads us and gives us strength. And God sometimes says, I'm going to give you 300 lappers to walk with you. I'm gonna use five loaves and two fish to feed five thousand Because it's my glory, not your glory. You have to recognize it's my power, not your power You are rich when you are found in me. It's not your wisdom, it's my wisdom. Paul talks about this in 2 Corinthians. Ephesians chapter 12. But God said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. Therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so the power of Christ may rest upon me. For the sake of Christ then I am content with weakness Insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities. For when I am weak, then am I strong I boast in my weaknesses. Because when I am weak, Jesus is strong. But you know what the problem with that is? I hate being weak. Sounds good on paper, doesn't it? I don't want to not be in control. I want to be strong. I want to win. Lately with some of my non-Christian friends I've been playing pool at Sherry's, right? In fact, one of them on Friday she grew up in the PCA and has wandered from the faith. Ethan would consider herself a nun, right, N-O-N-E. And she said, I'm gonna come go to church with you and bring some of my friends. Praise the Lord, right? God is at work. One thing about playing pool is you don't you you you sort of hang around and you don't always win, so you gotta wait for the and so you can chit-chat and and talk about stuff, and so that's how I've gotten to know some of these new friends. But the other thing about foo is I want to make the shot. I don't want to miss. Especially when other people are watching. And judging. That was an easy one. And you missed it. I am made strong in weakness. Should I say that? Sermon on the Mount, Jesus said, Blessed are the poor in spirit. I don't want to be poor in spirit. Blessed are those who mourn. I would say, blessed are the happy. Blessed are those who cry out and ask for help. Blessed are the thirsty and the hungry and the brokenhearted. I mean, y'all, none of us want to do those things, do we But that's who cries out for help. That's who needs help King Leonidas did not cry out for help. He knew he could do it. Gideon does not know he can do it. And God is strong, right? God is strong with Gideon. Because it's his glory. And this points us again, as it always does, to our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. We know he was a person of the Trinity. So we know he has all power. He does. But he comes as a little baby, born in a little town, born in the Stable, you cannot be more obscure than that. Now, again The angels show up, so that's pretty awesome, but they show up to shepherds out in this countryside somewhere So this man, God and man had no money. The religious establishment hated him, right? He didn't have a military, wasn't into politics His influence, he had followers, fishermen, prostitutes, lepers But he's Emmanuel God with us. That makes a big difference, doesn't it? And this judge, this deliverer, brings about salvation by defeating Death itself is on the way to defeating Satan for all time Defeats evil, conquers evil by becoming hated by God, took the wrath of God To fight for us, to fight the Midianites in our lives. Sometimes they're in ourselves, right? And we need confidence boosters too. There are times when we need someone to go with us and we need to hear something that we didn't expect to hear. We need to hear that God's going to come through. Most of the time he doesn't tell you how it's going to happen. And sometimes it's super weird Like it would have made more sense if these 32,000 people could have beat the 135,000. Nope, we're doing it with 300. God, really? So he will send you an unlikely sign when you're afraid. Sometimes the signs are here. It's coming together. We remind each other when we're all not all going through the same thing. That God can do it. That Jesus is with us. That Jesus delivers for us, right? He's our judge. And so we say a sword for the Lord, a sword for the Messiah, because he will win the battle, and he works with losers, just like us. Isaac Watts has a hymn. It's not in the hymn, no, I just looked. I boast no more. No more, my God, I boast no more of all the duties I have done. I quit the hopes I held before to trust the merits of thy son. Now for the loss I hear his name. What was my gain I count as loss. My former pride I now call my shame, and nail my glory to his cross Yes, and I must and I will esteem all things. But for the lost, for Jesus' sake, O may my soul be found in him, and of his righteousness partake The best obedience of my hands dares not appear before your throne, but faith can answer thy demands by pleading what my Lord has done. I boast no more. Amen