Hi everyone, let's stand. Today we're reading selections from judges one, two, and three. So it looks pretty long. So bear with me. After the death of Joshua, the people of Israel inquired of the Lord, who shall go up first for us against the Canaanites to fight against them. Now the angel of the Lord went up from Gilgal to Bach Bachim, and he said, I brought you up from Egypt and brought you into the land that I swore to give to your fathers. I said, I will never break my covenant with you. And you shall make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land, you shall break down their altars. But you have not obeyed my voice. What is this you have done? So now I say I will not drive them out before you, but they shall become thorns in your sides. and their gods shall be a snare to you. As soon as the angel of the Lord spoke these words to all the people of Israel, the people lifted up their voices and wept. And the people of Israel did what was evil in the sight of the Lord and served the Baals. And they abandoned the Lord, the God of their fathers, who had brought them out of the land of Egypt. They went after other gods from among the gods of the people who were around them and bowed down to them, and they provoked the Lord to anger. They abandoned the Lord and served the Baals and the Ashtaroth. So the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel, and he gave them over to plunderers who plundered them. and he sold them into the hand of their surrounding enemies, so that they could no longer withstand their enemies. Whenever they marched out, the hand of the Lord was against them for harm as the Lord had warned and as the Lord had sworn to them, and they were in terrible distress. Then the Lord raised up judges who saved them out of the hand of those who plundered them. Yet they did not listen to their judges, for they hoard after other gods and bowed down to them. They soon turned aside from the way in which their fathers had walked, who had obeyed the commandments of the Lord, and they did not do so Whenever the Lord raised up judges for them, the Lord was with the judge, and he saved them from the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge. For the Lord was moved to pity by their groaning because of those who afflicted and oppressed them But whenever the judge died, they turned back and were more corrupt than their fathers, going after other gods, serving them and bowing down to them. So the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel, and he said, Because this pe people have transgressed my covenant that I commanded their fathers and have not obeyed my voice, I will no longer drive out before them any of the nations that Joshua left when he was a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of So the Lord left those nations, not driving them out quickly, and he did not give them into the hand of Joshua. So the people of Israel lived among the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, and their daughters they took to themselves for wives, and their own daughters they gave to their sons, and they served their gods. Amen. Thank you, Renata. Please be seated. Before we start, Judges, I just wanted to say a brief word about sermons in general. Sermons in general. Sermons are made up of several pieces. One of them is history. Learning about how big books of the Bible are different from the other books of the Bible, right? Learning about the Assyrians and Babylonians and Persians, Greeks, and geography, things like that. It's all very interesting. Sermons also deal have illustrations in them, right? Where I'm trying to like make a connection between something that happened then and put it in contemporary language that you would know about. Sermons uh of course have explication where we're just looking at what the text says and trying to figure that out, learning about the text. And sermons have application. We're trying to put it into real world so we we don't just learn, but we have something to do, apply it to real life. Fair enough? And then sermons have two other pieces, and Martin Luther would call this law and gospel. Law. This is where we fall short. So every week we're going to talk about how we fall short. I mean we all fall short. I'm not bringing down the hammer, but that's true. So and then every week we l look at for what Jesus does with people who fall Short. The gospel. We apply the gospel to our situation. So there's a certain sense, if you take the first part, where the second part is long gospel, every sermon is sort of the same. Here's how we fall short. Here's how Jesus meets our need. Don't expect anything real different. That's what a surround We are now looking though at judges to see how this part of the Bible, what it teaches us, this is what I would consider the best book of the Bible for 13-year-old boys. It is a home run for them. Judges does not give us warm fuzzies. There are interesting stories for s for instance. And it provokes interesting, weird conversations about what God's doing in this book Weird conversations. Author Michael Chabon uh wrote about a just small, teeny, weird conversation that he had. His thirteen year old daughter uh asked a a tough question in the car one day. She she turned to look to her father and said, Dad, the Beatles say they get by with a little help they get high with a little help from their friends Does that mean high high or happy high? And um so he'd been wondering about this day, Michael Chavon. Um 'cause he'd gotten high a lot in his life. Uh he had stopped a few drugs a few years ago, but he wanted to be open, so he looked at her and said, It's it's high, high, honey. That's what they're talking about. And then she said, Did you do drugs, Dad? And he thought to himself, a million times But he said, yeah, some. And he said, the truth is I'm confused as to what to tell you, but I mostly want us to tell the truth. And I think that's a good little story for the book of Judges. We mostly want to tell the truth. This happened. That's why it's in here. Uh skipping over some of the gory details would be easy to do. There are distasteful stories in here. The book of Judges doesn't especially feel like it puts a great face On our faith. A lot of the books of the Bible don't do that because they're dealing with real people. We read about Annes and Sapphira getting struck down in Acts. I've mentioned the parts in Paul where I'm like, dude, Paul, chill. Say it different or somehow. There are hard parts in 1 Peter even. And in Judges too, because it happened. And so as we are people of the book, then we tell these stories. We try to figure out what they're doing, why they're in there, and how they can help us. In order to see beauty and redemption, we have to see ugly. Blood, guts, gore, sex, backstabbing, idolatry And right here in Judges we read, Renata read, after the death of Joshua, the people of Israel inquired of the Lord, who shall go up for us against the Canaanites to fight them? So this is uh Uh the end of Joshua and the beginning of Judges are intersecting. If you just look back in your Bible, Joshua dies at the end of And in Judges, Joshua dies in chapter two of Judges. So they're i they're overlapping a little bit. The conquest of Canaan has not been completed. Joshua is about to die at the age 110. So we're between the book of Joshua and the book of Samuel, where we start getting the kings. First and second Samuel is Saul. Okay? And God had told his people to take the land. That was their objective. They have been doing it. Chapter 1 is pretty good. They're taking the land. It goes on for a while about These conquests and and Caleb is still around. And that they're they're conquering just like they're supposed to be. But will they keep going and will the people follow? And who will be the next leader? We don't really feel the weight of this three thousand years later necessarily, but judges matters for us too Judges teaches us about how sin works and how a salvation comes. It teaches us about how sin can uh creep up on us and fool us It's a story about a boy going fishing, but he needed worms. He couldn't find any, so he dug his hand in the hole to get the worms. But they were baby topperheads. So he died. The difference between worms and copperheads is a big, big difference, but not to a ten year old kid You've never seen it. The Westminster Shorter Catechism says, Sin is any want of conformity to or transgression of the law of God. We talked about this. Sin is doing wrong and not doing right. Sin is our wrong desires, our our idols. And so we're going to talk just today about the way they were, which is the way we are, and the way God is. Pretty simple. The way they and we were the way people are. Judges is a realistic picture of people. A little bit faithful, but not all bad, but not rosy. And so they are claiming the land. Like at the very beginning, like I said in verse 5, they found Adonai Bezek at Bezek and fought against them and defeated the Canaanites and the Perizzites And Adani Bezek fled, but they pursued him and cut him, caught him and cut off his thumbs and his toes. Go And Adonai Abese said, Well, seventy kings with their thumbs and their big toes cut off used to be pick up scraps under my table. So as I have done, God has repaid me And they brought him to Jerusalem and he died there. They are taking the land. They're trying to go toward Jerusalem, the future capital of God's people, where the temple will be built, where God will reside. And there's this little uh vignette about bartering for Caleb's daughter, which is practice uh standard practice of the day. It seems cordial and respectful and covenantal, but it also raises some questions. Look at verse 9 nineteen And the Lord was with Judah and he took possession of the hill country, but he they he could not drive out the inhabitants of the plain because they had chariots of iron. They're driving all these people out So there's a technology difference between God's people and these people. These this nomadic people who just really not long ago been released from Egyptian slavery. How can they compete with chariots of iron? They had forgotten something very important already, didn't they? How had they been winning How did they win the Battle of Jericho? The Battle of Jericho. How did Joshua fit the Battle of Jericho? Excellent technology Fantastic strategy. Marching around a city seems crazy, right? Here's our plan. Well march around the city, blow trumpets. God told us his plan. They had to be like in the war room going. I don't think this is gonna work. Are we really going through with this? Okay, yes. Yahweh said to do it, we're doing it. And it worked, right? But they had already forgotten. God can defeat iron chariots. He brought down a whole city. And Caleb for sure should have remembered. I don't know how many of the people were there, but he was certainly there. These people were there, or their parents were there. They had generations still existed who had walked through the Red Sea They had been fed manna and quail. They had seen plagues come down on only the Egyptians. Well, all their sons were spared. Where did that memory go? Where was at least the pep talk? God can do this. We can take out chariots of iron. I don't know how we're going to, but the Lord does. He's the one. They're afraid. And then you start reading. It starts in Ephraim didn't drive him out Zebulun didn't drive them out. Asher, no. Naphtali, no. The Amorites pressed the people into the hill country. Dan couldn't do it. They couldn't do it. They couldn't do it. They couldn't do it. And Hey, people failed. People fail. We fail. We don't always do what God wants us to do. We know that But they didn't obey God. They didn't teach their children to fear and revere and honor and obey and follow their true deliverer, right? Their memory was dimming. You know how whenever a a something happened Big and everyone says we'll always remember, we'll never forget, we'll never forget. We'll put up memorials, we'll never forget this happened That's not true. They have already forgotten way bigger stuff. And they had to be saying to themselves, you know, the Canaanites are pretty nice people. They're not so bad. Why would we wipe them out Chapter 2, verse 1 and 2. Now the angel of the Lord went up from Gilgal to Bochum, and he said, I brought you up from Egypt, and I brought you into the land that I swore to give you I said, I will never break my covenant with you, and you shall make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land. You shall break down their altars. But you have not obeyed my voice. What is this that you have done? They're not obeying, they're not repenting They're not teaching. They are breaking their covenants. Look at verses eleven and eleven through thirteen and Chapter two. And the peoples of Israel did what was evil in the sight of the Lord and served their Baals. And they abandoned the Lord, the God of their fathers, who had brought them out of the land of Egypt. They went after other gods from among the gods of the people who were around them, and bowed down to them, and they provoked the Lord to anger. They abandoned the Lord, and they served the Baals and the Ashtaroth. So they're slowly steadily moving toward bales. Fails well, what's the first commandment? No other god besides you. Right? They knew this commandment. So the Baal is a fertility god. Baal's mistress is Ashtera. And these are nature gods that uh rule over crops and cycles. They're very practical gods. Crops Um and Baal needs some encouragement to do his work. So there's no uh let go and let Baal. Right? Just let Baal do it. No. Baal is reluctant to scatter his seed, and so they have temple prostitutes in the temple. And so the men go and worship at the temple. Sleep with the prostitutes. And Baal watches and gets excited. Imagine the evangelism process for Baal. The Baal worshippers are like, hey, yeah, I mean Yahweh's cool, cool, cool. And why don't you come down to the our temple? It'll be great. Come down to our temple. Bring bring your friends. And what does God say about this in chapter two? Verse seventeen. Yet they did not listen to the judges, for they hoard after other gods and bowed down to them. They soon turned aside from the way they in which their fathers had walked, who had obeyed the commandments of the Lord, and they did not do so. That's intentionally provocative. Connected to the whole thing. It's the form of intimacy without the meaning of the depth of intimacy. It's idolatry, worshiping Baal. We make ourselves vulnerable to the things we worship, and we become slaves to them unless they set up Other gods do not ever set us free. They only enslave. This is what we call God plus religion. It's okay to have Yahweh, that's fine. But we need God plus something else. Relationship, sex, popularity, the Canaanites, fine. Okay, Canaanites And so Israel couldn't wait for God, so they needed God plus. The Lord says, But whenever the judge died, they turned back and were more corrupt than their fathers, going after other gods, serving them and bowing down to them. It gets worse and worse and worse, more corrupt, more stubborn, more bowing down. Chapter three verses five and six among the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites And their daughters they took themselves for wives, and their own daughters they gave to their sons, and they served their gods. So now they're forever connected. Let's not talk religion or politics at the table. Just let us each of us do our own thing. And we We often read judges and say, I would never do that. That those dummies back then. But sin involves laziness, it involves compatibility, accommodation with our idols, make friends with our idols Right? Israel was focused on themselves. They became friends with the Canaanites. And God doesn't just call this foolish, He calls it evil. Evil. It's digging for worms, not it's not digging for worms, it's digging for snakes, isn't it? We Stop following him, stop reading, stop worshiping, drift away, cozy up with Things that feel good. It looks like substance, but it's cotton candy. Cotton candy takes up a lot of space, but there's nothing in there, right? I saw um some ballpark now is making cotton candy burritos. It's not a but it's in the shape of burritos, so you put extra stuff in there You know, sour patch kids and gum and all this stuff and then you roll it up and now you have a cotton candy burrito. I I tend to think cotton candy is one of the worst foods up there with hot dogs. But we befriend sin. We think I'm eating this great meal, I got all this cotton candy. We forget the Lord. And we have these lovers. And these lovers love me, but they also love a thousand other things, not just you. Not devoted to you. And sin can seem so right, but it's so delusional and deceitful and tricky and sneaky We talk ourselves into it. I don't know how many of you saw Breaking Bad, but you know Walter White is trying to say That's why he starts cooking meth and selling it. For a good reason. He doesn't have a uh uh insurance Life insurance, so he has to have a plan. This is a great idea to Walter White, and it sends him down into a path of utter destruction. Even in our place right here, as we try to love Relay and Tatonsville and Arbutas and Hailthorpe and Baltimore, we have to remember that our citizenship is In heaven. There are things we can't do. There are places we can't go just because we're friends and trying to minister to people in order to walk with the Lord. In judges, they say we're God's people and we're making compromises. That's how they are. Fair? Can we relate? So what does God do? We've already talked about the way God is. No real surprise. I mean sometimes you guys say that is not acceptable. Not acceptable. When people rebel against the God, what's he supposed to do? Say, oh, you guys are all good. No, he judges them, right? He judges them. They didn't obey him, they were afraid of the superior Canaanite technology. 127. Manasseh did not drive out the inhabitants of Basheen and its villages, or Tanakh and its villages, or the inhabitants of Dor and its villages, or the inhabitants of Iblam and its vill With the inhabitants of Megiddo and its villages, but the Canaanites persisted in dwelling in that land. So they're just not doing it. But it's not that it's that they are not keeping their covenant with God and they're breaking, they're making covenants with these people And God is not going to go over for that, right? And so how does God judge them? Does he wipe them out? 2 seventeen Yet they did not listen to their judges, for they hoard after other gods and bowed down to them. They soon turned aside from the way that which their fathers walked. It says in here, I lost it, I'll find it somewhere else. He gives them over. How does he judge them? He lets them do what they want. This is a You know, this wonderful parenting thing sometimes you do. You catch your kid smoking, it's like, okay, you want to smoke? Smoke the whole pack. Whole pack right at once. Like Oh. Then you don't want to smoke anymore after that, right? I'll let you do what you want. You want to eat cotton candy? I'm gonna get you ten sticks. Let go for it. Get sick and then you don't want any more So God can uh He can judge several different ways, and this way it's giving over to what you wanted. Your full passions. You have unlimited freedom and power to do the worst things you want to do. Because in truth, we all need rails, don't we? I in in uh like on your motorcycle you need a governor. Is it really good to go two hundred and fifty miles an hour Even though you can, should you do that, maybe you need something to help curb your appetite for danger. But God can sometimes say, like, okay, go for it Um that's pretty scary. So God judges, but then he also says. And and this not super prominent in this one, but it's in two sixteen. Then the Lord raised up judges who saved them out of the hand of those who plundered them. He is sending a deliverer. A champion, a judge is sort of like a leader, champion, uh proto, king, prophet. Uh general. Sometimes priest is in there a little bit. It's sort of murky, but leader champion is probably the best way to put it That's not happening. He's delivering them, rescuing them, before they want it or need it. But the God who judges also saves in spite of harlotry. God is a deliverer. They aren't lovely. They don't deserve it. He hates their suffering, but he loves them. And they cannot save themselves. And so we'll see in Judges this cycle. Um, Israel does what's evil in the sight of the Lord. The people are given over. They they do cry out for help, not really repentant, but save us from the Canaanites. And and Yahweh raises up a leader, a judge, a champion, and the spirit of Yahweh comes upon the judge, champion. And this judge defeats the enemy, and everything's great, and then they go right back around. We'll see this several times As we go through. They don't deserve his love, but he sends his deliz deliverer. Israel needs a deliverer. They're held captive and slayed by sin. So Israel, we Israel need a savior, an avenger, a judge. But what we'll be wrestling with, and what they're wrestling with, is they need a permanent one They keep on dying, and we gotta replace them. And then we need a new one. Who will save us? Who will save us? Who will deliver us? Who will rescue us? Who will be our true, true judge? As we read our history As we recount our waywardness, who will save? And we know, they didn't know. They didn't know. We know God does send A true son, true judge, true champion, an avenger, a rescuer, doesn't he? A true person who never will die permanently. Briefly dies. God and man in the flesh together, one who always sees, he sees suffering All of this is prefiguring Jesus, right? Because of our righteousness, he sent Jesus? No Why did he send? Because of his covenantal love. Because of his covenantal love, he sends his crucified Son. He made him who had no sin to take sin for us so that we can be righteous for us. And so his perfect life is given to us. It's the great exchange, right? He takes our sin, but he gives us his righteousness. So we can walk with him and be faithful people. He comes to us no matter what. All of this is ours, a God who judges and saves both. A lot of people think God only judges. He's mean. Some people think God is fine with everything, doesn't judge. Both are not true. Both are not the true God, right? We need a God who judges and saves. And remember, since we're coming right out of Joshua, and Joshua's in this book, Jesus is a name of Joshua, a version of Joshua, which means he saves And so what's our response to this? It's not continued degenerization. It's renewed faithfulness. Right? Humble reliance, not prideful boasting. Humble reliance on this God that we're talking about. As we follow his commands and repent when we fail That God won't give up on us. We know that, so we're free to live with Him in joy and hope and peace The judges is full of these people of anarchy, but we have a God of grace who loves us. It's a great country song by Rodney Atkins called He's Mine. And it basically only has two verses. The first verse is this man comes up with this group of boys that he caught down in the gully Messing around, doing stuff, and he brings him up uh because he he caught him on his you know a gator thing and He says, they were all running to this house, so I know one of these is yours. Which one is it? And the Rodney Acton singer says, he's mine, that one. He's a Son of a gun, he's just like his dad, but I love him. He does a lot of crazy stuff, but he's mine. So yeah, got in trouble. He's mine. But then he also the next verse is he's at a football game. game and his son never gets to play very much. But he talks about how um the other team had a this kid who's bigger He was messing around with our little kicker. And so his son took out that big kid and got kicked out of the game and everyone cheered. And he said, I cheered the loudest of anyone. He's that one's mine. He stood up against evil. Not evil, but I'm so proud of him. And so I just think judges is a good picture of that for us as like, yeah, God knows. God knows. He knows we're not perfect. But you can't only hear that message, right? That message crushes us down. It is true, but he's so proud of us and loves us, and we are his sons and daughters. Even when we underachieve, he loves us unconditionally. The Rajan says of his son, he's the best thing that ever happened I think God thinks that about us, His people. We're the best thing that ever happened to Him. And so we need that gospel message today. Okay. We have it. We have our deliverer, Avenger, Savior, Friend, Jesus. Amen. Let's take a few moments.