And the Lord strengthened Egon the king of Moab against Israel because they had done what was evil in the sight of the Lord. He gathered to himself the Ammonites and the Amal And went and defeated Israel. And they took possession of the city of home. And the people of Israel served on the king of Laab 18 years. And then the people The people of Israel cried out to the Lord, and the Lord raped up for them to deliver Hebrew, the son of Gareth, the Benjaminite, the left-handed man. The people of Israel sent typically fighting against Hebrew. On the seat of Goad. And Anthony came to him as he was sitting alone in his school new chamber. And Anthony said, I have a message from God for you. And he arose from his seat. He reached out with his left hand, took the sword from his right thigh, and pressed it into his belly. And the hilt also went in after the blade, and the fat closed over the blade, for he did not hold the sword out of his belly, and the dumb came out. Then Edward went out and reached the porch and closed the doors of the room shaped behind him and walked up. So he had gone the servants came, and when they saw that the Doors of the roof chamber were locked, we thought surely he is relieved himself in the clock of the school chamber, and they waited till they were embarrassed. But when he still did not open the doors of the roof chamber, He took the key and opened them, and there lay their lord dead on the floor. Edward escaped while they delayed, and he passed beyond from idols and escaped to Salem. When he arrived at Sound of the trumpets in the hill country of Ephraim. Then the people of Israel went down with him from the hill country, and he was their leader. And he said to them, Follow after me, for the Lord can do your Your enemies, the Moabites, into your hand. So they went down after he had peace before the Jordan against the Moabites and did not allow anyone to pass over. And they killed at that time About ten thousand of the Moabites, all strong, big-bodied men, not a man's case. So Moab was the Jews that day under the hand of Israel, and the land had rest for 80 seasons. Israel. And the people of Israel again did what was evil in the sight of the Lord after Achilles died. Amen. Please be seated. Just a normal Bible story Just what you would expect. Okay, so uh superheroes. If you could pick a superhero to save you, who would you pick? So they're you know superheroes are different. Uh like Superman Not from around here. Doesn't really do much wrong. Doesn't have much of a temper. He's sort of always above the fret. Batman, on the other hand, is a normal dude with a bunch of fancy equipment, sort of like Iron Man. And you know, Batman's. questionable at times. In some sense of one man vigilante, going doing whatever he wants. So those are very different types of superheroes. Wonder Woman, I don't know. To the invisible jets. Most of us would not care as long as we're saved, right? Just say if somebody saves me, I'm fine. And the Bible is filled with strange saviors, unexpected deliverers. And Judges three is a very good And so we're going to look at Judges 3, how we have a great and strange salvation. So first I'm going to remind you of the cycles. We talked about cycles. a little bit last week. But the cycles are they go this way. The first part of the cycle is people do evil. They serve the Baals, the Canaanite gods, they abandon God. Look at chapter 3, verse 7. It's not in your Bulletin, you have to look at it. Look at it. And the people of Israel did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. They forgot the Lord their God and served the Baals and the Asherah. The Baal and the Ashroth, this is a male and female fertility gods, basically. They're fertility gods that bless the harvest. So they go after these gods. The Bible says they whore after the gods. They bow down to them, and the verdict is these are sinful, evil people. God's people. Sinful, evil people. God had told them to remain holy to be distinct, to be faithful. And they didn't do that. They let the Canaanites stay around. They married them. These are cool people. We're all good together. They became syncretists, so we can have some of Yahweh and some of Bea. We're going to have God plus whatever else we want, not God only. And God doesn't like that. God wants to be intimate with his own people only. Not to share. And so the second cycle is God's anger is kindled and he gives them over. Look at verse 8. Therefore the angle of the Lord, anger of the Lord was kindled against to Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Kushan Rishamin, king of Mesopotamia, and the people of Israel served them for eight years. So he sends trouble, he sends discipline on them. He sends plunderers to plunder his own people. That doesn't Doesn't sound so great. But I want to remind you, let's turn over to Hebrews twelve. My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor be weary when reproved by him, for the Lord disciplines the one he loves and chastises every son whom he re It is for discipline that you have to endure. God is treating you as sons. For what son is there whom the father does not discipline? If you are left without discipline, in which we all have participated, then you are illegitimate children and not sons. Besides this, we have had earthly fathers Who disciplined us, and we respected them. Shall we not much more be subject to the Father or spirits and live? For they disciplined us for a short time as it seemed best to them, but he disciplines us for our good, that we may share his holiness. For the moment all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant, but later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it. Bad fathers, number one, are way too lenient They let children do anything they want. On the other hand, bad fathers punish every single infraction, are way too harsh. Like it's a boot king. But we have a good Father who loves us, who disciplines us, and he has reasons we And God uses suffering in our lives to Draw us closer to Him to teach us things. In chapter 3, verse 2, God brought His people into suffering. It was only in order that the generations of the people of Israel might know war, to teach war to those who had not known it before, to battle. We need to learn how to battle. This is sort of like maybe the best example would be a a college basketball team or a pro basketball team that's just winning, winning, winning And they get lazy. And so the coach puts them through the drills, makes them suffer, makes them run, makes them puke, so they remember what it's like to go to war to win. Inflicting pain can be okay to battle, to fight, to stop being complacent. So God sends the plunderers. Then verse then the third part of the cycle, let's look at uh three, nine, and ten. 10. But when the people of Israel cried out to the Lord, the Lord raised up a deliverer for the people of Israel who saved them. So God hears their cries and sends a deliverer, sends a judge, sends a champion. And then there's peace. The champion wins, and there's peace. And then what happens? The fourth part of the cycle is the judge, the deliverer, the champion dies. And they go right back to where they were, don't they? It's even worse. More corrupt than ever. It's only a temporary salvation And the sinfulness is all the more obvious. So in our passage, let's look 312, and the people of Israel again did it was evil inside of the Lord, and the Lord strengthened Eglon. The king of Moab against Israel because they had done what was evil in the sight of the Lord. Is the same verb as hardened, like when God hardened Pharaoh's heart. God didn't put evil in their heart. He pulled back so it became unrestrained. And so he sent a specific king, right? Aegon, king of Moab. And then in three fifteen we read that he sends a deliverer, Ahud, the Benjamite, a champion. And then as we read at the very end, and the people of Israel again did was evil in the sight of the Lord after After Ihu died, that's the end of the cycle. Their wave works off because they keep doing the same stuff. So we have The cycle, right? So what's the situation? We have two judges in chapter three. The first is this guy, Othniel He's only just got five verses, seven through eleven. He's the classic one. I didn't put this in here because there's only five verses. I guess I could have put it because there's only five verses. But he he is uh sets the pattern for what it is we are just talking about. Eight years of suffering under a king of Mesopotamia. God heard their cries. He sent Othniel, a nephew of Caleb, interestingly enough. And Othniel raised an army, defeated the king, and there was peace for 40 years? Yeah! This is how it's supposed to go. This is sort of like Superman, because we don't hear anything bad about this guy So this is this is our expectation of how we're going to do this. It's easy enough, I mean there's no real flaws, but this is a one-off. You're familiar enough with judges to know this is not how it's going to go, right? So now we get to our main one. There's this king, right? Aeglon, king of Moab, and that means trouble because the Moabites aren't from around here. They've come a long way to get into this region to conquer Israel and with they've got you know friends that are helping them So these are foreign raiders and they're taking territories and they have taken the city of Palms. Where is that? Verse Verse 13. And they took possession of the city of Palms, which is Jericho. They have retaken Jericho, the first city that Joshua and Caleb took with their awesome strategy. Remember we last week you talked about their amazing strategy. Walk around, blow the trumpets, and it fell. And they saw the Lord's amazing, amazing provision for them. The power of the Lord was so evident. Jericho has been retaken. This is very ominous. Eighteen years they serve as servants. And we read in verse 16, and Lehud made for himself well this should be where is that? Where does it say he's a very fat man? I don't remember. Seventeen. Oh, it's not in the reading. That's why I can't find it. Okay, it's at the very uh and he presented the tribute to Eglon, king of Moab. Now Eglon was a very fat man. Okay, this is a juicy detail. Not not normal description of people, right? Um the author wants us to notice and something's gonna happen with that. Now we've already read. The original readers would have snickered. Um and and this is something the Bible does sometimes is use somebody's vanity Against them. For example, Absalom loved his hair. He was super vain about his hair. And that's what got him caught. in the brambles and then killed. So this is one of the things that happens. So so here they are, God's people, right? This is the situation. Israel's stuck in their sins. They're serving a king, they're oppressed, and they cry out. And this is what we want to do in the book of Judges is say, like, are we like them is this just those people? The Israelites three thirty five hundred three thousand five hundred years ago We need to remember in our day how are we doing with Sexuality. How are we doing with pornography? How are we doing with illegal drugs? How are we doing with addiction? How are we doing with overeating or bulimia or anorexia Suicide, overspending. There's so many things where we are not following the Lord as a people. In the church. Right? This is about us So judges remind us that we are not alone. We're also not above the thread. In getting stuck, or being oppressed, or even oppressing others We're all capable. We've all sinned and fallen short of the the Lord, right? We've all been sinned against And God allows it. God allows it. God allows suffering in our lives. God allows hurt. But he also hears his children's cries. Right? When we cry out, he hears our cries. So cry out to him. Even if you're angry at him for what he's allowed into your life, he can bear that if you cry out to him I'm editing a book right now that I'm gonna publish. It's a book of poems from an eighteen year old girl who was in my church in Oklahoma. in the city who's been really struggling. Suicide. Cutting herself. Um it's painful to read this book. Interestingly enough, I told you about the another book I edited about the guy who wrote during his uh chemo And he didn't die from cancer. He died from mountain climbing. And so I was editing his book about chemo, knowing he's died, but not from what he was writing about. And I would sit in these places and just cry and cry and cry. And the same thing is happening as I cry and cry and read these poems. And they were in the same s small group. Like what's going on with the small group? But she at least is writing it out on paper. And here's the beautiful thing. There's this guy. He's a professor. at the University of Oklahoma, a Presbyterian. He's a professor of Islamic studies, which is crazy. He grew up in the Philippines as a son of Vishnu And so he is her friend and mentor. She shared these poems with him. He's the perfect person because he listens to people. And he's listened to her. And on almost every poem he writes a response to her. And here's one of the responses. I want to read this to you. This is from my friend David. Here for the very first time you gently express a bit of anger at God. You sound like Mary, the sister of Lazarus, standing at her brother's tomb, confused, reproaching Jesus for being absent, for watching from afar while her love sickened and died. does not take offense at her reproach. I wonder whether your anger might not also be an important piece of your love and even of your worship of God and of Him He's right. It's okay to cry out to God when you don't know what's going on. We don't always have to know everything that's going on. Cry out to him. The cycle, the situation And now let's talk about the unexpected Savior. We have our own sins, our own enslavements, our own captors. We also participate in God plus And we cry out, and God sends help. He doesn't only send suffering, he sends a savior. So in this story, it's Ehud of Benjamite. Now you probably wouldn't know this, but the word Benjamite means son of my right hand. Son of my right hand. And right handedness is important in the Bible. If you look at Exodus fifteen 156. It says, Your right hand, O Lord, glories, is glorious in power. Your right hand, O Lord, shatters the enemy. Where is Jesus sitting right now? At God's Right hand. It's the place of power, strength. It's how you fight to win. It's how you train to defeat the enemy. And this guy's a Benjamite. Awesome. He's on the right hand That's great for fighting. We got the right guy, right? Well this is sort of like we want Othniel, and we're getting him a new Othniel. Except what's the the problem. This dude is freaking left-handed. Now we all know left how many of you are left-handed? Okay. We all know lots of left handed people. Weirdos. Uh it's estimated seven to ten percent of people in the world are left handed. So it's it's common, but it's not normal. I mean it's not it's not half and half. It's not half and half is what I mean. We we get trained mostly get trained to be right-handed, right? I mean Um but think about this. The word for left in Latin is sinistral, which is where we get the word sinister. That's not cool. What's the word in Latin for right dexterous? So if you have dexterity, you're right-handed. Well we just inflated these words into our normal place. In in China, in Chinese at least, the left side is the bad side. So this has happened still in our world, right? So Israel wanted an Othniel, and they get a dude who's from the right-handed place, but is left-handed. This is a B or C level superhero. We don't have Superman or Batman or Spider-Man. We have Seraian Rapman. Tupperware woman. Brush girl. Worm boy. I don't know. What are these gonna do? Are you gonna suran wrap everybody? But hey, we're in trouble I'm glad you sent someone. Let's see what he can do. He's got an eighteen inch sword. It's double sided. He straps it on his thigh, the wrong side of the thigh. I mean, you know, people in these days were not left-handed. So they didn't check the wrong side So he gets through this. This guy gives a bribe, right? And he leaves. He pays tribute. So this looks right now like complete submission. But he turns back. Maybe he gets to the The gods. He turns back. And he tells the king, I have a secret message for you. Now, cool. The king says, I I want to hear a secret message. You're obviously no threat. He sends everybody out, wants to know what the secret is. So now it's just the two of them, right? The king, the envoy of an oppressed people This pathetic, bad-handed, no threat of a guy. And then he says, I have a message from God. What? The king stands up, and we have PG through PG thirteen Bible time is awesome. This is not in the Precious Moments Chapel. And Ehud reached with his left hand, took the sword from his right thigh, thrust it into his belly. And the hilt also went in after the blade, and the fat closed around the blade, for he didn't pull the sword out of the belly, and the dunk came out. Food himself. Amazing. So he's lying on the floor, the king, surrounded by blood, fever Undigested food. It smells terrible, right? The stench buys Ehud time to escape because the people who are supposed to be paying attention don't want to go in to disturb the king when he's doing his business. I don't blame them. I don't want to see that. So Ehut gets out, goes back to the people, sounds the trumpet. 328. And he said to them, Follow after me, for the Lord has given your enemies the Moabites into your hand. So they went down after him and seized the fords of the Jordan against the Moabites, and did not allow anyone to pass over. And they killed them all. All strong, able-bodied man, not a man escaped. Boom! Huzzah! War. Victory. An a slave nomadic conquered people with a left-handed leader defeated the strong, fit, tanned, well-fed Moabites And Israel rested for 80 years. What a story. What a Bible we have. Now, how do you apply this to our lives? Left handed people make good assassins. Don't eat too much. I just think it's simple enough. We all need help. Not just them. It's us. And if you need help, this text is for you. If you've got everything all fine all together, this text is not for you. I don't know how to help you. This text is for broken people. There are things in our lives, big or small or chronic or unusual, that feel Sound like, taste like, smell like death in our lives There are things in our lives like that, right? And God delights in saving sinners. He saves people who need help. Because the most important thing about this text is in 315. 315. Then the people of Israel cried out to the Lord, and the Lord raised up for them a deliverer. Yeah. We need a deliverer, don't we? A champion, a judge That word is the same word for Messiah, a deliverer, an anointing To save his people, to rule. And Ehud was temporary and super imperfect, right? It was a short-term deliverer. And it was not the right time to send the true deliverer. Not right, not yet. It wasn't the time to send the true one So we have two applications. One is when it was exactly the right time, Galatians 4. 4 tells us. When it was the exact right time, God did send the perfect deliverer, didn't he? And it was a left-handed salvation. Now Jesus wasn't left-handed. I don't know. But he wasn't what they expected, right? They wanted an Othniel. They wanted a mighty king They wanted someone to smash the Romans, send them back to the sea, drive them out of town. They wanted that perfect person And they got a baby and a cattle stall in nowhere. That's fine. They got a man who lived in obscurity until he was thirty. They got a man who fought with Jewish leaders, respected Jewish leaders, fought with them. They got a man who is popular with poor people, not powerful people, who said weird stuff, talked about Not dying all the time. Spoken riddles. Isaiah told us that this Savior would be despised and rejected and nothing to look at. But they wanted Superman. Look, even since then, how have we drawn and painted Jesus six foot Five white men. That's what we want. A short Jewish carpenter? Would we have followed him? Would you have followed him around? Just imagine if you're in this Sea of Galilee region And Jesus says, hey, come follow me. I got Peter, I got Andrew. How about you? Julie? I tend to think we'd say Oh, maybe. Let me get my affairs in order. People did say that, right? I can't go out looking like this I gotta at least change. But on my whatever, I gotta clean up. Then I'll follow you. So Judges three reminds us salvation is messy and gross and earthy And leal, and Yahweh is not some like white gloves, fandoffish God who holds Clorox and Lysol to spray you before he touches you Judges three reminds us that God is in the present of the mess and the grime of your life and your heart. He shows up with the salvation because he knows our weaknesses where we need it. He's in the filth, he's in the mess. In the He allows the mourning for the night because there's a joy in the morning Jesus wasn't a superhero from a different planet. God and man together. Right? That was the sermon. I've already preached it. I'm just giving more details. Jesus is always there. He does Amazing things, and he cares for you and does good for you. And Ehud just points to it, points to him. Now normally I would tell you that's it. But if we follow Jesus, then that we might have chances to help. Help deliver others, maybe, as we point to him too. Right? Let me tell you a story. Jamie Torkowski. Jamie Torkowski. He knew Joaquin Phoenix. So Joaquin Phoenix, famous actor, was really good in Walk the Line, I think. Something you would maybe wouldn't know about Joaquin Phoenix is he uses his arms like a notepad. He writes notes to himself on his arms arms all the time. So Jamie decided that he would do the same thing. And the note he wrote on his arm was love. He wrote love on his arms. With a sharpie. One day, Jamie meets this 19-year-old girl named Renette, who was certainly a daughter of anarchy. She had still had cocaine in her system. She hadn't slept in two days. She was depressed and suicidal. She said, I have felt the touch of awful men too many times. Renee drank a whole bottle of whiskey, locked herself in the bathroom with a laser or razor blade, and etched F up on her That's what she wrote on her arms. Permanent. In this condition, detox wouldn't take her. She had to get doing a little bit better. So he took her and set up his own detox They went to church. And so the next day when she was doing better, she gave him the razor boards. And he said it was the most precious gift he'd ever given. What a reason. what he wrote. Take a broken girl, treat her like a famous princess, give her the best seats in the house, buy her coffee and cigarettes for the coming down, books and bathroom things for the days ahead. Tell her something true when all she's known are lies. Tell her God loves her. Tell her about forgiveness. The possibility of freedom. Tell her she was made to dance in white dresses. All these things are true. We are only asked to love, to offer hope to the many hopeless. We don't get to choose all the endings, but we are asked to play the rescuers. We won't solve all the mysteries, and our hearts will certainly break in such a value vulnerable life, but it is the best way. We are all made to be lovers, bold in book broken places, pulling ourselves out again and again. Until we're called home. She wrote hate on her arms. He wrote love. We have a great rescuer, don't we? A deliverer. And he does call us to be on the same page with that. I know you do that. Just reminding you on that. thankful to hear your stories of being rescue and for helping to rescue as we point to the great rescue. Amen. Amen.