This is from Judges 8, verses 22 through 35. Then the men of Israel said to Gideon, Rule over us, you and your son and your grandson also, for you have saved us from the hand of Midian. Gideon said to them, I will not rule over you, and my son will not rule over you. The Lord will rule over you. And Gideon said to them, Let me make a request of you. Every one of you, give me the earrings from his spoil, for they had golden earrings because they were Ishmaelites. And they answered, We will willingly give them. And they spread a cloak, and every man threw in threw in it the earrings of his spoil. And the weight of the golden earrings that he requested was one thousand seven hundred shekels of gold, besides the crescent ornaments and the pendants and the purple garments worn by the kings of Midian, and besides the collars that were around the necks of their camels And Gideon made an ephod of it and put it in the city in in Ophrah, and all Israel whored after it there, and it became a snare to Gideon and to his family So Midian was subdued before the people of Israel, and they raised their heads no more, and the land had rest forty years in the days of Gideon. Jerabal, the son of Joash, went and lived in his own house. Now Gideon had seventy sons, his own offspring, for he had many wives, and his concubine who was in Shechem also bore him a son, and he called his name Abimelech And Gideon, the son of Joash, died in a good old age and was buried in the tomb of Joash, his father, at Ophrah of the Abeazarites. As soon as Gideon died, the people of Israel turned again and hoard after the Baals, and made Baal Barath their God. And the people of Israel did not remember the Lord their God, who had delivered them from the hand of all their enemies on every side. And they did not show steadfast love to the family of Jerobail, that is Gideon, in return for all the good that he had done to Israel. Before I start, I just want to uh say a couple words about RUF again. And the biggest thing I want to say is you should be very thankful that you have Trip and Joy and Ruth. They are wonderful. Um not only very accomplished pastors and leaders, but uh Tripp has especially become a very good friend of me. So I'm very thankful for you to be be thankful. I know you are. But continue to be thankful. I'm thankful for you. We are going through the book of Judges, obviously, in at Grace Church. And so this is our third and last sermon about Gideon. Now I'm going to come in two not this Monday but the next Monday I'm gonna tell you a different story from Judges. But to get us up to speed because this isn't a special Sunday service, although there's a lot of special things that are happening. This is just the sermon you got 'cause came on this week. Uh Gideon, it starts in chapter six. This is the guy who had the golden fleece, the fleece. I call it the golden fleece That's different. Fleece. And he was testing God because God had told him to do something. And he was very worried about it. He was he said, I'm from the weakest clan. I'm the weakest person in my family. Why would you choose me? And God said, You are the guy. And so he goes and does this cool thing. He tears down these poles that were worship poles. There's a Baal and there's an Asherah pole. They were a couple of gods. And they were fertility gods. And they blessed the crops and all that stuff. And Gideon's dad built one of those. So Gideon didn't know everything about God. He had a a mix view of God. But he goes and he pulls him down and he gets this nickname. It's sort of fun because they want to tear him up because they don't like this. And uh it's called J Jurabel. And they're sort of making fun of him. In chapter seven, this is what I was reminding the kids about. This is where he has this army, he's gonna go fight 135,000 people. And got and he only has thirty-two thousand people, which isn't enough. But God said it's too much. Send twenty-two thousand of 'em home. So now he has ten thousand. So they go to this pool this spring And some of them drink like this and some of them drink like this, and he takes the ones that drink like this. There were ninety-seven hundred of one and three hundred of the other. He picks the three hundred. You want me to fight 135,000 against 300? God works with weak people. And they win. They have this sort of strategy that scares them all off and they they run away. So that's where we're at. Now we're at chapter 8, and we're going to talk about heroes. Heroes can let you down. I know a guy who tells a story about his dad. His dad was his hero. And then back in nineteen seventy-seven, if you wanted to see the new Star Wars movie that everybody's talking about You had to go to the movie theater. There was no other option. Remember those days? No, no, not all of you remember those days. I remember I was in kindergarten and the this is before all this stuff, right? We made lightsabers out of tinker toys. That was the advanced system. So he's waiting for his dad at the movie theater because he could walk to the movie theater and his dad doesn't show. So he walks back. That's the There's worse hero disappointment stories than that, but that's still disappointed. His dad let him down. People let us down, and we let other people down, don't we? Heroes don't always do the right thing. So in part three of Gideon, Gideon gets a hundred verses, three chapters, more than Samson, who's sort of more famous. Gideon is a judge. Judges are champions, warriors, avengers, rescuers, heroes. They're not supposed to be kings. They're also prophets. They speak into the world. And they fail. Time and time again. They fail. Things got in his way, and we look at what happened and we learn what happened, but we're always looking for Jesus. We're not just looking for more knowledge. We're looking for Jesus. So point one Gideon's revenge. Now this is important. Judges are not kings They're not kings. They they're King adjacent, right? Uh they're these warriors, avengers. Uh and and and judges are chosen by God to rescue his people. There's a pattern that happens. The people go into sin. They they go after other gods and they get taken over and then they cry out. God hears their cry. He sends a judge, a rescuer, an avenger, a champion. They get saved. There's peace, and they go right back where they were again. So judges are warriors and advisors Like I said in chapter 7, Gideon won this battle. Now chapter 8, Gideon has another army, but this is a real army. He's doing he's going on the offensive. We're not pared down to 300 anymore, right? He's in charge, he's directing, not God. He was listening to God and following God's very strange commands. Now he's making the commands. God's not in the picture, as far as we can tell. He's winning, but he's also taking revenge. Look at CHAPTER eight twenty-one. Then Zebula and Zalmuna said, Rise yourself and fall upon us, for the man is, so is his strength. And Gideon arose and killed them both And he took the crescent ornaments that were on the necks of their camels. So he's taking revenge, right? It's not necessarily wrong, but it's not normal in the Book of Judges. Haven't read this before. This is the way generals act. We haven't really seen generals acting this way. Look at 8. 7. So Gideon said, Well then, when the Lord has given Zebuel and Zaluma into my hand, I will flail your flesh flesh with the thorns of the wilderness. And the briars. There is punishment coming. This is violent. He's going to show them a lesson, right? Verse 16. And he took the elders of the city, and he took thorns of the wilderness and briars, and with them taught the men of Succath a lesson. He's in enacting revenge like a king. Like a general. This is different. Later, we'll talk about this a little later in the sermon, he asked for the spoils of war. That hasn't happened before in the book of Judges. He makes a memorial to himself. That hasn't happened before. So Gideon in chapter eight is a lot different than what we saw at the very beginning. Very beginning he was scared and timid. I'm from the weakest family. I'm the weakest person in my family. But now he's bold And on the move. Now that's not all bad. It just sort of depends on how it goes. It's mixed. He's confident, but he's also mimicking the culture he's in. This is what they were having done to them. How they were being attacked. And he's also taking credit for himself. Not giving credit to God. We always want to ask ourselves, how are we like the people in the Bible? It can be real easy to think, oh, this happened so far away. These people are totally different from us That's not really true. They're people. They're in different time and culture, of course, but they're still people. And I prayed in the opening prayer that we are called to glorify God and enjoy Him forever. And that's super easy to say. It's beautiful to say. But all of us, to some extent at least, want glory for ourselves. Right? We enjoy our accomplishments. We don't always want to point to God. We want to point to me. God's strength was shown with 300 soldiers. My strength is shown when we crush people. God used Gideon's weaknesses, but now Gideon is strong in himself, confident in himself, and we are a lot like Gideon. Now let's look at Gideon's descent. This is eight twenty-four through thirty one, which Julie read. And Gideon mixes worship and fellowship with God and also compromise, a lot like us. Gideon says he doesn't He doesn't want to be king, right? But he really wants to have it both ways. Because in eight twenty two they ask him to be the king And the men of Israel said to Gideon, Rule over us, and your son and your grandson also, for you have saved us from the hand of G Midian. So they want him to be king. And Gideon says the right thing, No. A long time later in ancient Rome, they would appoint a dictator for a little bit when they were at war And then the dictator would once the war was over, say, okay, I'm just gonna go back to a nor being a normal senator. I'm not gonna keep being a dictator. That's the way the pattern went, until Julius Caesar and Augustus Caesar Senator I said, forget all this virtuous stuff. I like the power. I like the strength. I like the army. I like being called a god. And that changed everything right then. So Gideon faces this crisis a long time before that. But he didn't call himself a king, he didn't call himself a Caesar. He just acted like one. He made this thing called an ephod, and we all know what an ephod looks like, right? Just picture an ephod in your head. One of the many I I did we do have a slide for what an e food looks like. So it's it's a breastplate vest thing This would be good for Comic-Con, Warren. You could wear that at Comic Con, right? And it has these jewels in it. These are representing the twelve tribes of Israel. And it also has these two other things called the Urim and the Thuman. And these are mystical stones that they thought I don't know if it was right or wrong, but God spoke to them through them. Gave them directions. And this is a priestly garment. You can read about this in Exodus 20. twenty eight. The the high priest would wear one of these when he goes into the Holy of Holies to represent God's people, to intercede for God's people. So so if we understand that, then this is a thing that a king A person acting like a king is also wearing something like a priest, and he's also sort of a prophet. Prophet, priest, and king. Okay, you can take that down. So he asked for all these uh earrings, right? Before there are no priests mentioned in the book of They're just completely absent. There's no Ark of the Covenant which presumably would be there. We're not talking about the tabernacle or nothing. It's just like completely erased. So now we have this is the only thing in this book that's really about priests. And so he gets seven hundred seventeen hundred shekels of gold. You know how much the gold that is, right? Seventeen hundred shots. So that's seventy-one pounds. It's a big gold bar and it can be melted down and made into this breastplate thing. Another way to live like a king is to have a lot of wives. That proves your virility. You conquer people and you take their wives, you kill their soldiers, now you got wives. And it's just like the Midianite culture with the Baal worship. And then there's one more thing that makes it for sure that Gideon is acting like a king He names one of his sons, this is in verse 30, he names the son Abimelech, which means the son of a King. I'm not a king. You named your son son of a king. That's what kings do You can't say you're not a king anymore, right? Those are noble words. He was doubting in chapter 6, and now he is acting like a king. Whenever he's killing it and winning and confident, things go wrong. Now, it's great. I hope we all do great in life, but just remember If you, God blesses you and you get to move toward king or queen status, it can be real bad. It can be real bad to have power. As much power as you want. As many wives as you want. As much ephods as you want. And we start believing in ourselves instead of trusting in the Lord and following Him. We're experiencing God's victory, and we're saying, This is my victory. I am the one. Who rules the world? Listen to me. And then we see what happens. This is an eight and twenty twenty seven. And Gideon made an Ephid and put it in the city, and all Israel hoard after it there, and it became a snare to Gideon and to his family. Gideon didn't ever fully give up Baal worship. He did pull the Baal pulls down, and we always got to remember he's In Hebrews eleven as a man of faith. I was trying to make that point to the kids. So this is a very mixed person, like people are, right? Like people are. But his example is saying like you can have God plus ethos. You can worship whore after these things. And when he dies, look at 833. three. And as soon as Gideon died, the people of Israel turned again and hoarded after the Baals and made Baal Barit their God. It did not take long. Baal Barit means Baal of the Covenant. They have the God of the Covenant. Yahweh, covenantal God, who loved them, who brought them out of Israel, who won battles for them. And they're not against Yahweh. And you know, Baal worshippers aren't against Yahweh either. It's just like we want God, Baal. And Yahweh. Both. Fine. We are very inclusive. No problem. But you know, if we're going to be inclusive of you, you've got to be inclusive of us. Okay. We know all about the covenant, so Baal Barit is fine. They rejected the God who delivered them and accepted the Midianite culture and worshiped And there was forty years of shalom, a little glimpse of peace. Forty years glimpse of peace. And at the very end Look at the verse thirty four and thirty-five. And the people of Israel did not remember the Lord their God, who had delivered them from the hand of all their enemies on every side. And they did not show steadfast love, covenantal love, to the family of Jerubal, that is Gideon. He gets his nickname back. He's remembered for his nickname. It's not a good nickname. And so we close the book on Gideon and we move on. So what do we think, Gideon? Mixed bag, right? We have a hero who falls, follows the culture. And like all the judges, and everyone in the Bible except Jesus, they Point to something greater. They leave us longing for more. It creates this longing and it points to Christ. Jesus is the greatest avenger, the greatest hero, the greatest judge. He is the prophet, priest, and king. Legit. Straight up appointed by God. Anointed by the Lord. And this is what the book of Hebrews is all about. You share me something. Angels. Okay, Jesus is better, angels. High priests. Jesus is better than high priests. Prophets, Jesus is the best prophet. Judges, Jesus is the best judge. Over and over and over again. Whatever you can think of. Everything, Jesus is better. And yet Gideon, especially in this chapter, is accepted by Jesus. Loved by Jesus, right? Not because of his good works He's also not cast out because of his bad works. He is loved because of his faith and trust in something else. We are told that in Hebrews 11 for sure. None of us have perfect faith, none of us have perfect actions, but God anchors him in the storm of life, and he does for you too. Martin Luther wrote in his famous hymn, Did we in our own strength confide, our striving would be losing. We're not the right man on our side, the man of God's own choosing. We trusted in ourselves, and Gideon trusted in himself. He did trust in himself some, but not only, because he had faith in something else. And his failures is Christ's glory because Jesus perfectly followed and obeyed, and he was a king who can save, right? And he shows us through his life, his death, his baptism, his words, his miracles, especially his death and resurrection He secures our redemption where Gideon couldn't. There will be someday more than forty days of peace, right? You know, there are people who want to take bad stuff out of history They only want to teach nice stuff. So they want to like remove the civil war or or gussy it up to make it better. It's like we want to focus on the good The positive, positive parts about America. One reason why judges is in the Bible is because that's not the way it works. There's bad stuff. You don't get to erase it. We live in a world where there was a civil war. We live in a world where there was a Holocaust, where there was a 9-11 We live in a world where pagers and walkie-talkies blow up and kill people. Which blows my mind We also live in a world where we create our own little mini wars. We we have our own blow-ups, our own disasters. We're not immune. It's not only everything super far away can be very immediate and local and personal Family, work, health, fights, arguments, blow ups, disagreements. So judges reminds us that we can cry out too. That we are messy people too. Judges reminds us that God saves sinners. He listens. He sends deliverers A big huge one, but it also sends other people. Unexpected people that you wouldn't have thought that could help you And Judges teaches us that God uses sinners for his purposes too. He's not out looking for perfect people. He uses people just like Gideon and just like you and me. But our mo most goal is not to be like Gideon. Be like Gideon, what does that even mean? How can I be like Gideon? Don't make ephods? I wouldn't know how to Don't practice polygamy? Fine. One is enough. Plenty. A handful. More than I can take But also don't take something and give it more importance than what it is. That's the whoring after something part, the worshiping another God part. Also, you are the bride of Christ if you are a Christian. He loves you and is for you. It's crazy about you. Because when you are weak, Christ is strong. When you are weak, Christ is strong. Paul teaches us that in 2 Corinthians. And God is your anchor in times of trouble. Put your trust in Him. And come thou fount, we sing, Jesus sought me when a stranger, wandering from the fold of God, he to rescue me from danger. Interposed his precious blood. He is the rescuer. Amen? He's the true hero. Amen.