Abimelech and the leaders of Shechem, and the leaders of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech, that the violence done to the seventy sons of Jerubal might come, and their blood be laid on Abimelech their brother, who killed them. and on the men of Shechem who strengthened his hands to kill his brothers. And the leaders of Shechem put men in ambush against him on the mountain tops, and they robbed all who passed by them along that way. And it was told to Abimelech. And Abimelech fought against the city all that day. He captured the city and killed the people who were in it, and he raised the city and sold it, sowed it with salt. Then Abimelech went to Tebez and encamped against Thebes and captured it. But there was a strong tower within the city, and all the men and women and all the leaders of the city fled to it and shut themselves in, and they went up to the roof of the tower. And Abimelech came to the tower and fought against it, and drew near to the door of the tower to burn it with fire And a certain woman threw an upper mill stone on Abimelech's head and crushed his skull. Then he called quickly to the young man, his armor-bearer, and said to his and said to him, Draw your sword and kill me, lest they say of me, a woman killed him. And his young man thrust him through, and he died. And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, every one departed to his home Thus God returned the evil of Abimelech, which he committed against his father in killing his seventy brothers. And God also made all the evil of the men of Shechem return on their heads, and upon them came the dri The curse of Jotham, the son of Jerubal. Amen. Please be seated. The key verse for Judges is the last verse. Chapter 21, verse 25. In those days there was no king in Israel. Everyone did what was right in his own eyes. So as we continue to look at judges, there's a lot of bad stuff going on in judges. So again we come to how do we make sense of evil? Often, when we encounter evil, we ignore it or hide from it. Sometimes we process it and talk about it. We uh sometimes also make symbols to memorialize that we never forget the evil that happened in this land or in this place. We can also work against it, and sometimes we participate in it. Sort of amazing what's going on right now is Israel is still fighting a war. Two wars, in fact. Modern Israel is not the same exactly as ancient Israel, but it still retains some of the markers. And you know, it's it is amazing that we have an Israel. I mean we don't have Kittites or Midianites or Canaanites or Gibeonites. There's none of that. We do have Egyptians. But those are pretty much the only two ancient people. And Egypt was a powerhouse. And Israel was a tiny, tiny people. They were only really significantly important for not very many years. In Judges 9, we see evil, mass murder, civil war, conspiracy, curse, and death. And the story of Abimelech, like all the stories in Judges, leaves us wanting Longing for something better. And in Judges 9, in the midst of all this evil. We also find a God who cares, who hears, who judges, a God of justice, a God who overcomes. A song came on this week by Josh Gerrels called Morning Light. There's a place, a garden for the young to laugh and dance in safety among the shimmering light in the shade of the tree. But steal a bite, and paradise is lost. With darkened hearts, we didn't count the cost, and we forgot all that we left behind. Also in the song he has a line, there's a way that seems right to a man till he's in over his head and he doesn't understand all the plans he made. It only led him astray. There is a way that seems right to a man, but in the end it leads to death. Proverbs 14, 12. Trust not in your own understanding. So let's talk about the heart for evil. God's people we talked about last week were rescued by Gideon. God appointed Gideon as a judge. He tore down the Bale poles and the ashera poles. He won a victory with only 300 people. He was God's judge, God's Avenger, the champion. But then in that last chapter, chapter 8, he made for himself an ephod. a gold vest that was only for high priests worth millions of dollars. And what does the text say? They worshipped it. They whored after it. And it led them astray. Remember, and at the end, while Gideon is pretending not to be a king. He's acting like a king. He's doing king stuff. He raises a pole and they start worshiping Baal Barit, Baal of the Covenant. Baal of the covenant. Now they also have Yahweh, so this is God plus Baal thing. And remember, we said he named his son, seventy wives, he named one of his sons Abimelech. And that name means son of a king. I'm not the king, I'm just gonna name my son the son of a king. God Gideon had um Said no to be a king, but they want a king, don't they? Now, the book after Judges is Ruth. We're unsure exactly if r when Ruth happened. in the timeline, but it's a little breather because you're about to get to 1 Samuel. And what do the people in 1 Samuel want? A king. And who do they get? Saul. That was a bad choice, wasn't it? So here we're seeing this pattern going. We are not making good decisions. We are trusting in our own understanding. There's a way that seems right to a man, but in the end It leads to death. They want a king. They have the son of Jerub Jerubal. I will rule. We want peace. We want strength. We want riches. We want power. We're tired of these countries around us, these people. But it's an evil desire. God did not pick Abimelech to be a judge. He picked Himself. Think about the supernatural things we heard have heard over and over again. Especially with Gideon, when the Lord met with Gideon, an angel, and then it turned out it was the Lord. I told you I think it's probably pre incarnated Jesus. With Gideon. But no there's nothing like that with Abimelech at all. And so they get Chaos. Get chaos. This is not a perfect analogy. It's hard to find perfect analogies with Abimelech. He is a bad dude. But our um Rightly desired things can lead us astray down into a dark hole. One person who, in my opinion, is like this is Joe Paterno. Joe Paterno, great football coach, great man, did everything the right way. You know, they they made a statue before he even retired, and it said, educator, coach, humanitarian. And that man cared so much about his legacy. Passionate about his legacy. So much so that he turned a blind eye. To boys being abused by one of his coaches, Jerry Sandusky, who's in jail for the rest of his life. And that statue got torn down. Just a small example, I'm not saying he's like a Bimluck in any sense, but his legacy became an idol, and he was not on guard against evil. And this happens. This happens. This is how marriages can be destroyed. Corrupt businesses, corrupt politicians. I had a couple that I married while I was an RUF campus minister, and then they joined the church that I planted. And this woman was the rule followingest person I ever met. Christian rule follower, 100%. So she married her husband, and she desperately wanted to have a baby. She wanted to be a mom. She didn't get pregnant. And her heart turned so cold. Cold. They adopted a baby. It turned out that didn't fix her problem. Until one day her husband had been talking to me like something's going on. She won't talk to me. I don't know what's happening. Month to month. Well, she was having an affair. She met someone at the gym, sleeping with him that That's why her heart was cold, cold dir toward him. Woody Allen famously said, The heart wants what hit what the heart wants. The heart wants what the heart wants. No, Woody Allen married the adopted daughter of his girlfriend Mia Farrow. That wasn't his adopted daughter. But they were basically co parenting this young woman who was thirty-five years younger than he was. They got married when he was fifty-six. since she was twenty-one. There is a way that seems right to a man, but in the end it leads to death. Our quests for things, bigger things, cheaper things, faster things can hurt a lot of people. Even a quest for justice can lead to injustice. Again, these are not perfect analogies, but you know jaywalking. Jaywalking Is jaywalking a crime? Walking across the street is a crime. You know why it's a crime? Because in the 1920s, when cars got to be very popular People were getting hit by cars. So instead of telling the car drivers, stop hitting people, they told people stop getting hit by cars. And they started handing out tickets because they made it a crime. Walking across the street is not a crime And they also did it by shaming people. Jaywalking is a slur. It's like country bumpkin. A dummy. Dummy walking. And they would have ads. You know, this also happened in Detroit. This is where it became a crime. Societies can tolerate injustice and then they can make injustice out of nothing. The people of Israel validated an evil desire by picking a king in Abimelech. Now what about Abimelech himself? It's shocking. Shocking. This is why there's not a children's bulletin for Judges 9. What would you have in it? Everybody dies. Abimelech gets picked, and he murders seventy brothers. Straight away. He engages in a conspiracy to come to power. Uses that power to start a civil war He destroys Shechem. Not only destroys it, humiliates them, insults the ground. This is like General Sherman on the march on steroids. Powerful, evil, scary, no regard for others. He's killing people straight away and then he's killing people slowly by salting the they have no crops, they're gonna starve to death He does not build anything up. He tears it all down. He destroys. He kills. Sometimes fast, sometimes slow, but always deliberate. So reading about a man named Joseph Jobowski in the nineteen sixties. He was an ordinary co coal miner in West Virginia. And he ran for the presidency of the United Mine Workers Association. And he campaigned on better conditions for workers and higher pay and less corruption. But the man he was running against, the president that didn't want to lose his position was an Abimelech. And he had Joseph Jablowski assassinated for twenty thousand dollars and killed his whole family. Why? Power influence money evil, violence, abuse, hatred, shame, disease, war, death, plagues, and we cry out. Cry out, right? And the good news is that God does hear. W we we'll probably say, Could you hear faster? Could you do something quicker? But he does hear. He knows what's going on. And in the text we see two responses. The people fight And God also fights. So Abimelech was opposed. There's this brother, Jotham, who escapes and leads others to stand up against Abimelech's reign of terror. Gives this big long speech about picking the wrong king, right? But then there's this battle. This battle that happens at Sebes. In 950 through 55. And how does Abimelech die yet again by the hands of girl power? Girl power, another woman, another death. Someone had to take a stand against evil, against an evil leader leader, and this time the evil leader is on the inside. Not from the outside. We've been talking about all these leaders that come out from these nations and come to hurt Israel, and now it's Israel hurting Israel. So we should stand against evil when we see it, even in the church. And there's plenty of it. It's very painful. It's very painful to take the stand against your brothers. To not only say you're not a pastor anymore, you're not a Christian anymore. But it has to be done. Maybe we don't drop stones on people's heads, that's probably a little much. But we love justice, love mercy, and walk humbly with the Lord, and we work to reverse evil, and that's why people foster kids, adopt kids. Laura Starsenek has been Here. She works at Helping Up Mission, working with women who have crushed their lives with these decisions over time to get out of these patterns, these cycles, like we see in judges even. And then one more thing. Abimelech was cursed by God. The end of the chapter, and this is a long chapter, by the way. Thus God returned the evil of Abimelech, which he committed against his father, and killing his seventy brothers. And God also made all the evil of the men of Shechem return on their heads. And upon them came the curse of Jotham, the son of Jerubel. God cursed these people So it's not an happy ending for Abimelech, but God does eventually bring justice through strange measures, which is a pattern of judges, isn't it? Johnny Cash sings a song that he didn't write. It's an old ancient song, God's Gonna Cut You Down. Other people have sung it. Marilyn Manson has sung it. You can run for a long time. You can run for a long time. You can run for a long time. But sooner or later, God's going to cut you down. There will be justice. This song was most likely sung by slaves who knew that someday this was gonna end. It's a warning to evildoers that you cannot escape God's justice forever. It will come And we live with this faith, this Christian faith, that says we serve a God who hates evil enough to destroy it. For some reason he permits it for a time. But he did send his son, Jesus, born of a virgin, son of God, son of man. Too evil, too injustice, to a broken world, to be betrayed and shamed and stabbed and mocked And bleed and die by the worst death known to man. The real king of the universe. The real king. Abimelech was no king, Gideon was no king. Saul? We're gonna get Saul next? Come on. The one who is better than David. Better than Solomon. They longed for David and Solomon again. They wanted that back. Those were the glory years. And they got the real king of the universe, the one who made the universe and killed him too. The Westminster Shorter Catechism says that this King, Jesus, our Savior, rules over and defends us, restraining and conquering all of his and our enemies. Someday, not yet. That Josh Gerrell song, it may be broken down, all the bridges burned like an old ghost town, but this, my son, can be no new This, my son, can be made new. Joy will come like a bird in the morning sun, and all will be made well once again. A couple weeks ago I I told you the song He's Mine by Rodney Atkins about the the kid. that he's so proud of who's a mess, right? Um and he he says, yeah, he's mine, he's He's my son. He's just like me. Chip off the old block. So we were we were listening to it because she we she you know we hadn't heard it in a long time, so we put it on YouTube As we were driving along and they were like, oh yeah, and then another one came on, there's another great riding Atkinson where he he has his daughter his uh this guy's come to date his daughter. This is a total aside, this has nothing to do with the sermon And uh so the son comes to pick up the daughter, and the father is cleaning his gut. He's like uh oh. Pretty threatening, right? Uh so the I think the song's about I remember the speech I got that night. I'll never forget the speech I got. But then another one came on that I had not heard before. And you know, I'm I'm sorta worried about this Israel thing. I think this is about as bad as it's been in a while. Hamas, Hezbollah, Lebanon. Pastor Carl, I met with Pastor Carl a week and a half ago and he was on his way to Lebanon. He would have been there last Monday And I met with him on Friday and I said, Are you going? He's like, Yeah, I'm gonna go. He was gonna be there for a month because you know he said he Teaches PhD students, and he had a PhD student who had become the world expert at Middle East reconciliation meetings. And he was on his way to support him for this Middle East reconciliation meeting that was supposed to take a month in Lebanon. And we have the opposite going on, right? And he didn't go. Dude, that's I don't think this is a good idea. So we have these worldwide evil stories. And we have these debates about how do you fight evil. And if you fight evil, do you become evil Who gets to decide which is worse? How do we sort this out? But I also want you to think about your own bad news. Right? Things you're own you're experiencing in your own life. Maybe your own neighborhood. Or the things that you participate in the So we consider not living in a evil free world yet. So this song came on that I've never heard before by Rodney Atkins. And it goes this way. Just once I'd like to see the headline say there's not much to print today I can't find nothing bad to say. Because nobody robbed a liquor store. Nobody OD'd. Nobody burned a building down. Nobody fired a shot. Nobody died in vain. Just once I'd like to hear the Anchorman say, Anchorman talk about the county fair, how we clean the air, how everyone learned to care. That nobody was assassinated in the third world today. How all the kids in Ireland had to do was play. And I could use a little good news today. It doesn't take a lot to make me cry, so this is not like profound. I just started weeping. Like, yeah, that's what I want. Can we do that? I feel like we're in judges. This doesn't feel ancient at all, does it? Does this feel ancient? This feels totally contemporary. I mean we could cast this chapter easily today. It would not be difficult We could completely put this in Baltimore, in America, anywhere. This happens. We live in this world, right? Can we just have We just have it stuck. There's this longing for the new heavens and the new earth, isn't there? It's what we're going for. It's what we hope for. So it's what we hope in is Jesus coming back and setting it all right. That has to happen. I don't know how we can live in a world where that doesn't happen. And then I know this other thing. I know this other thing. God uses this stuff for his good. I don't understand it. I want to go back to my couple. I've got this dead-hearted wife. Rule follow her. Rule follower until she doesn't follow a big one. She breaks a big rule I'm talking to him and he says, now I know what it is. He calls me at ten she told me she confessed. I can't believe it. This is the person I would least think in the world would do this. So for months. Months and months and months. Six months? I don't know. Ten months, they're still coming to church. She's coming to church because she's a rule follower. Sitting up in the balcony away from each other. He's coming and taking the Lord's Supper. She's not. Because she's a rule follower. And then something happens. See, here's what happened. If I can set this in the thing I'm talking about, her heart got broke She had followed all the rules all her life, and now she knows she's a rule breaker. And guess what she needs? Jesus. And slowly over time she wakes up. And this thing that she did, she was so cold toward her husband. She was so unintimate with her husband. She was being intimate. To make a baby. That was it. And now she had this person illicit affair and something awoken in her heart that was wrong. But it also awoke in her heart and God changed it. Her heart got woke And finally, when she confessed to her husband, and her husband forgave her, because now he saw this passionate woman. Now that was a bad way to be passionate. But she couldn't turn that part off anymore, and she now is passionate toward him and toward loving him because he had forgiven her. Whoa! And that first Sunday when they came to take the Lord's Supper together after all this, after walking through them all this time, was unbelievable. And he texted me. Two weeks ago and say that was ten years ago. Now they have five kids. Amen. Now that's not every that's not the way it all turns out. And sometimes we don't always know how it's going to turn out. So I don't want to paint this with a beautiful bow or whatever. Okay? I'm not trying to say it's always going to turn out like that We do not understand what we're going through while we're going through it. And sometimes God shows us, sometimes he doesn't, and we will find out in the last day. Sometimes we'll find out in the last day. But we hope in a world that is made new. We live in a world where we know we have a God who his heart is against evil. And mysteriously, he still lets it happen. How do we deal with evil? It's not easy. We serve a God who cares and who entered into it for our sake. Amen? It's the best I can do on Judges 9. Someday there will be justice, and so we can walk into situations with a measure of hope. Even as we experience the mystery. Amen