Good morning. We are finishing up chapter three of Deuteronomy as we continue making our way uh towards this long But great Old Testament text. We're reading from verses 12 to the end. So I'll ask you if you're able to please stand as we honor the reading of God's Holy Word. I'll begin with verses twelve. We read last week about the defeat of King Og, and before then in chapter two we with we saw the defeat of King Sion. So the story continues. When we took possession of the land of this land at that time, I gave to the Reubenites and the Gadites the territory beginning at Aurora, which is on the edge of the valley of the island. and the half the c half country of Gilead with its cities. The rest of Gilead and all Bashan, the kingdom of Ag, that is, all the region of Agdob, I gave to the half tribe of Manasseh, all that portion of Bashan is called the land of Rephaim. Jair the the Manasite took all the region of Agab that is based and as far as the border of the Gerishites and the Maakites and and called the villages after his own name, how about Jair as it is to this day To Makir I gave Gilead, and to the Reubenites and the Gadites I gave the territory from Gilead as far as the valley of Anan, with the middle of the valley as a border, as far over as the river Jabbak, and border of the Ammonite. The Arabah also with the Jordan as the border from Kinereth as far as Sea of Arabah, the seas, the Salt Sea under the slopes of Pisca on the east. And I commanded you at that time, saying, The Lord your God has given you this land to possess. All your men of valor shall cross over armed before your brothers The people of Israel, only your wives, your little ones, and your livestock, I know that you have much livestock, shall remain in the cities that I have given you. Until the Lord gives to the rest of your brothers as to you, and they also occupy the land that the Lord your God gives them beyond the Jordan. Then each of you may return to his possession, which I have given you. And I commanded Joshua at that time, your eyes have seen all that the Lord your God has done to these two kings. So will the Lord do to all the kingdoms into which you are crossing. You shall not fear them, for it is the Lord your God who fights for you. And I pleaded with the Lord at that time, saying, O Lord God, you have only begun to show your servant your greatness and your mighty hand. For what is God is there in heaven or in on earth who can do such works and mighty acts as yours? Please let me go over and see the good land beyond the Jordan, that good hill country in Lebanon. But the Lord was angry with me because of you and would not listen to me And the Lord said to me, Enough from you, do not speak to me of this matter again. Go up to the top of Piska And lift up your eyes westward and northward and southward and eastward, and look at it with your eyes, for you shall not go over this Jordan. But charge Joshua and encourage and strengthen him, for he shall go over at the head of his people, and he shall put them in possession of the land that you shall see. So we remained in the valley opposite Beth Beor. The word of the Lord this morning. Holy Spirit, you are the only one who can apply God's word to our hearts. You're the only one who can make it effective in our lives. You're the only one who can make us believe it. So we ask for you to come now. And help us as we engage this holy word given to us and preserved for us for our guidance, for our instruction, for our life. In Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. I like to start with questions, because I think questions are good. They help us to think, right? So my question this morning to us is what can you expect from a faithful promise-keeping father? What can you expect from a faithful covenant keeping God? And to help us think about this, I I want us to think about our lives. You know, think of you as as a spouse, as a husband, as a as a wife, when or as a friend. Or as a worker, or whatever you do, when you do something wrong to someone and you've offended them, you've sinned against them. and you agonize over the fact that you need to go to them and confront your fears and the risk that you have to take to go and talk to them so that they may you may seek forgiveness, that you have no guarantee on their response. If it's your spouse, you don't know if they're going to be angry at you and say, get out of my face You don't know if they're gonna resent you forever and hold a grudge against you. You don't know if they're gonna be gracious and loving and merciful and say, Thank you for the apology and give you a hug. You also don't know the risks that you take because they might disappear and leave. You could lose a friend. That could be the end of it But isn't it refreshing that there is one friend whose response we can always count on? It never changes. It's a perfect response. It's a response that we would all need when we have sinned, when we have offended him, when we have failed, when we have made mistakes. that his response is something that we can always count on. And why do I say that? Because we really have to look at this verses that we just read. It's about distribution of the land and it sounds a little boring from especially from verses eleven all the way to twenty-two. What does this this really have to do with anything at all Of all these tribes being given land and then settling over there. But you gotta really think about what is really going on here. What is God doing to his people? And I really think by looking at verses 12 to 22 and then 23 and to the end with Moses' story, I think we see something beautiful here. It is God showing us how he deals with his people. And the essence at the heart of this text is that God who deals with his people in a just way. And as we're going to see today, we're going to see how God deals with us in so much justice because that's one of his attributes, but he's also a gracious God. You cannot speak about his justice without speaking about his grace. That's all we're going to see this morning. Because the whole book, as we've been studying, we're only in chapter three, but we've already seen it. This whole book is set is positioned at crossroads. God's people at crossroads. They're on the plains of Moab. And even here we're seeing this dimension of past and future all being put together. Every time we read every chapter, it's like There's a past and present and that there's a future that they're looking forward to. And here we begin to see the idea that Moses is actually in the past. Moses actually dies in this in this book We're told about it in the end of the chapter, but actually he's kind of dead. So Moses isn't in the past, but Joshua is in the Future, present and future. The desert the where they were they were for 40 years is back there. It's in the past Now the promised land is what they're looking for too, but they're not quite there yet because the possession has begun, but it's not really done yet. We're only going to read about three tribes, actually two and a half tribes here that possess the land There's still more that lies ahead to be accomplished. But the idea here is that the God's people must face the future by faith alone. Without their great man, Moses, who brought them out of the exodus They must face the future relying on God's faithfulness, this covenant promise-keeping God, and they must take the risk of what it means to live by faith. And so here, I really do think we see God's justice in the way he provides, he distributes, he apportions the land to his people. Remember the Sinon has been defeated. Og has been defeated. And here we see the two tribes, the Gadites and the Reubenites, are being given property, giving being given land. Now I I know one great man that I respect here, Dave Wheeler, who loves maps. I actually thought about him this week and I I was gonna have him draw for me a map to just kind of give us an idea of where all these places are That's a bit hard to do if I'm not drawing anything. So the best way to understand this is that to actually know that the first tribes that settled, the Reubenites and the Gadites and the half tribe of Manasseh, they settle on the east of Jordan. That's all. The rest of the tribes will go to the west, but this is where they're settling. And I look forward to one time when David and I can sit down and try to do the map over here, see where all these places are But there's a missing story. That was just a by the way, it's not on my notes. There's a missing story in the account of Deuteronomy that we don't see here, but it's found in Numbers chapter 32. And it's the story of how these tribes actually get to settle here. Because you may ask, how did God how how how did Moses just decide that you're gonna take the east of this particular and it's actually it's called the table lands, right? It's one of the most fertile land that the Israelites settled. It was great for for grazing. So how did that happen? Well the story tells us in Numbers 32 that these particular two tribes asked To be given this particular portion of land because they claimed we have a ton of cattle and all these things, and so we need grazing land. That was a long deliberation. They argued about it and of course Moses finally you know, not really giving but really agreed with them and gave them the land. But there was a condition. What was it? You will have this property only on condition that you're going to help the rest of Israel to fight and possess the rest of the land. That's what we see here. That's what Moses jumps into telling us. They're depositing all their children and and and livestock because they had many and leaving the the land that they've already possessed. to go and help the rest of Israel to possess land. But there's something beautiful that's going on here too, with Moses telling the Gadites and the and Reubenites and the half tribe of Manasseh to go help. I think God is doing something great to unify Israel, to tell them that you are one That you're not just gonna possess the land and then rest and forget that you have your brothers and sisters that have not possessed the land yet They will have problems later on in the history of Israel. The Eastern tribes will actually forget their brothers and sisters. But for here Moses wants them to be unified, to see the unity that exists between uh them as God's people but not even that that they have responsibility over one another. God is really governing The history of his people and where they're gonna be, what they're gonna do, and their obligations to one another. And then in verses 18 to 22, he reminds Joshua to realize that You've seen the evidence of what God can do. He's defeated this great king, Sion and Og. And that should be evidence to you that as you go forward, as Yahweh has done, so He will do. And that's really the essence of the book of Deuteronomy. As God has accomplished, so he will continue to do so. He who began a good work will be faithful to see it to fruition. But we see something else here that God is reminding his people that he and he alone has the power and the rights and the authority over his people's activities. Their land, their life. Only God. Anyone else who tries to take this sovereignty that belongs to God, case in point, Arg and Sion, out Remember in chapter 2? God told them not to touch the land of the Moabites and the Edomites and the Ammonites. Why? Because it was God that gave them that property. Says, I am in charge. I am the one who gives. And I determine who gets what. That's justice. I determine what who gets what. And I think there's something for us here to to lean on and to glean from. Especially when we think about the church. How God apportions, how God provides and gives and wisely distributes his gifts and talents and skills to all of us. And why does he do that? Is it so that we may claim that I have this great gift that God has given me? God has given this great talent or this skill that God has given? No. What's God's desire? In distributing to us his gifts and talents. What is desire? That we may not take possession of what has given to us and rest. But that we may take possession of what has given to us and edify one another. We have obligation over one another. Edify the church. Help others. But really that's not what I want us to focus on this morning. I think that does give us an idea of how God is dealing with his people in such a just way. What I want us to really deal with are with with this morning is verses twenty-three all the way to twenty-nine. That's why I want us to spend most of our time this morning. And I want us to know this that because God is just He must deal with our actions. He must deal with our sin. Because that's exactly what's going on here with Moses, remembering what was going on. Earlier on, we read in Exodus chapter 15 a beautiful song of Moses. And Moses cries out to God and he says, Who is like you, O Lord among the gods? Who is like you? Majestic. is in holiness, awesome and glorious deeds, doing wonders. It's a similar refrain that we see here as Moses is This this great interceder, this great man who who is filled with so much uh of the of the Holy Spirit is praying to God and pleading on his own behalf, coming to him and saying, Yahweh It is a prayer that is based on God's great power. It is also a prayer that is based on Moses' own participation in the events of God. Moses has been there through the Exodus. He's seen what God is able to do. That's why he sang that song. How glorious, how majestic, how powerful, how sovereign you are. But Moses was not removed from God's mighty works. He is witnessing. He can actually see it He can touch it. He can sense it. He can feel it. He knows what God is doing. And he is participating in seeing God's great acts of power. But there's something else here that Moses is also presupposing. He'd been told earlier that Moses, you're never gonna see the land. He knows God's decree. In chapter 1, verse 37, God had told him again, you will not see the land. You know, Moses had committed his whole life doing what? Moses had committed his whole life with this willingness in his heart that God has called me to rescue his people. And that's exactly what I'm gonna do. And here he's being told, Canaan, you will not get there. I mean the thought of not seeing the promised land was just too much for Moses to accept. I love I love this man. And he thought to himself, he said without question, I'm gonna one last shot at God. One last plea. God, please let me see this land. And God's response is basically to use this language, shut up. That's the end of it. I want to hear it no more. And I mean just listen to the language that Moses is using. You know that sometimes we lose so much when we use English language because sometimes English language is not It doesn't have the I don't know even how to express it. When you read the Greek and the in the in the in the Hebrew, and especially here the Hebrew And the strong language that's used here with Moses pleading, it's he's imploring God. We don't use that language anymore. He besought God, entreating God. It's a it's a it's a huge supplication. I mean you you can use all those Words that you want to use to see the depth of Moses' heart. He's a longing to see this promised land. And yet, God is telling him to accept the outworking of God's purposes in faith. You will not be there This young dude that you have been working with, Joshua, is actually the one you're supposed to encourage to take the people there. It took them 40 years in the wilderness. Moses is not young here. He may not have many years to savor the joys of being in Canaan and enjoying the beautiful mountain of Lebanon and all these things, but to set his feet just one. Time would fill him with so much joy after all that agony and struggle and anticipation of this promised land. And yet God says no. He's persistent though. I mean he gives it one last shot. But you know what that shows us about Moses? Persistence and the fact that he's able to come to God the way he does. It's a close relationship. It's a deep fellowship between Moses and God. They are friends. Because only one who has experienced such deep fellowship in God can say what Moses says here. See Moses has been interceding for his people. Do you know why God's people are where they are in the plains of Moab, about to possess the land? Do you know why? This rebellious Complaining, sinful, unfaithful people. Do you know why they're there? It's because Moses time and time again begged God, interceded on their behalf, and called upon the Lord to have mercy upon his people. That's why they're there It is because Moses has been interceding for them and crying out on their behalf for forgiveness. God, please relent. There's another prayer we know in scripture that was as not was as but was more powerful than Moses' prayer. We read it in Matthew 26. My father, if it be possible, would you please let this cup pass from me, nevertheless, not as I But as your will, it is Jesus about to go to the cross. He's asking the Father to take the carp away from him. Yet he knows. With his head. It's been done. He must go to the cross. See the people might have rebelled against God. And Moses says that, you know, you f it's because of these people that I'm being punished. They're the ones who went crazy at the waters of Meribah and I had to hit that rock so hard to get them water, so it's their fault. Not so God holds him accountable Because he sinned. The people paid for their sins because those people that were there at the waters of Mary Bar are not there, you know that, right? They all died. The generation that is here is not the generation that was there. We read in Numbers 20, as God spoke to Aaron and Moses. He says, Because you did not believe in me to uphold me as holy in the eyes of the People of Israel, therefore you shall not bring this assembly into the land that I have given you. You know there's a little note here. There's you've never read in scripture in the Old Testament A record of Moses' reaction towards God, God's divine justice. We're not told whether he repented. It's not there. Whether he complained until here in Deuteronomy and we're told the only thing he can do is plead with God. Plead for mercy. No doubt Moses was provoke provoked, right, by the people, but he is responsible. Moses is suffering the consequences of his own sins, of disobedience, as we read in Numbers 20, of his unbelief, refusal to uphold God as holy. But you know this really does speak to us in terms of how we we think about those who are in leadership. Moses He's in a very special place. He's a leader of God's people. And God is saying you should always act with integrity Because you are a leader. Even when people are trying to force you or influence you to sin, to do things that are not right. God wants leaders to always act with integrity. But this is what I love about this text. God's grace. God's grace even as he is passing on this judgment to Moses. Moses too has the consolation of seeing the land. Well not from inside but from outside. He tells him in verse 27 Stand on Piska, which is an elevated position. Look to the south, look to the north, look to the east. And he could have actually seen the the whole land as at least the a part of it And be able to see the beauty of the land where God was bringing his people. You may not go there, but I just wanted to behold what God has promised to his people that he's going to deliver. This is where they're going to be See it for yourself. But I also think it's so gracious that God would in fact allow even the generation that is now following because they were also not perfect. To be able to possess that land. But let me ask us a question. Is it possible that for God's people and especially for Moses, as he's pleading with God? And asking that he would allow him to go see the promise. Is it possible that somehow this possession of land had become a consuming passion both for him and his people? That he was acting he actually forgot what the promise was all about. Think about it. Is it possible that Moses is losing focus? That it's not about the gift of land that you're about to possess. It's not about Canaan. It's about God. It's about the one who gives the promise. It's about your covenant relationship. It's about this faithful God that has called you to be His people. In our requests and desires from God, have we lost focus on what it's all about? Are we keeping our eyes only on what we've asked of the Lord and forgetting the giver of all gifts? Are we forgetting that the word for us when we come to God in prayer is not simply that we may receive what we've asked for? But when you come to God in prayer, Our desire should always that I will meet with God. That I may have Jesus. Yes, he's able to give us all these things, but the goal is not to think. The goal is the only thing. The goal is Christ Himself, as Matthew Henry says, we should never allow any desires in our hearts which we cannot which faith Which we cannot in faith offer up to God by prayer. God's answer to this prayer had a mixture of mercy and judgment. Yes. God sees it good to deny many things we desire. He may accept our prayers, yet not grant us the very things that we pray for. End quote. See, Moses longed for the promised land, and we must long for the promised land. We're called to long for the promised land, but the promised land is not the temporal things of this world. It's not the things that we gain here, but to be with Christ. It's to have Christ, to see him face to face and to behold his glory. See, our prayers may remain unanswered on this side of heaven But we must be able to ask ourselves if our Heavenly Father is actually storing up a greater gift for us, better than our blind faith can see, better than our stammering tongue can even ask of the Lord. I was at my other office. Some of you might know where that is. I'm not giving my secrets because you may bother me when when I go there. It's Friday. It's about 2. 45. I'm exhausted. The sermon is not even close to being, well, close, but it wasn't quite there. And I get my big cup of coffee and I sit there thinking, okay, I got a few hours, I really have to get this, then I can go home and be with my family. I sit down, open my computer, I see this guy, I only saw him once, just once. We said hello. I told him I was a pastor. He comes in. And I wave, he waves, he goes around, comes back and sits next to me, like right next to me, and I'm thinking, oh and I just look at my computer, I'm so busy, and he just I asked him, how are you doing? He said I'm holding on. I'm like, oh, it's alright together. He said, I'm holding on. He just keeps talking, but he's looking at me. And um He said, you know, man, life can be so difficult. I mean just life can be so difficult. I said, yeah, I agree with you. And he asked me, how's the church? I'm like, oh church is going great. And I'm just I'm just hoping that he can see. I'm trying to be busy here, okay? And he says, you know, life can really be hard. I said, yeah, I I I hear, you know, life is hard. He said, you know, so some people just want to give up and just want to give up on life, completely give up on life. And you know, it's it's hard, I I don't blame them, you know, just lose it. Said yeah, I agree. I'm still trying to So to make the long story short, this man who I only met once ends up telling me his whole life story of what's going on. But you know what came out of this was God's blessings for this passage. Because this is how God works. He told me, Josiah, I've done so many things and I'm not right. And I am suffering the consequences of my sin. And he told me, you know, many people don't know that Many people don't realize that we're forgiven, but yet we have to suffer the consequences of our sin. But I can look into his eyes and see how depressed How his heart was so heavy. And as we're talking, I can just see tears in his eyes. And I realized How self-centered I was. So I shut my computer, put it aside. And we talked about God's grace. And this is what I told him. Say, brother, there's a place where justice has already been served. There's a place you can go. Because he told me right now I have people that I gotta pay. I think I'm gonna lose friends because of my actions. I don't know how they're going to respond when I tell them what's going on and what I've done and I say, but there's a place where justice has been served. There's a place you can go now so that the burdens of your sin and all that you have done Can be lifted. I told him you are trying to carry all these things on your shoulders and you cannot You are carrying your guilt and shame, your sin and everything else that you got, you have it all here And yet there's one who chose to be punished on our behalf on the cross for us. He took upon our every sin Every debt has been paid. The price has been paid. And now you can know when you go to him, you can expect To find grace and mercy. Because that's what he gives. For justice has been served. Father, I I don't know where we are this morning in our lives. I don't know whether we're afraid of coming to you When we have sinned, when we have fallen, when we have done those things which we ought not to have done. And maybe we don't know what to expect from you, yet you remind us by your own grace and mercy. We can expect to find mercy and grace from you Even with all the ringing sounds that distract us, we can still come to you, O Lord our God. And as we're about to pray together in this hymn, as we sing to you, Father, would you Just work in our hearts and remind us of those places in our own lives where we're holding on to so many things that we've been carrying on our shoulders. Remind us that you've achieved justice on our behalf. We thank you for your word this morning. In Christ's name. Amen.