Well neck next week of course is is Easter, which means today is is Palm Sunday and uh we're not live, we don't have palms kinda I mean that's one tradition that everyone seems to look forward to is just Palm Sunday, you get palms, right? Where's my palm? Well, it's been that kind of a year, hasn't it? Well we're gonna press on. It is Palm Sunday and we're and This week we want to prepare our hearts for for for Good Friday and and Easter. We have a s kind of a standalone sermon today. We'll be looking in the in But this week another standalone sermon. And if you have a Bible, turn to the the Old Testament book of Daniel. Now we've got the song, so you know where it is, right? You we just you we've we we we We found it where Daniel is in our songs this morning. So, you know, Jose Jose whatever. I don't I don't know it yet. Chapter we're gonna look at The scripture reading, chapter 1, verses 1 to 7. Okay? And uh my title is Keeping Your Name While in Babylon. Daniel chapter 1 verses 1 to 7 Okay? ESV translation. In the ye third year of the reign of Jehoiakim, king of Judah Judah, Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, came to Jerusalem and besieged it And the Lord gave Jehoiakim, king of Judah, into his hand, with some of the vessels of the house of God. And he brought them to the land of Shinar, to the house of his God, and placed the vessels in the treasury of his God. Then the king commanded Ashpenaz, his chief eunuch, to bring some of the people of Israel, both of the royal family and of the nobility. youths without blemish, of good appearance, and skillful in all wisdom, endowed with knowledge and understanding learning, and competent to stand in the king's palace And to teach them the literature and language of the Chaldeans. The king assigned them a daily portion of the food that the king ate, and of the wine that he drank. They were to be educated for three years, and at the end of that time they were to stand before the king. Among these were Daniel, Hananiah, Meshael, and Azariah, and of the tribe of Judah And the chief of the eunuchs gave them names. Daniel he called Belteshazzar. Hananiah he called Shadrach. Meshael he called Meshach. And Azurah he called Abednego. God's word. Let's pray. But we pray you bless this time as we think about this book of Daniel, and we think about Jesus, reigning as King, coming to die for our sins. Help us to know how we fit into that story. In Jesus' name. Amen. Last week, uh Pastor Eric opened up for us Psalm 2. Wonderful passage. We saw the rebellion of mankind. We saw God's laughter at mankind's rebellion. We saw God's Son seated at the Father's right hand. And we were warned, kiss the Son lest he be angry with you. Blessed are those who find refuge in the sun in the sun who reigns eternally. Home Sunday. You know, I I want you to imagine a uh a presidential motorcade. You're there watching the motorcade. The president shows up. You would expect to see him on a beautiful late model bulletproof limousine. But no, he's riding in an old ten-year-old pickup truck Surprising. That's Palm Sunday. Jesus not coming to Jerusalem reigning on a beautiful stallion like a reigning conquering king. Coming to Jerusalem on a donkey. Coming to do some bitta work. To do hard work. The work of our salvation. Saving sinners. All of scripture is about this king and his kingdom. Who will be our king? Who will we follow? Who will reign in our hearts? That's the message of Scripture The kingdoms of this of this world they seek to pull us away from God, who longs to be our benevolent King, lovingly watching over us. The world offers nothing but pain and death. And defeat. This is always the conflict of God's people, no matter where we are. And this is the conflict in the book of Daniel. How do we resist the pull, the tug of this world? We resist the pull of this world by knowing our identity in Christ. We resist the tug and pull of this world by knowing who we are, our identity. in Christ. And I want to talk about keeping your name while in Babylon. Keeping your name while you're in Babylon Babylon at the 7th century BC, the empire there. Nebuchadnezzar is the leader of that empire at this point, uh uh uh during during when the exile begins. You might remember recall the book of Habakkuk uh Babylon was the aggressive, evil, pagan empire. And Habakkuk raised the question, Lord do something and the Lord did something by bringing the Babylonians, these evil people who were who they thought were more evil than Israel. And for 70 years God disciplined his people in the exile by bringing the nation of Babylon. Babylon. It's come to represent kind of a euphemism for worldliness. Some of you might know the uh uh uh uh the um uh um um the reggae singer bob marley bob marley had a song uh let me let me read some of the words to the song I I I was very unfamiliar with the song until I saw this this week Uh you saw tell the children the truth right now. Come on and tell the children the truth. Rebel, rebel. We've been taken for granted much too long. Rebel, rebel. Babylon's system is the vampire. It's the name of the song. Babylon System. It's a vampire. Sucking the children day by day. Me say the Babylon system is the vampire, falling empire, sucking the blood of the sufferers Building church and university. Whoo, yeah. Deceiving the people continually, yeah. Me say that them them graduating thieves and murderers, look out now, they suck in the blood of the sufferers. He's talking about the systems of this world. Again, from his perspective, of course, it's capitalism and it's the system of our world But uh Bob Marley, a a great great uh uh r uh artist, um Rosh Kaferian religion, which is which is a religion, it's a movement. Maybe you're familiar with that Babylon System. I'm actually more familiar with a song called Babylon Sisters by my favorite rock group. Some of you might know the group Stilly Van. One of still one of my favorite groups. Babylon Sisters. Donald Fagan wrote that song and there's a lot of discussion about the meaning of the song. Was he pointing to two worldly s worldly women? Or was he talking about two worldly California cities, Los Angeles and San Francisco, where the song is Babylon Sisters? Babylon. You know, in 1 Peter 5, 13, Peter, one of the last verses of the book, he says, She who is at Babylon who is likewise chosen, sends you greetings. Now, in 1 Peter, he's not in the city of Babylon. He's in the city of Rome See, Babylon had be has already becoming a symbol of the world the powers of this world. In fact, if you read the book of Revelation, you know that as Revelation comes to an end, 14, chapter 14, 15, all the way to chapter 17 and 19. Babylon is symbolic of the world system The system that through the ages, like a harlot, seduces us away from following Jesus. Like a magnet attracts paper clippers, the world attracts, draws us in, pulls us away from the life that God has for us. Revelation 18, verses 1 and 3. Here's a sample of that. John says, After this I saw another angel coming down from heaven, having great authority, and the earth was made bright with his glory. And he called out with a mighty voice. Fallen, fallen is Babylon the Great. She has become a dwelling place for demons, a haunt for every unclean spirit, a haunt for every unclean burn, a haunt for every unclean and detestable breath. uh beast. For all nations have drunk the wine of the passion of her sexual immorality, and the kings of the earth have committed immorality with her, and the merchants of the earth have grown rich from the power of her luxurious living. So Babylon is personified as a woman who seduces in that in the biblical imagery there in the last book, the apocalypse Symbolizing the kingdoms of this world. That we know shall become the kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ, because he shall reign forever and ever. God as king does not mean that we ignore earthly kings. God being our king doesn't mean that we ignore earthly kings. the lesser authorities. But we need to figure out how we relate to in this earthly situation to earthly kings and authorities. How do we keep our name while we're living in Babylon, under the kings of Babylon, under this world system? Well again, there's no better book to look at that than the book of Daniel. And we're just giving you a taste of it today. But if that's on your heart, on your mind, read start reading through the book of Daniel We're going to look today at this first chapter. Touch base with the first three chapters in this message because I want to talk about three things in these first three chapters. I want to look in terms of the call to creatively challenge the king, the call to serve the king. And then the interesting call to sometimes disobey the king. We can see it in the first three chapters. First, the call of God's people to challenge the king is in this first chapter. Jerusalem in the first couple of the first couple verses is besieged by By by Nebuchadnezzar, he he takes the temple spoils back to Shinar, the land of Shinar, Babylon's the land of Shinar, to now reside in the temple of his pagan gods. So in other words, our God's better than your God. Our God, we can go into your temple and take your the stuff from your your from your temple back to our temple. So our God's obviously greater, right? That's the that's the mindset of the ancient world There were three waves of exiles during this time when the captivity began. There was a in 605 there were young nobles, Daniel and his friends. That's what we have in this text right here And then eight years later in 597 BC, the king and leaders of Israel, like Ezekiel and the priests, they were taken. The book of Ezekiel Jeremiah 24 talks about that. And then in 587, the last of the three waves was that those who were still remaining in Jerusalem were taken. Okay, many who were hiding out and all that in the hills. So there were three ways. But this is the first wave, the first wave. And in verses three and four, these these these young young future leaders were taking to Babylon. Nebuchadnezzar's policy was not to annihilate, but to have people assimilate. I mean, why do you want to destroy the talented people from other cultures that you dominate Well, why not retrain them and use them to prosper Babylon? It's great, it's a great model. So this man Ashpenaz, verse 3, is the chief eunuch he's called there. He is the recruiter, and he's also the primary retrainer. He oversees both their physical and their intellectual development of Daniel and his friends and all of these these nobles, these young people that are taken away, these these uh very uh um wise, um sharp young boys. You many of you know that years ago I served on the staff of University of Christian Fellowship when I was younger years ago. And um You did campus ministry and um this passage was a was a a fame a f very familiar passage that I use almost every year um in in in the in the fall um with students As we look, I looked at this passage as kind of like a college catalog because it gives the goals of the institution, it gives the curriculum for the institution. It even gives you the cafeteria menu. In fact, when my kids were going to college, I marveled at the many food the food choices that they had. When I went to Frostburg, wasn't much It was the the grub of the cafeteria hall or you went up to the pizza shop. But on campuses now there's all these choices of food Anyway, that's an aside. It also gives the hidden promise of a prominent position for those who graduate. They're going to be in the in the king's cabinet If they graduate with honors with a magna cum lati. But, however, Bible scholars believe that this was not the University of Babylon. No. This is more like a boarding school for boys. Daniel was only about 12 to 13, 14 years old Cause he learnt he learned t to to be eighty-four at the end of the book. So he was about twelve, thirteen, fourteen years old here So, so um I like what one commentator said. This is like this is the Babylonian Royal Academy. It's an academy, it's a it's a day it's a day it's a but it's a boarding school. It's a royal academy So at the at this Royal Academy we there there's a couple of challenges. And the first challenge that I want to look at is is is the main challenge here in in this first chapter, and that's the challenge over their diet, again over their food. Daniel and his friends face a major conflict. What's that conflict about? It's about food. They don't they don't want to eat the food that that the that the the school has. They they they don't want to do that. Now why? Jewish culture. We know that the Jews had specific diet laws, right? Leviticus 11 and Deuteronomy 14, right? They had, you know, God was very specific about the foods that they weren't to eat. We know also from the New Testament and Old Testament that God prohibited anything that was that was um that was strain it with blood. That ha that was bloody. They weren't and and again, um we don't know if the Babylonian diet included all the things in Leviticus or some things that weren't in Leviticus. So it it could have been both it could have been either of those. But the other thing we know is that Most pagan food most people when they even w whether you're have the biblical faith or not, you you you you pause and you consecrate, you dedicate, you thank your food before you eat, dedicate to the gods that you believe in. And we know that often in in biblical times um those who were of the true faith knew that the food was dedicated or consecrated to a false god And they had scruples about that. Look at 1 Corinthians chapter 8. Look at Romans chapter 14. So we don't know which of the issues it was. We don't know if it wasn't kosher food, it was bloody food, or if it was consecrated, or if it was all those. But we know this. We know this from the text. Daniel and his buddies say, we got a problem here. We got a problem. And they came up with a creative solution. A creative solution. They suggested that they be on a different diet that didn't include meat, kind of a vegetarian diet. Now, so what do they they they developed a creative challenge Your your boss says he wants to meet you after hours to have an important conversation about a job change, a promotion. And you got muted. You mut it How'd that happen? I'm about to hit my thing here. He says, um, let's go over to the gentleman's club and talk about it Now that's a euphemism. If you know what a gentleman's club is, ask your mommy and daddy. So you don't want to do it. Your challenge is you gotta figure out a creative solution to this. You want to have that conversation, but not in that venue. Now you have an option of how to how to approach this. You can say, one, I am not going to a gentleman's club because I'm a Christian. You probably won't get the job. Or you can say, I that's a I'd love to talk. I have a better idea. Why don't I try to get two tickets to the Olds game and we can go I'll preach you to the Olds Game and we can talk at the Olds game. Creative Solutions Are very important for us to come up with. We have to be quick on our feet. We have to be alert. Got to do some quick prayers like Nehemiah did. Lord, give me something here But living in Babylon, maintaining your faith, holding your name, God do it. That's what we're calling to do. Creative solutions in the midst of the challenges that we face in the pagan world. But this points to an even more important, a more basic issue. And this is this is the identity challenge The identity challenge. The name. The name speaks of identity. Verse 6. See the name the Daniel he called Beltashadra, Hannah he called Shadrach, Meshal he called Meshach, and Azarai he called Abednego. Many of you, if you're older than me, you remember a boxer who was nicknamed the Louisville Lip. Maybe you don't know that nickname. Maybe you know him by his given name, Cassius Clay. Maybe some of you don't know him by that name. Maybe you know him by the name that he changed when he converted to the nation of Islam. Muhammad Ali. Oh, you know him, huh? His name changed. Why did his name change? Because he wanted to proclaim that his identity, his allegiance was now to the nation of Islam. There's a there's a wonderful movie I saw a few weeks ago about about that crisis that in his life. Um but anyway, the the changing of a name speaks to the changing of a of one's identity Daniel, Hananiah, Meshael, Azariah. Daniel's mother and father named him Daniel, which means my God is judge. And in I His name, the Lord is gracious. Meshael, who is what God is? Azariah, the Lord is my helper. These four young men raised in Jewish homes by Jewish parents, committed to the God of Israel, taken to Babylon. He gives them this interesting education, this interesting diet, he wants to reprogram them to make them Babylonian. And one of the first things he does, he renames them. Changes their name. He wants to take their God out of their mindset, out of their identity. And he gives them, and their new names, by the way, are names that are connected to the Babylonian deities Bel, Marduk and Nabu, the gods of sun and earth and fire. Daniel's name, Belteshazzar. Means uh he he your prince favored by Belle. That's what it means. So anyway, the renaming. And yet in the midst of this attempt to change your identity The Daniel and his friends they cope with a creative alternative to try to to try to to meet the challenge I think about Jesus and how Jesus often raised uh uh alternatives to try to get people to think and try to get uh people to understand. And Matthew chapter 12 is an interesting chapter. Matthew 12 Um Jesus and the Jewish leaders are in a in a controversy over his exorcisms and his his healings. And as the chapter goes on uh Jesus challenges the leaders and he says, look at the outcomes. Look, I'm going to read some of some from this chapter. Matthew chapter 12. There's a demon-oppressed man, and he was blind and mute. And the Pharisees, they said, um, it's only by Bezeville, the Prince of Demons, that this man cast out demons. So they're accusing Jesus, okay? Knowing their thoughts, Jesus said to them, Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste, and no city or house divided against itself waste stand. And if Satan casts out Satan, he's divided against himself. How then will his kingdom stand? And if I cast out demons by Elzebul By whom do your sons cast them out? You notice the challenge there. But if I it is by the Spirit of God that I cast out demons, and the kingdom of God has come upon you And that's in verse 28. Then a couple verse later in verse 33 he talks about the good truth, good trees and the bad trees, and the good fruit and the bad fruit. And he's talking about the outcomes. He's talking about outcomes. And that's what Dale and his friends are talking about. They they set up a situation that says says says King or or Ashpenaz who's working for the king, let us try something and I bet we we'll have a better outcome than your system. Two weeks go by. We have this alternate diet. These four boys are, it says in verse 20, they were ten times smarter and stronger than their peers. God was faithful to them as they determined not to defile themselves. What are we talking about? We're talking about challenging the king, challenging the king with uh with an alternative That's what we're called to do in our day as we serve in a pagan world. Secondly, serving the king. And then the second chapter, we didn't read this, but the second chapter is a great story of the king who has a dream, and he's troubled because he has a dream. And he needs to know what that dream means, but he doesn't want to be tricked, so he calls his men in and says, what tell me what my dream was and tell me what it meant. We'll explain it to you. He says, no, no, no. Tell me the dream and tell me what it meant. They couldn't do it. Daniel Anointed by the Spirit of God, gifted. What happens? They call him. Daniel explains the dream, says what the dream was, and then he explains the dream. He accurate he was very accurate. He interpreted he he he he tell his what your dream was and he said don't worry about it was that's not my point here. It's about the kingdom that was to come, that would that were coming You mean it again? Gotta stop touching that past. I want you to notice the king's response. Chapter 2, verses 46 and following King Nebuchadnezzar fell on his face and paid homage to Daniel, and commanded that an offering and incense be offered up to him. The king answered and said to Daniel, Truly your God is God of gods and Lord of kings and a revealer of mysteries. For you have been able to reveal this mystery. Then the king gave Daniel high honors and many great gifts, and made him ruler over the whole province of Babylon, and chief prefect over all the wise men of Babylon. So he was he was promote it because he was the only one that could interpret that could interpret the the dream. And then verse 49, Daniel made a request. Daniel forget didn't he didn't forget about his friends. He made a request to the king So he pointed Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego over the affairs of the province of Babylon. But Daniel remained in the king's court. So he didn't he not only was he promoted, he got uh a promotion for his friends. What did he do? He committed them to serving the king. Serving the king. Okay? God enables us with spiritual gifts. Spiritual people are a great thing in the hands of God. And we are to use our minds and our bodies and our skills and our personalities for the glory of God. And most of us do not directly serve in Christian ministry. Rather, we serve in the world to bless others in the nation that we live in or the kingdom that we live in. And we serve under the authority of lesser kings or less of human governments like the United States of America. The Protestant Reformation, it championed the idea, the radical idea of the priesthood of all believers. It wasn't just the the the priests and the the the bishops that had authority to and were servants and call of God and had special vocational callings. No. Everyone who named the name of Christ is empowered by the Spirit of God and is a servant of God. And that radical idea permeated the Protestant Reformation. God calls people to serve him in various spheres, you see Not just priests, not just preachers, not just bishop, not just monks. In um, Jeremiah chapter 29 It's a very important passage. I've been reading through Jeremiah in my own devotions for quite a while. Chapter 29 is an interesting chapter. It begins the lead-the words of the letter that Jeremiah the prophet sent from Babylon from Jerusalem to the surviving elders of the exiles. and to priests and prophets and all the people whom Nebuchadnezzar had taken into exile from uh Jerusalem to Babylon. And it said This is what the letter said. Verse 4. Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, to all the exiles whom I have sent into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon. And here's the instructions. Build houses and live in them. Plant gardens and eat their produce. Take wives and have sons and daughters. Take wives for your sons and give your daughters in marriage, that they may bear sons and and I the and and daughters multiply there and do not decrease but seek the welfare of the city that word welfare is peace or shalom the the well-being the total well-being the welfare Where the shalom of the city where I have sent you into exile and pray to the Lord on its behalf, for in its welfare you will find your welfare. For thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, do not let your prophets and your diviners who are among you deceive you, and do not listen to the dreams that they dream. It's a lie that they're prophesying to you in my name. I didn't send them, declares the Lord. They've been saying that this you know this is gonna be a short period. He's saying, no, it's not gonna be a short period. You're gonna be here for a while Verse 10, for thus says the Lord, When seventy years are completed for Babylon, I'll visit you, and I will fulfill to you my promise and bring you back to this place. It's startling, you know, that uh chapter 29 of Jeremiah, there's a reminder that contrary to the false prophet of chapter 28 Who's been saying that it's going to be just a little while there in Babylon? No. God says no. It's not going to be a summer vacation. It's going to be 70 years. Not just one generation, 70 years. And he reminds them to stay there and live there and to promote the peace and the shalom. of Babylon, the place where God had called them. In fact in verse eleven he says, I know the plans I have for you. Plans for you for welfare and not for evil. To give you a future and a hope. See they felt We can never find blessing and fulfillment in Babylon. He says, no, my plans are for blessing to you. Verse 12, then you will call upon me and come and pray to me, and I'll hear you. You'll seek me and find me when you seek me with all your heart, and I'll be found by you, declares the Lord. I will restore your fortunes and gather you from all the nations and all the places where I've driven you. declares the Lord, and I will bring you back to the place for which I sent you into exile. The exile was for seventy years, it was to discipline them And God says, just because I've put you in exile, just because I've disciplined you, I've not abandoned you I'm with you even in this foreign land. And that's his promise to us. He's with us. He also reminds him that his ultimate plan is for good, not for bad. Okay? I'm with you. Are you a teacher? A doctor? A plumber? Computer analyst? A student? A retail clerk? Salesman, salesperson, God is with you if you've trusted in Christ and you're God's person in that situation By promoting the blessing and the shalom of your boss or your department or your agency, you're serving your king. If you claim Christ, your daily task is more than just pleasing of your human supervisors. You're pleasing your king. You serve the king of kings. You're ultimately going to be evaluated not by your boss, but by your king. You should always have in mind those words in the Gospels. Well done, good, and faithful servant. That's why you should do what you do. In Luke chapter 4, Jesus said, the Spirit of the Lord has anointed me, and he used his gifts to bless others. The Spirit has anointed us, which use our gifts to bless others. Jesus could heal. Jesus could drive out demons. He could turn water into wine. He could even raise the dead. And he said he did it all for the glory of his Father. The gifts and abilities that God has given us, we do them not for ourselves, but to bless others. To the glory of God. Because our ultimate allegiance is not to the lesser king, but to the king of kings, there are times when there is clearly a clash. And we must disobey. That's my last thing. I want to look at chapter 3 very quickly, because there's a story in chapter 3 that we don't want to ignore. Babylon says there's an image of the king. You don't have to you don't have to become Babylonian. You don't even have to say that you are a part of our religion, but you just need to bow to this. But just bow to this image of our God, of our King, who represents our God. No, they weren't gonna do that. They weren't gonna do that. This replica of the king. So they they refuse. uh the first commandment that you should have no other gods before me. And and um and so look at verses chapter three verses sixteen to eighteen Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego answered and said to the king, O Nebuchadnezzar, we have no need to answer you in this matter. If this be so, our God, whom we serve, is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace. And he will deliver us out of your hand, O King. See the threat was if you don't bow, you're going to be in this fiery furnace. And they said, we're not going to bow And our God will deliver us. Now it could be mean they meant that God was gonna that that they were gonna burn up and be with God. That that was their deliverance. Maybe that's what they had in mind. Or maybe they had in mind to be some kind of miracle What happens? The miracle happens. But they see this, verse 18. But if not, be it known to you, O King, we will not. Serve your gods or worship the golden image that you have set up. They are saying, Babylon, you've crossed the line There is a time to disobey the king. And they reach that point. And so they're tossed into the fiery furna And the stories, read the stories. There's a little humor in the story. The fire is so hot that the men who are Tossing who are who are scoping the fire. They they burn it. They burn up. They start smelling all that stuff. But they look in the in into the fiery furnace and what do they see? Not three figures, but a fourth figure is there. A fourth figure. As Isaiah 43 says this. But now, thus says the Lord, He who created you, O Jacob, He who formed you, O Israel, fear not, for I have redeemed you, I have called you by name, you are mine. When you pass through the waters, I will be with you. And through the rivers, they shall not overwhelm you. When you walk through fire, you shall not be burned. And the flame shall not consume you, for I am the Lord your God, the Holy One of Israel, your Savior, because you are precious in my eyes and honored and I love you So there they are in the fire. And there's four of them. And because they maintain their identity They had courageous disobedience. That's the calling. And we need to have the discernment to know when we're called to courageous disobedience. There's so much going on in our world today. Let me just tell you one thing that I heard this week that's very troubling Um of course this this is uh the uh NCAA basketball season and um the USA Today newspaper is attacking Oral Roberts University. I don't know if you heard about this. They qualify you or you qualified for the NCAA Men's Basketball Suite 16 tournament, which is this weekend Why were they attacked by USA Today? Because they affirm traditional Christian position on marriage. That marriage is between a man and a woman. It is not between two men. It's not between two women. Now I'm not I'm still not sure I haven't gone into I'm not sure why they didn't also um sing why why they singled out ORU because um Liberty University and Loyola in Chicago who are religious-based schools They also qualified as one of the 16 teams this weekend. But for some reason, USA Today this week attacked ORU I mean, how how how how unpopular the audacity of them to disagree with the mainstream thought makers of our 21st century world? Well, or a youth stands for something. They believe in the scriptures, what the scriptures are saying about marriage. Listen, every pastor Every church, every follower of Jesus had better count the cost, if they haven't done so already, the cost of believing the scriptures. We better start thinking very seriously about what that means. And when do we get to the point where we have to say king, nation, American culture, Western culture? No. That day is coming if it's not here already. In verse chapter 1, verse 7, it says, Daniel resolved in his heart not to defile himself. No, in the garden, Adam and Eve had a food test and they flunked. They ate the fruit. In Babylon, Daniel and his friends They had a food test. They came up with an alternative solution. But you know, Daniel points us to another one who had another food test. You might remember in the wilderness in Judea, the second Adam He had a food test and he passed the test. Satan said, turn stones into bread. But the Lord Jesus maintained his identity as the Son of God, the second Adam. And he fulfilled all righteousness. And he fulfilled all righteousness so that he could go to the cross and be our perfect, blameless, unblemished sin-bearer. And so he goes in Jerusalem that day, riding on that pickup truck, with a mission to do the work that only he could do as our Savior. He humbled himself, became obedient to death, even death on a cross. Therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name. That's above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. To the glory of God our Father. The strength and the courage to maintain your identity, to keep your name, it only comes when you're captured by the grace of King Jesus. The songwriter years ago wrote these simple words, I'm forgiven because you were forsaken. I'm accepted. You were condemned. I'm alive and well. Your spirit is within me, because you died and rose again Amazing love. How can it be that you, my king, should die for me Amazing love. I know it's true, and it's my joy to honor you, to honor you. And all I do. That's what we're called to do. That's what we call to be. To maintain our identity, to hold on to the name. Because our name, we represent his name. The name above all names, the name that that that that that demons tremble when they hear it. The name that that all will bow before one day. Do you know him? Do you know that name? Have you trusted him If you haven't, trust him. Make this week a special week for you. Make it where Good Friday becomes Great Friday for you because you understand what it's all about. Let's pray. Our Father in heaven, help us to know our calling to serve you while we serve this world. But it's it's not simple sometimes to to to to discern the choices that we have to make. That's what we're called to do. Help us as a body to help each other To challenge each other, to help each other, to encourage each other in those in the tough situations that we face. And thank you for Jesus, Lord, who is who by his spirit fills us. And encourages us and directs us through his word. Lord, I pray you'd bless any who who who who haven't made that decision to follow you as their Lord and their Savior, Lord, that this would be the week in their life where Through all that they're dealing with, they decide that following Jesus is where life really is. Use his word in our hearts, Water, prepare our hearts for for resurrection Sunday next week as we would serve you there In Jesus' name, Amen. And let's close our time with