Remind them to be submissive to rulers and authorities, to be obedient, to be ready for every good work, to speak ill of no one, to avoid quarreling. To be gentle and to show perfect courtesy toward all people. For we ourselves were once foolish, disobedient, led astray, slaves of various passions and Pleasures, passing our days in malice and envy, hated by others and hating one another. But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, he saved us. Because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ. Christ our Saviour, so that being justified by His grace we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life. The saying this the saying is trustworthy, and I want you to Controversies, genealogies, dissensions, and quarrels about the law, for they are unprofitable and worthless. In twenty twenty-two one of the kids, a boy, probably about the twins' age took a shine to me and uh loved talking to Pastor Doug and I loved talking to him. But apparently I never saw this happen. He would go home and preach. He would do his own sermons. Right? I've never got a recording of any of these. But in the sermon, he would pause and say, and if you don't like what I'm saying I've got snacks for you in the car. And he would go into his room and pull out some snacks. So I got snacks for you in the car too. So if you don't like what I'm saying, I got snacks for you. These should be uh fruit snacks, but they're fruit adjacent airheads. Okay. Just so you know, they're back here. How about that? I don't think I have. We're talking about kindness. Uh after today we have four weeks left. Love, joy, peace, patience. We're at kindness. Going backwards. Kindness is a good attribute or Character quality to practice, of course. But our point is this is supernatural, fruit of the spirit. It's not just fake it till you make it. Act patient, act kind, although acting kind is better than not acting kind. It's still not coming out of you from the fruit of the Spirit unless it's exact kindness, service, giving, overlooking things that you could pick at or fuss about possibly Read about a woman named Betty Love. She uh lived in England and she volunteered at a hospital all her whole life and the newspaper finally found her when she was 96, still volunteering. She volunteered all the way until she died at 106. And when they asked her why, she said, it makes me feel better. And science backs her up. Volunteering lowers mortality 24%. Volunteering is equal in value of health to six servings of fruits and vegetables a day. It lowers blood sugar, lowers heart inflammation. So donating our time, our money, our efforts, our kidneys helps others, helps the world. And do we need kindness in our world today? It sure seems like it. Things have gotten so nasty and so violent and so opinionated I remember a few years ago um at a football game, I think a pro football game, maybe a Cowboys game, Ellen DeGeneres and George W. Bush were sitting Next to each other talking, and everyone lost their minds. Both ways. How can these two people do this? Don't they know what they stand for? You're selling out to You're selling out to the truth is they're friends. It's two friends sitting next to each other, right Life isn't only about power plays and power. If it is only about power plays and power, we are eliminating love, joy, peace. Peace, patience, creativity, generosity, and we have gotten to a Lord of the Flies situation, a survival of the fittest situation, a SWID game situation, you know what that means. Sometimes we use kindness to get power We're pretending to be kind, to get position. Now we talked about this last week that God does give us power, talents, power. To invest and to risk and to be generous with And we should do an audit to ourselves, perhaps, of who am I kind to and who gets my nasty Who am I patient with? To whom do I show long suffering who deserves that? Our text today, reading a little bit of it again, remind them to be submissive to rulers and authorities, to be obedient, to be ready for every good work. To speak evil of no one, to avoid quarreling, to be gentle, to show perfect courtesy toward all people. For we ourselves were once foolish, disobedient. Led astray, slaves to various passions and pleasures, passing our days in malice and envy, hated by others and hating one another. But When the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, He saved us not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to His own mercy, by the washing of regeneration, and the renewal of the Holy Spirit whom he poured out on us richly. Through Jesus Christ our Savior, so that being justified by His grace we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life. Amen. We can't do that perfectly, can we? Submissive to rulers and authorities, obedient, ready for every good work, speaking evil of no No one Were you good this week? Were you ready this week? Did you speak ill? of anyone this week? Be faithful a hundred percent. We need the Holy Spirit. We need the Holy Spirit Holy Spirit. I think I told you about um when I went to a Black Lives Matter rally in Oklahoma City and I wore my pastor's collar. That doesn't mean I agree with every single thing that they stand for, but we do agree that black lives matter, right? And all lives matter, but black lives matter. And so I showed up and um I just want to I wanted to be a person of peace in the midst of whatever happened. And sure enough, there was a man speaking some of the vilest things I've ever heard in my entire life life. And me and a Russian Orthodox priest stood next to him. And all we want to do is punch him out. All anybody wanted to do was take him down. Protect him from what could have happened to him. But I also got misunderstood because I was standing next to him. People thought I was with him And for him, and on his side. And I would have said the same things. Jesus defended and befriended the poor and powerless, the vulnerable, the lonely, the forsaken, the homeless, and was so misunderstood. We are often arrogant and dismissive. We position ourselves and flatter ourselves, and we try to be uh Increase our quotients of whatever. Be funnier, smarter, more athletic Better taste in music than other people, better taste in clothes than other people, better taste in churches than other people, right? But we're not really looking for kindness all the time. I know someone who was trying to help and he put a checklist of what is you should be looking for in a good church. And of course the sermon was on there. A lot about the sermon. A lot about the sermon. Another one was what people wear. Because when you respect the Lord, you dress up. in his mind. Another one was only men up front holding microphones. This is what you gotta look for in a good church. And I wrote back, a comment of course, couldn't help it. Was anyone kind to you when you were there? Were you Are you kind to anyone? Are you looking for that in a church? Was anyone friendly to you while you were there? Were you friendly? To anyone? Was anyone gracious to you when you were there? Did you hear about the grace and mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ? Did you share that graciousness with anyone while you were there? Whenever Anna turned I don't know, whatever age she started caring about boys. I said, one thing that needs to be on your list is kindness. Right? That's gonna go a long way. Kindness. You know one of the things about kindness is it it it takes some courage to be kind sometimes. Though it doesn't always look kind. When you're Rosa Parks. Harriet Tubman was kind, wasn't she? John Lewis was a kind, forceful legislator. I think Martin Luther King was kind. Imagine if you were in a Birmingham jail, what you w might write to people a lot like us. It took a lot of kindness, forbearance, long suffering to sit at lunch counters It can take courage courageous kindness to get in trouble, to do deeds in love, not to get but to give. It takes discernment. To know what to do? Wisdom. This is the Holy Spirit type stuff, right? Wisdom. Critical thinking. Because we are a reflection of the image of God. And to be honest, it's Far easier, instinctive almost, to dismiss and belittle and shame And criticize. It is very easy to find and be the first one to find the flaw in whatever thing you're looking at. I had it happen just this week. Me and some guys got to do a really cool thing and while we were cleaning up and putting away we went to to talk about it and the first things these guys want to talk about was everything that went wrong It's like God we can get to what goes wrong. It's not wrong to talk about what goes wrong, but it's wrong instinctively Do it first. To me that's lazy. And I do it too. Kindness seeks to understand Understand, not to set right all the time. I had one of my RUS students write me, I think it was the f around 2000, 2020, no, 2016 And she wanted me to write to her mother, who I'd never met, about the election. So I would set her mother straight. I was like, Martha, I really respect that you think I could do that. That I'm the authority figure in your mother's life, but you know I'm not. And it's not gonna work. Why would she listen to me? It could be kind to let her have an opinion that's different than your own. Right? We need supernatural kindness as we hold our positions, opinions. Causes. As we go about in the world and encounter things that are different from what we would do or say or act. As we encounter relationships that don't look like ours, or people that don't look like us, right? In Ephesians 4. We read, be kind to one another. 432. Be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another. Kindness forgives, looks over offenses, is tender hearted to people. Why? Why? 432 says, be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, as God in Christ forgave you. Why do we forgive? Because we're forgiven. Why can we be tender hearted and long suffering? Because God has been tender hearted and long suffering with us. Right? Because we've been raised in Christ, we can seek the things that are above, we can set our minds on what is above, and we can serve like Betty. We can serve in church, we can serve in the world, we can serve in your own household, serve on the block with people that don't look like you or talk like you or eat like you. In Philippians Paul says four fourteen yet it w was kind of you to share my trouble. Kind of you to share my trouble, to bear my burden, to come alongside with me, to be present with me. It's kindness. Talked about being misunderstood of a friend in ministry. And he was hosting a missionary from Kenya who had flown to Lincoln, Nebraska of all places, probably nine nineteen ninety seven or so. So a small airport in Omaha, Nebraska. My friend knows what's gonna happen. My white friend knows what is black African is gonna do. They're gonna hold hands. Very normal, African men hold hands with African men. No big whoop in Africa. In Omaha, not the same thing. And so he he sort of considers telling his buddy, O'Cori, the way things work around But he's like I I can't do that to my friend. I love my friend. I'm going to hold my friends hand, even in the hot tub. So here they are holding hands in the hot tub because my friend John wants to be kind to his friend O'Cori. Because he loves him. He wants to be devoted to good works, avoiding controversies. And dissensions and quarrels because those are warped and sinful and unprofitable and worthless, right? And we don't do this perfectly because we forget We ourselves once were foolish, disobedient, led astray, slaves to various passions and pleasures, passing our days and mouths and then be hated by others and hating one another. We do not like to chalk ourselves up in that category. We want to talk about our theological precision as if that's a fruit of the spirit. That's a fruit of study. You can memorize the catechism. That's not a fruit of the spirit. It's helpful, it's good, it's wonderful. I love it. Praise Jesus. We have it. It's not a for the spirit. Ephesians two So that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace and kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. You remember this next part, right? For by grace you have been saved through faith, and this is not your own doing, it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast, for we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them to show the immeasurable riches of his grace in kindness toward us. Psalm 145, 17. The Lord is righteous in all his ways and kind in all his works. Why is God kind to us? Because we're smart, good, faithful. Have self-control. But we were full of malice, envious, and foolish, and we came by it naturally But God says, but because when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness. Not because we were so kind, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal by the Holy Spirit, whom he poured on us Ritually through Jesus Christ our Lord, so that being justified by His grace, we might become heirs. Heirs. Heirs. We were fools and our heirs. We were quarrelers and our heirs. I was thinking about this. Um I heard recently somebody say this sentence I appeal to you should never come out of your mouth. It's simply this. I would never do that. You should certainly not think should certainly not think, but you should certainly not say I remember we were doing a discipline case or something and a a pastor who was not in trouble said I wouldn't Never do that. Dude. You're maybe the most likely person to do it if you say that. Right? We don't know what it's like for other people. In any situation, you don't know. how it's going to be. So we need to put ourselves in the mercy of God, not our own self-righteousness. It's not by works we've been saved. Do you remember when you first remembered When you were first the same age as when you remember your parents doing something. Right? So I'm fifty four. And this isn't the first time I remember this, but my dad was fifty-four in nineteen ninety-nine And I graduated from seminary with three kids already, and I moved into his house in the basement. I've said before it's a nice basement. Big house. This is the house that we're now about to be selling, right? And so now I'm fifty-four and my son moved in with me And now he's moving out. So it's weird. And I keep on thinking, my dad is getting smarter and smarter all the time. As I understand better and better what he was going through, and I can relate to him more. In other words, in some ways, I get it And I'm kinder to him in retrospect. And someday Drew will be fifty four and he'll remember dude you got to live with us for free for eighteen months. That was pretty awesome. What were you in a hurry to get out of there for? I understand you don't want to be twenty five and live with your parents, but still We're understanding more when we walk in each other's shoes so the best we can. And that's another part of justification and sanctification. It's another piece of sanctification, especially, because when we are justified, we become One with Christ. He gives us as He makes us heirs. And then we grow up as those heirs. And we understand the character qualities of the Father. We become more like him. I'm sure you've had you you're just like your mom. You're just like your dad. You walk like your dad. You talk like your dad. People tell me that. I think it's weird because he wasn't very tall. But you're growing into the person that you're emulating. And a part of that is kindness. And it especially matters. When I first came to Christ in college, I Grew up in the Navigators and I love the Navigators. But it was a lot of Bible memorizing and quiet times and going to conferences. And witnessing. And it wasn't so much looking for God's kindness to me. But over time we see more of God's kingdom that he places us in. We see more of his values We have new perspectives about things. I I bet it would if you came to Christ in as an adult, you probably thought you made a really good decision. And it sort of Based on you figuring it out. But God's kindness came to you and grabbed you and saved you. That's his mercy. Right? It's his salvation, not our good works. And this word loving kindness, you'll find it more in the Old Testament than in the New Testament. New Testament loving kindness. Um the word is Hesed. I don't say I Hebrew words very often. But it it it has this big uh word mix. Loving kindness is part of it, steadfast love is part of it, covenantal faithfulness is part of it. part of it. Loving kindness, steadfast love, covenantal faithfulness. That's the God we serve. I have that word tattooed on my shoulder. It's super important. It's a Christian word. It's not a Muslim word. It's not a Hindu word. It's not a That's the Scientology word. Loving kindness is how God loves us, His compassion, His mercy, His forgiveness to us Not based on our decisions, our merit, our family, our wealth, our success. It's because you know how I can relate to my dad more now, and that makes me get him? Jesus can relate to us because he came to this earth. He walked in our shoes. All the stuff that's happened to us happened to him. He's not just up there like this deist god going, Mm, okay, who cares It's beautiful because God acted. He came. This kindness isn't passive like, ah, who cares? Overlooking. It's it's active. One who Cleanses us, washes us, redeems us, restores us, bears our foolishness, bears our disobedience, our malice, our envy, the cruelty, the wrongs, and we serve and love a kind God like that. Who deals with sin, gives grace, gives mercy. I I was always looking for something good in pandemic stories. And some of 'em were beautiful, weren't they? This musician woman whose mother is in the nursing home. And she couldn't go inside so she would set up her piano outside the window and play even though they couldn't hear her Every day for hours she would go and the people in the nursing home would gather around to watch her play. For her mom, but also for them. And you know, when when the things eased up, the nursing home director said, I would love to pay you to come play. She said, You cannot pay me. me to play. I will pay to play. I'm so thankful to serve. So the kindness was this two-way thing, right? That's how it became beautiful and beautiful and beautiful. It got transformed. It was her delight to get to serve. The Lord is righteous in his ways. The Lord is kind in his works. He is near to all who call to him. And we can call to him today. Amen.