And so every parable you need to remember is set into a context. A parable isn't a story that Jesus just thought, uh I'll make this up right now. But um it's it's It's a story with a purpose applied to the situation that he's in. So in order to understand the text, we have to understand the context of the parable, and then we have to apply it to us appropriately. In this passage, there are some key ideas that we must be attuned to. Jesus is at a dinner party on the Sabbath, which is a day of rest for the Far, and he's with Pharisees. The New Testament characterizes Pharisees as the religious elite, the people who faithfully follow God with their actions and they make sure everyone knows it. The Jewish law mandates that minimal work be done on the Sabbath, and the Pharisees had become masters at manipulating this rule. Dinner parties are places where social status is on display. The closer you sit to the host, the higher up you sit on the social ladder. And at the beginning of the text, Jesus heals a man with edema and preemptively addresses the Pharisees' thoughts on healing on the Sabbath. Healing on the Sabbath was against the law because it was considered work. And then he launches into a series of parables, and we're going to address the first one this morning. So would you stand with me for the reading of God's Word? This is Luke 14, verses 1 through 11, and it says this. On the Sabbath day, when he went to dine at the house of a ruler of the Pharisees, they were watching him carefully And behold, there was a man before him who had dropsy. And Jesus responded to the lawyers and Pharisees, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath or not? But they remained silent. And then he took him and healed him and sent him away. And then he said to them, Which of you, having a son or an ox that has fallen into a well on a Sabbath day, will not immediately pull him out? And they could not reply to these things. Now he told a parable to those who were invited when he noticed how they chose chose the place of honor, saying to them, When you're invited by someone to a wedding feast, do not sit down in a place of honor. Let someone more distinguished than you be invited by him And he who invited you both will come to you and say, Give your place to this person, and then you will begin uh will begin with shame to take the lowest place. But when you're invited, go and sit in the lowest place so that when your host comes, he may say to you, Friend, move up higher, and then you will be honored in the presence of all who sit at the table with you. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted. This is the word of the Lord. Let me pray. Lord God, we are grateful for the time to be with you and to be with each other. To sing, to pray, and now to hear your voice. Lord, I am inadequate and my words are inadequate. And so we ask that your Holy Spirit would speak. Lord, our hearts are broken and uh and easily distracted. And so we ask that your Holy Spirit would combine with the words, the spoken word. To make us more like you. Don't let us be distracted. Let us hear your voice. And we pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. You can be seated. The big idea that I want you to walk away with this morning, what I want you to hear the scripture teaching you is that Jesus That Jesus is teaching us that everyone is seeking external justification, everybody, to their status and worth. And we find true status and worth when we seek our worth in Jesus. So this is really a parable about two parties, right? Um Jesus tells the parable, the first party, the first party in the parable that Jesus is talking about reflects the dinner party he is attending. The wedding feast is all about who is in attendance and the status of the people attending. The parable portrays uh the wedding feast is this red carpet event. Everybody comes dressed to kill in their bests, right? And the paparazzi are outside. Okay, maybe not paparazzi, but you know what I'm saying. You know what I'm saying. The common practice is for the more upper class of the community to show up a little bit late, fashionably late, if you will. So that they can make an entrance. There's no point in making an entrance if no one is there. So they wait till everybody's there, and then it's this big thing, right? It's a hole to do. And the people who are the most socially elite sit closest to the host. The more adjacent you are to the host, the more important you are in the community. These parties are actually designed to reinforce your social status. The Pharisees are represented by the party guest that goes right to the best seat and sits down. The guest is all about being seen and getting his value through that recognition, and Jesus points out the shame and the damage that is done to reputation and status. If the guest takes a seat that is higher than their status, Jesus challenges their hearts by asking, what if you showed up a little too early? Took a seat that was a little too high. And then someone else showed up just a little bit more fashionably late than you. And they deserve the highest seat. They deserve the seat that you took. That's not just embarrassing. It's actually destructive to their status. Because you know they walked in, everybody looked, they sat down, and now the host is going, excuse me. Can you uh can you slide down a little? And they're they everybody's watching. So the same thing that built them up tears them down. What Jesus is really getting at is the origin and method of attaining our status and personal worth. He's essentially asking the Pharisees, where do you get your identity? And there's immense arrogance in walking into the party and taking the best seat. And there is fragility and insecurity. In the recent Friends Reunion, actually this was a while ago now, um a year ago maybe. The cast talked about the joys and challenges of filming the show in front of a live studio audience. I don't know if any of you watch, friends, but Matthew Perry is the actor who played Chandler Bing. in the show. And he said this. I felt like I was going to die if they, the audience, didn't laugh. And it's not healthy for sure. I would sometimes say a line and they wouldn't laugh, and I would sweat and go into convulsions if I didn't get the laugh that I was supposed to get. It would freak me out. And I felt like that every single night. Friends was on for what, nine years? This isn't just a Matthew Perry thing. It's a people thing. People are have misplaced and arrogant expectations for the identity that Jesus is talking about. It's not unique to Chandler Bing. Looking for identity this way has two issues One, when we look to our status, when we look for our status and value from outside the Creator God, it's offensive. He's offended by that. He intended us to be connected. He intended for us to get our identity from him. But two, looking for our value and status from other people, it's Completely insufficient. We'll never get what we need. We look for other people to build us up through our status, build our status up through our degrees, through our salaries. Through our grades, through our toys, our houses, our cars, our boats, through our awards and accomplishments. We do it through the amount of time we spend on volunteer work. We brag of our rebellion. We even boast of our children. I was at a soccer game with my daughter. Kaya's a soccer player and she was her club was playing last spring and uh I'm watching maybe one of the best games they played all season and I'm sitting there trying to watch this game and two moms in front of me from one from our team and one from the opposing team who knew each other are sitting there bragging about, like one-upping each other on how busy their daughters are I'm like, can you go somewhere else? I'm trying to watch a soccer game. But it's like, well my daughter does it. Oh yeah. My daughter does this. Oh yeah, yeah, uh my daughter does this And it was like they wanted something. They wanted a prize or award for how busy their daughters are We don't necessarily walk into the best seat at a party and assume the seat of the guest of honor so that we can be praised by all who see us. But we do subtly, and sometimes not so subtly, drop hints of our reason for great worth, and hope that someone picks it up and praises us Sometimes we do this by complaining about how hard life is, how busy we are, or the sacrifices we have to make. When people don't pick up our hints, we are distinctly aware of our brokenness and our inadequacy. When we lay it down and no one picks it up, we're like, oh shoot. Our craving to be recognized for our great status goes unfulfilled. And we are left wanting. This is the nature of the first party in this parable. This is what it's like But the good news is there's a second party in this passage, and it's defined by the man with dropsy or edema. Joe B. Green is a theologian and commentator, and he comments about this text. He says The tables, uh he he comments about the tables where the meals take place in the in the Gospel of Luke. He says they're often the setting for the inclusion of the wrong people. Wrong as defined by conventional standards. When you read the Gospel of Luke and you look at dinner parties that Jesus attends, there's almost always someone who shouldn't be there. And the person that shouldn't be there is the person that Jesus hangs out with. Jesus says that the the guest attending the second party should walk in and go directly to the lowest seat. This immediately challenges finding security in the group as a whole. Notice that at the second party, the guest is still looking for their status to come from outside themselves. We have this notion that we should find our strength and our worth from inside us. We are designed to be reinforced from the outside. But instead of finding the status from the other party guests, they look to find it from the host. From our perspective, it is such a risk to sit at the lowest seat. First of all, you have to sit with those people. And those people don't really help your status. They actually don't. They actually hurt who you want to be But second, you're entirely dependent on the host noticing that you're sitting in that spot. I mean, what if the host is really busy? I mean there's a lot going on, the food has to be right and there are people that need to be attended to and We're running out of drinks. Can you go to seven eleven, get some more ice? You know, it's busy when you're a host. What if they don't notice that you're sitting way down there. There's no better illustration of this guest at the second party than Jesus. When Jesus walks into the party and sits with the rabble, it's where he wants to be. At the number of dinner parties that Jesus attended in the Gospel of Luke, there are often Pharisees and teachers of the law there. But look who he hangs out with. In Luke 5, it's tax collectors and sinners. In Luke 7, it's a sinful woman. In Luke 9, it's 5,000 hungry people who are only there because they want something from him. They want a miracle. And that's who he eats with. In Luke 10, Mary and Martha, just two common women. In fact, Philippians 2, 5-8 says, Have this mind among yourselves which is yours in Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count a quality with God a thing to be grasped. But emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death. Even death on a cross. Jesus was in the form of God, but didn't consider himself equal with God. He sat in the lowest seat of the party. Jesus emptied himself and took on the form of a servant. That is, he became like us human, a man. He took the lowest seat at the party. He died a humiliating death on a cross, taking on and paying for the sins of all who will express faith in him. He took the lowest seat at the party. Jesus sits at the lowest seat of the party because that's where we are. Whether you want to be or not. Even though we want to consider ourselves of great worth and status, someone who should be right next to the host, we're with the rabble. We are the rabble. We're sitting far away from the host and we're stepping on each other to try to get one seat closer. It would be really wrong to end the sermon here. To end with, we're sitting at the lowest seat of the party, but don't worry, so is Jesus. It's actually not what we're created to be. You read the end of Genesis 1, right? And all of creation is good until Adam and Eve are created, and then it is All very good. We're the crowning peace. We're the vice regents. We're supposed to rule and be God's representative on earth. We're the capstone. And Jesus points out in the parable, for everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted. Again in Philippians, this time two, chapter two, verses nine through eleven, it says, Therefore God was highly exalted uh highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name. So that the end at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, in heaven and on earth, and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. So we know, we know that Jesus is going to be exalted. We know that the host will not miss that Jesus is sitting at the end of the table and walk away, oh, you're in the wrong spot. And Jesus will be brought up to the best seat in the house. But where does that leave us? In his high priestly prayer, Jesus prays to God the Father about those who will trust and follow him, saying, The glory that you, God, have given me, Jesus, I have given to them. The glory that you have given me, I have given to them, those who trust. That they may be one as we are one, I and them and you and me, that they may become perfectly one, so that the world may know that you sent me and loved them even as As you loved me. So when the host comes to take Jesus to the Beth Seat, Jesus looks at the host and he says, Can I bring my friends with me? And he knows that the answer will be sure. Bring him. Please see this that this is a total reversal of the first party. It's the total opposite. At the first party, everyone's doing everything they can to sit a little closer to the host than they did last time. They are desperately looking for recognition from the community to affirm their status and value. At this party, the guest can sit anywhere he wants. Jesus. And he sits at the lowest seat. The host, God the Father, is honored to bring Jesus to the best seat, acknowledging Jesus' great status and worth. And the rebel, us are brought with him as a result. And we have an entirely different way to find our status in that value and worth. Now friends, our new way of finding status and value frees us. We're free to stop seeking our f our to fulfill our status with fickle and fragile compliments of other people, and trust that we have worth and significance given to us by our Creator. We're free to share our wealth and our gifts and our accomplishments and our toys and our struggles, not because we're looking for endorsement, but because we're looking for genuine fellowship in life. We're free to look beyond this life and anticipate the return of Jesus. And there we will be fully restored to our full glory. with our Savior. It's gonna be the best party ever. And in case you're wondering You'll be seated with Jesus, right next to his father, in the best seat in the house. And if you wonder how that works, I believe the seats are stacked. It's the only way I can imagine, but anyway. Can we pray? Let's pray. Lord, we confess that we are constantly looking for people to make us something. We can be we can be needy and we can be um fragile or we can be arrogant and just ab Bull in a China shop, but we're still looking for someone to endorse us. We're looking for someone to say we have value. And so we're grateful that you do We're grateful that you say to us, You are worth something because my son is worth something. Would you help us to learn to trust that? To live in light of that, and then make us generous. Make us generous with the things you've given us. Make us uh well, make us like Jesus. Help us to sit with the rabble and love them well, because Jesus has done that with us. And we pray all of this in Christ's name. Amen.