Good morning. Last week we looked at chapter twelve. We never finished the end of chapter twelve. And if you recall we talked about uh worship and we I noted that the uh the main theme in that chapter is not necessarily in terms of the centrality of one sanctuary, a place of worship, but it was on the purity of worship itself. And so we talked about worship being true and pure worship is God centered. True and pure worship glorifies God. So we'll pick up from the end of chapter twelve and uh verses um uh uh twenty-nine to the end and all the way read to chapter thirteen. If you are able, would you please arise? Let us honor the reading of God's holy, inerrant, and inspired word that He's given to us this morning. Verse 29 of chapter 12. When the Lord your God cuts off before you the nations whom you go in to dispossess, and you dispossess them and dwell in their land, take care that you be not ensnared to follow them After they have been destroyed before you, and that you do not inquire about their gods, saying, How did these nations serve their gods, that I may also do the same You shall not worship the Lord your God in that way. For every abominable thing that the Lord hates, they have done for their gods, for they even burn their sons and their daughters in the fire to their gods. Everything that I command you, you shall be careful to do. You shall not add to it or take from it. Chapter 13 If a prophet or a dreamer of dreams rises uh arises among you and gives you a sign or a wonder, and the sign or wonder that he tells you comes to pass, and if he says, let us go after other gods, which you have not known, and let us serve them. You shall not listen to the words of that prophet or that dreamer of dreams. For the Lord your God is testing you to know whether you love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. You shall walk after the Lord your God, and fear him, and keep his commandments, and obey his voice, and you shall serve him and hold fast to him. But the prophet or that dreamer of dreams shall be put to death, because he has stopped rebelling against the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt and Redeemed you out of the house of slavery, to make you leave the way in which the Lord your God commanded you to walk. So you shall purge the evil from your midst. If your brother, the son of your mother, or your son, or your daughter, or the wife you embrace, or your friend who is your own, so and ties you secretly saying Let us go and serve other gods which neither you nor your fathers have known, some of the gods of the peoples who are around you, whether near you or far off from you, from the one end of the earth to the other You shall not yield to him or listen to him, nor shall your eyes fitted him, nor shall you spare him, nor shall you conceal him, but you shall kill him Your hand shall be first against him to put him to death, and afterward the hand of the of all the people. You shall stone him to death with stones because he sought to draw you away from the Lord your God Who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. And all Israel shall hear and fear and never again do any such wickedness as this among you. If you hear in one of your cities, which the Lord your God has given you to dwell there, that certain worthless fellows have gone out among you and have drawn away the inhabitants of their city, saying Let us go and serve other gods which you have not known. Then you shall inquire and make search and ask diligently. And behold, if it is true and certain that such an abomination has been Done among you, you shall surely put the inhabitants of that city to the sword, devoting it to destruction. All who are in it and its cattle with the edge of the sword You shall gather all its spoil into the midst of the open square and burn the city and all its foil with fire as a whole burnt offering to the Lord your God. It shall be a heap forever. It shall not be built again None of the devoted things shall stick to your hand, that the Lord may turn from the fierceness of his anger and show you mercy and have compassion on you and multiply you as he swore to your fathers. If you obey the voice of the Lord your God, keeping all his commandments that I am commanding you today, and doing what is right in the sight of the Lord your God. The word of God this morning, Father, we do ask for your Holy Spirit to enable us this morning to hear this word, to believe it, and to live it. We pray all this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. In our Sunday school class, we are doing a special study, which I would actually invite all of you to come and join us, which is a study of the church. What is the mission of the church. And part of uh what our study this morning I mentioned to our class was uh that church history is messy. Uh it's not pretty. There is so much that the church has had to struggle with over the years and and that the story has never changed. To this very day, that we continue to face challenges as the Church of Jesus Christ, and we have a constant struggle to maintain our faithful witness to the world that rejects Jesus Christ. How can there only be one way, one truth, to God? How can Christianity be an exclusive religion, so to speak? I was speaking to a friend this this week who reminded me of the this particular challenge because they were dealing exactly with that with someone who called them Uh or talked to them and basically said, I believe that there are many ways to the Father or to religion or to God. You cannot just claim that Jesus has to be the only way. You cannot just claim that Christianity is the only true rel religion Right? That's what the world says. And so the the ideal of truth is that there cannot be an absolute truth. Your truth may not work for me. So that's your truth. And as a church, we we continue to struggle with this uh idea of sharing the gospel. uh of telling the world that continues to reject Christ that there is an absolute truth. That The church is is not declared or called as an exclusive religion because we don't like other people, or because we don't want to include other people, or because we don't want to include other religions The whole idea is there is only one God, and there's only one way to Him, and that is through Jesus Christ, that is through faith in Him. And so the question I want to pose for us this morning is exactly that. How do we then, amidst that confusion of dealing with what is true and what is right, and and and how are we to be as a church, how do we maintain a steadfast Witness and being followers of Jesus Christ, so that we are not led astray. What do I mean? When we look at chapter 12. We see towards the end, God is here declaring and showing his people that he demands utter loyalty to him. None, nothing else, no worshiping other gods, and that for them to even follow or to think about other gods is a grievous sin. And so worshiping God Or worshiping other gods, so to speak, is idolatry. It is a complete rebellion towards a God which called them. Again, as we mentioned last week, that pure worship that God requires to them was not merely an object of having a central place of worship or a sanctuary. It really wasn't about the place That part of that was avoiding the influence of the Canaanite pagan cultic rites and gods and rituals that would actually contaminate, if you will. uh God's worship. And one of them is mentioned here in verse thirty one, right? He mentions uh the child sacrifice that was being done here. It's actually curious to note that child sacrifice continued through the history of Israelite people. It was mostly in the Syria-Palestine area uh uh area but also during the times of Jeremiah you remember the King Ahaz and Manasseh, some of the worst and most evil kings of Israel, Jeremiah prophesies about it, and he tries to stamp out child sacrifice, uh, of course, without success. But this was going on, in fact, within uh Israel. And the reason why this is such a big deal is because whoever tries to take or to sacrifice children, they're taking a prerogative that actually belongs to God Himself. Human life is the prerogative of God Himself. And of course, we know the true story of what happens as God practices and takes that prerogative to the ultimate end, which is giving up of his son who is sacrificed on the cross for our sins. And so that is really the transition or the introductory comments that Moses is giving in laying out a way that God's people are supposed to be careful not to be led astray. And so we begin by looking at verses 1 through 5 of chapter 13. The first thing that Moses is telling God's people to be careful of is be careful And we're going to use a little bit of a different language than uh what is used here just for our own modern uh understanding. And instead of prophets, we're gonna say, be careful or false teachers Verse 1 through 5. Now, think about it for one second. Of all the crimes that ancient Israel could commit before God. Of everything else that Israel could do to deliberately, to deliberately attempt to draw away God's people from himself into other gods was the worst and the most hideous crime that they could ever perform. Because of its broader ramif ramifications. Think about it. God has had a covenant with his people. And this was a covenant that was actually based, so to speak, on ancient Near East uh nations as well. But they understood that when you have a covenant. You have an obligation to keep that covenant. And to break it means the end of you. It means death. Because remember when they cut the covenant, they would, you know, destroy animals and and and perform rituals that would actually determine if I ever break my covenant with you, then May it be to be as it is these animals that are being destroyed. And so to think of someone or a group of people Who would lead God's people astray from God, from their covenant keeping, was the worst that they could ever do. And the first example that we're given here is Prophets, false prophets, and dream dreamers of dreams. Now, if you think about the prophets, you know, these are people who who made the claim or had religious authority and special uh knowledge uh to God um or access to God. A common definition of a prophet is someone who gives words from God. Now just because you have that uh uh uh uh a name And status doesn't necessarily guarantee that you are a true prophet of God. Again, because the idea here is if someone claims to be a true prophet and yet they go contrary to God's word, which is drawing God's people from Yahweh and from his covenant Then you cannot be a true prophet. We see an example of this that not all prophets speak from God in Exodus chapter seven. As Moses uh goes to Pharaoh and asks that you may let the my people go, uh of course, and and he performs all these signs and you know with his With his uh staff and what happens? Pharaoh brings his sorcerers and his guys and he says, Hey, come on, do the same. And they actually do it. Were they speaking from God? Absolutely no. The idea is if they seek to destroy allegiance to Yahweh, if they are advocating for any other worship apart from what God has declared to them. They are leading people to a rebellion of God. And they cannot be true prophets. And then alongside the prophets were told of these dreamers of dreams. Again, remember dreams were means of uh uh of receiving revelation from God. In fact, kings, remember Nebuchadnezzar with Daniel, uh remember uh Solomon actually has a dream in First Kings chapter three. That's how he's confirmed. He confirms his own kingship. It's by having a dream. And he says, don't listen to them, don't give them an ear. If you truly love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul Nothing could persuade them otherwise. Not even prophets, not even dreamers of dreams could convince them to worship any other god God's people are here called to walk in love with God. But they're not just supposed to not listen to them, but put them to death. Killed them. Now we don't have much evidence, biblical evidence in terms of prophets being killed a whole lot. I mean we know uh Elijah killed uh prophets. Uh Uh uh but we we don't have so much uh evidence of uh you know just mass killings of prophets and all. But I think the idea here is clear that God's people being given the the the punishment and being told what you're supposed to do to these prophets and and death penalty again because uh leading God's people away from him was a classic example of treason. Espionage. I mean you deserve death. It's supposed to deter them from even being tempted to be lied to or to be lured or to be enticed by false prophets. And there's a warning and I like verse two Uh that people are called and they are told do not worship other gods. If if if this prophets tell you, come let us go worship other gods. And then he describes what those gods are. Gods that which you do not know God's a you did not know. That phrase is repeated about three times in this text. Now remember that phrase has been used elsewhere. God, Yahweh, is the God that God's people are supposed to know. But where else do we see that phrase of things that you did not know? Remember when God provided for his people manna from heaven? How did he say that manna was? It is something that you had no idea what it was. Manna from above, which you did not know. Where else do you see that phrase You remember the sons of Anakim that scared the Israelites, you know, to their socks, that they did not really want to go and possess the land because they were told, the sons of Anakim that you know But the idea of knowing is key here that God, their creator Their covenant, faithful God who had called them, is the only God that they were supposed to know. He is the only God that they were supposed to trust. He is the only God that they were supposed to know that He was sufficient And enough and trustworthy to see them through the desert, to see them possessing the promise that he had given to them. Not to listen to any other new voice from other quarters. No true prophet. No true prophet could come to them and say, Come, let us go serve other gods. Come, let us go worship other gods. Why? Because this goes completely against his commandments, the first commandment, so to speak. And so if they were to love the Lord their God, then they would not be lured to this. See, I think in our day we also must remember That no prophet will contradict what the gospel teaches, right? No prophet will teach anything else apart from uh the salvation Is only found in Jesus Christ, who was born of the Virgin Mary, who lived a sinless life, who died on the cross, who rose again from the grave, and is coming back soon Paul, I think, says in Galatians 1:8, claiming that if I or anybody or even an angel from heaven comes to you preaching any gospel that is contrary to that, let them be accursed. The prophet or dreamer will use a sign or portent to entice the people, giving the impression that they actually have a special insight. They are actually in control. Yet who says that he rescued his people by mighty acts and outstretched arms? What do signs and revelations and control and might belong to? They all belong to God. But do you see here? Actually God is allowing false prophets to perform signs And make things happen through them. But why is he doing that? We're told he's testing them That God is saying, even when I allow the prophets to perform miracles and signs before you, still don't be fooled just because they performed those signs Because this is how it would play out, right? Someone shows up and claims to be a prophet, and then the people go like, well, authenticate yourself. Show us that you're truly a prophet. Watch me. Here's the sign But he's saying I'm doing this to test you, to see the disposition of your heart. God is testing them to see the disposition of their heart. Now when we think about temptation, you may ask, well, but the Bible says that God does not tempt us. Well, he's not tempting them to sin He is testing them to see their faithfulness. In fact, I would say that the testing that God is allowing to happen is more helpful to them than they could think of. This is what I mean. If the test comes and they overcome and they actually follow the Lord and not the false prophet, their faith is strengthened. I think that at stake here in the question is: will you love the Lord your God? Will you stand firm to powerful religious temptations? Will you show that you truly follow God with utmost devotion to Him? My question for us this morning is: why are we so tempted by false prophets? Because we are. You know, there's such a huge desire for us to, I want to see a son before I believe. Show me something that I may know that you are there. Yet God has given us the greatest sign that we could ever ask for. He has given us his son on the cross. That he is enough and our desires to w we we want to follow anything else apart from God Himself Uh someone noted uh uh about a month ago describing this might sound like it's a little off, but actually they were talking about idols and And I I thought this is this was really helpful helpful to me in terms of thinking about what we were were seeking for. He says, an idol is stuff that we go to for the things that God promises to do for us And peace is one of those things. So the biggest peace thief of all is looking for peace in all the wrong places. Now compare that with what the prophet Isaiah says in Isaiah 26. 3. You keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on him. Brothers and sisters, what are we seeking for from others that God has not already provided for us in Himself? See, the false prophet is calling for faithlessness to a people that are redeemed and called by a God of faithfulness. A false prophet calls for ingratitude to a people that are saved and redeemed to be a people of gratitude. I pray that we may know the truth of God's word and reject those who pedal lies that are laced with a little bit of truth in order to lead us astray. Even Matthew tells us Matthew 24. That for false Christs and false prophets who arise and perform great signs and wonders so as to lead us astray, if possible. Even they lacked. Secondly, Moses said be careful of those close to you. Verse six through eleven Be careful of those who are close to you. Family members, close friends, can also be a source of rebellion for us against God. But unlike the prophet, because the prophet is proclaiming words and claiming to show signs, and they're doing it publicly, friends. Family do it secretly. There's a qualification for intimacy here, especially the description that Moses uses. Your mother's son, which is basically your brother, your wife that you embrace, which is trying to show the most intimate of all relationships While the prophet uses signs and wonders to lie and to lead us astray, the immediate family will use intimacy of their relationship to coerce us uh into leading us astray. You know Those who are close to us, family members, can wield immense power over us than outside us, right? They say that blood is thicker than water, don't they? And it's true. And it's especially so when when they disguise their evil intentions as intimacy And part of what drives evil people that are close to us is a feeling that They're not liable to persecution or punishment. Thinking that, oh, but I can lie to them and kind of go free without any consequences. So Moses says, don't listen to them, don't yield to them, don't pity them, don't conceal them. Just Feel the the weight and the difficulty of this for God's people. As they're being told about the consequences of What happens when one of your closest people leads you astray? And the struggle, the dilemma, so to speak, of being told to put your own flesh and blood To death because they are leading you astray. This is no easy matter, is it? And he said it's not simply enough to resist them But to make sure that they understand what they have done and put them to death. Because penalty for such a crime is so severe. The stone to death. Again, notice how this is done. But the person who brings evidence casts the first stone. Why? To show that what they're that their evidence is actually true. But they're not lying But yes, this person really did try to lure me, to entice me to worship other gods Well the responsibility doesn't lie on the one person because the whole community is actually asked to join them in on the act. But there's a shared Thing that is going on here. As as verse six and seven note that there is uh numerous gods that are not just near to them but also afar off that would tempt God's people to to worship them. God's people were asked to be careful to understand that there's only one God that they're supposed to worship. But their religion was exclusive religion, a relationship with one God. and one God only. Now, you know, as people read especially verses six through eleven, they may be tempted to think that The community was supposed to be policing one another. You know, like it happens in most communist countries where you you watch what your neighbor is doing and report them. If you think they're doing something wrong, even though you don't even know what they're doing. I I really don't think that's what's going on here I think what's going on here is God's people being commanded to watch themselves and understand that apostasy is what's going to destroy them. So worshiping another God and giving your life to Another God, just because your family told you so is such a dangerous thing and to be aware of that, that not even your family ties The nature of the relationship between God and His people was such that morality and love were supposed to be supreme and important I mean listen to Jesus' words in Luke chapter 14. What does Jesus say when he talks about our relationship with God? He says, if anyone comes to me and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, even his own life. He cannot be my disciple. Who does Jesus describe as his own family when people come to him in Mark chapter 3 saying, Oh, your brothers and your mothers they're waiting for you? He says, Do you know who my fathers and my brothers are? Those who do the will of my father. Family, close friends can be difficult, I attach, to deal with when they lure us away from Christ, especially And it's it's especially dangerous because we least expect those that are close to us and dear to us to mean ill for us. It's family. It's family. They can't be wrong. Yet if they are leading us away from God, we must reject their seduction. Proverbs 110 says, if sinners entithe do not consent. I I don't know what temptation you've faced in your life or what examples you may have in your own life of people being asked to uh sign off on things or be part of deals that are disguised as legitimate, but an even closer look exposes the lies in those things and yet they're presented to those that are close to us. I pray that the Holy Spirit would give us discernment so that when we suspect that something is not right, that we're being led astray, we may reject it, no matter how hard it is to say no, even to family. I got to know a young uh lady for a a short period of time several years ago. She was a a Hindu woman. Uh she was um young, twenty-four years old, and she became a believer. And she was living with a pastor friend of mine because she became a believer and our whole family uh disowned her Uh they were trying to get rid of her by marrying her off to um a man who had several wives. Uh she was coming from a very wealthy family and they took everything away from her, inheritance. Uh they tried some A conspiracy to have her arrested and even killed. And uh when I met her, I still don't know her real name because we they couldn't tell us her real name. Uh I hope she's still alive But the gospel of Jesus Christ is offensive. See, when Jesus shows up proclaiming that the kingdom of God is at hand, It's not something that everybody was so happy about. He was declaring war. Not war with swords. And I I I hope that none of us get to a place where we are tempted Or get to a place where we actually have to choose between our family and God. Because that's an extremely difficult thing. But here's my question: what if it was to happen? What if you are to choose between your family and your faith and God Again, my prayer is that God would give you the courage, like this young woman, who was a young Christian, but to her, loving God and following Him was Much more important than have family that rejected faith. Finally, be careful Of the urban revolu revolutionaries. Or if you will, be careful of the culture that is around you. See the last example here in verses 12 through 18 is a little different from the first two Excuse me, because it actually assumes that idolatry has already uh been committed on a large scale. And so what we have here in verses twelve through eighteen is uh the means or on how to deal with A city, a town that has forsaken the Lord and is leading people astray, and the idea here is destroy them, kill them, put them to death, all of them uh the the the phrase that is used of the of these urban revolutionaries is worthless fellows uh ESV translates it other translations will say children of Belial uh and these are expressions of worthless or people without worth. Uh and and and the idea here is this is how God estimates them. This is how God sees them as uh they may appear as fine people in their community, but that God sees them as worthless people They're wicked. Urban revolutionaries that are uh wicked as one commit commentator puts it. They're waging war against God, rebelling against God. against the constitution of God's people, of Israel as a city, as a covenant people, and if successful, they can completely destroy and change the nature of Israel with horrible consequences. And the idea here is, he said, they are doing abominable things, something that is totally displeasing to God. Something that is unclean, something that is impure, something that is devoid of holiness. An example of Jericho in Joshua chapter 6, a city that is completely destroyed Uh because of of the sin of people, of course, we know that one person is rescued there, Rahab. And the idea is God is saying because of h his holiness, they were supposed to do a complete sacred extermination. We saw this earlier on in Deuteronomy, uh which is called Harem, uh the policy of harem of just destroying everything and and even the city is not supposed to be rebuilt Uh put everything in a in a heap in the middle of the square and nobody should go there, nobody should rebuild that city because it's been destroyed. Sounds like tyranny, doesn't it? God sounds a little unfair, at least to a human mind, doesn't it? Why destroy all of that stuff? Why just put the whole place to destruction We must understand that God's holiness is at stake here, isn't it? And that God has seen the wickedness of these nations, of these people. And he's trying to ensure that his covenant with his people is not affected. Now, a question I have for us in terms of considering this, because we know that we're not called as a church to go put to sword Every town, nation, and community that we think is evil more than we are. Right? I would hope we're all clear on that. We have a sword that we've been given by God, and that is the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's how we turn people from evil. That's how we set people free from the bondage of sin. But the question is, how do we as a church, how do we engage a culture that is Against God. How do we protect ourselves? How do we protect our children that we care so much about from the evils of this world? Do we lock them up in our rooms? Keep them there until they're eighty years old when they I wish I could do that for my son. I think there's something for us here too to hear from God. That it's not just enough to teach them the truth. Live the truth. You want your children to know the truth? Don't just teach it. Live it. Here's my summary of verse twelve to the end. As I was thinking through this passage, and I hope you hear it. That the call for us is to be wary of the seduction of our culture and the world around us that it presents To reject the world these standards that tell us that we must all desire to be like the Joneses in our pursuit Of wealth and power and fame above God. And we must reject the lie that says everyone is doing it, so it must be right. And we must seek to be followers of Jesus Christ and not the mob. We must reject the lie that says, I am not the problem. That city is the problem. The Middle East is the problem. America is the problem. I am not the problem that I must seek every day of my life to be a repentant follower of Jesus Christ. To know that I may be guilty of the things that I have done, but I am also guilty of the things that I should have done and did not do. Know the truth. And the truth will set you free, Jesus says. From the seduction of the dreamers, the prophets, your close family, and the evil world around you. Know the truth. And take not your cues from the fad that comes and passes, but from the truth that is eternal. And that truth is Jesus Christ. Know the truth. Love the truth. Treasure the truth above everything else and stand on the firm foundation that is Jesus Christ so that when the temptations of this world come, they will find you, they will find you grounded in faith, unshakable. Immovable and wholly devoted to Jesus Christ. That's my prayer for myself and for you this morning. Lord, we do thank you for your word that you've given to us. And we pray that you would allow us to stand in the truth that you've given to us through Jesus Christ, that we may be found immovable, unshakable, when the tempter comes. We pray all this in Christ's name. Amen