On in our series in Ephesians, we'll be finishing out chapter three this morning. Looking at Ephesians three, verses fourteen through twenty-one. If you have a Bible I'd encourage you to open up there and and find it. If you don't If you're using the Pew Bibles, you can find it on page twelve forty-three, so you can follow along with us. And if you remember just the way that Ephesians is kind of written, you have these these six chapters, the first three kind of tell us who we are in Christ, and then the last three tell us how we should live in Christ. And this passage that we're looking at at the end of chapter three is kind of a transition as Paul begins to pray for the Ephesians that they would be able to do. So with all that in mind, let's go ahead and if you're able, I'll invite you to please stand as we honor the reading of God's Word. Hear God's word now from Ephesians three, starting in verse fourteen. For this reason I bow my knees before the Father, from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named, that according to the riches of his glory he may grant you to be strengthened with power through his spirit in your inner being, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may have strength to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and the length and height and depth. And to know the love of Christ that surpasseth knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God. Now to him who is able To him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations. Ever and ever. Amen. The word of the Lord this morning. Let's pray together. God, we we need We need to hear from you. We need you to speak to us through your word. We need you to show us Christ that we might behold him in his glory and his beauty, that we might love him. We need you, Holy Spirit, to help us, to strengthen us, that we might Lord, and all of that centers around us hearing what you say to us in your word as we've gathered to hear you speak. And so we pray, O Lord, as as Mark prayed, that you're You would speak to us for your servants are listening. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Well please be seated. Well I think I've I've shared with some of you recently that our our kids over the last couple months have been having a little bit of trouble sleeping. And and a few months back it was particularly Abigail that was really having a hard time sleeping. All the tricks that we used with David when he was her age, none of them were really working. the way we had expected them to. And so eventually we even uh got to the point where we needed to to hire a sleep consultant to help work with her to help her sleep. It was just life changing. It was wonderful. Now she's sleeping and that means that we're sleeping, which is a great thing. Um and it it's just you know, I I've lost track of how many people we've told about it because it's made such a practical difference in our lives day in and day out. And it just reminded me as I reflect on that that we are such a practical people. We we get most excited about what works. We can find ourselves searching online to find life hacks to make even And I think that when it comes to the Christian Christian life, we can often find ourselves bringing that mindset in without realizing it. And I think that it can present some challenges for us. Because even though you and I know that following Christ is not simply about making life easier or better. We still have a hard time appreciating things that don't seem practical or tangible. Sometimes if you're like me, you really wish that you could have seven habits of highly effective Christians Or four steps to spiritual growth, or eight tips for fighting sin in your life. Right? We find ourselves approaching the Christian life, asking the question: what should I be doing? Now, hopefully we want to make an impact for Christ in the world, but I think that can make us want to be busy with lots of activity so that we can be sure we're accomplishing something. We see this practical impulse in the world around us as well, right? Sometimes it's noble. Other times it can be misguided and unbiblical, but in in both instances there's a desire to do something, to make the world a better place than it was. And certainly as God's people we should strive to be doers of the word and not just hearers only. But I think we need to see from passages like this in Ephesians Ephesians 3, that the emphasis on the Christian life is not primarily on doing, but on knowing. You see, we start by knowing Christ And then we live for him as the natural outgrowth of our relationship with him. And he he visited them and Martha was just distracted with much serving. She was anxious and troubled about many things, instead of being like her sister Mary, doing the one thing that's necessary. You see, in the world, and I think sometimes even in the church, we can find ourselves placing a greater value on the marthas of this world. But we need to remember that Jesus said Mary chose the better portion. And needed to be reminded sometimes that we need to learn to slow down and to I think that's why we need this prayer from Ephesians 3 that Paul offers. Because we can be far more shaped by the world around us than we really And the result is that I think you and I find ourselves often struggling through a meager Christian life That though we are rich beyond all imagination, we don't understand the riches that are ours in Christ, and so we live spiritually impoverished lives. Not deeply knowing and delighting in Christ and fully appreciating the blessings that are found in him, the way we're meant to do. God here and now. And in order for that to happen, we need to continue to grow in our faith. Paul says this growth is given by God, and his his point here in this passage is that God strengthens us through God strengthens us through his spirit so that we can know Christ more deeply. I just want to look at four things related to growth that come out in this passage. I want you to see the fact that Paul prays for growth. I want you to see the pattern for growth, the petitions for growth, and then finally the power for growth. First, let's look at the prayer for growth in verses 14 and 15. Paul here is a longing to see these Ephesian Christians grow in their faith. And the first thing we notice is that he prays. That might seem obvious to us. Paul knows that regardless of who plants and who waters, it's God who gives the growth. And he knows that what the psalmist says, unless the Lord builds the house, those who build James tells us that so often you don't have because you don't ask. Paul begins by praying because he knows that he is powerless to give the growth that he desires to see in their lives. And so he says there in verses 14 and 15. For this reason I bow my knees before the Father, from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named. He says for this reason, right? He's connecting it with what he's already said. He's he's being And Gentiles together in Christ into one body. And I think that's why he starts his prayer the way he does, saying he bows his knees before the Father, from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named. That word every can can also be translated as all or whole. And I think the way the King James renders it is maybe a little more helpful where he says, he bows his knees before the Father, from whom the whole family You see, his point is again to emphasize the inclusion of the Gentiles as members of the household of God. He's saying that all of God's people, whether in heaven, or on earth, whether Jews or Gentiles, they have God as their father. And as Sinclair Ferguson says, they bear the family name. It's a mark that shows God is their father and they are part of his family. Just as a side note, that's what happens in our baptism, isn't it? Baptism is a naming ceremony where you are baptized into the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. You are given the family name Name as a picture of your adoption by God. It's a sign and a guarantee that if you have faith in Christ, God will be your God and you will be his people. You're given the family name. So they're being reminded here that they share the family name, and that gives such great confidence because Paul's praying, as Jesus would say, to my God and your God, to my father and your father. See, Paul's praying to a good father who loves to give good gifts to his children. And he's praying with confidence that God will both hear and answer his prayers. Prayer. I hope you know God's fatherly heart for you, his love to care for you, that He doesn't need to have His arm twisted to be convinced to be good to you. Isn't it good news that God is not bothered or annoyed by us coming constantly to ask him for the things that we we need. He delights to hear from us, to have us make our requests known to him. And he loves to give good gifts for his children. He promises he'll never withhold anything from you that you need in order to live for him. Specifically, here we're given confidence that the Father answers prayers for the spiritual growth. of his people. So often I catch myself thinking and sometimes even saying, I wish I could do more than just pray for you. And I have to remind myself that prayer is doing something. Right? Prayer is doing the most important thing. Bringing your cares and concerns before the Lord is the single most important thing that you and I can do. Because the prayer of a righteous person has great power as it's working. That's why Paul starts with prayer, because God works in response to the people's prayer. So whether you are longing for growth in your own life or whether you're longing to see someone else grow in their faith, this is a passage that encourages you to pray expecting. Respectantly, knowing that God hears your prayers, knowing that He is a faithful God who keeps His promises. And it helps us to pray with confidence that when He starts a good work, He will Paul prays for this growth, expecting God to answer his prayer. But it also helps us to see the normal pattern for growth in the Christian life. And that's what we see, the pattern for growth. And since this growth is given by the triune God, we see that the pattern for growth is Trinitarian. In its shape. The movement is that the Father grants us to be strengthened through the Spirit so that we can have a greater knowledge and love of Christ and appreciation of his presence in our lives. The Father does this according to the riches of his glory, Paul says, according to the abundance of his perfection and his glory. That phrase connects it with what he said earlier in Ephesians when he speaks of the riches of God's grace and the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints. Paul's reminding us that it is God's glory to be Gracious. In the same way that God's grace is lavished upon us in Christ, so God will abundantly give us strength through his Spirit. Reminding you, God isn't stingy. He cares. He doesn't give to us according to our deserving, but he gives according to the riches of his glory, his infinite eternal, inexhaustible glory. His glory that's not diminished, but only increased and magnified when he shows mercy and grace to You see, we need to be strengthened in our inner being. We need this strength in our souls, and the Father is the one who grants us to be strengthened. is he gives us power, but he gives it through the Holy Spirit, with the goal that Christ would dwell in our hearts through faith. And just notice there as Paul's praying, the Spirit can't be separated from Christ. Christ. Right? He's not praying as if the Spirit comes into your hearts and then only later Jesus comes. No. The Spirit strengthens you so that Christ can dwell in you. The Holy Spirit brings you Jesus. And all the benefits that are found in him. This is exactly what Jesus told his disciples before his death in John 14. In promising them the Holy Spirit, he said, I am not going to leave you alone As orphans, I will come to you. If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him. That's why Jesus later says, it's actually better for you if I go, because if I go, I will ask my Father and he will give you the Spirit. How how often do you find yourself in life wishing that you could see Jesus in the flesh? Wishing that he you could have him here in the body, living and walking among us If you're feeling like that at times, you have to remember that Jesus Himself says that through the Holy Spirit you have him better than the disciples. did during his earthly ministry. Think about it. How many times in the Gospels do you read through and the disciples are looking for Jesus? Right? He's just disappeared and they can't find him. And they come and say, Lord, where did you go? There's all kinds of people that are looking for you, that need you. They can't find him because he's disappeared. How heartbroken must Mary have been the morning of the resurrection because she couldn't find the body of Christ. Asking what Where have you taken my Lord? How lonely and hopeless Mushia felt in those moments before Christ revealed himself to her. You see, Paul's saying in this passage in Ephesians 3 that if you're a Christian, if you have the Holy Spirit, you never have to experience that. You never have to be parted from Christ. You never have to look up and realize that he's wandered off and you can't find him. No, he doesn't just dwell near you physically through the Holy Spirit. He dwells in your heart through faith. In your very soul, Christ has made his home. And you see, his point is that language is not a temporary thing. It means that Jesus has established a permanent dwelling in your hearts by his Spirit, and He will never leave. I remember when we were in college, it was my senior year and Lee's junior year. She had the opportunity to go study abroad in Barcelona for a semester And it was a really bittersweet experience because I was excited for her to have that trip. It was a once in a lifetime opportunity. country after college. It's just not often something you can do. And so I was excited for her to do it, and yet I knew how terribly I was going to miss her because I couldn't be there with her. We could video call, we could talk and and all kinds of things, but it just wasn't the same as being with her. And sometimes you and I have to go places in life where we have to be separated from From people and from things that are precious to us. We might find ourselves far from family or friends, but the point of this passage is to remind us that you are never far from Christ. Because his spirit is in you. I love those verses from how firm a foundation. Fear not, I am with you. Oh be not dismayed, for I am your God and will still give you If you're not going to be able to do that, you can't do it. You see, regardless of what difficult things you have to face in the In the coming week, in the coming month, in the coming year, you don't face it alone because your Lord is always with you, who will never leave you and forsake you This is the the Trinity That means the doctrine of the Trinity is not some abstract doctrine that is just a set of facts we need to memorize. No, it's the daily experience of every believer. The Father has sent the Spirit of his Son into your hearts, the Spirit that brings you Christ and assures you of the Father's love. You pray to the Father in the name of the Son by the power of the Holy Spirit. It's a reminder to us that the same Father that loved you before the foundation of the world sent his son to redeem you. And poured out the Spirit of His Son to apply salvation to your heart, to transform you into the image of His Son, from one degree of glory to the next. And you can be sure that he will do it because he works according to the inexhaustible, abundant riches of his glory. Paul shows us that pattern for growth, but his desire for them to be strengthened has a purpose in mind. He prays that Christ would dwell in their hearts through faith, and that alone is a blessing far greater than we deserve. We're sinners, and it's astounding to think that a holy God would want to live with us. But that's not where he stops. That's not all that he prays for. He's writing to believers, right? He's writing to people that have already been born again. By the Spirit. Christ already dwells in their hearts by faith, but He wants them to know it. He wants them to appreciate He wants Christ's indwelling presence to be confirmed in their lives. And so he prays there in verses seventeen through nineteen. Praise that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may have strength to comprehend with all the saints, what is the breadth and the length and height and depth, and to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness Notice just three things about that request. The first thing is it focuses on the knowledge of God, and it's not just knowing facts, it's experiential knowledge. Knowledge. Right? It's it's not just abstract awareness, but it's tasting and seeing that God is good. It's the difference the difference between knowing God and simply knowing about God is a different Because Jesus said this is eternal life, that they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom He has sent me. It's the difference between merely knowing that the sun gives warmth to the earth and stepping outside on a hot day and knowing that the sun is warm as it shines down on your earth. We are meant to have an experiential faith because the gospel is never merely about understanding a set of doctrines or obtaining a list of benefits. Second, this knowledge is connected with love. He says they're to be rooted and grounded in love. Love for God and love for fellow believers. This love is intimately connected with our faith, and it leads us to a greater understanding of the love that Christ has for us. Again, an experiential understanding of his love. Third, this knowledge is corporate or communal, right? It's comprehended with all the saints. You see, you and I were never meant to live the Christian life on our own. We are saved in order to be part of the body of Christ, to be part of a church. As we worship, as we evangelize, as we fellowship, as we Serve together, we are able to grow in our understanding of Christ's love. Because we see Christ's love displayed in one another's lives. We experience Christ's love shown to us by other people. And we learn to show Christ's love even when it's hard. But don't miss the astounding thing that he says here about Christ's love for us. Did you notice what he says? He wants us to know the unknowable. Did you pick up on that? He wants us to know the breadth and the length and the height and the depth as if as if his love is ever expanding in every direction for all eternity You can't even wrap your arms around it, let alone your mind. To know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge. Church, Christ's love for us staggers the Charles Hodge in his commentary says it the infinite love of an infinite person, but the condescensions and suffering. To which it led, and the blessings which it secures are beyond our comprehension. That's what we sing. What wondrous love is this that caused the Lord of bliss To bear the dreadful curse for my soul. D do you ever think of Jesus' love for you? Not merely what He's done for you, but how He feels about you How deeply, how deeply must he love you for your deepest, darkest sins, the things that you are most ashamed of, the things that You fear, if someone only knew what you've done, only knew what you've said, only could see your thoughts and your desires, if only they knew those things, they would never want to come near you again How much deep how deeply must Christ love you if those very things, instead of making him recoil in horror, are the very things that make him draw ever nearer to you? Dane Ortland in his book says, the things that make you cringe the most make him hug the hardest. Because those are the very things that made him go to the cross for you. It's because he loves you more deeply than you can fathom. This is the love that we read about in the Song of Songs when we're told his love is better than wine. And when he looks to us and says, You have captivated my Heart. Do you realize that? That Jesus doesn't just tolerate you. No, friends, he delights in you. You are his heart's desire. And he wants you to feel that. And that's the job of the Spirit to help us understand that. Dane Ortland says it this way: He says, the Spirit makes the heart of Christ real to us. Not just seen but felt, not just felt, but enjoyed. Read in the Bible and believe on paper about Jesus' heart and moves it from theory to reality, from doctrine to experience. You believe him, you take him at his word, but it's another thing unutterably more real to be swept up in his embrace, to feel the warmth, to hear his beating heart within his chest. To instantly know the protective grip of his arms. It's one thing to hear he loves you. It's another thing to feel his love. This is the glorious work of the Spirit. Friends, Paul prays that Christ would dwell in our hearts in such a way that our cup would run over, that we would be filled up full with the fullness of God, and that we would know this love that Christ has for us so so deeply and feel his love for us so acutely that our hearts would be full to the brim. This is a massive prayer. That the Father would strengthen us through the Spirit, so that Christ would dwell in our hearts, and that as a result, that they would come to know the unknowable, that they would be able to comprehend the incomprehensible, and somehow understand and feel more fully the infinite love of Christ for them. Through his prayer, Paul's expressed confidence that as a good father God would And so it only makes sense that after reflecting on the love of Christ and anticipating God's answer to his prayer, that he's moved to praise God for his mighty power. And so he says there in verses twenty through twenty twenty one now to him who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think, according to the power at work within us, to him be glory in the church You see, he ascribes glory to God, he's praising God, because in Christ he pours out the riches of his glory on the church. He both gives glory to the church and is glorified in the church. But notice what he says of God. He says that he is the one who is able He is able. God is all powerful. He is self-sufficient. He is self-existent. He is self-sustaining. He depends on no one. He depends on nothing. He he lacks nothing. The Psalmist says, Our God is in the heavens and he does as he pleases. But notice the beautiful and encouraging way that Paul expresses God's power. He doesn't just stop there by saying he's able to do it. He says he's able to do more than we can even ask or imagine. And not just more, he's able to do far more. And not just far more, he's able to do abundantly far more than all that we can ask. Ask or think. Friends, what good news it is for us that God is not limited to our ability or to our imagination. I don't know about you, but I need this reminder on a daily basis I'm so so often try to limit God's power to what I can think of, right? I panic and I get overwhelmed and anxious because I can't figure out how to make things work. I can't see the way forward. And yet we have a God who is not limited. Limited the way we are. He's the God who makes a way where there was no way before. Every time I read these verses, I think of the Israelites at the Red Sea. Water in front, Pharaoh's army coming up from behind. Utterly trapped and no way forward. And yet God makes a way. He parts the Red Sea and they walk through on dry land. Who could have even thought to ask for that And yet God does it. He makes a way where there was no way before. Because God knows what we need before we ask, but he also knows how to give us things that we don't even know to ask for. Friends, what confidence ought this to give us as we think of Christ's love for us, coupled with his power that he works in us. It brings out a whole new understanding of our salvation, doesn't it? A whole new understanding of how the gospel is the power of God for our salvation. Because you know who wrote these words, right? Paul. Maybe you know him by his other name, Saul of Tarsus, the one who breathed threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord, the one who held coats and looked on favorably as Stephen was murdered for his faith. The one who went to the high priest and got a commission to go and systematically eliminate the Christian faith by arresting everyone who claimed the name of Jesus. You see, Paul uh Saul's greatest desire, he longed for the day when the name of Jesus would be utterly forgotten because everyone who would ever trusted him was either killed or imprisoned. And yet on his way to go arrest other believers in Damascus, he met Jesus. And his life was changed. If anyone was too far gone for God's grace to reach him, it was Paul. But no one's too far gone for God's grace. Grace to reach them. No matter where you are, no matter who you are, no matter where you are in life or what you've done, the gospel is the power of God for your salvation. If you will come to Christ, He will never If you will trust in him, he will receive you. This man receives sinners. He came to seek and save not those who were well, not those who had it all together, but those who were Those are the people he delights to draw to himself, those who know they are unworthy and have nothing in their hands to bring but simply to his cross will cling. He's able not merely to forgive your sins, he's able to break sin's power in your life. He's able to heal you of the guilt of the things you've done. He's able to heal you of the shame of the things that have been done. And then he shows you day in and day out how much he cares for you as he answers And every time he answers your prayers, that should serve only to raise your expectations for what he might do the next time. If he could do that, what else could he do? Paul doesn't want you to struggle through a meager Christian life, and neither does Jesus. He wants you to expand Experience closeness with him. He wants you to understand and to feel his love for you. Succumb to him. Ask him to help you to taste and see that He is good. Ask him to help you to know his heart for you and to be able to wrap your minds around the infinite love that he has for you. And he promises that if you ask, you will receive He'll never turn you away empty handed because he is able to do far more abundantly than all that you can ask or imagine. Let's pray Lord, you are too good to us. We don't deserve the abundant blessings that are ours in Christ. And not only do we don't deserve them so often we we can't even understand Grace and our understanding of your love, would you raise us up a notch beyond what we were when we came this morning? That we might know you more deeply, that we might love you more fully, and live for you more faithfully in the world.