You guys were last two, twenty five, the eighteenth, and twenty six. How the Lord in his anger has set the daughter of Zion under a cloud. He has kissed down from heaven to earth the splendor of Israel. He has not remembered his whose school in the day but today. The Lord has swallowed up without mercy all the habitations of Java. In his wrath he has broken down the stronghold of the daughter of Judah. He has brought down to the ground in his honor, the kingdom, and his rulers. He has cut down in fierce anger all the might of Israel. He has withdrawn from them his right hand from the face of the enemy. He has burned like a flaming fire from Jacob, consuming all of them. He has bent his bow like an enemy, and his right hand set like a foe, and he has killed all who were delightful in our eyes in the tent of the daughter of Zion. He has poured out his fury of God. The Lord has become like an enemy. He has swallowed up Israel. He has swallowed up all its palaces. He has laid its ruins and strongholds. And has multiplied and multiplied it in the daughter of Judah morning and my name. Their heart cried to the Lord. O wall of Dorothy, the tears down like the torrent day and night. Give yourself no rest, your eyes no refuge. Arise, cry out in the night, at the beginning of the night, while out of your heart like water before the presence of the Lord. Let your hands depend for the lives of your children At the head of every street. Look over the Lord and see whom have you dealt with us. Should women eat the fear of their women, the children of their tender care? Should priest and prophet be killed in the sanctuary of the Lord? In the dust of the streets lie the young and the old My young women and my young men have fallen by the sword. You have killed them in the day of your anger, slaughtered them without aid. You summon as to a festival day my terrors on every side. And on the day of the anger of the Lord, no one escaped or survived. Those who might help and raise my enemies destroyed. And then as we seated in that pleasant eating. Happy, happy, pleasant. We are in the second Sunday of Lent. Lent is our sort of preparation season before Easter. So I don't want you to think about all the rules that you gotta eat this and go here and give up this. So that's fine to remember in a very teeny tiny way how much our wooden saviors suffer. Because you eat or drink for 40 days or before you attempted in the wilderness So we can participate and also remember that our bodies do not rule us. We have another master besides part of the body. But we're looking for lamentations. We probably all know about lamentation, but it's not Go through the Bible, we did into the boast. Maybe for reasons by what we just heard, but maybe we should, because it's in the Bible. It's very important. And so we're looking at different themes. Today we're going to be thinking about failure. Every chapter does really have things we're sort of like, in other words, looking at different lenses about what we can be mad about and sad about. My friend Mary told me about her first semester in college, her first grade in her chemistry class. They got the results from last week's test. This is a huge classroom, massive classrooms at a big state school. And she was from a little tiny town. Maybe you like realized so this class was bigger than her town. Not even her school. So the professor had sharded the grades, you know, but the bell firm And most everybody was right in the middle. There was one way off to the side that got an eleven. Way beyond the little. Press her handed out all the tests face down. She lifted over and sure enough, she got the 11th. That's worse than my C minus minus as I told you. She failed, circled in red. So I want you to think about your 11. We've all been there. Somehow, somewhere, or you will be there again, right? So we're going to talk about failure stories today. Now I don't know if you've watched MMA. I don't really. Okay, and women's MMA I don't really like to see women beat up each other, really. But there was one, Rhonda Rousey. Rhonda Rousey was one of the first one. She started off in judo, so she's been a fighter all her life. She actually won an Olympic medal in 2008. She was the first female member in the MMA Hall of Fame. Now she's a wrestler. She likes to fight. Back in her crime she was unstoppable until November 14, 2015. She lost to Holly Holmes. It was her first loss. She'd been destroying everyone. And a few months later, in an interview with Alan Generis, she said she thought of when she was. After the flight at the hospital, she thought of killing herself. She said, honestly, I thought, what am I anymore? I'm not this. I was in the medical room thinking and killing myself, thinking, I'm nothing. What do I do anymore? No one gives a belief about me without this. Later in the ESPN article, she said she thought she was weak and she grieved the person who would have won. People call her a failure. For one fight, they laughed at her. And anytime you fight, you know you've got a change of religious. So you make yourself vulnerable by even trying. You are not invisible. If you try, you can lose. Now Mary's 11 failure, only she and Professor knew Right? And she went and met with him and she got tutored and she passed the class and she graduated with a biological engineering degree. That's a massive change, right? But Ronda was out there for everyone to see. And Lamentations is a book for Mary And for Rhana and for you and for me, could we all fail happily? Alright, let's talk about Israel's failure. As I mentioned last week, this is in the context of 587 The Babylonians have come over and taken Jerusalem. They destroyed it. It's in ruin. There's death, destruction, famine. They've been captured, they've been scattered, and a lot of people think Jeremiah wrote Lamentations. It's probably the best case. Um and Jeremiah, the book of Jeremiah, gave out warnings to God's people. Lamentations is the receipts It's happened. The warnings were not heated. They've come through. Lamentations is a crying voice afterwards. And it starts with a shriek. You look at chapter 1. How lonely is the city that was full of God's people, how like a little she has become, who is great among the nations. She who was a princess among the provinces become a slaves. How the Lord in his anger has set the daughter of Zion under a cloud He has crossed down from heaven to earth at the splendor of Israel. He has not remembered the stoodstool in the Eath's anger. How is this happening? It's a book that Jerry Sitter wrote. It's called A Grace Disguise. He talks about his journey when his wife, Linda, and his four-year-old daughter died after a car wreck when they were hit by a drunk drop. He and his three other children survived. His wife and his daughter died in his arms. And he says this, I remember the realization sweeping over me that I would soon plunge into a darkness that I may never emerge from as a sane normal believing man. So he writes about his journey, this beautiful terrible journey of grief they went through. He says, the night before she died They were in bed and his wife said, Jerry, I can't imagine life being any better than it is right now It is so wonderful to me. I'm overcome by the weirdness of God. He writes, the accident set off a silent scream of pain inside my soul. That scream was so loud that I could hardly hear another sound, not for a long time. And I couldn't imagine that I would ever hear another sound. The scream inside the head, the shriek, How So Lamentations articulate that screen, doesn't it? That kind. The words keep coming. Anger, swallowed up, no mercy, wrath, dishonor, cut down, withdrawn. Verses 3 and 4. He has cut down in fierce anger all the might of Israel. He has withdrawn them from his capright hand in the face of his enemy. He has burned like a flaming fire of Jacob, consuming all around. He has bent his bow like an enemy, with his right hand set like a foe. He has killed all who are delightful in our eyes and attempt to the daughter of Zion He is poured over his fury like fire. And it doesn't let up. It keeps going more and more. Verses 5 and 6 and 7 and 8 and 9 is following you. The Lord determined to lay the ruins of the wall of the daughter of Sion. He stretched out the other hand in the eye. He did not restrain his hand from his throne. He caused rampant And Wall, Rand Park and Wall still meant they languished together. The author is processing involved, not from afar, crying out to God and leading others in grief, giving grief a form and a structure. We call them to own it. This is us. He blames God, too. It's God's ultimate fault. Well this is very healthy. It's not very fun to do. We aren't living in ruins, but we We watch rooms, right? But because we're so disassociated when these things come off Rwanda, Bosnia, Africa, Ukraine, Gaza, the border crisis, the water crisis, food crisis, homelessness Shootings, shootings, shootings. We eat green, but we also can click. Move on. I want to I'm tired of all this. Like, you know, during COVID, I was like, I don't want to watch anything because they're watching all anybody's talking about. But they can't we can't escape can we grow. It's it it's in our bones And there's pain and suffering in the Bible, and there's pain and suffering today. And faith helps us deal with it, and lamentation does too. Here's another one. July 17, 1981, the Kansas City Hyatt Regency Walkway collapsed. Fell down into the lobby. 114 people died. 216 people were injured. And why did it collapse? At the time, it was the largest or worst structural collapse in U. S. history. And there was one little tiny thing that got changed between the design and building it. And the people that designed it and the people that built it were not communicating. And so they didn't recalculate this little tiny piece. And it couldn't bear the load. Small failure created massive consequences. God's people had failed many times Many over and over and over and over again. They weren't catching the mistakes. They weren't communicating They weren't correcting him. Let's look back at Deuteronomy. So God talks about this very early on. Genesis exodus and it could know in Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy 28 Verse 25. The Lord will cause you to be defeated before your enemies. You shall go out one way against them and please seven ways before them. And you shall become a whore to all the kingdoms of the earth. That's too his feet. And it happened, didn't it? They became a horror, a complete and utter failure because God laid waste to them. Israel's failures. Now what about our failures, right? Okay, let's you know I'll give you the hard stuff, but I'll give you a couple of nice ones. Something happened really amazing, semi-amazing, December 20th, 2015 at I'm sure you all watch this. The Mist Universe Paders. Does anyone remember something weird that happened? Steve Harvey was the host. So Steve Harvey at the end of the whole thing, they crowned Miss Columbia as Miss Universe. They put the crown on her. They put the sash on her. Everyone goes crazy. And he comes out and says, I said the wrong name. It wasn't Miss Columbia, it was Miss Philippines. So they had Take it all off. It was a a terrible fail. We weren't sure if it was his fail or the card's fail where they had up the things wrong In some ways they think just pretended it was filmed as close. Never known would ever known. But that was also on national TV. That was a paddy tale, right? Michael Jackson. Or Michael or Michael Jackson. Who is that of baseball? Michael Jordan. Right. Michael Jordan. She didn't turn out to be a good baseball. The Buffalo Bills aren't built in the school. Bill's boundary. Huh? Yeah. It's fun to go on like Pinterest fails. Watch what people try to do. Home improvement project fails. Politics fails. Movies that turn out bad, restaurants that go under And your fails, right? And I'm a pastor, you know. I have been for a long time and um Most of the time, well let's say half the time, when somebody wants to be with you, you're going to hear something. I didn't get custody I didn't stay clean. My spouse is leaving. My spouse is dead. I spent the night in jail. I got fired for what I looked at the internet of work. The ultrasound here maybe it's not um I got suspended, I got kicked out I failed, Julie, my kids, my friends, you, my church, I failed for, I failed to forgive Let's say we'll be generous and thankful and merciful. We all find it. Most of the time we go pain. Keep going Or blame someone else. We don't want to admit defeat. But Lamentations says My eyes are spit with weeds, my stomach turns, my bile is poured out to the ground because of the destruction of the dull of my people. Because infants and babies fight faint in the street. A to the night of their heart cry to the Lord, the wall of the daughter of Zion. Let tears scream down at the torrent day and night Give yourself no rest. Your eyes no rest is. Does your stomach churn? Is bile go to the ground? Your heart cry, tears stream? Do we care about our city, our state? our nation, our world, the destruction of our people, the destruction of our sons and daughters. Lamentations takes us indeed It's not just thinking about it, it involves our bodies and our emotions to cry out, to be angry. To tear our hair, express ourselves with all this failure all around us One thing it's good to do sometimes is try to sign up for something that you know you're gonna be bad at. Yeah, so you can remember we're not all good at everything. And you have this tiny little of this feeling, right, of what this is all about. It's a very micro level But yeah, while it most time we gravitate to what we are good at, don't we? Of course we do. Sometimes sign up for something you are going to really stink at. You'll be the worst person in the whole class. Remember what that feels like It's important to be humble that way. Okay, there's good news. In spite of all this failure, here's the good news. You know what Jesus is good at? Where he succeeds, exceptionally seeds, loving failures. That is amazing! We don't really like filials at all. We like to laugh at them. There's a book I like by John Maxwell. It's called Falling Forward. So it's about failure. And he says the biggest thing about failure is your response to it. Is failure avoidable? None. Is failure a moment in time? No. See, that feels like it, doesn't it? Mary's 11, I failed the test. Actually, Mary. You failed a whole bunch of time before the test came, didn't we? You didn't at least have correctly assessed your knowledge of the material. You couldn't realize you need to report the answer. And so the test revealed the problem. Wasn't the problem Failures can be setbacks. Failures are not the enemies. And when we give ourselves permission to fail, we also give our permission to fail to excel. And succeed, right? Is failure irreversible? No. Is failure a stigma? No. Does it not? Is failure final? No. But if you're going to read Falling Forward, you also need to read Ten Pillars, Walking with God through Pain and Suffering. Falling Forward, walking with God through pain and suffering. And he talks about how Christianity offers this unique perspective about evil and grief and suffering and pain and failure. Because Christianity, unlike other religions, does not ignore it. It's real. It's not an illusion that eventually we're going to get out from. Sin destroys us, doesn't it? Suffering is not chance or faith or karma. Our response is not cold indifference either, like the word. In Christianity, we are called to sit in the middle of sorrow, really. Know it, own it, grieve it, weep, stomach turn, bow pour it out. And taste the coming joy at the same time. They're both true. So he the the lamentor says in verse 19, arise Cry out in the night, the beginning of the night, watch us. Pour out your heart like water before the prince of the Lord. Lift your hands to him for the lives of your children to faint from hunger at the head of the street You are owning this, and you also need to get up and look to the Lord Someday there will be comfort. Look at verse 13. What shall I say for you? To what compare you, your daughter of Jerusalem. What can I liken to you that I may comfort you, O virgin daughter of Zion? There will be comfort. We're not there yet. But that's what we look for. We have this holy, holy, holy God. We sing about it. Just God. He punishes sin for sure. And what's the other part about him? Mercy. Forgiving. Coming near. Listening to our cries. Then and now. Think through the Bible and let's start talking about people that didn't fail. In the Bible. Ain't too many. You know why? There are people like us Okay, another interesting question is, did Jesus fail? I know we know the answer is no, but hold on. It sure looked like it, didn't it? Ridiculed, mocked, beaten, humiliated, killed, not even just killed, right? Not even just killed Strung up on a cross, nailed for everyone to see as an example of what happens to people like this, the worst you can ever imagine I was watching uh Braveheart came on one time and I got him right at the end where he's like disemboweled in front of everyone and stretched out To make him an example of what you do with people like this, Jesus had that exact same thing to happen. And it wasn't supposed to be this way, was it? I mean, people had seen him Control the weather. Feed five thousand. Plus, cast out demons. His power and authority. So I'm going to go to the Rose Himaius. The Rose Himaius. Pastor Carl preached on the seventh sermon before I started. So these guys, they're walking back because they've been in Jerusalem and Jesus is dead. He's not. What happened? And they're walking with him, they don't realize it. So they say this. But we had hoped he was the one to redeem Israel. Yes, we decided all this is now third days that these things happen. Man, we hoped he was gonna be the one reading Israel. You know what this is? That Jesus failed. And all that stuff you told us, hey I can't believe I've already told us. There has to be some explanation because I I must have not misheard or I must have misseen. Maybe he didn't do that. Evil had one. Hopes were dashed And then what happens, right? You think about your talking to the resurrected Jesus, I'm going to know it's to you, about his failure. Perfect. Let's keep this chapter out. Pretend like we do you the whole time. We're just kidding. Jesus, come on. Because Jesus says this. When he answered them, right? And he said, oh foolish one. True. And slow apart to believe all that the prophets have spoken, understand of them so. Was it not necessary that the Christ should suffer these things and enter into his glory? If anyone wants to enter into glory, what's gotta happen? Suffering. Then they sing it. There's always suffering involved in glory. We talked about this in the Cardiff Eden, right? If God had stopped at the Garden of Eden and they had never gotten kicked out, there would be no keep for Jesus. But Jesus already existed. So he had to come. So guess what? He needed people to save. There was always the plan. For suffering. For failure. For example. Here's a little tiny example of that You know who Tyran Curtis is? His last name is Bose. Mumsy Bose, right? Grew up in the projects in Baltimore. He went to Dunbar, which is what two miles from our apartments He was on that team with four NBA basketball players in high school all at the same time. One of the greatest high school basketball teams ever. I read a book about this on my, you know, as we were coming up here And this is simple, if you play sports, what do you gotta do? You don't just get to play games, right? You have to suffer I don't know what they call them anymore, but six in the morning when you're doing this down the gym floor, those are called suicides, right? Why are they called suicides? They stink! You're freezing cold! The only important part of you is your chest because you're breathing so hard. You want to puke. And Dunbar, they did it with backpacks with bricks in them. This is 1981. They didn't have all our fancy underarms but all that, right? So they're running around with bricks on their backs. So they can go out, whoop their words, and have fun. Suffering. Working out is suffering, isn't it? But that's what it takes to get what you want, to be strong or slim or whatever. It takes suffering to get glory God wins through losing. He turns failure on his head. And he works with losing, not winners. He does not work with winners. It's very counterintuitive to us in our meritocracy culture. He takes your F and gives you an A. See, if you get an A, you don't need him. Don't think you do. He takes your loss when he gives you his gain. He takes your strikeout, he gives you his home run. And we so often pattern our lives so that we don't need to need them. That's what our brain is trying to do. That's why maybe sometimes you gotta be that sign up for that crazy thing that you were back to remember. We need help. And one more example, and I come to this often, don't I? The prodigal son. The older brother, he's killing succeeding. He's a businessman. He's the model son, right? He's not a failure. He's certainly not like number bro Slap. Hotness. Embarrassment. Stealing. Bismurging our name. Killing our business. And so that younger brother, that hot mess, in that big style, comes to us and says, you know what? I'm going to go back and I'm going to be a slave. I'm going to be a servant to my dad's company. That would be better than this. And he was right, that would be true. And which do we want our kids to be? We're raising older brothers. That's what we want. But who did Jesus come to see? I came to seek and save the lost. The lost Not the family. Who needs a doctor? The sick. Who needs resurrection? The dead Losers, deceivers, wanderers, prophetists Prostitutes, tax collectors, failures, failures, failures. They're the ones that know the love of the Father. The embrace. The Father who runs out. Runs out. Gives his reputation away gives his family back, gives restoration to a rebellious child. gives status and wealth back to what he certainly doesn't deserve it. I'm sure many of us um Raised our heads as quickly. Demanding first time obedience. Yeah. How that works. Demanding first time obedience is a way to Raise over button. A lot of times people become younger lovers because They were taught how to be a local. And they say, I don't know how to have it. It's so obedient because a way to not have a relationship. with your parents. It's not having relationships. It's not acting. Because there's no communication or conversation. There's no really uh Even negotiation. Now I understand a two-year-old, you're not in a negotiation, you're in a hostage crisis, another one, right? But still, like so I'm just trying to see like the I guess it's so easy to talk about this up here and do all this like this matters. Grace matters in the way we treat each other. And then what we expect from each other. And Jesus was drawn to those who needed him. Disappointed, uppers, paralytics Because Jesus is strong, we can be. We don't always have to be strong. Because Jesus won, we can lose. Because Jesus, we can say it. It's gonna be okay. So back to Mary real quick. Yeah, they told me that when she was telling me the story that so this has happened, right? Now she's had a wake-up call, said Louise. She's going to tutoring, she's got way more work to do. She said, one night, she was working on her homework and it was a disaster. Just like it always is, a disaster. And she put down her pen and she said, I can't do this. Seemed normal. And she says She said, no. I can't explain it. But I heard, audibly heard, knock in my brain, I heard someone say, no, you can't. But I can. We can together. And she says, that right there was worth all of it. The struggle, the failure, to hear the voice of God. In the struggle, right? Even if she failed, she was not a failure, was she? No. Ignorably impressive. And then and then what's the