Try to use that one. All right. Um this is the reading from Lamentations five. Remember, O Lord, what has befallen us. Look and see our disgrace. Our inheritance has befallen us been turned over to strangers, our homes to foreigners. We have become orphans, fatherless, our mothers are like widows. We must pay for the water we drink The wood we get must be brought must be bought. Our pursuers are at our necks. We are weary. We are given no rest. We have been given we have given the hand to Egypt and to Assyria to get bread enough. Our fathers sinned and are no more, and we bear their iniquities. Slaves rule over us. There is none to deliver us We get our bread at the peril of our own li of our lives because of the sword in the wilderness. Our skin is hot as the oven with the burning heat of Famine. Men are compelled to grind at the mill, the boys stagger under loads of wood, the old men have left the city gate, the young men their music. The crown has fallen from our heads. Woe to us, for we have sinned. For this our heart has become sick, for these things Our eyes have grown dim. generations. Why do you forget us forever? Why do you not forsake us for so many of so many days? Restore us to yourself, O Lord, that we may be restored. We know our days as of old, unless you have utterly rejected us and you remain exceedingly angry with us. We're gonna do something a little different today. Um we're gonna sing the first verse of Is He Worthy. You guys I think of sung this song before. But this first verse is sort of the Lamentations verse. Now we're gonna resolve it and finish the whole thing after uh we do the Lord's Supper, so let's do this. This is that recall response song. Do you feel the world is broken with you? Do you feel the shadows even with you? But we know and all the dark won't stop the night from getting through. We do Do you wish that you could see it all made new? We do. Do you feel the water broken? We do Do you feel the shallow those deep and we do Do you know that all the joy will spend the light from getting through? We do. Do you wish that you could see it all we do? We do Will Freeman is thirty-eight years old slacker. He doesn't do anything. He lives off royalties by a song. Created by his deceased father. He didn't even bake the song. No job, no responsibility, no hobbies, no relationships He's just trying to find women to sleep with, basically, is what he does. He talks about no man is an island. And he Forgets that John Dunn wrote that. He says it was John Bon Jovi. A little different, right? And he says, it's a great time to be an island. We got all the stuff we can do. We can distract ourselves. We don't need anyone else. Being an island is great. But sometimes you have to go visit the mainland. Now I'm talking about a movie. Do we know what movie I'm talking about? It's about a boy. 2002. So if you haven't seen it, this is a spoiler alert alert 22 years ago So I feel okay. He decides he's gonna try to meet single moms. This is a new strategy, right? So he starts in and he meets one, so now he has to pretend like he likes kids He does not like kids. So he starts hanging out with Marcus. He helps Marcus out a little bit, buys some shoes, gives some advice. But he certainly realizes that Marcus becomes too messy, too needy, too moody, and he's had enough. He says, Marcus, I can't help you with anything that matters. I can't help you with the real things. I can't help you with anything that means anything. I'm out. And Marcus says, You could try. Marcus needs a mentor, he needs a friend His mom's not doing well. Mark's to do anything to make her happy. But Will says, peace out. There's a Seinfeld where uh someone he shares with Jerry are this long litany of problems and and Jerry says, good luck with all that. And he just leaves. If I'm not helping, peace out. Marcus. So, have you ever been Will? And have you ever been Marcus? Does anyone care? Am I really gonna go through this alone? This job, this marriage This relationship, this class, this disease, this battle. something for us, doesn't it? This is a rough book, hasn't it been a rough book? It's intense. When you stop and and listen Listen to it. We've read it out loud, which is very unusual. It's way easier to skim over all this stuff. It's an ancient poem. And we've been talking about apathy, regret, shame, failure, struggle Today we're going to talk about apathy. Israel's apathy. Israel is not apathetic right now, for sure. They think God is Five one. Remember, O Lord, what has befallen us. Look and see our disgrace Remember us. We are so tired of being forgotten. We are gonna cry out. And then they make these accusations. Two through 16. We become orphans, fatherless. Our mothers are widows. We gotta pay for the water we drink. The wood we must get bought. Our pursuers are at our neck We are weary, given no rest. You've given us over. Our fathers sinned are no more, and we bear their iniquities. Slaves rule over us. There's none to deliver us from their hand We get our bread at the pair of our lives because of the sword of the wilderness. Our skin is hot as an oven with the burning heat of famine. Women are raped in Zion, young women in the towns of Judah. Princes are hung up by their hands and over Respect is shown. Young men have to grind the mill. The boys stagger under loads of wood. The joy of our hearts has ceased. Our day Dancing has turned to mourning. The crown has fallen from our head. Woe to us, for we have sinned. Pain Anguish in the ruins. The cries aren't over yet. We are in another chapter of cries. Cries about God's judgment and honest assessment. Crying out in real time. In Jeremiah 9, remember Jeremiah Parr probably wrote both of these books. 19 and 20. Hear, O women, the word of the Lord, but your ear receive the word of his mouth. Teach you your daughters a lament. To and each to her neighbor a dirge, for death has come up into our windows, it has entered our palaces, cutting off the children from the streets, and the young men from the squares Speak, thus declares the Lord, the dead bodies of men shall fall like dung upon the open field, like sheaves after the reaper, and none shall gather him. And that's what's happened, isn't it? The house has become a desolation. Judah, Jerusalem, God's judgment on his people, because they had not cared, they had not helped. There are tons of verses talking about helping the poor. Helping the widows. Helping the fatherless. And what happens when you don't? Proverbs 14, 31. These are just a couple of them. Whoever oppresses the poor man insults his maker, but he who is generous to the needy honors him. 1917. Whoever keeps the commandment keeps his life. Whoever despises his ways will die. 31, 8, and 9. These are the lightest ones. ones, honestly. Open your mouth for the mute, for the rights of all who are destitute. Open your mouth, judge righteously. Defend the rights of the poor and needy If somebody can't speak up for himself or herself, speak up for them. Defend the poor. Defend the needy They they hadn't helped. They hadn't cared. They'd passed over the needy, the oppressed, the sojourners, the widows, the fatherless, the mute, the poor, the refugees, and then they became them didn't they? They didn't help the oppressed, and then they became oppressed, persecuted, unsafe, uns Stable, vulnerable, hungry, wandering. And they wonder, is this like the work complete box? we just put complaints in there and no one ever looks at 'em? That's what it feels like. They had been apathetic. Their sins, we're talking about their sins right now, are sins of omission, not helping, not caring. And Jeremiah twenty two five But if you will not obey these words, I swear by myself, declares the Lord, that this house shall become a desolate. Lamentations 5. 1 Remember, O Lord, what has befallen us. Look and see our disgrace. There was an earthquake in in China in two thousand eight. Seventy thousand people died. Caused a hundred and fifty billion dollars of death. 10,000 of the dead were children. There's an HBO special about this called China's Unnatural Disaster. And think about it, China has this one-child policy, right? 10,000 kids gone, families completely destroyed. But here's the deal. There were a lot of buildings in these small towns, especially that every building stood except for one, the school. Whoever built these schools did not build them right. And they would go after the earthquake and then you know the parts that they end the concrete was done. So when the earthquake hit, those schools collapsed right on those kids The kids were in there screaming, save us, save us. But the government, super controlling government, right, kept everyone away. Because they wanted to control the narrative. They wanted to guard the info. They said they wanted to keep the people away from the ruins, but that meant the kids weren't getting help And they ignored the cries. And so the people started marching, which gave them real bad press. And they would send them home, send them home, but they would say, no, listen to us, listen to us. You're not listening. We want answers. Remember us. We are here. That's what it felt like. No one's listening. Israel's apathy. Our apathy. Does anyone care? We hear about these crises after the fact. I think a good one is the Flintwater. Water crisis, right? Um we need clean water. Does anyone care? So we hear after the fact the disaster that Greed, the corruption, the pain, the death. I think some of you know I've been working on this project about Elizabeth McIntosh. She died in the uh basement of Covenant Seminary, where I went to seminary, in the chapel. She was a fifty-year-old, a Scottish woman, single So she was working to pay her tuition as a sort of a janitor, and she was brutally murdered in the men's bathroom on March twenty-sixth, nineteen So um me and some other people, including my daughter, are trying to t remember her. She's basically been forgotten and ignored even by the feminine. There's no plaque, there's no scholarship, there's no memorial, nothing is named after her. They don't talk about her. They don't tell you that it happened. Does anyone care about Elizabeth McIntosh? It feels like that. Remember what has befallen us. You guys may remember Brian Stevenson, he wrote that book, Justin Mercy, there was a movie about it. So he also started the Equal Justice Institute, and they've been placing markers at lynch lynching sites across the U. S. Like like this marker out here, like the historical markers. From eighteen eighty-two on, any guess how many lynchings we can count? Four thousand three hundred and eighty-four, six hundred and fifty four in Mississippi Does anyone care? Do we mark those things? Okay, so we that's not in our situation anymore, hopefully. Really now we're mostly probably talking about refugees Refugees would say, our inheritance has been turned over to strangers, our homes to foreigners. We have become orphans, fatherless, our mothers are like widows. That sounds like refugees. There are twenty million refugees. Resettlement for refugees, 1%. 1%. And it usually takes 10 years. And then you get placed somewhere, you don't speak that language, you get like three months rent, and you've got to figure it out. Good luck. Does anyone listening? Does anyone care? Does anyone help? Does anyone welcome us? I don't know what you think about these commercials, right? He gets us. They're sort of controversial. But there's one that says Jesus was a refugee too. So he knows what it's like. Now we're not in these situations, but we might feel like Marcus, does anyone care about me? I just lost my child. Does anyone care? Does anyone care about the shame I carry around? Does anyone care about the chronic illness that I have every day? It's a daily struggle and I gotta pretend like I'm fine. Does anyone care that my wife doesn't respect me? Does anyone care that my husband doesn't love me? The irony of all this is social media, we think everyone cares about everything. I mean apparently everyone needs to know what I just ate. And I didn't even make it. But I mean I get it. I do that too. We post pi pictures about everything. And we hate it when someone doesn't like or comments or thinks we're crazy. And we do that to other people too, don't we? So I'll attack someone else so I don't get attacked. Or the opposite. We retreat clam up, turn our backs, and lock down. That's how we'll deal with it. I've tried this strategy several times I remember uh Julie and I were having some sort of argument, and I decided to stop talking to her and I carried that on for two days, three days. I wouldn't talk zero. I would say hi in the morning, whatever And uh she's confident in Christ, so this did not affect her that much. And she would say, like, when are you gonna start talking to me again. And I say, what? What do you mean? I'm I'm just being normal. Okay. Right. You know you usually talk a lot. This is different, right? Uh so that worked great. It was a great strategy, wasn't it? Really effective. No, it was so immature beyond belief. I had a friend who broke up who got broken up with and he sort of tried the same strategy except he turned off his heart For years. I am going to not care about anything. I am not gonna feel anymore. For years But it's funny too because he called me this week and he was really mad at me about something and I got to ask for his forgiveness. And I was thinking about he would have never done that when he was in that phase. of life. But he was mad. Being mad is way better than not caring. The joy of our hearts has ceased. Our dancing has been turned to mourning. Anne Weems has written a book called Songs of Lament. It's a book of Psalms of Lament that she wrote after her 20-year-old son died. She had a mentor and she said writing laments might help you get through So she started. Her mentor eventually asked, uh, because he was teaching a seminar, if he could use her psalms of lament with these other people. She when she asked him why, he said this, because throughout history the faithful have marched to the throne of God and cried their pain In your cries, you are voicing the sobs of other people. So she agreed. And then not too long after that she started getting Calls, emails, and letters. Because people realize these were the truest things there were. Grief isn't healed by ten steps or self-help books. This is a help we need that's beyond help. And our only hope is to march to the throne of God in Christ. So we may want to like take a moment and uh discern a little bit, not in a judgmental way. but in just an honest way, our care quotient. There are some things that we might care too much about and some things we might care too little about. I realized so when I moved to Fells, It's sort of a big soccer community down there. There are soccer bars. And they all gather and watch, you know, their team at a certain place. So it's all the same fans around and so I picked West Ham. I don't watch Soccer. So I picked West Ham because they had sort of the colors I liked and it was at the the pub that I liked going to and I said, Oh I'm gonna be a West Ham fan. I don't want to pick the best team, I don't want to pick the middle team And so just recently, so I bought a shirt and and I never went because I realized I don't care about soccer. And I don't need another thing to care about. Right? Let's just drop that off the list. I'm happy that people like soccer. Soccer, I'm happy to watch soccer. I don't need to know all the t because you know, there's thousands of these things. It's never ending. It's a deep dive. So even just two days ago I saw a person who I sort of see sometimes and he was wearing the jersey of West Ham, the team I picked, and I went to my car because I had it in there and I got my shirt and I gave it to him I said, here you go. It was a nice one. He said, I said, I don't care about this. You do. I'm giving it to someone who cares. So maybe you care about things too much, maybe you care about two things a little, but we often just disengage altogether because we don't want to be vulnerable And we think, how many tears do I need to drink? Now we're getting to Jesus, his unapathy. I've maybe mentioned this before. Every moment holy is This is a really cool book. The first version I think I mentioned is the one that has all these weird prayers about like a prayer before folding laundry, a prayer a prayer for beekeeping. Whoa, weird. This one is about grief. Uh and it's just beautiful and wonderful um mourning with those who mourn. Some of it's uh you know uh at the a loss of a child, at the loss of a parent, uh at a miscarriage, uh the loss of a own funeral, uh chronically ill. So this is an important resource. The other one is this one. I think this is the very best book on grief of all time. It's called Tear Soup. There's no better book about grief than Tear Soup. Psalm three Talks about how many tears we are going to cry. And there are all these lament songs, right? O Lord, how many are my foes. Many are rising against me. Many are saying of my soul, there is no salvation of him who There is hope and joy ahead, but we have to go through the lament, don't we? We don't have to pretend we have it all altogether. We don't have to pretend we're fine, adjusted, and achieving. We can be curious and wonder and step into pain. It's the the space between where we are and where we want to be is this grief lament space in a lost relationship a broken promise or a major blow or an unrealized expectation, sometimes we gotta make soup, tear soup. In his book, uh Nine Things You Simply Must Do. Number four is do something. Even if it's the wrong thing, do something. Walk. Support group. Sign up for something. Write these lament songs. Find a new hobby. There will be other better solutions coming up at some point, but you gotta go do something. Lament is one of those things. And there are all these Laments in the Bible to give us a picture of them. As we wonder, will God be there? That's way better than wondering, is there a God? Do I live in a universe that's impersonal? That is way less hope than will God listen. Lamentations is crying out, will God care? No, God's people didn't care. Now they wonder, will God remember us? Is this like the Chinese government? Are we being shut out? You know, and there there are these questions that that that Jesus is in a storm in the middle of the lake Sleeping. Okay, now this one, you know, being on the ocean What the heck He says, I can't believe I mean this one is hard. I was in on this last trip. I have this little uh cabin that's not where everybody else is and there was a beeping going on but I couldn't hear it. So one of the women is knocking on my door one in the morning and she's like, dude the beeping. Make it stop. Well the problem is the beeping is for the methane indicator. indicator. Like if it goes off, it's saying the boat might blow up. Okay, so do you turn off the methane beeping I don't know. It's super annoying. I'd rather at least die without a beeping. But you know, do you does anyone care? Who do we call? So We we unhooked it. I don't know if that was a smart choice, but I didn't think like what level of methane could there be in here? Like what what are we talking about? So so they so they come to Jesus sleeping. And they say to Jesus, what do they say? Lord, do you care that we're perishing? Great question, I think. So Mary and Martha, right? Dinner party? Mary not happy. Martha not happy. Martha not happy. She goes to Jesus, her friend, she says Do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Yo I think she has a finger in his face, honestly Like this, I believe. She does it again in John 11, right? Jesus shows up late. Jesus. Where have you been, yo? You could have saved my brother. Don't you care about this? I think Martha is like the Peter. You know, they just say whatever they're thinking, which is beautiful because we get to read it, right? Judas never hardly talks in the whole thing I think we would he would have done better if he would have talked more. He just mad to himself. These accusations that Jesus because these people are just just people. I I mean they're in the Bible, but they're they're normal people in normal families, in normal cities With normal governments that don't care, with normal problems. They know that they're secrets. They know they're busy. They know that God is way up there. nineteen. But you, O Lord, reign forever. Your throne endures to all generations. Why do you forget us forever? Why do you forsake us for so many days You reign forever up in your throne. You're far away, God. You can remember so many nights lying in bed. So frustrated, so angry about whatever, and I would couldn't sleep, and so I would try to pray and I would pray And sometimes I would hear God say, I'm here. And that would make me so mad Okay, if you're here, what are you doing? Could you fix her? Could you fix me so what she's doing doesn't drive me crazy? I'll take that Get going on this And then he would say I'm here. I don't think in a frustrated way, I don't think in a kind condescending way. But in a like I'm here. Then the next level is entering the pain and suffering of someone else. That's a deep commitment to enter the pain and But that's what Jesus did, didn't he? He has a covenantal love, which means deep commitment Forever bonded. Covenantal Hesed love. And he's Emmanuel with us. So he knows what's going on. And that's what drove him to the cross, isn't it? That is a lynching. And the temple became real localized in him, didn't it? And God destroyed the temple yet again. He had just destroyed it, 587. They built it back up, but then it got destroyed, not even just in 78D, they destroyed it in Jesus The temple, the one who had made everything exactly right, destroyed. Jesus bulldozed or Jesus was bulldozed, not the physical building. The person. And that teaches us the way to the throne is death and disaster. Power and physician become poor and powerless. Jesus took up the causes that had been ignored all this time by Israel itself. And he took the punishment for the ignoring So that means he takes our sins of omission and commission. The crown has fallen from our head, woe to us, for we have sinned. That's right. That's right. That's true. And God turned his back on Jesus on the cross, didn't he? When Jesus cried out, Where are you? Where are you? He did not hear I'm here. And he said, why have you forsaken me? So we talked about it is finished last week, but also remember, why have you forsaken me? That means we can be brought in. Because he was forsaken. So when we're alone Do something and let someone in and look to Jesus and cry out to him, lament to him. He was obeying us so we can be accepted. He We can be listened to, understood, and taken seriously. Jesus wept, he knows. Jesus said, Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted so we can take to him our angers and our hallelujahs. We can take to him our laments and our laughters, because our psalms are not finished. There is more grief coming. Okay, so Will Freeman He decides to go to Christmas dinner with Marcus and his mom. His normal Christmas is drinking all day long and watching scary movies. So he goes to this crazy family dinner. He gets presents and gives presents. He has a an altercation, but he goes home and he goes like what's What's this weird feeling I have? What's this salty discharge from my eyes? Oh I care about them. Well, I've never felt this way anymore And and a little bit later, Marcus gets in a little bit of a trouble and Will helps him Like, that is something he's never done before in public. He enters in. Will gets vulnerable because he cares. And what happens? It changes Marcus. It's redemptive for Marcus. And It's redemptive for will. Because no man is an island. We need each other. We're not alone. And even in the darkness there's a new day. There's always a rooster around the corner. A new day will come. I can't tell you how long it's gonna take. But the sun will shine again at least. Now I don't have a time But I'm gonna dip into this for a second. I said it's the best book on grief and we're talking There was once an old and somewhat wise woman whom everyone called Grandy. She just suffered a big loss in her life. Pops, her husband, suffered the same loss, but in his own way. This is the story of how Grandy faced her loss by setting out to make tears soup. For many years the custom of making tear soup had been forgotten. As people's lives became more rushed, they found it much easier to to pull soup in a can from the shelf and heat it on the stove. But several years ago, Grandy got a taste of Well Seven Season Tears soup and one of her friends made it from scratch. Because of her great loss, Grandy knew this time her recipe for tear soup would call for a big pot. With a big pot, she would have plenty of room for all the memories, all the misgivings, all the The feelings and all the tears she needed to stew in the pot over time. So she put on her apron because she knew it'd get messy. It seems that grief is never clean. People feel misunderstanding. Understood, feelings get hurt, wrong assumptions are made all over the place. To make matters worse, grief always takes longer to cook than anyone wants it to. And then Grandy started to cry. At first she sobbed. Sometimes she wept quietly. Sometimes when she was a safe place where no one She knew she had to make much of her part of her soup alone. She learned from past experiences that most people don't like being around tears. Her friends would worry if they knew just how many tears Grandy's recipe would call for this time. Grandy winced when she took a sip of the broth. All she could taste was salt from her teardrops. It tasted bitter, but she knew this is where she had to start. And for now it was the only thing on her menu. There were things that Grandy never wanted to forget. They included good and bad times, silly and sad ones. Eventually she ran out of things to add. Her arms ached and she felt stone and empty. There was no words to describe the pain she was in feeling. What's more when she looked out the window it surprised her to see how the rest of the world was going on as usual while her world had stopped. So other people come over, they give her uh thoughts that aren't good, they try to make her stop doing it. She has a good friend who comes over and just makes it with her. They go for a walk Walks. Um, her husband makes it differently. This one says, Grandy kept attending worship even though she was mad at God. She sometimes yelled at God and asked why this had happened, and sometimes she demanded to know where God was when she was feeling all alone. She really had faith, she would be spared deep sorrow, anger, and loneliness. Grandy kept reminding herself to be grateful for all the emotions that God had given her. Sometimes people would ask her questions like, is it soup? Yes Or how long is it going to be taking? You've been at this over a month now. It's time to get out of the kitchen. I'll stop. Maybe you can pick that up Sometime when you need it. Ultimately our secret weapon in all this is the resurrection, isn't it? That gives us power. Up from the grave he arose. Up from the grave he arose. There will be a new day. The rooster crows for you, even today. Amen.