And candy. Right. Okay, let's stand while we hear the scripture read, and then we'll continue. How is a widow that has to become She has none to comfort her. All her friends have dealt treacherously with her. They have become her enemies. Look and see if there is any sorrow like my sorrow, which was brought upon me, which the Lord inflicted on the day From on high he set fire. Into my bones he made it descend. He spread a net for my feet. I cannot withstand. The Lord rejected all my mighty men in my midst. He summoned an assembly against me to crush my young men. The Lord has trodden as a winepress the virgin daughter of Judah. For these things I weep, my eyes flow with tears, for a comforter is far from me, one to revive my spirit, my children are desolate, for the enemy Look, O Lord, for I am in distress. My stomach turns, my heart is wrong within me, because I have been very rebellious. In the street the sword bereaves, and in the house it is like death. They hear they heard my groaning, yet there is no one to comfort me. All my enemies have heard of my trouble. They are glad that you have done it. You have brought the day you now announced. Now let them be as I am Let all their evildoing come before you and deal with them as you have dealt with me because of all my transgressions, for my groans are many, and my heart is faint. Amen. Thanks. Please be seated. Okay, first Sunday of Lent, everybody's favorite book, Lamentations. You know, um it's true and I I am the same way. We all b have sort of a functional Bible. We believe it's all inspired, but we don't read it all, which Makes sense, right? Stories and poems tend to grab our attention. Um proverbs are sort of easy to buzz through. Lamentations. And there's big sections in Isaiah or Jeremiah that are less awesome. But they're in there. They're important for us. So that's why we're going to look at it for a few weeks before you I would assume you don't know who Ron Wayne is Ron Wayne. Ron Wayne was a part of a three-man team that started a little computer company Uh and they released their first computer back in April nineteen seventy-six. And uh you know, a computer's a a board. It wasn't much else. Um Um and Ron had 10% stock in this company. He wasn't, you know, all three of them weren't doing all the same amount of work. And his job really was to write the manual for this thing. And so he did that. They worked on it, you know, for a long time. After it came out for two weeks, he decided he was out. So he sold his shares back, his 10%, and he got $800. Right, he just said, I'm too busy, I know where this is going, it's too crazy. Okay, let's see the picture here, Naughty. Who are those guys? Steve Jobs, Ron Wayne, and Steve Wojo guy. What'd you neck? So he opted out of Apple after two weeks, and his ten percent shares would be worth over seventy billion dollars. Seventy billion dollars, dude. But he says he doesn't regret it. He knew he'd be too busy, he wanted to spend time with his family. He was older than them, so uh he had kids. I don't think either one of them had kids. And so he's just like, I can't do it. No regret. He doesn't regret it. Okay, we can get off that Sinatra sings, regrets I've had a few, but then again, too few to mention. I like I did what I had to do and saw through it without exception. Too few regrets to mention, Frank, really That must be nice. I have too many to put in songs. There's not enough, right? And and can you think of some of yours? Your regrets, big, small, you know, I'd rather talk about other people's regrets, which I'm going to do today Now, here's a little personal insight into our little family, right? I hate dandelions They drive me bonkers. They feel like an assault to my personhood and when I see them in the lawn and I've been in a quest to rid and and I've ri gotten rid of all of them because I have no lawn anymore. Yes That was awesome. Julie has two things she's always afraid of and hates. One of them is lice Which of course I mean these ar these aren't unreasonable things, but it's like always. And the other one is warps A crusade against warts is especially important in our family. One summer we were down in uh Acapulco for the summer working in this orphanage and we finally saw the bottom of Cal's foot. And it was amazing how wordy it was. Astounding. And that's sort of what got her going on this, right? And then later on Drew didn't learn his lesson from his brother because you know eventually you've got to cut these out. You don't get to burn them off anymore, right? They're too deep. Too big. And Drew didn't talk about one on his finger, his index finger, and it grew and grew and grew until he had to get it cut off, and he had a quarter of his finger cut off Quarter of the tip of his finger. Not not like this. Like this. Yeah. No, it wasn't amputated. And I he regrets being silent. Okay, well these are funny ones. They're not too terrible. Lamentations is a whole nother level, isn't it? Deep-seated individual and congregational cries, poems, dirges, laments in a liturgy and a litany. And we as the church are called to listen and enter in to these lamentations as well. Well, to learn how to do it, to share in it. And although lamentations is often skipped over and little known, we cannot ignore pain and sadness, can we? And so in these five chapters, I'm going to use five different themes. They're not really what these chapters are exactly about, but in order to shape, because it's fairly repetitive in some ways. We're going to talk about regret, failure, struggle, shame, and apathy. And then we'll have Palm Sunday, and I'll be here and we'll talk about mortality. And then we'll have the resurrection. Amen. And as always, we're looking for Jesus and the gospel in every text we always look at, including this one. So let's start with Israel's laments and regrets. And this is very important. The key to understanding what's going on in Lamentations is Remember when we were in Isaiah, if you were here, we talked about how God's people were about to be attacked. We talked about Sennacherib and Tiglath Pelezer and the Assyrians, right? And the Assyrians were the main power. And remember we talked about Assyrians, Babylonians, Greeks, Romans. So Assyrians And Jerusalem was destroyed in 722. And then finally they had come back. So now we are in the next time that gets destroyed. This is the Babylonians, destroy Jerusalem. This is Nebuchadnezzar time, 587 BC. Jerusalem has been overrun, ransacked, decimated, the temple has been destroyed, destroyed, the people have been slaughtered, raped, captured. So this is a social, personal, societal, political, religious catastrophe. Each person is crying out. Think about the images you have seen in Gaza recently. That's what we're talking about. Images of war. And so there's a a an individual cry and a corporate cry A collective response. And Lamentations put those cries, puts these cries in the mouth of Lady Jerusalem. She represents the people crying out, speaking for the whole, collecting and shaping their cries. Each person has their own unique suffering, and they're all experiencing it together. And they're crying out for what has been done to them and what they have done. Things have been put on them, done to them, because of what they've done, right? We're talking about a people that goes from David to here. There's a history, a long history of bad kings, bad deals, bad policies, bad priests, bad idolatry, bad worship, bad people And God has been saying over and over again through the prophets: You have not loved me. You have not loved your own people. You have not loved your neighbors. You think it's okay to be sleeping with other gods. That's not love. You've become arrogant and prideful and self-indulgent. You've imagined yourselves as a center of the universe instead of me. You did not regard or care for the weak or the poor or the vulnerable. You manipulated the markets. You paid load wages. You foreclosed on homes. You worked to better yourself to the detriment of others. Does that sound like present problems? That's not just Old Testament stuff, is it? And so their life Way of thinking, way of operating has been decimated, incinerated. They have lost everything. And so insteps This poet, this mentor, this worship leader. How lonely sits a city that was full of people How like a widow she has become, she who is great among the nations, she who was a princess among the provinces become a slave We were once full, now we are lonely. We were once great, now we're a widow. We were once a princess, and now we're a slave. And that includes the speaker of this lament. When our daughter Ruth was in uh journalism school at the University of Missouri, she also worked for the paper. It's not even a school paper, it's a city paper that the school runs. And um and there was this incident that happened, this is 2014-15 time, and uh it had to do with uh white and black students on campus, and it became national news. And so like CNN was there, all national news broadcast people were there, papers, New York Times, all this covering the and she was too. She's in the middle of all this. And and she would go back and talk to her pastor, our friend Tim. And Tim, when he was hearing about this, said, I'm gonna pray about this. And she said, No, no, Tim, you've got to come. You gotta come beyond campus and be with us, the people who are crying out. It wasn't like it was that far out of circles, so he started going on campus every night And holding a vigil, and they would pray and they would cry and they would lament together in the midst of the problem That's what we're talking about here, right? Crying out in the midst. What does crying out in the midst look like? She weeps bitterly in the night with tears on her cheeks. Among all her lovers she has none to comfort her. All her friends have dealt treacherously with her. They have become enemies. See, she's alone, weeping bitterly. This is raw emotions. I have no one to comfort me. I've been abandoned, betrayed by the ones who said they loved me. The words in this whole book are desolate, groaning, affliction. Suffering, why? Why? Verse five. Because the Lord has afflicted her, for the multitude of her transgressions, her children have gone away captives before the foe. Verse eight Jerusalem sinned grievously, therefore she has become filthy. or a face away. Can be very tough to acknowledge our pardon sin, can't it? But sin is deep. It ruins. It breaks. We blame shift Minimize, practice Darvo techniques. We stay above the surface and confess on the easy things instead of going deep into the heart of the matter But sin is a killer, isn't it? What does Paul say? The wages of sin is eh No big whoop. It depends on what we're talking about. No. Sin is a killer. And that doesn't mean our sin is going to lead to the ruin of our cities, but it can And we are often quick to judge, aren't we? And we can pass over crying out Several pastors, you know, are in the in towns where have these crises, um you know, like the Freddie Gray stuff, that type of thing. And they will usually uh have the first instinct to say what went wrong or wait to let the courts decide Instead of, yeah, let's cry out. There's a reason why this is so painful. People are gathering because, yeah, they know there's courts. They don't need to know if they believe in the justice or not. So let's cry out with them. In the pain and in the misery. Instead of debating first, explaining first, theologizing first. J. D. Jerusalem is crying out. Look at 11 and 12. All her people groan as they search for bread. They trade their treasures for food to receive their strength. Look, O Lord, and see, for I am despised. Is it nothing to you, all you who pass by? Look and see if there is any sorrow like my sorrow which is brought upon me, which the Lord inflicted on the day of his fierce anger. In other words, let me put it this way, if if we were talking to Lady Jerusalem, we might want to really quickly say, the temple's going to be built. Don't worry. Mary, Martha, Lazarus is going to be resurrected. No worries. All will be fulfilled someday, so don't be sad today Those things are true, but now's not the time. We weep with a God who weeps, don't we? We cry out. We don't want to skip ahead to the end. We must give grief its time, talk, and tears. We don't want to pass by sorrow, affliction, or regret. The Bible does. Okay, let's talk about our laments and regret. There's a book called Lyrics of Lament by Nancy Lee She talks about in her book about this man that that she knew who uh was in Bosnia during the war. He was a soldier in the war. We saw terrible, terrible things, nineteen ninety-six time, right? Horrors, devastation, suffering, trauma. And he was wondering, after he's done with the army and after this is over, how do I process this? And he was a very gifted musician, so he went to his pastor. And said, I want to give voice to the Lord and have us gather as the church so that we can sing about our grief, our suffering, our trauma. And call others into it who are experiencing the same thing. The church is the place for that. And his pastor said, no. Church is a place for joy, only joy. We can't sing songs like that. And at that rebuke, the man fell into unresolved despair Unresolved despair. His unprocessed trauma, right? And he realized his church's music and maybe theology had was largely irrelevant to anyone who was wounded. Which was a lot of people, wasn't it? No sad songs. And I've heard that same complaint many times. We sing too many sad songs. They're too melancholy. And that's like if there's one a month, right? There are three types of universal songs: lullabies, love songs, and laments. One that I like is uh was written by Sting, and Johnny Cash covered it. It's called I Hung My Head. It's about this teenager I think who had a bead on a man. He was just had his gun out. He was in the field one day and a guy came running in a horse and he was just tracking him and he accidentally pulled the trigger And he orphaned the man's kids and he widowed the man's wife, and I hung my head. We've already talked about Long Ride Home, Patty Griffin song, where it's about this man who's in the Limo coming home from the funeral, from putting his wife in the ground, the desperation, lament And y you know, I'm a you've seen me cry I don't know how many times in six months. It's it's not hard, but those songs come on in the car and it gives voice to the sadness of this world I had one that I was playing a lot sort of during COVID times. Not the biggest And I was playing it so much Julie said, Stop playing that, it's too much. Okay, let's slighten the mood for a minute. One of my favorite things, uh I will watch almost any I haven't been doing this as much, so I told you. CNN, sports, food shows, and then you can get me going on tattoo shows for s for whatever reason. It's just like, okay, you are choosing to put this on your body forever. And the best ones are the tattoo fail shows. Oh So good. Okay, so we so I have a couple here. So let's start with some of these. Okay, that's a receipt. You tattooed a receipt on your arm forever. Ron McDonald's. Okay, let's that seems like a regrettable thing. Alright, next one. I'm awesome. Not at spelling, not at spelling, but that's okay. Okay, next one. Okay, so these are now the regret ones. I I mean I could do I could do a whole hour on these So you just got a few. Now the what comes next is the regret tattoos. This one you can tell, he goes into the tattoo parlor and he says, I want regret in Chinese on my shoulder So that's what he got. He or she got. Perfect, right? Oh yeah, okay. No r regrets You have no regrets? Like not even a single letter. Yeah, okay, so that's a good one. Next. Reg regret no hing. Yeah, so this is on here forever. Okay? No regurts. Yes. Several of them are no regurts. I think there's one more no regirt. Let's see it. Oh, that was it. There's a lot of no regert ones out there. So um no regirds. Okay, now we gotta go back to Lamentations, sadly. Back to the series one sixteen For these things I weep, my eyes flow with tears, for a comforter is far from me. One to revive my spirit, my children are desolate. For the enemy has prevailed. There's no comfort. I feel filthy. I'm in captivity. I've been deceived. Verse 20: Look, O Lord, for I am in distress, my stomach churns, my heart is wrung within me, because I have been very rebellious. In the street the sword bereaves, in the house it is like death. You felt this, haven't you? Your stomach churning when you know you've been found out where it's gonna happen You think to yourself, your heart races, I shouldn't have sent that text. I shouldn't have repeated that joke. I shouldn't have gone on that trip. I shouldn't have broken up, or I shouldn't have not broken up. I shouldn't have made that stand One of the tattoos I saw was a woman who she said, like, stand up for yourself, never wear a mask, like on the first week of COVID. Two months later she changed her mind, right? It's like, it's on here forever. Maybe I should have waited I shouldn't have kept silent about that. I shouldn't have lied or cheated or stole or ran or downloaded that app Or trusted that person to make that investment, believed that person. Or or we regret what we didn't do. I regret not taking more time I regret not forgiving, not asking, not trying, not caring, not creating, not risking, not listening, not putting down the phone Not sharing, not inviting, not helping. And lamentations help us share our sorrow. Voice, give voice to our sorrow, however big or small they are, without fixing it all. And whether our regrets are micro moments, words, said or unsaid, these moments can pile up. And they can destroy. This is not the way it's supposed to be. Now, dirges are sad songs, but laments go up to the Lord That has a place. And on this sojourning together, we share our group grief. And our group joy, right? And our group joy. But we group grieve. Racism, divorces, deaths, debts Miscarriages, lost children, lost parents, heartache, sickness, injustice, suicide, pornography, rape, hunger, war. We grieve and we regret and we lament. What about Jesus' laments and regrets? God doesn't really appear in lamentations. He doesn't speak in lamentations, but the cries go up to him. He receives the lamentations, right? But they remain unanswered in the book. And this is something we've been talking about. Is God silent? Does God care about these things? Well, remember two weeks ago, I think, we talked about in gen in Genesis 6. 6. 5 and 6. The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every intention of his thoughts of his heart was only evil all the time. And the Lord Regretted that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him to his heart. We have a sovereign Omniscient omnipotent God who regrets things and greets. This is something people like their minds explode. We try to figure it out. I don't try to figure it out because I don't understand it. God is sorry about things, right? But these are some of the attributes of God that we can relate to. I can't relate to omnipotence as much as I would love to. Omniscient, I like to think I might be able to get in close. Omnipresent have not mastered Regretting and grieving got down. God is a person We're not deists. It's not this clock making person who just sets everything and runs it runs out He's involved. God has emotions. He gets angry and jealous and grieves and regrets and cries. So there's somehow sovereignty and sorrow together. And in the Gospels, we get the same thing with Jesus, don't we? Jesus is fully God and fully man. He's fully human. Jesus grows and learns. And he's sovereign. He reads thoughts and minds. He does miracles. He controls nature. He disappears. And he cries. He's tender. He gets angry He weeps. He cares. We've talked about Lazarus, but what about Matthew? In that last week. O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets and stones that are those who are sent to it. How often I would have gathered your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings. And you were not willing. See, your house has left you desolate, for I tell you, you will not see me again until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. In my Bible, that section is entitled, Lament over Jerusalem. Lament over Jerusalem. He's joining Ladies Jerusalem's laments. He knows them. He joins in them. Even though in his time the temple had been rebuilt, repopulated, he's still grieving about its downfall. About his people. So we serve a God who cares, who hears our cries, who takes Our cries, laments, and even regrets. And we all have them, don't we? Too often we busy ourselves so we can ignore them But we should take them to Jesus. Carry each other's burdens too. Our filth, our affliction, our groaning, our sorrow, we bring them. And he says He will forgive us and love us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us and purify us. So we can be free and have joy and gladness. That doesn't fix everything though, does it? Ron Wayne doesn't now have seventy billion dollars because he s cried out to Jesus. He still has eight hundred. So it doesn't fix everything. But we can fess up and hope. We can cry our cries to God. Lady Jerusalem ask if anyone will see, if anyone will care, if anyone will stop, or if they'll just keep passing by Sacrificed. Amen. We have the Father who ran out to the prodigal son, who had wasted everything. Talk about regret. That was a bad decision. The Father comes out in love, embrace, to seek and to save, to rescue us. And that calls to us too, because someday all things will be set right. Amen. Our regrets will be redeemed. Our lives will be redeemed. And so this book grabs back from 587 BC, and we pull it. Twenty six hundred years to the future. In my opinion, it feels super relevant And someday it's all going to be fixed. When Jesus comes back from the new heavens and new earth. That's our promise. So in the meantime We can cry out to him. We can lament to him. We can give him our regrets. And he'll take them. That's good news for us today. Amen. Amen. Take a few moments in our first response to hearing the word preached with a few