This morning we're going to return to a text we looked at several weeks ago. And go through it some more. It's the account of Jesus on the road to Emmaus. And if you would open in your Bibles with me or look at the screen behind me to Luke chapter 24. Uh you're probably going to have to open your Bibles because I'm going to start reading earlier than what's going to be on the screen. I want to start reading at the beginning of the account, which is actually verse 13 If you're there, stand up and we'll read it and we will come together on this text. And I'm going to start then at verse 13, Luke chapter 24. That very day, two of them were going to a village named Emmaus, about seven miles from Jerusalem. They were talking with each other about the things that had happened. While they were talking, discussing together, Jesus himself drew near and went with them. But their eyes were kept from recognizing him. And he said to them, What is this conversation that you're holding with each other as you walk? And they stood still, looking sad. One of them named Cleopus answered him, Are you the only visitor to Jerusalem who doesn't know the things that have happened here in these last And he said to them, Oh, what things? And they said to him concerning Jesus of Nazareth A man who was a prophet, mighty indeed and word before God and all the people, and how our chief priests and rulers delivered him to be condemned to death and crucified him. But we'd hope We'd hoped that he was the one to redeem Israel. Yes, and besides all this, it's now the third day since these things happened Moreover, some of our women of our company amazed us. They were at the tomb early this morning. When they didn't find his body, they came back saying that he even Some of those who were with us went to the tomb and found it just like they'd said. But him they didn't see And he said to them, O foolish ones, slow of heart to believe all the prophets have spoken Wasn't it necessary that the Christ should suffer these things and enter into his glory? And beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning them And so they drew near to the village to which they were going, and he acted as if he was going to go further, but they urged him strongly, saying, Stay with us, for it's towards evening, and the day is now further. So he went in to stay with them. When he was at table with them, he took the bread and blessed it and broke it and gave it to them And their eyes were opened, and they recognized him, and he vanished from their sight. And they said to each other, Did not our hearts burn within us while they talked to us on the road. The word of the Lord. Let's pray. Father, would you cause our hearts to understand, to know you, to see you, to walk with you. Remind us as we come to your word, to your table, of all that you have promised to us. So fill us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. I wanted to back up and read the early portion of the text just to remind you of the earlier context. I'm going to take the next step into this text. Um the question that we raised last several weeks ago was uh trying to uh understand when we see something, when we when God speaks to us uh and when we walk in our lives, how is it that we often can't see? Uh why is it sometimes that we see facts but we don't really feel the meanings of what it is that God Intends to speak to us. And what happens when we think others don't see, just like we don't see? Or we think we can see something that they don't see? Why can't they? So the reality is that we often cannot experience the meaning, uh, the fullness of what God intends. And that was exactly the story that we come To this point in our text, where these two men, Cleopas being one of them, was walking along discussing the things of the day, and Jesus joins them And what I want you to think of today is the central theme of how does God use our hearts to teach How do we have learning hearts? Not just hearts, minds that process certain facts, but how do those things come into us? Yeah, I have them. And it's not an unusual thing, and it is indeed an illustration of our It takes practice. But it takes more than practice. I can do this all day, and it won't help me. Me feel better. It won't feed me. I'm not going to grow. So a lot of us have practiced the skill of tapping. So let's come into the text and understand what it takes to Walk with Jesus. This week I had a text from a friend of mine. It was a sad moment. His text said simply this: I think I stink at building my relationship with God. And probably my wife too. Question. How do I intentionally build the buff My friend's question is maybe the question that ought to be in all of our hearts. We look at our relationship with God and say, I think If it doesn't stink, it's at least been in the refrigerator a long time. And by human relationships, maybe they don't stink, but That's just maybe I can't smell 'em. Maybe they've already been taken out to the trash. Question What do we do? How do we fix it? How do we change it? This text of these two men walking on the road to Emmaus gives some understanding, some sense. And it's not a profound set of learnings of lessons. So I'm just gonna break it down simply The first is repetition. Beginning with Moses, what verse 26 and 27 say. Beginning with Moses. Jesus started all over again. It wasn't as if he hadn't said it before. He said it again. He said, how is it? How is it that you you're you don't get this? Oh foolish ones, slow of heart to believe Slow of heart to deeply understand. So let me go back to the prophets. Let me go back to Moses and Explain to you what God was doing, what how God was bringing redemption to the world, how God was taking sinful men and Forgiving that sinfulness and making them new. Let me go back to Moses. And he did. He goes back to Moses. He probably didn't go through all of them, but he skipped through scripture as they walked along. that eight, nine, ten miles that it may have been, however long it was that he walked with them on that journey. It was plenty of time to go through the scriptures. So from the beginning. But it was always about Jesus, and that was the text. Beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning So he was the point. He was the focus of all of that. But the the fullness of scripture he was able to talk about. He was able to talk about it. He was able to look through Scripture and to help them see where Israel was, how it grew, how where David was, why David wasn't one. All of that he puts together, but the focus Was about Jesus. Was about him. And the continuation It was always going to be about him. And it's always going to be like we are about our walk with Christ. So there's some things in our lives that we just have to keep doing. If you want to eat, you have to eat Uh you can use your fingers. Um I've used my fingers even to eat soup It's a little awkward, but when you're in India and you have a really soupy dish and it's only got a little bit of rice in it, you learn to use your fingers. And yeah, you can eat it It's just not as comfortable as if you had a spoon or maybe a fork. Uh I don't know how you eat Soup with chopsticks. As far as I know, you don't. You just pick up the bowl and drink it. So our Christian life, our walk with Christ is the same way. I have to keep Keep doing it. And even though these men had heard Jesus speak before, they had sat in his preaching, they had to hear it again, again, again, again. And as he's speaking to them, he wasn't saying anything new. Our walk with Christ, scripture memory, review of the doctrines. Uh didn't you think this morning that the um ancient creed was a little long, the Athanasius Creed? Sometimes These creeds sort of feel like they go on and on and on. I had enough already. I know that. So why do we do it? Well Mark reminded us It's the rails that keep us on our faith. And sometimes we just have to repeat it and it goes, but I know that I did that already. I said it already. I do it again. That's what it is here. We do it again. We reconnect the biblical dots. And Jesus does that with these two men. He reconnects the biblical dots. You can't learn a language. Without practicing when we first attempted our first language. That was the first thing we were told. You're never going to learn If two things aren't true, if you don't try to learn by using it, the little bit that you know again and again and again, and by making mistakes. Because it's by the mistakes of using it that you'll actually end up learning it. And we're not good at any other language Maybe because we didn't use it enough. with Christ requires me to do the same things again and again. I've got to read it. I have to try to understand it. Lord, what are you speaking to me about? Give me that understanding. I will never get the understanding if I don't do the second thing, and that is engage. So the repetition is important. The repetition is is who we are. It's what makes our lives live. It's what makes our walk in Christ live. But without the engagement, we will never arrive at that place of really walking with Jesus. And that was true of these two men. Jesus is walking along with them, right? And they are nearing finally Emmaus, their village. That's where they were going, verse 28 says. And Jesus said, Well, it's been nice walking with you. I will go on. They looked at each other. They urged him strongly, saying, No, it's late. Stay with us. The day is now far spent. They engaged. They said, stay with us. Let us continue not only the conversation, but let us eat together. And so they engaged. There was a hospitality. That they extended to Jesus. Without hospitality, the kingdom of God, everything we learn about who we are in Christ, means nothing Nothing. We'll never be enriched. If your life is insulated to you and you alone, you will never learn to walk with Christ. You'll never learn his richness. Any more than these two men would have Had Jesus just kept going, they might have gone back and said, Well, we we walked with this stranger that we weren't really sure who he was, and he told us some wonderful things. He explained everything that happened. It was almost like if Jesus was walking like this. Well duh. They invited him in. And they still didn't get it. So hospitality in the kingdom. They shared. But then he broke bread. And as he broke bread, as he blessed the bread, all of a sudden, in the presence of Jesus. In the hearing of the word, those things that had happened again and again and again, their eyes were opened. And he stayed with them. He was at table with them. He took the bread, verse 30 says. He blessed it. He broke it. He gave it to them. And finally their eyes were opened. So it's the importance of the body. They were fellowshipping together. They were sitting with Jesus. They were worshiping after they had heard the word. Don't think of a church of three as being a very significant church, but that was a church of three. They were gathered around Jesus, they shared their life together, they shared their frustrations. But we thought he was going to be the Savior of the world. Let me explain it one more time, Jesus says. He starts back from the prophets. He's still good. So he takes him to the table and he breaks the bread. And then they saw him Then they recognized who he was. So it's the importance of the body that we are a part of that enables us to grow and to receive what God gives to us. the fellowship meals. It's the visitation that we see in this text and that God uses throughout history. Do we do it? We have an ESL class. What happens? If you haven't been here, you don't know. I missed a lot of them, so I didn't know either. I'll tell you what happens. A lot of people from all over the world show up. It's incredible. And w while people are heading out to the trailers in this group and that group and five four however many groups we've got, one's here A couple of women are downstairs fixing the table, and there's food spread out on the tables. And after an hour, hour and fifteen minutes or so, we come back and and and eat together and talk together. Fellowship. It's in the context of eating, it's in the context of learning that actually the reality and the power of the gospel begins God has given us at grace that privilege to engage with the world to fellowship, to eat, to visit. So here's the thing. A langu language learning is fine. And we We actually knew a missionary who was quite able in this particular language, one of the languages that we needed to learn, and she helped us. We asked her how she learned Kikamba She said, Well, I had this little primer and had a lot of vocabulary on it, and I sat every day and I read it and studied it. And read it and studied it. And read it and studied it. And read it and stu Really? I can't do that. I just don't get languages that way. W what we had been instructed early on was, well, if you get a little bit, then use a little bit. And eventually that's exactly what she did. She went out and used it. She was very good in the language. What I see is that God has given to us a different pattern. It's the repetition, yes, but it's the engagement. You'll never learn to speak a language if all you do is read it. I've had the opportunity to and you perhaps as well, people who can read English very well. But they struggled to speak it. Why? Because they hadn't been in a speaking environment. You could learn Spanish. You can learn to read it. You can understand the words. But it doesn't become a living language until you have a living person to speak it with. I learned Latin, sort of. You know anybody who speaks Latin? Me too. I never spoke it with anybody. Have a clue how to do it. And I lost it. I'm afraid my Greek and my Hebrew are about equal I don't know very many people I can speak Greek to. And the ones that do speak Greek don't speak biblical Greek. So so here we are, stuck with things that we gotta practice again and again Scripture is that way. I practice it again and again. But if it's if I'm not really engaged with somebody, the the truth of that word never penetrates my heart Verse 31 gives us a simple conclusion, and their eyes were opened, and they recognized him. And he vanished from our sight. If we have repeated the things that God gives us to do again and again, and we have engaged with him and with God, with his community. We have to reflect on it. We have to think, what was it that I saw? What was it that I didn't see? And I'm sure these two men, as as once Jesus was gone, they began to ask themselves A few questions like, wait a minute. We heard everything again that we'd heard before. We kept seeing, kept hearing That was the benefit of repetition, just like eating with chopsticks. Repeat it again, repeat it again. Eventually you get it But they went beyond that. And when they went beyond that, it was, wait a minute, now we can see what we didn't see that was always there Why was it we didn't know who he was? He was always there. Why was it we didn't understand the depth, the reality, the fullness of Scripture? It was always there, and He told us again. It did not come to our imagination. It didn't come to our hearts until our eyes were opened. And then we saw. And then we understood. So there's this problem that we have with familiarity That these disciples were familiar, maybe too familiar, because they hadn't fully engaged. And the history of the church was turning right at this point The disciples had tended to be rather insular. They were concerned about each other. The Jews were concerned about the Jews. And you remember when Jesus uh decided he was going to go through Samaria, the reason was that it was important for the disciples to engage with Samaritans Which they never did. They didn't want to do it. Jesus knows it's important. They didn't begin to understand all of this until after the resurrection. And then they began to think back on it. Oh, Jesus took us to Samaria, where we experienced what God was doing in Samaria. We couldn't have imagined it. We saw what God was doing with the woman in Samaria. And these men stand back and say, yes, there was something we didn't see. They reflected on the work of Christ. Our work is to reflect on what God has done. And you can reflect if you haven't engaged. Because the only thing that we can reflect on is ourselves, is a mirror. We stand in front of a mirror and we see the image that either we want to see or we don't want to see. I know. We all look in the mirror. Think, oh, my hair is out of place. My face is a lot more wrinkled than it used to be. I don't like the wrinkles, I don't like the sags, I don't like the dark eyes, I don't I can tell you everything I don't like about my image. But the reflection is not About me when I've come to Jesus. When I engage with you. My reflection is about what God is doing in our midst God is doing something special. He uses you, he uses me to pray for others, to speak to others, to engage with others, so that his love, his mercy, his forgiveness can flow through us. So that's the question that I I want you to address to yourself, to reflect on as we come through this text Can come out of it. Who are you walking with? Beyond the road. Who are you walking with? Are you walking alone? Me and Jesus. You're in trouble. If you're not walking with someone, you not only won't recognize Jesus, but you won't recognize why Jesus is walking with you So who are you walking with? Are you walking in the body of Christ? How are you walking in the body of Christ? How are you walking in your Jerusalem? On your road from Jerusalem to Emmaus. Who are you walking with? It wasn't just about these two disciples. And it's not just about you. And it's not just about me. It's about us and the world that God has put us in. So no walking means no reflection, no hearing back from others. A conversation helps us get the words right. Helps us get the meaning right. That's how a child learns to talk. When is the last time you listened to a child learn to talk. Early on, just sounds, babbling. Eventually the sounds start to have meaning. But the child isn't going to know that unless they are in an environment where they can hear and where people are speaking to them. And we saw it this morning. The kids tried the chopsticks and actually got a little bit on them. It's a good thing it was a sticky rice. If it was dry rice it would have fallen right off. But it wasn't enough. It wasn't enough to grow. It wasn't enough to eat. It wasn't enough to flourish. And that's what God God has for us is to flourish, not to be starved, not to have a grain of rice, but to flourish in the kingdom. and enable others to flourish. Walk. Engage. And do it again. Let me pray Father, we come to you because you alone have the words of life. Teach us. Enable us to learn. And as we come now to your table, remind us of who you are. Are, that we might walk with you, that we might walk with each other, that we might walk into the world that you've placed us in. So that your glory might be broadcast around us. So Father, meet us now. That we might Know you that our eyes would be opened in Jesus' name. Amen.