This thing in my front of me? Okay, very good. I think I have a a microphone here. Greetings in the name of Christ. It's uh it's been since Easter, I think I've been here and uh this is uh it's great to be back to to proclaim God's word. Carl c asked me uh I said sure. Give me give me the date. We've worked on this date. He said we're coming from the Psalm so uh turn to Psalm one oh seven and as you turn there just give you an update on on on Baltimore Antioch leadership movement. Thank you for supporting BOM. The church continues to support us in the ministry there. I'm still over at Abbott and they have a search committee that's actively searching, just like you guys are actively searching. They're behind you guys in terms of time, but pray for for your sister church in Highland Town. Abbott Memorial. I'm providing leadership there as I did here for a while. Uh secondly, um the seminary, uh Metro Baltimore Seminary. We started our fourth year uh a few weeks ago, and so we've got Two sites. We've got about sixty students now. Again, it's the Lord's really blessing the seminary. We have thirty new students this year. And uh and the third thing we do is is new church development. We're we're doing a s we're we're planting uh uh the the groundwork for a micro church, a house church movement in this region. And we're in our second year of doing that and we have some Sunday afternoon once a month we'll be gathering. So there's a lot going on with with Balm. And again, thank you for Grace for your support. And we continually pray. We we always we remember Grace, we pray for you, we pray for your your transition, your your search committee and and and all that's going on here. We're praying for Carl and Debbie. When I talked to him a few weeks ago, he said they're they're in a van a van or an RV on on the w all the way on the west coast. He says, God bless you guys I couldn't do that. Alright, you find Psalm 107 yet? Alright, I was reminded that when you hear the word of God here, you stand. I like that practice. So stand up as we Began to look at this passage, Psalm 107, which is uh beginning of the the next division of it's book five, which is the fifth division of the five divisions of Psalms. Verse 1. ESV. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. For his steadfast love endures forever. Let the redeemed of the Lord say so. whom he has redeemed from trouble, and gathered in from the lands, from the east and from the west, and from the north and from the south. Some wandered in desert place, desert wastes, finding no way to a city to dwell in Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted within them. He led them in a straight way till they reached the city to dwell in. Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of man, for he satisfies the longing soul, and the hungry soul he fills with good things. Some sat in the darkness and in the shadow of death, and prisoner prisoners in affliction and in irons, for they had rebelled against the words of God, and he and spurned the counsel of the Most High. So he he bowed their hearts down with hard labor, and they fell down with none to help. Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress. He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death and burst their bonds apart. Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love. for he his wondrous works to the children of men. For he shatters the doors of bronze and cuts into the bars of iron. Some were fools through their sinful ways, and because of their iniquities suffered affliction, and they loathed any kind of food, and they drew near to the gates of death Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress. And see, he sent out his word and healed them and delivered them from their destruction. Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of Israel. And let them offer sacrifices of thanksgiving and tell of his deeds in songs of joy. Some went down to the sea in ships, doing business on the great waters. They saw the deeds of the Lord, his wondrous works, and the deeds of the L Deep. For he commanded, and raised a stormy wind, which lifted up the ways of the sea. They mounted up to heaven, they went down to the depths. Their courage melted away in their evil plans They reeled and staggered like drunken men and were at the wit their wit's end. Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress. And the ways of the sea were hushed. Then they were glad that the waters were quiet. He brought them to their desired haven. Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love, for his wondrous work. To the children of man. Let them extol him in the congregation of the people and praise him in the assembly of the elders He turns rivers into a desert, springs of water into thirsty ground, a fruitful land into salty waste because of the evil of its inhabitants. He turns a desert into pools of water, a parched land into springs of water Water. By his blessing they multiply greatly, and he does not let their livestock diminish. When they are diminished and brought low through oppression evil and sorrow, he pours contempt on princes, and makes them wander in trackless waste. But he raises up the needy out of affliction, and makes their families like flocks The upright see it and are glad, and all wickedness shuts its mouth. Whoever is wise, let him attend to these things, let them consider the steadfast love of the Lord. Amen. God's word. Let's pray. Lord, use this portion of your word, this psalm, to encourage us, to challenge us, to help us to know who we are before you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Eyes to be seated. All right. The title comes from verse 2. Let the redeemed of the Lord say so. Kind of thought kind of brings to your mind evangelism, doesn't it? It's been said that this this is one thing that Christians and non-Christians have in common. They both become uncomfortable when you begin to talk about evangelism. The unbeliever says, oh don't talk about that stuff. The Christian you feel there's a lot of guilt that comes because we know that we should be sharing our faith more Let the redeemed of the Lord say so. This passage kind of reminds us of why we we have this obligation, privilege, of sharing our faith. And hopefully we'll we'll talk a little bit about about that. You you may be familiar with a song, I think we've done the song here. Um again my memory is is not what it used to be, a song by Israel Holton and New Breed, that that comes from this phrase, let the Redeemer of the Lord say so The song by Israel points to the identity of our identity as believers. Here's some of the words. What does it mean to be saved? Isn't it more than just a prayer to pray? More than just a way to heaven? What does it mean to be his? To be formed in his likeness? To know that we have a purpose. We have a purpose What's the purpose? To be salt and light in the world in the world. To be salt and light in the world. The chorus says, let the redeemed of the Lord say so, let the redeemed say so, let the redeemed of the Lord say so, say so. And then the second verse, the other verse Oh, that the church will rise. Oh, that we would see with Jesus' eyes. We could show the way, the world heaven. Show what it means to be His, to be formed in His likeness. Show them that they have a purpose. And what is the purpose once they come to understand Him? To be salt and light in the world, to be salt and light in the world, so that they can be redeemed and say so. It's a wonderful song, simple song, powerful song Our culture loves redemption stories. Think of literature. Think of movies. Think of real life. We love to see a turnaround redemption story, don't we? We rejoice when we see that. Sometimes that that even that that word sometimes in our culture has been ripped from its theological understanding to just a a a nice turnaround story. That's the way it's used Those who have embraced the story of Jesus, all of us have a powerful redemption story. Let me say that again. All of us who have embraced the story of Jesus, we have our own redemption story. And that's what this passage that's where we're going with this passage. And I'm gonna I'm gonna talk about the the the the the first three verses and then we'll look at the rest of the chapter kinda at the end because it's a long chapter as you heard it but we'll we'll you'll see where it fits in with where we're going. The first thing I want to see talk about is the first verse where we see gratitude. Oh give thanks to the Lord. Lord, for he is good. His love endures forever. Because of God's redemption. The word steadfast love, which you see, you might see notice as we read the scripture that that that his steadfast love endures forever. That's what I would I call it a this is a song of course, the songs are songs. That's kind of a riff, kind of a theme, a repeated theme in music is a riff, whatever. And that riff comes through this through this whole song The the re and in fact um the the word for steadfast love maybe you have a different translation. Sometimes it's translated mercy Loving kindness, gracious love, covenant faithfulness, different translations. It's a very rich word in the in the Hebrew in the Hebrew it's the word Hesed. H-S-D. Hesid. And um it's it's comparable to the New Testament word grace, which you know in the Greek is Keris. You know the charis uh Greek in in a Greek. It's very similar to to to grace. In the old it's the Old Testament Hebrew, New Testament uh Greek. Um The God of the Old Testament, full of grace, full of Hesed, love. Now, often there's a false dichotomy that we have often and it's perpetuated by by by Christians, unfortunately. The idea that the God of the Old Testament is wrathful. But the God of the New Testament is loving. Have you ever felt that? Have you ever heard people talk like that? I hope you don't believe that. Hope you understand that the God of the Old Testament is the God of the New Testament, and He is He is He's all He is in both Testaments. And this word Heshlit reminds us of that That the God of the Old Testament is full of grace. And if you really read the stories of the messed up lives of his people, You begin to realize. Yeah, he's got a lot of grace in the Old Testament. A lot of grace. He's full of grace. And if you think of how the New Testament ends, with Jesus executing wrath on the world. Raph in the New Testament too, folks. One God who never changed. This word Hesed is used in the Old Testament 247 times One of the one of the most important curses is in Exodus chapter thirty-four, verse six where um he he's Moses is is interacting with God. This is a golden calf incident after It says the Lord passed before him, before Moses, and proclaimed the Lord, the Lord, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. That word steadfast love is our word has So that's God he self-identifies himself in those in that way. And that verse, those attributes show up quite often in the Old Testament. In fact, you might remember in the book of Jonah, he reminds God, God, I know that you are a God of steadfast love and mercy and compassion and all those things. Here. Psalm won one seventeen is an interesting verse because basically it's based on this one phrase, this one idea. Praise the Lord, all the nations, extol him, all peoples, for great is his steadfast love toward us. And the faithfulness of the Lord endures forever. Praise the Lord. A simple psalm, two verses, that just wants you to dwell and linger and reflect and meditate on the wonderful Hasid, the mercy of God. As we were thinking, as we were singing the song, Thank You Lord, I said, there's a song that has a lot of repetition. Thank you, Lord, thank you. And that's good. Some songs need to be long and make you think and think about a story, but some songs are simple You need to linger and reflect on the meaning of the words, like the Thank You Lord Psalm we say, and like Psalm 117. Which is this, the Lord's test is great towards us. His faithfulness endures forever. Praise the Lord. In your Bible, uh turn to Psalm 136. Psalm 136 I don't know if anyone's preached on. I know this is a series on Psalms. I don't think I saw that in the list of sermons that you've heard so far. But um I no, there was there was a movement called Christian Rap a few years ago. I don't know if that movement's still pretty strong. But every time I read this psalm, I think about the Christian rap movement. I'm not going to read the psalm, but I'm going to read a little bit of it. Because look at just a few th this this psalm clearly the intention is to have kind of a call response thing going on And rap music does that. You know how rap music if you know rap music. You know, it says, give thanks to the Lord for he is good, for steadfast love endures forever Give thanks to the Lord, the God of gods, his steadfast love endures forever. Give thanks to the Lord of lords, his steadfast love. And so for twenty-six verses. There's this back and forth. And each each each time the fourth is his steadfast love endures forever And there's something about God and what he's done because of steadfast. And so it reminds if you know rap music, this song reminds me of rap music. And I wonder if if a rapper ever took a Christian rapper ever took this psalm and did something with it. Again, I don't know much about Christian rap. So maybe this has been done before. If you're a Christian rapper, there's an idea for you. But again, the second half is about the head of God, his eternal grace towards his people that endures forever and ever. While you have your Bible, turn to 2 Chronicles chapter 5. Because during the reign of Solomon, we see this rift. being used uh in the context of the narrative of the the uh the temple being built built and dedicated. It's a wonderful passage Uh 2 Chronicles 5 and 6 and 7. There's a there's a great celebration that takes place there. And um th there there's this a a time of great uh kingly pomp and dignity and and and and regalia and formality that takes place Again, just read chapters 5, 6, and 7 at some point. Let me just pop in here, chapter 6. Well leave it to chapter 5. You see, um verse 13, the duty of the trumpeteers and singers to make themselves heard in unison in prayer, thanksgiving to the Lord, and when the song was raised with trumpets and cymbals and other musical instruments in praise to the Lord, for he is good. For his steadfast love endures forever. The house, the house of the Lord was filled with clouds. When they heard that riff, when that riff was repeated, the place was filled with with with the with with the the the the the glory cloud. The priests could not stand in ministry because of the cloud, for the glory of the Lord filled the house of God So there's this basic understanding, this riff about the mercy, the Hesed love of God, was the apex of that port So then Solomon stands up to to to bless the people. Chapter six verse thirteen. He stood before the altar of the Lord in the presence of all the assembly of the Israel and spread out his hands, and mo Solomon had made He talks about Solomon there. Let me skip down. He knelt on his knees in the presence of all the assembly of Israel, spread out his hands toward heaven, and said, Oh Lord, God of Israel, there's no God like you in heaven or on earth. Keeping covenant and showing steadfast love to your servants who walk before you with all your heart, all their heart, who have kept with your servant David, my father, what you declared to him. One and on and those Go and then he says, verse 17, Now therefore, O Lord God of Israel, let your word be confirmed which you have spoken to your servant David. But will God indeed dwell with man on the earth? Behold, heaven, the highest heaven, can't contain you. How much less this house that I have built? So here there's this great celebration. They're celebrating and they've built this This expensive building, this temple for God, and they've brought the ark of God's presence there and all this is happening and and Solomon prays, but he reminds the people as he prays, he reminds God that this is not you. This represents you Nothing can really that we in our in our understanding can really s can really represent you fully. You're the God of heaven. You're you're you're the God who's like unlike anything that we know of. And he in his prayer he reminds them of And yet there's a place clearly there's a place for the regalia and the pomp and the circumstances. week I guess we're gonna be seeing some of that stuff. If if you if you keep an eye on what's going on over in Europe, as you know the Queen has passed away the other day, that was Thursday or Friday she passed away And we're gonna see some of that pomp and formality and regalia, and it's and it's it's kind of uh throwback to an a former world, isn't it, for many of us I mean for me I say, well, you know, what's the big deal about all this stuff? But it it really it it's a reminder of the stuff that we see in the Old Testament of the royal dignity Of one who's a representative of God. Something that's been lost in our day. It's b you know d be alert that uh there's a lot of uh after this the last couple of days, there's been a lot of discussion about the queen herself and She she apparently uh uh carried herself with great grace and great dignity and and a great poise. But there's already some people who are who are who are using this as an opportunity to remind the world of the evils of Western culture. I don't know if you're you're alert to that. That's starting to happen. Progressives on the far left never miss an opportunity to to to express uh their negative feelings towards Western culture. And they're using Queen Elizabeth's death as a as a as a as an opportunity to do that No, there's something in the human spirit that yearns to worship and adore a representative of divine goodness. Despite the human flaws of that symbolic leader. It's been a history. Think of in sec 2 Samuel, when the people of Israel said, We want to have a king like the other nations. Remember that? Excuse me, first Samuel. Um God said, I'm your king, and I'm are you uh you are my people. I'm I'm your king. You don't need a you don't need a physical person to be your king And they went on like that for decades and decades and centuries, but they came to the point where they want to have a king like the other nations, so they could do this, you know, have a person to say, there's our representative God said, Okay, I'll give you a king, gave him Saul. Not a very good king. But then came day that he was the apex of what a good king ought to be be like in many in humanly speaking. But but there's something in the human spirit that's attracted to that kind of a thing. The kind of a person Solomon made every attempt to remind the worshipers there that the ceremony was not about him. It was about it's not about the ark, it's not about the temple. It was about God, the God of heaven, who is higher than the heavens, the God who reigns over all. There's various songs in in in Christian the Christian world that that highlight this A steadfast love of God. Think of the song by again another song by Israel Houghton. Lord you are good and your mercy endures forever. The word mercy is d it comes right from Psalm 100 verse 5 and other these other verses. Is that the word There's a song from um Lamentations. Chapter three, verses twenty four But the steadfast love of the Lord. I don't know who did that song, but if that's our word, has it? Right there, the middle of lamentations You may know the song that comes from Psalm 23. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. Mercy has it. The mercy of God, the steadfast love of God. Imagine the Old Testament saints at funerals, if they were if they sang songs at funerals that were combined with Old Testament, with New Testament uh theology. When we at funerals hear that song Amazing Grace. A point, my first point. Because of God's persistent love, we're redeemed by the blood of Christ, and we should keep that love in the forefront of our minds each Now my second thing I want to talk about is is bold proclamation of God's redemption. Here, let the redeemed of the Lord say so. And they they've been redeemed, as you notice in the text, from Trouble from their affliction from the situation. This word redeemed, I want to I want to talk about. So it's it's a word for it there's a it has to do with being purchased, something that's been purchased back In the in the ancient world there was of course slavery. Often it was debt slavery. Interesting passage in in in um Exodus chapter twenty-one, where uh during the time of of Moses, um a Hebrew slave who who was um A slave for six years during the seventh year he could be freed and released. But if he loved his master, then there was a provision whereby he could have a uh his ear um pierced as a sign that uh he he he had a benevolent master and would would serve that master as a as more of an a of a servant a denture servant than a slave. Reminding us that y that even after the Exodus where the people of Israel were slaves, among the Hebrew people there was this there was a s there was this thing called slavery. Not the kind of slavery we understand in our Western world But there was there was a provision for slavery back then. The time of Jesus. Jesus used he said um in in Mark chapter ten verse forty-five that he gave himself as a a ransom for many. A ransom one who purchased uh a slave uh uh the the price of of purchase for a slave. He gave himself as a ransom for many. He talked about the fact that he was a servant In the time of Paul, on the the ancient uh Greek cities, the marketplaces, they were often there were markets, slave markets were where where you could See slaves being being sold and being bought each day, slave markets in the ancient world. And uh often the the the price was called the redemption price or the ransom price. And Paul uses that idea to talk about that we are redeemed by the blood, the ransom price, is the blood of Christ that was shed for us. that we might be free. We're probably familiar with the idea in our world of ransomware of uh folks who hack computers and say, hey, you know, we'll we'll get you give you your computer system back if you pay millions of dollars. It's um You you're familiar with that that happens in the kind of an extortion extortion that goes on. Ransom. There there was a movie in nineteen ninety-six. Mel Gibson had a movie that was called Ransom That was the name of the movie. It was the the the bad guys they kidnapped his son and said, Hey, pay us b pay us You know, X amount of money, I don't remember how much it was. But he said he said, No, uh I will turn that ransom money into a bounty. Anyone who g who kills him uh uh and gets my son free will get the money So he said, that's what I I'm gonna use not the money not for a ransom but for a bounty. Good movie. Good good uh if you like Mel Gisson, he's he's a he's kinda like he's a crazy guy, isn't he? He's a little wacky, isn't he? But it's a good movie. But ransom, it's a price. A price. A m Monetary price. The bold proclamation of God's redemption. And see, we have been redeemed by the blood. So the third thing is is that He gathered in from the lands, from the east, the west, the north, and from the south. This is from the from all the corners of the world. God is gathering a diverse community of people from all over, from all directions of the compass. What's the psalmist saying? See, verses four and following, he gives the particular testimonies of people from the north, south, east, and west. You see. In fact the there's the the next few paragraphs that follow, this the the first the next four paragraphs he highlights the stories of those who've been redeemed from the north, south, east and west. And then he has the next couple of paragraphs after that a couple other things he talks about. But let's look at the let's look first at the at uh uh the the the the people who have been reading what does this community look like? Verses four to nine, you have the testimony of people who who were, I call them desert nomads. They were nomads in the desert. They want a spiritual journey. They want a journey. A kind of a spiritual journey, a pilgrimage. They were thirsty. They were looking for water. And Jesus is the water of life, but they found uh life and refreshment. In the gospel. This is those who were desert nomads wandering aimlessly. Verses 4 through 9 And then it says in verse 8, let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love, his wondrous works. Then the second category of people is in verses 10 to 16 They were rightly convicted prisoners. They were bad guys who were rightly convicted. And here we have their testimony of how God brought them pardon. It brought them salvation. Reminds me in the old in the New Testament of Barabbas. Remember Barabbas on the Passion story? This uh rebellious revolutionary who was in prison with Jesus and And the the the it c the time came where one of the prisoners could be released and um the crowd, rather than saying, Give us Jesus the Christ, they said, Give us Jesus Varabbas, they said, give us Jesus uh uh the Christ. And uh I I'm sure as Jesus and Barabbas they heard that uh that the crowd wanted Jesus They weren't sure if it was Jesus Barabbas or Jesus Christ. Both of them had the same first name. But we know that Barabbas got to go free Barabbas who was guilty got to go free. Jesus who was not guilty was the one who was picked to be executed. And the Barabbas is a picture of all of us. All of us deserve to to to be to be under the wrath of God and and to be condemned and yet because of Jesus we get to go free, all of us in one sense or life We're all convicted guilty sinners. Verses 10 to 16. Then in the third category is in verses 17 to 22. These are just uh foolish, stubborn, sinful people. Look at verses 17 to 22. Foolish iniquities. They suffered affliction in me. This reminds me of the prodigal son in Luke chapter 15 Who just foolishly wanted to think that life was better w without being in in in in the house of God, the house of his family, and and want to sow his wild oats. Foolish, sinful, came to himself Verse 21, let him thank the Lord for his dead fast love. See, among God's people are all these different people with different experiences. And the fourth category is verses 23 to 32. These are experienced seafarers who delivered from deadly storm. You can't read that passage without without thinking about Mark chapter 4, where Jesus was on the boat with his disciples Jesus was tired from a weary ministry and he was asleep and the storm comes up. It was a frightful storm. And so they're grabbing buckets and boiling water because the water was in the boat Boat's in the water, but the water's in the boat. That's the problem. And and so Jesus is still asleep. They said, Jesus, wake up. Now they they were saying, Jesus, come on help us. You know, we need all hand all hands on deck. You know, get a grab a bucket, Jesus Is what you're thinking. Jesus wakes up and says, uh, peace be still, the storm stilled. And as afraid as they were of the storm, they were afraid of him who could stop the storm. These were spirits uh seamen. And so this passage reminds us of that, Jesus who steals the storm. But he still but again there's a metaphor there. All of us have chaos going on in our lives. Jesus is the one who steals the storms of our lives. Among his people are those who whose life is just out of chaos. They're fearful, there's nothing they can do. And Jesus comes and brings peace and tranquility. into the storms of our lives. So from the north and the south and east and the west, Jesus brings peace. And and uh And then he goes on he he he kind of changes his his his structure from somewhere. But in the next uh uh uh paragraph, verses um thirty-three to thirty-eight, he talks about nature, the the the creation. And and even creation, not people, but creation uh bows to God. God is in control of creation. Uh it it it serves his benefit. Look at the things it says there. He turns rivers into a desert Desert. He turns a desert into pool. It's God that's controlling nature. Isn't that interesting? We hear much in our day about climate control, how how how we ho how we as Individuals, um, the the destiny of our planet is in our hands. Have you heard that before? No. We are stewards of creation, we're not the masters of creation. And um we should as believers take care of this world. We we're we're accountable for we should not sin against this world, but ultimately we know that there's one mightier than us, and that the and he has the whole world in his hands. And history is going somewhere, and we just be to be faithful stewards of this world. But yeah, he's the one who controls these things. By his blessing, they multiply greatly. He does not let their lives stock them. And then the the the the next paragraph, verses thirty-nine and thirty-two, this short paragraph, talks about uh uh uh when they were diminished brought low through oppression, evil and sorrow. Oppression, evil and sorrow that comes. Uh by but from princes. Um he raises up the needy out of affliction and makes their families like flocks. So th there's a there's a there's couple But here it's it's kind of an old it's not just a certain category of people. He reminds us that among all the categories of people There are some people who are very needy, who are very oppressed, who are who are who need mercy. And God is aware of that. And God cares for them. He raises up the needy out of their affliction. What brought an end to slavery in the Western world? It was the influence of the gospel. It's true that people who were supposedly believers in Jesus were oppressing people, yes. Yet it was other followers of Jesus who read the scriptures much more carefully. And that's what brought it into the to the oppressive situation. Jesus in Scripture championed the cause of the least and the lost in society, despite what you might hear. It's through the church, through his church, that he is still bringing justice to the needy and downcast, as well as grace and mercy. Just a reminder there. God still is a champion for the needy. And in verse 43, the closing verse here of this great psalm Whoever is wise, let them attend to these things. Let them consider the hesed, steadfast love. of the Lord. This is final exhortation. He says if you didn't get it from all those examples, here it is. Consider it. Consider. Keep considering it. And the more you consider it and meditate on it, reflect on it, eventually You're going to say something about it. That's the idea. But the redeemer of the Lord, who's been redeemed from all these troubles, gets so excited about it they gotta talk to others about it See, the key to evangelism is not learning how to do evangelism. The key to evangelism is being signed about what God's doing in your life Being excited about God's love in your life and God's protection in your life and all the things that God is doing in your life, that's the key motivation. For reaching out and sharing it with others. And it so there's a variety of people here who have had these experiences In the world there are a variety of kinds of people who have experienced salvation. And we don't we j just very quickly, there's a there's a people who are the there's the ethnic diversity of of God's people. There's a diversity of gifts and experiences, abilities and skills. There's diversity of opinion that needs to be part of God's church There's a diversity of of of uh of exp of of of age. We need intergenerational uh diversity in our churches. This is an application. A couple of quick applications. One is rejoice. And the other is relax. Where are we going with this? Rejoice. Rejoice. You and your story can be used by God to connect with somebody. Your story I don't know if you're from the north, south, east, west. I don't know if you're a nomad or you're a sea. I don't know what your story is, but your story can be used by God to connect with somebody The other one is relax. You and your story can't relax with, can't can't connect with everybody You see the balance there. There's some people who your story they say, okay, whatever. You don't understand me. So be so just share your story as God as God empowers you and In his wisdom, he brings you people into your lives. And trust that he will use you and your story to connect with the ultimate story, the story of Jesus. That's why we have the church You don't have all the experiences. I don't have all the experiences. But together, together, the church has all the experiences that we need to connect with the people of our world Long before Israel Houghton's song, there was an even older classic song based on this verse. Annie J. Crosby, she captured the thrill of redemption. She was an American missionary worker, a poet, a lyricist, a composer. Um she wrote more than 8,000 hymns, gospel songs, more than a hundred million copies were printed She's known for her teaching and for her rescue mission work. She was a single woman. She was blind. Think about that. She was blind Yet she wrote these words, Redeemed. How I love to proclaim it! Redeemed by the blood of the Lamb Redeemed through his infinite mercy, his child and forever I am. Redeemed, redeemed, redeemed by the blood of the Lamb, his child and forever. Forever I am. Redeemed and so happy in Jesus, no language my rapture can tell. I know that the light of his presence with me does continually dwell. I think of my blessed Redeemer. I think of him all the day long. I sing, for I cannot be silent. His love is the theme of my song. I know I shall see in his beauty the king in whose way I delight, who lovingly guardeth my footsteps, and gives me songs in the the night. Let's think about those words and reflecting on the fact that that she's excited about her salvation, about her redemption. There's a couple phrases in there that said, well, this is the blind woman. She says, In the I know that the light of his presence presence with me dust and tunedly to a light. That's an important word for a person who's blind. I know I shall see his beauty. That's the hope. She's blind He giveth me songs in the night. Night and day. When you're blind, it's all the same, isn't it? Fanny Crosby, proclaiming that she's been redeemed by Jesus. And she's excited. Despite the afflictions and troubles of her life, she's got a story. If she's got a story, folks, don't we? Don't we have a story? Proclaiming we're redeemed in and easy, that it only comes when we're excited about the story that God's doing in our lives Each day. Let's pray. Thank you for this this psalm reminding us of your grace that you're in the w you're saving people in all around this world, north, south, east, and west, and you're saving people in both Baltimore in relay, that you're a God who's not giving up on this world, that you're redeeming people by the blood of Christ. Well, we pray we would be excited about our salvation And I would pray for anyone who who hears this and doesn't isn't resting in their salvation and doesn't even understand their salvation, but that you would bring the gospel clearly to them, that they would trust in Jesus Christ. The Savior of the world, the only hope for a dying world. Lord, use this message to encourage us, to challenge us, to excite us that you are God and that you're doing great things around us in us. And through us, we'll give you glory in Jesus' name. Amen.