So today we're going to look at chapter sixteen, verses sixteen to thirty-three, which is the last part of this chapter. And uh let's listen to God's word, ESE translation. A little while and you will see me no longer, and again a little while and you'll see me. So some of the disciples said to one another. What's this that he says to us, a little while you will see you will not see me, and again a little while you will see me, and because I'm going to the Father So they were saying, what does he mean by a little while? We do not know what he's talking about. Jesus knew that they wanted to ask him. So he said to them, Is this what you're asking yourselves, what I meant by saying a little wow and you will not see me, and again a little wow, and you will see me? Truly, truly I say to you, you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice. You will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will turn into joy. When a woman is giving birth, she has sorrow because her hour has come. But when she has delivered the baby, she no longer remembers the anguish. For joy that a human being has been born into the world. So also you have sorrow now, but I will see you again, and your hearts will rejoice, and no one will take your joy from you In that day you'll ask nothing of me. Truly, truly I say to you, Whatever you ask of the Father in my name, he will give it to you. Until now, you've asked nothing in my name. Ask and you will receive, that your joy may be full. I've said these things to you in figures of speech. The hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figures of speech, but will tell you plainly about the Father. In that day you will ask my name, and I do not say to you that I will ask the Father on your behalf, for the Father Himself loves you, because you have loved me, and have believed that I came from God. I came from the Father and have come into the world, and now I'm leaving the world and going to the Father. And the disciples said, Ah, now you are speaking plainly and now and not you're using figurative speech. Now we know that you know all things and do not need anyone to question you. This is why we believe that you came from God. Jesus answered them, Do you now believe? Behold, the hour is coming, indeed is it has come, when you will be scattered, each to his own home, and will leave me alone. Yet I'm not alone, but the Father is with me. I said these things to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart. I have overcome the world. God bless the reading of His Word. Well we have interesting passage today. Interesting passage. My title is even more interesting. My title is Light Up a Cigar. Light Up the Cigar. Now, um Cigars have made a rebound. Um People like to sit around and and have fellowship around a cigar. And there you see you see specialty stores all over the nation. Um That's all kinds of of specialty smokes, different kinds of cigars. Now I am not a cigar connoisseur. In fact, I've never had a smoke of any kind. But I I I've been around people who do smoke and who do even smoke cigars Now, uh I ain't hatin', but I I I I I want you I want to say that uh it's true that smoking won't keep you from getting to heaven. We're saved by grace through faith in Jesus. But smoking might get you there faster. It may get you there faster. So I I I I believe we ought to heed the Surgeon General's warnings as best we can. But preparing to light up a cigar, lighting up a cigar, what does that mean? Now some of you don't have any, don't know how does that relate to this passage. So some of you are already thinking about where I'm going. This is a throwback to a day long ago. Providentially we have this passage on Mother's Day. My title is not meant to slight mothers at all, but it's meant to take us back to a time long ago when men were not in the delivery room, when babies were born. Some of you know where I'm going now. This top room discourse was quite an emotionally and intellectually draining experience for these men They had a lot to take in. The truth that Jesus was leaving them, that they would not be faithful to him That one of them would be the culprit, that they would be hated, that they would be empowered beyond their wildest expectations. through the Holy Spirit, that they were expected to have a supernatural love for one another by washing feet This was all that they've been hearing that night, and this was a lot of information to take in mentally and emotionally. And he was leaving them. They were feeling sadness, they were feeling fear. And yet He's telling them in the midst of it all, don't let your hearts be troubled. That's why I began this. Don't let your hearts be troubled. Be at peace. So Jesus winds it up by helping his disciples focus on his central truth by giving him a simple, concrete illustration. Verse 21 is the illustration. So in the old days, men would pace the floor of the hospital for hours, worrying, waiting. And finally, when they heard that their child was born, it was a boy, it was a girl. They didn't have reveal parties back then. You heard the baby was born, it was a boy, it was a girl. And men would then light up the cigar and pass it to get the cigar around to their friends See, the illustration that Jesus gives is an illustration about childbirth. Jesus points to the pain and the anguish of childbirth, which is followed by incredible feelings of joy. And he associates with their feelings, the feelings the apostles are having right there. And he says That joy will only be for a little while. My main point, even in the darkest of our circumstances, in the darkest of our circumstances, we can have the hope of ultimate joy in Christ. And there are a lot of people who have been having horrible circumstances in our world today. In Christ, the ultimate answer is joy. When you watch a story or read a novel, one of the things that keeps you reading is waiting to see what's going to happen at the end. How's it going to be resolved? How's the story going to be resolved? know will it be a comedy, the good guy's winning, or will it be a tragedy, the bad guy's winning? The good guy's losing. The classic phrase is comedy and tragedy In Christ, we should be optimists because in Christ the story ends in victory. It's a comedy. Christ wins. And Jesus wants the disciples to know that the ultimate joy, their ultimate joy is right around the corner. In Christ, the last page of the book is always the page of victory. And that's true for us who are in Christ. He promised us an eternal last page of joy. Now, Jesus predicts the same thing for us. As we run this line down this upper room, I want you to see that they will weep. And then they will rejoice. And then they will be scattered. He predicts three things. They're going to be weeping, they're going to be rejoicing, but they're also going to scatter. And he there's some of the things he talks about there. But the good news is summarized in this illustration we'll look at And it's very appropriate for Mother's Day. I want to talk about three things. I want to talk about anguish, joy, and peace. Anguish. Verses 16 to 20. Jesus predicts that they will be sorrowful, they will be weeping, they will be feeling anguish, they will have great sorrow. And I believe that is at his departure, because he's going to be departing soon. And if you look at verses uh these verses from verse 16 to 19, very often you see the phrase that they that they talk about here A little while. Look at it starts. A little while you see no longer. And again, a little while you see me. And they say, what are you talking about? There's this back talk. They're whispering to themselves, what's he talking about? This little while stuff. What's he talking about? They're totally confused. They don't understand it. Jesus, what's this business you're talking about? But they didn't ask him. And so he says, I hear you'll see you guys talking about this little wild stuff. Now A little while. Is he talking about when he comes through the Holy Spirit? Because he's been talking about coming again to them through the Holy Spirit That the Holy Spirit would come and then they would have truth and they would have someone beside them. Is that what he's talking about? Because he's talking about the Holy Spirit a lot coming to them and they would have joy in the Holy Spirit Is he talking about the time when they would be taken to be with him? And he said, In the many house in the Father's house is many rooms, many mansions, many abiding places. Is he talking about when they be will see him eventually in heaven? What is this little while they will no longer have sorrow? What's he talking about? Well I believe that that that that and I don't think they understood this at this point, but I believe he's talking about in three days. This is Thursday night before he dies, and by Sunday morning they're gonna have that joy. He's talking about the little the little while was going to be uh the uh the the little while is is these the the is is it's Friday and and So he said he he talks about the lament that will happen And the joy the rejoicing that will follow. I heard a pastor yesterday, last night, talking about the shelter, this sheltering that we're doing. And he made a comparison that that I hadn't thought about from the scriptures. He talked about uh the story of Genesis of Noah's Ark He talked about how there how people are now at a place in our world where everybody is kind of going through sorrow and sadness and being they're tired of being in the house and they kind of want to get outside And he said that it's kinda like uh uh uh Noah's Ark. You know, we know there's danger out there, but we're tired of being in here. He said, think of the many days of the of the of being on the Ark. And I said, Why and wow, I mean the the the y Noah and his family You know, and we know what is sometimes when families can shelter in too long, you know, you gotta get sick of each other. Imagine not only that, but imagining having all these animals on the ark with you. I don't want to go into the details, but that would not be a pleasant experience to the old factory senses Uh day after day after day and you just want to get out of there but you can't get out of there. You better not get it out of it because it's worse out there than in here And this pastor was saying that that's the way we ought to sense where we are right now. But there's a lot of people who are waiting for for to for to to get out of their homes and go and rejoice. And I would say that we ought to just wait because that's that day of joy will happen in a little while. In a little while we'll we'll be doing that. So Jesus wants us, wants the disciples and wants us to know that there is joy coming. Is joy coming. I believe he's alluding to the resurrection morning. Many of you probably know the classic sermon by by Reverend Tony Kempola. Years and years ago he he gave a sermon about uh uh uh the fact that uh that on Friday of Easter of Good Friday there's nothing to be happy about Nothing at all to be joyful about. He goes through all the things that were happening on Friday, the feeling of the of the disciples, the pain of watching Jesus, Jesus' mother He talked about the fact that those who crucified Jesus thought they had won victory. And he said his sermon was simply called, It is Friday, but Sunday's coming. Some of you know that sermon, I'm sure. It's fra and we need to have that understanding in our hearts right now that it's Friday, but in a little while Sunday's coming. And then Sunday is the resurrection morning We're waiting now, we have anguish now, but Sunday's coming the time of great joy and happiness because of the resurrection of Christ. And that's true for all of us. And that's my second point. Yeah, we have anguish, but verses 21 to 28 begin begin to talk about the joy. The joy. And in verse 21 we have this illustration He's told them a little in a little while and they didn't understand it. So he says this in verse 21. When a woman is giving birth, she has sorrow because her hour has come, but when she's delivered the baby, she no longer remembers the anguish for joy that a human being has been born into the world. That's his illustration. That's what Jesus says here. That begins to help them understand of what he's talking about. But yes, there's going to be a hard time they're going to have. They didn't realize all that was going to happen. They didn't really realize all that was going to happen. Jesus had said many times, He's going to die He's going to be beaten and taken and die. And they heard it, but they didn't really hear it. And so he gives this illustration and they said that and and the illustration of a woman The pain of childbirth, they get that. They understand that. Jesus, it says in Hebrews about Jesus that for the joy that was set before him He endured the cross, despising the shame. He endured the cross. That was anguish for him. It was painful for him. That's why he's going to go to the garden and say, Lord, if it's any other way, let this cup pass from me. It was a horrible experience physically and emotionally and spiritually for Jesus to go through the agony of a cross. And he relates that to the agony and the pain of a woman in childbirth. And of course, we have five children. 1984. was our first childborn, Joshua. Um I was there, I was in the room. Um I was there when the when the doctor said, oh there's a problem and we have to have an emergency asurgency surgery section in the middle of the night Scary, scary experience, but I was there to hold Terry's hand through that experience. And yes, there was great joy that that morning. I I was so relieved. And I I remember she recovered. Uh uh I remember what one thing one of the memories of the next morning There's that was on a Wednesday night. On that Thursday morning, we always, me and several other guys, we always went to play basketball on a Thursday Thursday morning with some guys. They worked overnight and I worked in the ministry And I remember I couldn't miss that day. I was tired, but I was so happy. I was floating. I couldn't miss. I was so happy that day The Josh was born, Terry was okay, and we'd we'd we we'd dodged this great crisis. The joy of and and then uh let me let me fast forward to nineteen ninety-two Many of you know that we have three kids at one time. The triplets were born our our last our last three kids. And and and I I was there there uh that that that day too. I was there that that day. That was a scheduled uh uh day a time where within one minute three babies came out. I just sat there amazed and but uh one the one thing one of the things I remember about it was they had a a set of nurses and for each of the three And it was like Grand Central Station in that big room. I'll go with GDMC. That's my memory my main memory. But again, uh great joy that after this long labor His hor hor horrent time of uh that it was over. And now we had three healthy babies. But I also want to wanna point I want to jump back to nineteen sixty four I was ten years old. And um I hear amen from the cat. Uh I was I was I was ten years old and my sister Vicky was born And uh my dad, there were she's she's the youngest. My the the other four of us, my three sisters and I, We're in the living room. My dad was there. We were we were I think we were doing book reports. Do we we were doing something? My my mom has to do book reports during the summer My dad was was we were in around the the the living room just kinda waiting and the phone call came that the baby was born, it was a girl, Vicky was fine, my mother was fine, and and that's where it was done. That we he my dad was not in the waiting room. My dad didn't pull out a cigar. I think by then he'd stopped smoking. I don't know. But the the the reality is that back in the day You had the great joy of a of a of a baby being born, but a dad was never not a part of that Not there to be with the word. Many of you, that's history for many of you, but it's it's it's part of of my life. And thinking about this passage, I think about the contrast and and the joy of being able to do to witness the birth uh of of my my children now. Jesus points the disciples. To something that was very normal. The anguish, the fear, the anguish of childbirth, and the temporary pain That's real pain that a woman would feel during childbirth and then the incredible joy that happens afterwards. During this Mother's Day, I want you to think about that. That you are here because your mama went through that kind of pain And had that kind of joy after it. The passage moves on. He talks about The fact that they're going to have the ability to have prayers answered in his name. Look at verses 23. Lost my pan lost my passage here. Here it is. Verses 23 and 24 and 26. Look at what he says. In that day you will ask nothing of me. Truly, truly I say to you, whatever you ask of the Father in my name, he will give it to you. Again, in verses 24 and 26. In my name. I want you to just touch on that very spirit very quickly because What does this mean to pray this? Is that some sort of a slogan that we say just at the end of our prayers to make sure that God will answer it? It's more than that To pray in the name of Jesus is to pray in the authority of Jesus, in the righteousness of Jesus, and is to pray that which is consistent with the will of Jesus for our lives. It has to do with access and has to do with authority and with the consistency to God's will. You know, um many of us Well for probably all of us now, um, in order to to um to get money, I think the banks are close. You've got to go to the ATM machine. You ever go to the ATM machine and you you don't and you put the wrong password in? Well you're not gonna get anything out, are you You have got to put the right password into your machine, or you get nothing. You know, a password is a powerful thing. Amen? Well, in Jesus' name, it's almost like our password. It gives us entry into the riches of heaven. It gives us access to the throne of God. In Jesus' name, he says, is this something that happens if we pray in the authority and the will of Jesus. Gives us access. Gives us the the the great sense of of being in Christ and of Christ being in us and uh Jesus reflects the love of the Father, the Father for us when we have access not only to Jesus to the Father. Ver verse twenty five, uh the there's a contrast He talks about here between the uh he said, I say these things in figures of speech. The hours coming when I will no longer speak to you in figures of speech, will tell you plainly about the Father So he he knows that they he knows they're not understanding totally what he's saying. He's giving them an illustration. He's hoping that they could begin to see what he's talking about. He said the time's coming when I'm uh gonna speak plainly. And I think he's talking about um The 40 days between the resurrection and the coming of the Holy Spirit and the ascension. Um if you remember in Acts chapter one it talk it says that he talked to them of the things of the kingdom of God between the resurrection and and and his going back to his father. And he and he I think he spoke very I think we have from the apostles is much more clear because of that 40-day period. Because here, the night before he died, they still don't understand that much. They're so confused. But they're gonna understand. And he's he's gonna be raised, they're gonna be have joy, and there'll be there'll be a little over a month of him teaching them, explaining to them all the things kind of kind of kind of sewing p putting a ribbon around all the teachings he's done in the gospels that they've heard and reminding them. That's what that meant. That's that this is so that's what's going on. He's going to speak plainly to them So they can have a clean, clear knowledge of him. And then the last word here is the word peace, verses 29 to 33, as the passage winds down. Now look at verse 29. He says, ah, now you're speaking plainly and not using figure speech. Now again, I they think they understand here They think he says, oh now we're they're start- I think the window is open. They're beginning to understand something of what he's saying. And and so he says, now we know that you know all things and do not need anyone to question you This is why we believe that you came from God. So some that they are understanding a little bit more than they knew when the conversation began And they're saying, we know, now we understand, now we believe. So they're saying, okay, Jesus, we got it. We got it now. And look at what Jesus says. This is so like Jesus. Do you now believe? The hour is coming, indeed is, when you'll be scattered. Each to his own home and will leave me alone. He's saying, okay, you believe, but do you really believe? And let me let me say to you, Saints, you believe in Jesus. Do you really believe That's to all of us. What does it mean to believe? Is it just our head when push comes to shove? When we're challenged, when we're fearful When belief is tested, do we really believe? He says, You think you leave me alone? Yet I'm not alone, for the Father is with me But Jesus questions the depth of their belief. Just as I'm sure at times he questions the depth of our belief. And he predicts their scattering, and that's a real thing. This is not the first time in the upper world he's told them they would be scattered. But this is a real thing, and their fear is real. It's more real than they think it is In verse 33, he wraps up the um the entire John 13th through 16th section, this upper room teaching. I think he wraps it up right there. Despite all that will happen, They're given his peace. Look at what he says. I've said these things to you. This is the whole from 13 on. That in me you may have peace. In the world you have tribulation, but take heart. I have overcome the world. Jesus wants them to have his peace. When I read those verses, I thought about the book of Philippians. In Philippians chapter 4 in particular. Now the Philippines the Apostle Paul is writing from a prison. You know, you murder he that's a prison epistle, a prison letter. It's a dirty Roman prison. Uh it's dirty, it's stinky. He's probably he might be chained to somebody or chained to uh uh uh something so he can't get out. He's on house arrest maybe and yet in that book of uh Philippians he says this Chapter 4, verse 4 to 7. Rejoice in the Lord always. And again I will say, rejoice. He's saying that from prison, folks. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is ahead. Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God. And the peace of God. Which surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. So in Philippians 4, those three verses, those four verses, Paul says, Be joyful, because I'm joyful, and know the peace of God, because I know the peace of God. In Paul's experience of anguish in a prison, he can have that joy and peace, and he wants the church He wants you and I, whatever our prison is like, whatever our experience is like, to know that there's peace and joy available to us. Us. It's true for us. There's a picture in the Psalms. There's a very one of the smallest Psalms is Psalm 131. Let me read Psalm 131 to you. It's only three verses. 131. O Lord, my heart is not lifted up, my eyes are not raised too high. I do not occupy myself with things too great and too marvelous for me. But I have calmed and quieted my soul, like a winged child with its mother. Like a winged child is my soul within me. If you never really looked at that song, reflect on it. It's a great Mother's Day song. He he he associates the peace, I don't know if this is David or who it is, he associates the peace in his heart to the peace of a wean child. His arms of his mother. That's the picture. And the last verse. Oh Israel, hope in the Lord from this time forth and forevermore. That's all the psalm is. That's the picture of that song The peace and the joy that's available to each one of us if we would put our hope in Christ each day. So Jesus then proceeds to the to Gethsemane. Many believe that chapter 17 he's beginning to go To Gethsemane. Maybe he's arrived there, maybe he hasn't left. But he's but Gethsemane is his next experience. Chapter 17, which will uh which Brother Eric will look at next week, is the the the priestly prayer of Christ But what we've seen here is Jesus says that there's going to be real anguish, real pain, real sorrow, real hurt, real fear. But in a little while there'll be joy and there'll be peace. That's going to come. And that's available to us even in the darkest of circumstances. Mother's Day should remind us of that. It celebrates the fact that each one of us came to the world through the trauma of childbirth. Somebody took care of us when we could not take care of ourselves. Likewise, in our own discipleship, our own walk with God, we enter this world Through the new birth, through trauma. In fact, Acts 14 says about the script of the Christian life, it is through tribulation they will enter the kingdom of God. Acts 14 And yet, the joy and peace that we have in spite of the tribulation are real. Are we experiencing that joy and that peace right now? During this pandemic, while we sheltered home, with all the boredom maybe, or the frustration, or the busyness, or the weariness, or the sameness, or the routine, Are we experiencing God's peace? Are you fighting for that peace each day? We only do that as we rest in Him. As we rest in Him. Let me close with the lyrics of a song by Amy Grant. Did some of you know this song? An old song. I like old songs, as you know, I'm an old guy. Got a ticket coming home. Wish the officer had known what a day to day has been. Then I stumbled through the door, dropping junk mail on the floor. When will this day end? But then Your letter caught my eye. I brought the hope in me to life, because you know me very well. And I bet you wrote me just to tell me that in a little while, we'll be with the Father. Can't you see him? Smile. In a little while. We'll be home forever. In a little while. We're just here to learn to love him. We'll be home In just a little while. Boy, that letter hit the spot, made me think of all I've got, and all that waits for me. Guess I've known it all day long. Wonder where my thoughts went wrong. When will my heart believe? Because in a little while we'll be with the Father. Can't you see it? So smile. In a little while we'll be home forever. In a little while. We're just here to learn to love him. We'll be home in just a little while That's God's word for us today. Weeping may indeed endure for the night, but joy comes in the morning. It may be Friday, but Sunday's coming. May God enable us by the Spirit, by His indwelling presence. To give us the peace, the joy, the hope, the faith that comes to us as we trust in Christ, as we rest in. Christ. Amen. Let's pray. Lord God, thank you for this reminder from your word that indeed life is not a bed of roses. There's pain, there's sorrow, there's anguish, but that's just a tunnel to what to towards the other side with this great eternal joy, hope, and peace, and life. But help us to remember these truths, even this Mother's Day, as we ponder the wonder of motherhood, which is such a picture to us of the gospel. May we love our mothers and may we love you who've given us mothers. Bless our time. Thank you for your word. Remind us of these truths this week in Jesus' name. Amen.