Well good morning. We'll be continuing on in our study of John's Gospel this morning, and we'll be reading from John chapter 8, verses 31 to the end of the chapter. And as we've said before, John writes his gospel with the purpose of helping us to come to see and know that Jesus is the Christ. And that by believing we may have life in his name. And in all that John says and all that John writes, every section of John he's driving at that point, come and see Jesus, know that he is the Christ, and believe and have life in his name. So if you would, would you please stand as we honor the reading of God's Word this morning? Hear now God's word. So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed him: If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples. And you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. They answered him, We are offspring of Abraham, and have never been enslaved to anyone. How is it that you say you will become free? Jesus answered them, Truly, truly I say to you, everyone who practices sin Is a slave to sin. The slave does not remain in the house forever. The sun remains forever. So if the son sets you free, you will be free indeed. I know that you are offspring of Abraham, yet you seek to kill me because my word finds no place in you. I speak of what I have seen with my father, and you do what you have heard from your father They answered him, Abraham is our father. Jesus said to them, If you were Abraham's children, you would be doing the works that Abraham did. But now you seek to kill me. A man who has told you the truth that I heard from God This is not what Abraham did. You are doing the works your father did. And they said to him, We were not born of sexual immorality. We have one father, even God. Jesus said to them, If God were your father, you would love me. For I came from God, and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but He sent me. Why do you not understand what I say? It is because you cannot bear to hear my word. You are of your father the devil. And your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning and does not stand in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies. But because I tell you the truth, you do not believe me. Which one of you convicts me of sin? If I tell you the truth, why do you not believe me? Whoever is of God hears the words of God. The reason why you do not hear them is that you are not of God The Jews answered him, Are we not right in saying that you are a Samaritan and have a demon? Jesus answered, I do not have a demon, but I honor my father, and you dishonor me. Yet I do not seek my own glory. There is one who seeks it, and he is the judge. Truly, truly, I say to you: if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death. The Jews said to him, Now we know that you have a demon. Abraham died, as did the prophets. Yet you say, if anyone keeps my word, he will never taste death. Are you greater than our father Abraham who died? And the prophets died. Who do you make yourself out to be? Jesus answered, If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me, of whom you say He is our God. But you have not known him. I know him. If I were to say that I did not know him, I would be a liar like you. But I do know him, and I keep his word. Your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. He saw it and was glad. So the Jews said to him, You are not yet fifty years old, and have you seen Abraham? Jesus said to them, Truly, truly I say to you, before Abraham was, I am. So they picked up stones to throw at him, but Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple. This is God's word. Let's pray together Our Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that you are a God who has spoken, not leaving us to grasp in the darkness to figure out who you are, but that you have revealed yourself to us and most supremely revealed yourself to us in your Son. We pray, Lord, that as we turn to your word, you would speak to us, help us to understand your word, to know how it ought to apply to our lives. Lord, we know many of us are here, disrupted and disturbed this morning, and we pray that you would comfort us. And for those of us who come comfort and complacent, Lord, would you disrupt us? We pray that you would speak to us as we need to hear from you. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. There seems to be a desire often to clean up the Bible To smooth out some of what we think might be the rough edges and make it more palatable to us, to be able to receive it, in order to not be offensive to us. We do this with so many different things, and I think very often we find ourselves trying to do this with Jesus. We talk about Jesus, and our world talks about Jesus, and we want to speak of him as being kind and compassionate and tolerant. All of those things are true. Jesus is kind and compassionate. It's true to recognize that, but it's important also to see that Jesus is holy and righteous. A God who hates sin and will not tolerate it. You see All these things are true of Jesus. He is kind, and yet it's also important to see that Jesus at times says things that are wildly offensive. They were offensive 2,000 years ago and they're offensive today in 2019. Passages like this remind us that if your Jesus never says hard things, you might have the wrong Jesus. The things he says in this passage are some of the most offensive things you could ever imagine saying to a Jewish person living in Israel. And the thing that makes them extra hard and maybe even extra offensive is that he's he's not speaking to people who openly reject him. No, he's speaking to people who claim to believe in him. To put it another way, he's speaking to church people. And the message he has to tell them this morning is: false faith can look real, so we must examine ourselves to see if our faith is genuine. And I just want to suggest this morning four ways that we see the difference between true faith and false faith. We see that true faith leads to perseverance. True faith leads to freedom, true faith leads to obedience, and true faith leads to life. Let's look first at verse 31. We see that true faith perseveres While false faith fades away. Now the the background and the passages we've been going through recently in John's Gospel have Jesus in Jerusalem at the Feast of Boods to celebrate the feast And he's been teaching at the feast that he is the fulfillment of the feast, and everything it looked forward to, and all of the promises, that he is the one who has come to fulfill them. And he's pointing people to have faith in him as the only proper response. And in the end of the passage that we looked at last week, we're told in verse 30 that as he was saying these things, many believed in him. And this group of those who believed in him is the same group that Jesus begins speaking to in verses thirty-one to the end of the chapter. And it becomes clear as he speaks to them that they may have believed in some sense, but their faith is not genuine. We run into this even earlier in John's Gospel, all the way back in chapter 2, where people were responding positively to him in light of the signs and miracles he was doing. And John tells us that Jesus, on his part, did not entrust himself to them, because he knew all people and needed no one to bear witness about man, for he himself knew what was in man. And so everything that Jesus is going to say in these following verses is that he's going to expose their false faith for what it is. And so he says in verse 31 and 32. If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples, and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. You see, Jesus is saying to them, You're excited about who I am and what I've come to do. You think you believe in me? But are you truly my disciple? Are you genuinely following me? Well, here is the test. Do you abide in my word? Do you hold fast to my teaching? Do you remain committed to what I teach? The emphasis here is on obedience, and we'll come back to that in a few moments. But for the moment, I just want us to focus on this word abide, to remain. In Jesus' word. The emphasis is on perseverance because true faith endures and false faith fades away. When I was younger, somehow I convinced my parents that I was ready to learn the guitar, and I guess I was convincing enough to to convince them to get me a guitar for Christmas one year And when I got it, I was so excited I wanted to play it. To this day, I could maybe play you a few notes of smoke on the water, and that's about as far as it's going to get I had a temporary excitement that quickly faded away never to return. Friends, some do this with Jesus. We can see people who come and are passionate about Christ, who are consistent to attend church and attend Bible studies, and it starts to look like they really get it. And then all of a sudden, without realizing it, you notice that they've disappeared. There's no lasting change and their excitement fades away. Now it's important for us to recognize that we do not have the ability to judge anyone's heart. We can't see and know without any doubt where anyone's faith really is. Some have real, genuine faith and will go through times of doubt and difficulty and struggles. May walk away from the church and the faith for years and years and then return. This might be your story this morning. And we we praise God for the way that He works in people's lives over time. And so it's a reminder for us always to pray for those who we know who are struggling in their faith. Those who have professed faith in the past, but may not do so now. But at the other side, it's important to recognize that the New Testament is also clear. Not every appearance of faith is genuine. John says in 1 John 2, they went out from us, but they were never of us. For if they had been of us, they would have continued Jesus himself tells the parable of the soils as the sower went out to scatter the seed, and it falls in all different kinds of places and only one proved to truly receive the word and go and bear fruit. The church on this side of heaven is a mixed group. And so we need to remind ourselves that true faith perseveres while false faith fades away, and must seek to persevere in the faith as God gives us grace to do so. Secondly, we see true faith leads to freedom, false faith to slavery. Jesus continues on, he says. If you abide in my word, then you will truly be my disciple, and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. You see, Jesus isn't speaking of truth as some kind of secret knowledge, but of the glory and character of God that's revealed in Christ. The truth is not some abstract information. No, the truth is a person, the Lord Jesus Christ. In Hebrews chapter 1, we're told that in many ways and in many times God spoke to the fat to our fathers the prophets. But in these last days he has spoken in his son. And John has been driving home this point that Jesus is the true revelation of God. And in chapter one, he says, the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory. Glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace. And truth. And Jesus later on in chapter 14 will say, I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except by me. You see, to know the truth is to understand the gospel, the message of salvation that's revealed in Christ, and to have a relationship with the one who is truth. And this actually helps us to understand the relationship between verse thirty-one and thirty-two. and knowing the truth. Because to know Christ is not merely to understand and accept facts about him, but to have faith in him. And it includes a basic commitment to follow him, to submit to him as our Lord, and a moral commitment to follow his teachings. Not that obedience earns us the right to know God, right? Salvation is from grace alone. Through faith alone, in Christ alone. So it's not that we earn anything by our obedience, and yet there needs to be a posture of what Augustine calls faith seeking understanding. Not standing in judgment over Christ, evaluating him from the outside, but submitting to him as the Lord of all creation, and only then hoping to understand who he is. To know the truth is to have a relationship with a person, to be united to Christ by the Holy Spirit through faith. And this and only this is what leads to true freedom. But in order to experience this freedom, we need to see the reality of our slavery and our need for freedom. And that's the problem that the Jews in this passage have with Jesus. They almost respond by saying, How dare you? We are offspring of Abraham and have never been slaves to anyone. How can you possibly say that we could become free? Now it's important to recognize there they're not speaking of political freedom. That would be ridiculous. They were slaves to Egypt, slaves to Babylon, slaves to Assyria, slaves to Uh Persia, now in this passage, they're enslaved to Rome. Right? So they're not speaking of political freedom, but they're speaking more in a spiritual and religious sense A sense of having privilege as God's people. See, a Jew who understood the Old Testament would say true slavery is fundamentally spiritual This is what Psalm 135 teaches us. It's idolatry. The idols of the nations are silver and gold, the work of human hands. They have mouths, but do not speak. They have eyes but do not see. They have ears but do not hear. Nor is there any breath in their mouth. And here's the key. Those who make them become like them. So do all who trust in them. You see, the j these these people are saying, even if we're politically enslaved, we're still free because we are the people of God. We don't worship idols like the other nations do. We are God's chosen people. See, Jesus answers, he says, you might think you're better than the Gentiles, than the pagans who worship false gods, but in reality, you're no different. Everyone, Jews and Gentiles, everyone who practices sin is a slave to sin So to practice sin is the idea of of living in sin, continuing in sin. It's not to suggest that in any way we can become perfect in this life. The Bible is clear that that's not possible But it's the idea of the pattern of your life is not one of seeking to obey God, but seeking to go your own way and living in sin. You see, sin shows that we are slaves, and sin also actively enslaves us. Sin is like a rope that every time you move it gets tighter and tighter until it kills you. We see this in our own lives, don't we? As we go down a path of sin, it begins to get easier to commit each time. And it begins to be harder and harder to resist. But it's not just that. We also find ourselves pushing the envelope more and more So we find ourselves doing something that we could never have imagined. Sin is a cruel master that is never satisfied, always wanting more. We see the devastating effects of sin everywhere in our world. The love of money, addictions to gambling, drugs, alcohol, sex, pornography. There are so many ways that sin enslaves us. So many ways we see lives lost, families destroyed, people abused and victimized, all because we have become enslaved to sin. Friends, do not treat sin lightly. It's like playing with fire and expecting not to be burned. But Jesus is actually saying here that the problem is much deeper than that. Because your behavior actually flows from your heart. The problem is that by nature we are slaves to sin, in rebellion against the God who made us. That we worship and serve the created things rather than the creator. See, Jesus is saying that by nature you do not have the ability to choose God, to live for Him, to serve Him, to please Him, to honor and love Him. We do not have the moral ability to trust and believe in him and even to have faith of our own accord. By nature, we are slaves with no hope of freeing ourselves. The only hope is for the Holy Spirit to change our hearts, to come and take out our heart of stone and give us a heart of flesh, to bring us from spiritual death into spiritual life, transferring us out of darkness into his marvelous light. To renew our wills, to make us actually desire to live for God and to give us faith so that we might trust Him. And friends, all of this comes to us in Christ. He's the one who lived for us, who died for us, the one who satisfied every requirement of the law, and then died in our place to pay for our sin. To remove sin's penalty completely. And then he's the one who rose from the dead, ascended into heaven, and poured out his spirit upon us to go and apply the salvation that he purchased for his people. He's given us his Spirit to free us from sin's power that we might be no longer slaves to sin. This is what Paul talks about in Romans 6. Thanks be to God that you who were once slaves of sin. Have become obedient to the heart, to the standard of teaching to which you were committed, and have been set free from sin and have become slaves to righteousness. You see the picture of God bringing a sinner into spiritual life and converting someone is we are no longer slaves of sin, but servants of Jesus. You see, the important thing to understand here is that true freedom is not just about being able to do whatever you want to do. True freedom is about being able to do what you want and being able to want what you should. And only true saving faith can offer this freedom. Friends, the call of this passage is to come to Jesus, to trust in Him, to see your condition for what it is as slavery to sin. And to come to the one who offers freedom. Because he promises that he will cancel the record of sin that stands against you and make you pure and spotless in God's sight He promises it to give you his spirit to break the power of sin in your life, to change you so that you become more like him. Friends, let the chains be loosed, and rest in the promise that whoever the Son sets free will be free indeed. Third, we see that true faith leads to obedience, while false faith leads to disobedience. You see, true discipleship, genuine faith shows itself in obedience. That's what Jesus meant when he says, if you abide in my word, then you will truly be my disciples. Again, not that obedience earns anything for us. We're saved completely by God's grace alone. As Paul would say in Ephesians, we're not saved by good works, we're saved for good works. In order that we might live the way God called us to. Obedience is the result or the fruit of genuine saving faith. And this is only what makes sense because, as we've seen, we're slaves to sin by nature. And this is the point in the following verses. Jesus is saying, I know you're physically descended from Abraham. But not spiritually. Because you don't do what Abraham did. You see, the apple doesn't fall far from the tree. Just like people have physical traits in common with their biological fathers So you should have spiritual traits in common with your spiritual father. Like father, like son. But you seek to kill me. So you must have a different father. The Jews respond by saying, we were not born of sexual immorality. They don't fully get where Jesus is going. We're not illegitimate children. Likely this is an insult. Jesus, we're not like you. We know all the stories about Mary and the carpenter. Our Father is God Jesus is saying, if God was your Father, you would love me. Friends, you love Jesus. Not just believing in him that he might save you from your sin, but loving him with all your heart. If God was your father, you would love me because I resemble my father. I speak of what I've seen from him. I was sent from him. I came to do his will, not my own. Jesus goes on, he says, this isn't that difficult to understand. It's not that I'm not being clear. The problem is that you cannot bear to hear my word. You see, friends, unbelief is fundamentally not a head problem, but a heart problem. It's that we suppress the truth in unrighteousness and blind ourselves to the truth of God's word He says, you should love me and receive my word, which is truth, but you can't because you're a slave to sin. Here it goes on and Pulls off the gloves and says, You are of your father the devil, and you do his bidding. Notice here, Jesus believes that Satan is real and that he has power over people's lives. He goes on to describe and says that Satan is a murderer and a liar from the beginning, the father of lies. It's echoing back Genesis 3, where Satan comes into the garden and what does he do? He deceives Adam and Eve. And through that deception, they fall into sin and death enters the world. He is the original liar and the original murderer. Every time that we speak lies, we are speaking Satan's natural language. They reject the truth that he speaks and they seek to kill him just like the devil. It's fascinating to see. He says it's not in spite of the fact that he speaks the truth, it's because he speaks the truth that they reject him. And cannot bear it. They hate the truth and are opposed to him. God's people respond to God's word, and the fact that they are not responding to his word shows that they are not of God. I think what we are meant to see from these verses is to step back and ask ourselves the question, who is your father? If someone were to follow you out these doors when the service ends and follow you back home and follow you around all week attending every meeting you attend, listening in on every conversation that you have, watching what you watch, listening to what you listen to. What would they think? The sad reality is that studies are showing that there is little difference. Between how Christians and non-Christians live and act in our daily lives. Not just in issues of sexuality and things in the culture, but even in our general priorities. Friends, we have forsaken holiness in order to pursue the American dream. We orient our lives around seeking comfort, success, wealth. We orient our lives around our children and their activities. We become so busy living for ourselves that we simply have no time to live for God No time for the Sabbath. No time for corporate worship. No time for prayer, evangelism, discipleship, no time for works of mercy and service. Jesus says, if you were God's children, you would love me. And if you love me, you will keep my commandments. Following Christ and obeying his word so often means for us choosing differently than the world around us. Choosing differently how we spend our time, what activities we engage in, making room in our schedules for the things that really matter. Choosing differently how we spend our money. Choosing differently what we listen to and what we watch, and choosing differently what we embrace as good and true and beautiful compared with the culture around us But the hard question that this passage forces us to ask is: if our lives look no different from the world around us, could it be that it's because our faith isn't real? We will never reach perfection in this life. We will all continue to struggle with sin until we take our last breath. And our obedience does not save us. But if we have true saving faith, It must affect how we live. True faith leads to obedience, and so we must pursue the holiness, without which we will not see the Lord. Fourth, we see true faith leads to life, and false faith leads to death. As Jesus continues to teach, it's interesting to see that the opposition increases They start with kind of snide comments and then move into outright insults. You're a Samaritan. You have a demon. You might not realize that, but those are fighting words. So to call a a Jewish man a Samaritan was about the worst thing you could say of him. Samaritans were uh Descended from both Jews and the Assyrians when the Assyrians came and conquered the northern kingdom. And so they were not purely Jewish and they ended up developing some some different theological trajectories and they had all kinds of differences between them and they hated each other. Jews have no dealings with Samaritans. And to say that that he has a demon, yes, it's to say that he's crazy, but they also believe in demons and in their real power. We're not of the devil, you're of the devil. But Jesus honors his father, he says, and you dishonor me. And in dishonoring me, you dishonor God himself But it's interesting that Jesus makes this point. He says, I'm not seeking my own glory. I'm here simply to obey my Father, and it's my Father who glorifies me. There's only one who seeks my glory, and the thing you need to realize about him is that he is the judge. As we've seen, they're slaves to sin. And even earlier in John, he's told them a couple times: you will die in your sin. But he's saying, listen, even after they've said all these things to him, he's still holding out the hope and saying, there's a way to avoid judgment. Keep my word, follow and trust in me, and you will never see death. He's speaking about eternal life, but again, throughout John, Jesus is speaking at this level, and everyone hears him down here. They don't fully understand what he's talking about. And so they say, now we know you're out of your mind. Never taste death. Abraham died. So did the prophets. Are you saying that you are greater than Abraham? Who do you claim to be? And that that's the ironic part, right? It's not about who Jesus claims to be. He doesn't seek his own glory. It's not about who he makes himself to be, it's who the Father declares him to be. Jesus didn't come to seek a name for himself. The Father seeks his glory. That's an astounding claim to divinity, that God Himself would seek Jesus glory. Jesus does the will and the work of his Father, not his own, and it's the Father who says at Jesus baptism, This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased. God, the very one that they appeal to as their father is the one who sent Christ and declared Christ to be his son. Unlike these Jewish people, Jesus knows his Father because he was at his side from all eternity. He came from his father and he's getting ready to go back to him And he keeps his word, giving perfect obedience to everything that the Father gave him to do. He even says, What charge do you lay against me? No one can convict him of sin. He's completely perfect in every way. And the implication is therefore you should receive his word as truth. But then Jesus takes it up a notch. Not only do I know the Father, but Abraham, I'm the one he hoped in. He rejoiced to see my day. And he saw it and was glad. You see, what Jesus is saying there is: we think of Hebrews 11 and the list of Old Testament saints who are described by their amazing faith. Abraham is listed as one of them. And in verse 13, we're told, These all died in faith, not having received the things promised. But having seen them and greeted them from afar, and having acknowledged that they were strangers and exiles on the earth. Paul brings in the same idea when he says in Galatians 3 that the gospel was preached to Abraham. When God told him that in you shall all nations be blessed. You see, if we read all the way back in the book of Genesis, we're told that God enters into a covenant with Abraham and makes him special promises. One of those promises is that he would have many descendants, as many as the sands on the beach and as many as the stars in the sky. And as you read through Genesis, it's it's So difficult for Abraham. He's constantly wondering, God, when are you going to give me what you promised? What sign can you give me to help me to trust in you? He had to wait years and years to receive what God had promised. And when he turns a hundred years old, his son Isaac was born. But only Isaac, not a multitude. And they name him Isaac, which means laughter. Rejoicing because he knew and trusted in God's promises, knowing that through Isaac's line the Redeemer would come. You see, Jesus is saying, when Abraham rejoiced, looking at his new little baby boy in the face, he saw me. Jesus is the fulfillment of the promise to Abraham. But again, Jesus speaks up here and they listen down here. They completely miss it. See, their thinking goes something like this. If Abraham saw Jesus, then Jesus must have seen Abraham. But Abraham's been dead for about 2,000 years at this point. And Jesus, you're not even 50. They're just picking a round number. Jesus is much closer to to his early 30s, but you're not even 50. So what gives? Jesus responds, Before Abraham was, I am. You see, the Jews would have understood God's special covenant name Yahweh, the one who is. I am who I am, even as we read in our preparation this morning. God says to Moses, I am who I am. Say this to the people of Israel, I am has sent me to you The God, the Lord, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, has sent into you. This is my name forever, and thus I am to be remembered throughout all my generations. It's a name that points to God's pre-existence. The fact that he is the infinite, eternal, unchangeable God. It points to his faithfulness and his steadfast love, that he is truth, and he is a God who is trustworthy. You see, Jesus is saying, Not only have I seen Abraham, I created him. I am the God of Abraham and of Isaac and of Jacob. You see, it's hard to imagine a more explicit and obvious claim. to be divine, to be not only a God, but the one true living God, the Holy One of Israel, Yahweh Himself. And they understand exactly what he's saying, which is why they pick up stones to kill him. Because stoning was the punishment for blasphemy. Now there's supposed to be a trial, not just some kind of mob mentality that takes over. But that was the punishment laid out for blasphemy. When Jesus dies, it is very clear that he is crucified for claiming to be God and for no other reason. But this is not his time. No one's gonna take his life from him. He lays it down of his own accord. And now is not the time. And so he hides himself in a crowd and leaves the temple. And I think scholars are right when they see a deeper meaning. In that language of Jesus departing from the temple, echoing Ezekiel and the glory cloud of God departing from the temple and unfaithful Israel. Jesus promises eternal life to all who will receive him, because he is the author of life The Savior who has come to redeem us. You see, Scripture tells us that it's appointed for a man to die once, and then comes judgment. See, the Bible is clear, friends, there is a death greater than physical death. Spiritual death, eternal separation from the loving presence of God. Not that you would cease to exist, but that you would exist forever under God's wrath and judgment Described by Jesus himself as weeping and gnashing of teeth, a place of darkness and despair. Friends, this is what you and I deserve. By nature, we are enemies of God, no different than the people in this passage who try to kill Jesus. When Christ asserts his authority, our natural response is to pick up stones Yet Christ freely laid down his life to pay for our sin, to die in our place, to give us eternal life. You see, true saving faith sees Jesus as God Himself Who became man in order to save us. And it trusts in him alone for eternal life. Friends, there's a death that's worse than death, but the good news of the gospel is there's also a life that's greater than life. Life as you were meant to live it. Life with no tears, no suffering, no pain, no death, life with no cancer, no anxiety, no depression, no mental illness, life with no broken relationships, no violence, oppression, or racism. Life with no poverty or brokenness. Life with no sin at all. Where the kingdom of this world becomes the kingdom of our God and of his Christ, and he shall reign forever and ever And friends, the offer of the gospel is that we get to be in his presence, gazing upon his beauty, worshiping his holy name, always learning to know him better Learning more about him and yet never exhausting all that he is in his infinite glory and majesty. Friends, all this is yours through faith in Christ. Because true faith leads to life. What Jesus says in this passage can be some hard words to hear, but they're important for us. He makes it clear that not all faith is equal. Some faith is temporary and fleeting, and false faith can look real. So we must examine and test ourselves to see if our faith is genuine Do we have true saving faith, the faith that leads to perseverance, to freedom from sin, to obedience, to life? Friends, if you're here this morning, And you do not have true faith, then come to Christ. Look to him alone, the one who has lived and died in your place. Who has fulfilled every requirement that was laid upon you? There is nothing left to do but to rest in him Come with your doubts. Come with your fears, with your insecurities. Come crying, I believe. Help my unbelief. I promise you, you will find rest for your soul. Jesus will not turn you away. If you're here this morning and you are in Christ, you have real saving faith, and rest and rejoice in the hope that you have in Him and pursue a life of radical obedience Out of your love for him, out of gratitude for his salvation. Abide in his word and show the world that you truly are his disciple. Let's pray together. Oh God, we come before you humbly acknowledging our desperate need for you. We need you every hour. We cannot do anything apart from you. And yet we thank you that you stoop down to us, to our level, to speak to us words of grace and life. And we pray that you would continue to strengthen those of us who are in the faith and bring to faith those who are not. And we pray that you would help us as we seek to live lives of obedience to you day in and day out. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen.