Bibles to First Corinthians chapter four. If you're using the Red Pew Bibles, you can turn to page one one nine six, one thousand one hundred and ninety-six We're gonna be reading from verse fourteen and following. This particular section, Paul speaks about living as a humble servant of Christ. He writes this section in order to to confront the Corinthians, not because he wants to to shame them. In fact he led a number of them to the Lord, but As a concerned father, so to speak, he writes because some had become proud and self-serving and were infecting the congregation And so he reminds them to imitate him and to serve humbly the Lord Jesus Christ who has served us. Please stand as we read from the Word of God. First Corinthians chapter four, verse fourteen. Here the inspired word of God spoken by the Holy Spirit through the Apostle Paul, who writes I am not writing this to shame you, but to warn you. As my dear children, even though you have 10,000 guardians in Christ. You do not have many fathers. For in Christ Jesus I became your father through the gospel. Therefore I urge you to imitate me. For this reason I am sending to you Timothy, my son whom I love, who is faithful in the Lord. He will remind you of my way of life in Christ Jesus. Which agrees with what I teach everywhere in every church. Some of you have become arrogant, as if I were not coming to you. But I will come to you very soon, if the Lord is willing, and then I will find out not only how these arrogant people are talking, but what power they have. For the kingdom of God is not a matter of talk, but of power. What do you prefer? Shall I come to you with a whip? Or in love and with a gentle spirit. May the Lord minister to our heart this morning. Please be seated. In verse sixteen, the apostle Paul says to his listeners, I urge you to imitate me. In verse 17, he said, he is sending Timothy, who by this time was probably already at Macedonia, I'm sending Timothy to remind you of my way of life. Paul wanted the Corinthians to take note of his way of life and then to imitate what they saw in him, the apostle. What did they see in the Apostle Paul? Were they to study his life and remember it? You can see in a person a couple of things. You can see someone who takes Or you can see someone who gives. In the Apostle Paul, you would find not a taker, but a giver, a servant of Jesus Christ. So according to uh an article printed in the USA Today, uh last year there was an airplane accident somewhere out in the southwest uh in and around the Texas area and there was a a chase of airplanes actually one airplane chasing uh or being chased by three others. The three chasing were from U. S. Customs And they were chasing a plane carrying some drugs and f it ended in a crash. The first plane with the drugs crashed in a baseball field somewhere. And the pilot died. But not immediately. He lay in the wreckage for a while and people had saw the wreck, seen the wreck, and they ran up to it. Some ran and saw the man lying there, but instead they just grabbed bundles of drugs and ran away. Some other people forcibly came along or came along and tried to minister and helped the pilot I suppose life is always going to be that way, isn't it? That there are going to be two kinds of people. Those who are interested only in grabbing something so that they can spend it on their own selfish selves. or use it for their own gain, be it good or bad. And those who are would simply rush to help and to serve somehow to someone who's in need. The Apostle Paul, if he were here this morning, I would encourage him to ask you the question, are you Which kind of person are you? The kind that grabs something for himself, or the kind that would rush to minister? Paul says he would have us to imitate him, to study his way of life, and that's why he sent Timothy to remind the Corinthians what kind of lifestyle he led when he was among the Corinthians. What kind of man he was, how he thought, and the way he acted. How did the apostle think of himself? In the chapter four, look what he says as he just opens the chapter. This was his attitude as he considered himself And he wanted others to view him this way. Verse 4, chapter 4, verse 1. Men ought to regard us as servants of Christ. As servants of Christ. Paul not only opened chapter 4, reminded them that he was Christ's servant, but a number of his letters opened the very same way. He says, for example, in Romans 1, Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus, set apart for the gospel of God. He said the same similar thing in Philippians 1 and Titus 1. He says Paul is a servant of God, an apostle of Christ for the faith of God's elect. Paul, his image of himself was as a servant. I asked you this morning, as you think about your own image and your own the way you feel and think about yourself, is it primarily, initially, as a servant of Christ? A number of God's leaders were so much focused on Christ that Upon writing their letters, they reminded their listeners that they were simply servants of God. And they were addressing them as servants. Jude, James, and Peter all opened their letters. Reminding their listeners that they've come as servants to say something, as a servant of God. The Old Testament prophets, one of the favorite titles For the prophets. My one of my favorite titles is uh what God calls the nine times in the Old Testament. In Jeremiah forty-four, for example, God says again and again, I sent my servant my servants, the prophets. God viewed his his ministers, his prophets as servants, and just as Paul himself uh viewed uh his own life and just simply as a A be a vessel to be serving God. Servant of God. It's difficult for us, however, to uh to keep that image in our mind because it's it's we live in a consuming society. It's just everybody is a consumer. And in fact that's how they they advertise. It's all just so that we can think and act and Behave as consumers. What is a consumer? Dictionary in Webster's dictionary says a consumer is a person who uses goods or services to satisfy his own needs rather than to resell them or produce other goods with them. Consumer is someone who uses goods or services for his own needs, uh as opposed to reselling the things they have or producing other goods. I would say we're more as Christians we are to be think more like producers and people who are, if you will, reselling things. Anything we have, we're trying to produce more as opposed to just receiving it all unto ourselves so that we can enjoy it. Certainly God wants us to be Christian so we can enjoy the Christian life. But he goes far beyond that. It's to serve. to to ask ourselves, what can I produce for Jesus Christ today? How can I serve him today? Paul's image of himself primarily with as a servant A definition of a servant is pretty simple. It's a person working in the service of another. You, if you know Jesus Christ as your Savior, you are working in the service of another. And so when you wake up in the morning, we can say to ourselves, Lord, how can I serve you today? But often I must admit, I don't say that. I usually say, What do I need to do today? Or what you know, what can I gain today? I find it in my own free time even. I find it's I finally you get a window of a minute or ten minutes or a an hour or something and you You say to yourself, you find yourself choosing different categories of how you could spend this time and rarely for me, I I must confess, do I think What can I do to go out of my way to surprise somebody as a as a doing a great service for Christ, to help somebody, do something nice unexpectedly as a service to them. Usually I'm thinking Well maybe I can sneak over to Sports Authority now or maybe I can uh you know finally get turned on my golf channel here. I've got a breathing minute minute here to breathe. I'm thinking more about or looking for a good sale or something But it wasn't for a sale for somebody else, it's for me. You know, something so I can get something for me. And I don't I don't think I'm a whole lot different than most people. Many And I don't want to say that we're all selfish and greedy. I think there's a little bit of that in each of us who know the Lord. And we need to fight against that though. Uh we're not here to to spend uh and to uh consume on ourselves primarily, although the Lord wants all of our needs met. He wants us uh to serve him. And to seek first his kingdom and the things we need and uh they will be given to us along the way. Paul not only uh thought of himself as a servant, but uh he uh acted like a servant Uh in fact in 1 Corinthians 9 27 it's clear that he had a difficult time preaching to people with a clear conscience if he actually wasn't living the Christian life, serving God. 1 Corinthians 9 27 he says He talks about, you know, living out the Christian life in service to the Lord, and he says, quote, so that after I have preached to others, I myself will not be disqualified. Paul knew that it was difficult to deliver a message to somebody else to call him to serve Christ if he himself had not been serving. He would be disqualified. uh from the prize that awaits when the Lord can say, Well done, good and faithful servant. Paul, whether he was in jail, which he often was, or whether he was free, he was finding ways to serve Christ. Every day Paul tried to serve Christ in whatever way he could. In Galatians 6 10 he says these words, listen, he says, as we have opportunity. Translated as you have opportunity. Let us do good to all people, especially to those who belong to the family of believers Or similarly in Ephesians 5, be careful then how you live, not as unwise, but as wise. And he adds, making the most of every opportunity. Now when we think about serving Christ, there are many opportunities. There are the the the informal opportunities And the and the formal opportunities. The informal is what uh T. M. Moore, president of the Chesapeake Seminary, told us about several years ago at one of our retreats. And uh he said, Really, you know, sometimes you ask people how are you serving the Lord, he said, Well, I'm not really doing that. much right now, you know. Not teaching any Sunday school, I'm not singing in the choir, I'm not just really and and we as we were all reminded, you know. You serve the Lord every day. You either do a good job or a bad job at it. Twenty-four hours a day, just being yourself wherever you live, wherever your job is, however many children you may or may ha not have, whether you're married or not Whether you're in school, it doesn't make any whatever you do. You are a servant of Christ if you know Jesus Christ. That's your identity. Informally, are you living like a servant of Christ? Colossians 3. 23 puts it this way: whatever you do, whatever you do, work at it with all your heart as working for the Lord, not for men. When you go to your job, when you go to your school, do you sit there and you say, I'm a representative, I'm a servant of Christ. I represent him and I serve him. How can how is this going to refle be reflected? How is it going to impact the kingdom? Now we don't ask these questions all the time. But i but We should be able to check ourselves at any given moment. And we say, is this going to give glory to God? Is it going to serve his purposes in any way? And if it isn't, maybe we shouldn't be coming from that angle. Maybe we need to adjust some things. Sometimes it may need to be we repenting of certain choices we're making. Say, I'm not going to go that way. I'm going to move this way. Servants of Christ, acting informally as servants of Christ, whatever you do, working at it with all our hearts, as if we were working for the Lord Himself. And he were right there with us. Saying, Yeah, I like what you're doing here. Or I I don't think you ought to do that. And then there of course there's the the formal ways which we serve the Lord. And we can do that through religious activities, church activities, teaching the Sunday school or Or uh standing up on a given Sunday in the month and giving your testimony, you may be called to say, Will you speak for three to five minutes, sharing how the Lord has blessed you in your life? You formally be commit yourself to something uh that's going to build up the congregation of Christ, uh or whether it's working in the nursery. And uh for some of us uh we may not be able to take on a lot of formal activities because Lord maybe has given you uh a new baby and and that's a major responsibility or a huge family or maybe you're a single parent and you really don't have a lot of opportunities to do formal activities Though in some formal activities you may commit. It can deduce things certain seasons or are are very defined limited uh blocks of time that you can give. And I pray the Lord uh would all have us examine ourselves whether we can do things formally in the church church because we need to serve. Someone's got to run children's church right now. It the church doesn't run without someone serving formally and sign your name and committing themselves. And Bible studies don't occur without people leading the studies. And uh prayer meetings don't happen, though people come and serve and the Lord through their prayers, etcetera, etcetera. Uh but you may not be able to do very much in terms of that way. Paul did a lot formally and of course informally. Paul uh wrote at least thirteen New Testament letters. He says Uh that uh he went on several missionary journeys, three or four missionary journeys, leading numerous people to Christ. He uh established the church of Corinth, spending about a year and a half there. uh and ministering to them in a big way and not to mention his miracles. As as an apostle was able to do miracles in the name of Christ and give Christ the credit. And we may be able to do very little compared to the apostle Paul's formal activities. But we may be able to do some small things in a small, quiet way for the Lord that can have a profound impact. Uh and uh I I just say this to you, don't underestimate whatever little thing you can do, informally or formally Uh as if it's done as a servant of Christ in faith, the Lord can use it to to save lives. And I I share this example with you. Uh the Craig Larson uh uh told about a story in World War Two, another airplane story. Uh but there was uh an airplane uh called the uh Tondaleo, I believe it's pronounced. Tondaleo was the uh airplane of men flying over Nazi Germany, Second World War, and flying over the city of Kassel. And they were on a special mission with this B-17 bomber. And the bomber was shot. at by anti aircraft fire. And they struck the gas tank with one of these anti aircraft uh shells or bullets, whatever you call 'em. And uh the plane had to be landed. Fortunately the the didn't explode up. Normally, you know, when these shells uh strike the uh gas tank it's going to explode, throw an impact and blow the plane the plane to smithere smithereen's. And the uh the men were just astonished that the plane didn't blow up and they thought, Man, this is really lucky here. Hit the gas tank, it didn't blow up. And so this guy was was part of the crew. He um went down the next day to get the shell. He said, Can I have the you know, the b bullet or whatever they call it, in missile inside the tank, is can I get that? I'd like to have that for a souvenir. Says I can't believe that happened. Because I know there's a little explosive device in these and they blow up when it hit when it hit And uh and the guy said to him, he said, Well, he says, We're dismantling the shell right now. In fact, we found eleven shells that didn't blow up. They all hit the gas tanks. They're still in there. He said, Well, I don't know if it's so much luck. They started looking inside and there was nothing they got most of the shells open and there was nothing in any of the shells. And uh except for one shell. There was something inside written in Czech. Czechoslovakian I guess would be another way of putting it. But uh It's interesting that some of you know that Hitler when he had had the uh much of his ammunition made, bullets or whatever he was making to use in warfare, he would uh take some people run it take the Polish people or Czechoslovakians and say You work in the factories and you make my ammunition. They would draft you right into Hitler's army, whether you've agreed with the war or not. They latter get killed. Some people resisted, but some people were forced to make the ammunition. And so uh somebody made some shells and and that's and eleven of them struck into these eleven shells found in the airplane. Men should have been killed. But they weren't. The shells, they opened them up, all of them were empty except one. And the shell inside of it written in check was a a note. The note said, This is all we can do for you now. This is all we can do for you now. Whoever was working in that factory couldn't do much, but they could play a little part in saving lives. So they left out one small part of the shell. Maybe you can't do much. We're in warfare. a spiritual warfare. And maybe you can't really contribute in much in a formal way. And maybe something you can leave undone, or something you can add, just a little thing, that may help the Lord can use to save lives Who knows the power of a small word of kindness? Who knows the power of a smile, of the right word spoken in the in the right season? Who knows the power of of a phone call? Uh when someone is just about to take take their lives and somebody calls, you hear occasionally hear a testimony about that. Somebody called me or I saw this thing, somebody said this on the radio or the television. And just when I needed it the most. It wasn't much, but it was enough. Or who knows uh what uh an invitation to church or Bible study could change somebody's life. Just a small invitation Serving the Lord small ways. Paul wants us to serve the Lord, uh imitate him, serving him. informally, certainly, in every way, and formally in whatever way we can. And also to do it humbly. And that was the problem with the Corinthians. Their service to the Lord, some of them was not a humble service. In fact, had become quite arrogant. In verses 18 and 19, look at what Paul says. Some of you have become arrogant. As you know, they had this problem with little groups. groups were growing up and some were felt they were of Apollos or some were from somebody else or I'm of Paul, I'm one of his followers now and you're not in the right group, etcetera, etcetera. And uh But some of them actually didn't like the Apostle Paul. Apparently, if you read the letters, the first and second Corinthians, you'll find that um He had to fight to reestablish his credibility there. Even though he had led a number of them to the Lord, his apostleship was being called into question. Some people were undermining undermining his authority. And in fact, in verse 18 it says, Some of you have become arrogant as if I were not coming to you. Some thought he wouldn't come at all. And there could therefore they could just say whatever they wanted about him or minimize his uh ministry, feeling that well, he can't really speak that well anyway. Uh you know, let's look at verse look in verse um Look how he stresses talking in verse nineteen and twenty. He says, These ar arrogant people were I'm gonna find out how they are talking. By what power they have, for the kingdom of God is not a matter of talk, but of power. There was a great emphasis, as we've heard in uh Paul's uh letter earlier, great emphasis on speaking publicly. and speech and the power of influence, etc. And some really felt that they could do a better job, obviously, or at least that's was implied in the letter. that they could speak better than Paul and well, you know, there was a great stress on intelligence, etcetera. And uh began to be a little bit proud. We can do the same thing ourselves, you know, particularly you hear somebody speak or you see somebody minister and you say, Well, I could do that good, or he's not all that hot or and we can criticize it, we can think, Well, they'll never find out. We might not put it that way. Paul says, I'll come. He said, I'm coming. You don't need to worry. I will show up, Lord willing. And we can talk about this matter, what's really important in life. And what's really important is not just talking like I'm doing here this morning. Certainly we need to preach the gospel. But what's important It's not just how we package everything or whether we're super intelligent or more intelligent than anybody else. What's really important is whether we are humbly serving God. And that's what Paul wanted them to imitate. He said it's the kingdom of God is not a matter of speech or talk, but it's a matter of power. And I believe Paul was saying the power of a changed life and he's going to come to them and he's going to find out uh whether they've been touched by the grace of God and whether their life has been changed or not. Or whether they're just up there stirring the people up to become proud because they could speak a little bit better than somebody else. Or p put on a little better shoe. Corinth had a trouble with speak, speaking. Paul says, Want you to imitate me. I want you to imitate me. In 2 Timothy chapter 3, he says this in verses 3 to 5. Listen. He says, Some are boastful, proud, ungrateful, lovers of pleasure, rather than lovers of God, having a form of godliness But denying the power. Denying the power. How do you know godliness when you see it? It's the power of God. It begins to change your life. It doesn't make you perfect, but it begins to turn you into a servant Who is willing to serve Christ humbly in a quiet little corner of the world where maybe you'll never be recognized. Remember Micah what he said? Mike asked the question, oh man, what does the Lord require of you? I asked you this morning, what does the Lord require of you, each of you? What does he require? To act justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly. With God. This morning, are you thinking as a servant? Are you acting as a servant? Do you do you have love and mercy in your heart? Are you reaching out to others humbly? Serving them? First Corinthians four seven says, really there's no read for need for us to be proud. Whatever we have It's been given to us by the grace of God. That's what some of the Christians didn't fail to realize, or they failed to realize, that what they have was given to them by God's grace. And Paul knew that he was just a vessel of grace. Whatever he had was certainly only a gift of God. First Ephesians three seven he says, I became a servant of this gospel by the gift of God's grace. So Paul really knew that it came down to this as we draw a close. He really knew that he had no reason to boast. Because whatever he's been given to help people was a gift of grace. And he knew that he was a believer simply because God had touched him with a grace. with his grace. If he had anything to offer, it was because he had a little insight from God or he had a little working power of of God. Uh And no more. He was just a servant. And Paul says, and he closed with this, he says, because he's going to go to Corinth to find out if they are humble servants or not. He says, what do you prefer, verse 21? Look at it. What do you prefer? Shall I come with a whip or in love? And with a gentle spirit? You know, there's two ways a humble attitude of service can be learned. You can learn to serve humbly, quietly. The hard way Or you can learn it the easy way. God wants you to be serving and to do it humbly. And you can learn that lesson the hard way Like a mule, as he says in Psalm 32, or a horse that doesn't have any understanding must be controlled by the bit and bridle, and God can take us over the hot coals and down the dead-end streets to learn that serving Christ is all that really matters And are doing it humbly because really everything you have you owe to Christ. Or we can just resist and continue to be like the men grabbing in the airplane, just run up and grab what we can get for ourselves And we can learn the hard way. But true spirituality, as you know, Francis Schaeffer said, his measurement, the the the this now deceased theologian Christian minister says the test of or measurement of true spirituality is this. Here's the test of how spiritual you are, according to Francis Schaefer. Spiritual person can be, spirituality can be measured by how quickly I can say, I delight to do your will, O God. How quickly can you say, that doesn't mean to say it, how quickly, how eager are you to say, yeah, Lord, there's a need, I'm ready to serve, I'm gone, I'll do it. Well, Paul tells us he was a servant. We're to imitate him. To serve the Lord humbly, who has so humbly served us. I close by preparing for communion by reading from Philippians chapter 2. Remember these great words of the Lord as you consider humbly serving Him this week. He says, your attitude should be the same as that of Christ Jesus, who being in the very nature God, made himself nothing. Taking the very nature of a servant, being made in human likeness, and being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to death. Yes, even obedient to death on a cross. Therefore, God exalted him to the highest place. And gave him the name that's above every other name, the name of Jesus Christ. That every knee will bow, every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is indeed Lord. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you that you come to serve us, that you God in very nature took on human flesh, not just to consume or grab for yourself. But to serve us even to the point of death, dying for our sins, that we might have grace and forgiveness, and be given the power to serve you in this world and to enjoy our redemption in the world to come. Be with us in this communion, Tom, renew our strength, that we might appreciate more fully your great service for us. Amen.