Good morning. This will be my final or last sermon in our missions month topic that we've been looking at different passages of our scripture. It will not be the last sermon that you will hear about missions. because next week we're having one of our uh missionaries that we support. He will be here uh to speak to us about missions. And then on October first we will have uh the senior pastor from McLean Presbyterian Church, James Forsyth, uh speaking to us. So I'm excited about this. I'm excited about our church. I'm excited about my own heart and what the Lord uh is doing in our congregation To help us participate in his mission to spread the good news to those that need to hear it. This morning I have a confession to make The confession is this, Bethany knows this, so um and maybe a few of you that this was not the text I planned to speak to you this morning. When I did all my planning for the for the uh missions month, I I had a different idea, but God just by His Spirit kept um putting this text into my heart. And uh a couple of weeks ago I decided to change that text. And uh I come I hope you will be encouraged by it as I was So Paul is writing to the Corinthians, as he had done to the Macedonians in chapter 8, encouraging them to take a collection to the church in Jerusalem. And so it's that we pick up from where he's making his point as to how they're supposed to give reading from Second Corinthians chapter nine verses six to the end. If you're able, would you please stand as we honor the reading of God's Holy word. So Paul says the point is this: whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly. And whoever sows bountifully will also reap bountifully. Each one must give as he has decided in his heart, not reluctantly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver. And God is able to make all grace abound to you, so that having all sufficiency in all things at all times you may abound in every good work. As it is written, He has distributed freely. He has given to the poor. His righteousness endures forever. He will supply seed to the sower and bread for food will supply and multiply your seed for sowing and increase you in harvest of your righteousness. You will be enriched in every way, to be generous in every way, which through us will produce thanksgiving to God. For the ministry of this service is not only supplying the needs of the saints, But is also overflowing in many thanksgivings to God. By the approval of this service, they will glorify God because of your submission that comes from your confession of the gospel of Christ. and the generosity of your contribution for them and for all others, while they long for you and pray for you, because of the surpassing grace of God upon you. Thanks be to God For his inexpressible gift. Father, we are helpless and clueless. We are without understanding unless your Holy Spirit opens our hearts Illumines us and we're able to truly hear, to understand, and to believe. So that's what we pray for this morning. In Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. For many of you that are parents, what do you do when your child does well in something? You commend them, right? You congratulate them. You tell them, well done, my son, well done, my daughter. You have done well. But you don't stop there You don't tell them now that you've done well behaving this morning or now that you've done well in mass, that's the end of the world Work as hard as you did in your math and see how well you would do in science. You'll do even better If you're a sports coach you encourage your team and they work throughout the season and they put so much effort and so much work and they at the end of the season they win the championship And you tell them, well done, my team. You celebrate, you open champagne bottles and and you go out and party all night, but the following morning you wake up and you remind them There's another championship to be won next season, right? You don't stop there. You don't stop working at it. You keep going What do you do when you encourage one another in Christ? When someone comes to you and they tell you how they've been struggling with something or how they They've seen the hand of God working in their life, and now that God has provided, and you can hear, you can feel the faith that they had, the grace that they accepted from the Lord. You don't tell them now, stop there. It's all done You tell them, be encouraged, brother, be encouraged, sister. Because there's more to come. See, reading through this passage, I'm reminded, having been in this church for for Three years. I cannot say that I've been to a church and I've been in the church all my life. I cannot say that I've been to a church that has been so generous and so giving. And so loving as Grace Reformed Presbyterian Church. So you may ask me, why would I want that? If I understand it, I know that this is a giving church. This is a loving church. This is a generous church. If that was true of our church, then why would I want to speak on something that you're already doing well? Well sometimes encouragement is not just encouragement reminding us of what we've done in the past Encouragement, I think, even when you look at scripture, is meant to help us to know yes, we have done well, but we can do even more. So this morning through this passage, I'm encouraging Grace Reform Presbyterian Church to not stop being generous. Don't stop living generously. But I also feel like there are aspects of our giving that sometimes we forget. And that's why I think looking at this passage, which really shows us that if we truly understand the grace of God upon our lives. Then we will know how to live generously. There is no other way. And for those who live a generous life, are people who really understand God's grace? That's what Paul is doing in this passage that we've read this morning. So I'm gonna give us two things, just two things, this morning. We're gonna look at the principles of living generously, and then we'll look at the results of living generously. So let's first begin with the principles. Every time I hear or read scripture it gives agricultural images or metaphors, I always get excited because I grew up in a farm. Anybody that grew up in the farm would identify with that because Paul is here speaking of sowing and and he's basically giving us the principle that this that exists. That the size of your harvest is always directly proportional with all things given, you know, if all things are equal, it's directly proportional to the amount of seed that you sow. So if you saw a little, you're gonna reap a little. See when I was growing up in a farm My parents do not have much, and so they would give us limited seed. And they would always tell us to make sure that we're not as generous to spread the seed out there because you need the crops to at least in the huge farm of you know hundreds and hundreds of acres. You know, you need to see that there's corn and beans and everything else. But in my haste and in my haste to try and get out of the the farmwork, I would take a bunch of, you know, corn and beans and just dump it in one spot. Generously living. Of course I would get found out because once the crops started to come out there would be corn concentrated on one space and then there's nothing going forward If I knew the concept of sowing generously so that you can reap generously, I would have won so many arguments with my parents. And told them, you see, we're supposed to be sowing as much as we can so that we can reap as much. So Paul is here telling the church in Corinth that what is to give is to sow. When you give, you're not losing anything. What is given is not lost at all. It put possesses the potency of life and increase. And that's that's the idea again. Verse six is actually elaborating verse five where Paul has already talked to the Corinthians and told them uh that they're supposed to be he's asking them, he's requesting them to collect, to give a collection to the church in Jerusalem, a church that is struggling financially, and he's asking them to To help, just like the church in Macedonia in chapter 8, had given out of their poverty. They were a poor church. They'd given so much. But what is Paul talking about? Is Paul talking about the amount The quantity of how much the church in current is supposed to give? No. Paul is speaking of the quality that they are supposed to give. Because you know the source of our giving is not in our pockets Where is it? The source of our giving is right here in our hearts. It's not just about how much you give. Do you remember the story in Mark chapter 12 of the poor widow? That gave two coins, a penny. You remember the people that came giving so much? And Jesus says, she has given. She's the one who has given the greatest. Why? Because the people that were giving so much thinking of the quantity were giving at no cost to themselves. She gave everything she had. It cost her everything. To give. And Paul says they are giving should result from an inward resolve, not an impulse Well this thing you you shouldn't just show up and say okay you know today let me see how much change do I have in my pocket. I got ten dollars so I'm gonna give two so that I have enough for Chick-fil-A later It's not a casual decision. It's a willing gift that we give to God. And once that decision has been made, once you have prayed about it and considered all things and decided, Lord, this is how much you You bless me and this is how much I am willing to give. Then you don't give it saying, oh, but wait. Oh, but should I have given that much? But I'm not too happy about that. Paul says you give it without reluctance, you give it willingly, you give it cheerfully But why is Paul saying that we shouldn't give out of compulsion, out of an impulse, just going ahead and deciding what to give? What is so important about us taking the time to really consider and think about our giving? There's so much for us to think about, especially the motive of the heart. Because it gives you time to ask yourself the question: why am I giving? Am I giving because I'd like to relieve some guilt? Because I feel so guilty. I saw those poor videos and pictures of those poor African children, and I feel guilty about it Is it a payoff? Lord, I don't want to go to West Baltimore and spend time with those homeless and poor people. How about I just cut them a check of about five dollars? That will do it. But I don't want to do the work. Lord, I I really want people to know how much I I really want people to know that I give a ton of money to the church or to the poor. So I'm gonna write this check out of impulse of $100,000 so that everybody may see See, only an appreciation of God's grace towards us can motivate us to give generously and cheerfully. Without understanding God's grace or giving is only a mere activity. It's lip service. But it's not from our hearts. See, Paul wants us to have freedom to give. Do you notice in this passage? It's actually in the New Testament, you will not read anything about giving 10% or your tithe. It's not that Paul being a Hebrew of Hebrews, a man who had studied Old Testament, knowing what the Old Testament had to say about giving, do you think If it was that important the the whole idea about the quality the quantity, if it was that important that Paul would have actually left it out in his writings I don't think so. I think Paul would have written it down. You know why? Because Paul wants us. The principle here is for us to have freedom. In all giving. There's a great story that we all know, and I'm gonna give so many biblical stories today because I think they apply. Acts chapter 5. You know this story. Ananias and Sapphire. What did that happen? Did anybody force Ananias and Sapphire to give whatever they had sold out of their property? Did anybody ask them to? They actually decided to and then lie about it, lie about how much they had given Because their hearts were not bent on giving to God. Their hearts were bent on trying to come up with a reputation for themselves. That's what they were seeking, glory for themselves. See, Paul doesn't want us as a church, he doesn't want you to feel compelled, compelled in a sense of being forced. You see all that stuff on TV, you know? Plant that seed now $39 and you'll get $39,000 at the end of the day That's not what Paul is speaking over here. Paul is talking about when we give. That's why he adds that statement on there. Says when you give, you give cheerfully. Why? Why should we give cheerfully? Why should we give with so much cheer? joy when you're giving you saying Lord I am giving this to you whether it's your service whether it's your talent your your your your gifts that God has given you whether it's opening your home because we tend to think about the principle of giving as only applying to money it's not about money Money is just a very small part of it. Yes, this text is speaking of giving material things, but the principle applies in everything that we give to God. But why does Paul say that we have to be cheerful givers? Why? God is a cheerful, generous giver If you are made in God's image, that's the characteristic that you're supposed to reflect. A God who gives Cheerfully, a God who gives with so much joy, a God who gives with so much grace towards you, and saying, You are my beloved children, and I give you my only son to come and die for you. God was not second guessing when he sent his son. It was always in his plan to give of himself to us. And it is God's grace that is always abundant, enriching, and always that leads us to increase. See, God's grace is the opposite of giving reluctantly. It really is the opposite. And the more we give, the concept is the more we give, the more we actually find God's blessings upon us. Now we like to some people take that to mean all right. Okay. So if you're telling me the more I give, the more I'm gonna get, then that should be my motivation to give so that I may get. Is that what Paul is saying here? Absolutely. And you know sometimes, brothers and sisters, the the things that we receive back from God when we give generously are not the things that we expect, are they? You know what God gives us when we give generously and cheerfully? Contentment. Wouldn't you like to have that? I would. There's language here that's being used of being sufficient. Verse 8 says, And God is able to make all gracious, all grace abound to you, so that having all sufficiency In all things at all times you may abound in every good work. This is not the stoic philosophical sufficiency of independence. This is dependence on God. Depending on God who supplies all of your needs, being content that God supplies for everything. And as one commentator puts it, as regularly as the resources of the cheerful giver are taxed by His generous giving, they are replenished By God's divine grace. See, we see here a difference between the church in Macedonian, Macedonian chapter 8. The church in Macedonia was poor. Yet they gave. And actually, if you read chapter 8, verse 1, you realize they did not just give according to their ability. They actually gave beyond their ability. The church in Corinth, however, is a little affluent, a little wealthy. So Paul is encouraging them to give out of what God has blessed them. So he says, if you sow sparingly you will have a meager harvest. But if you are generous, know that God is able to bless you. Even as Jesus says, even giving a small cup of water to the poor, to the least of it. Such insignificant acts of mercy towards others. Jesus says, we're not going rewarded. But God remembers those things that we do, even though they look like they're so small. If God is the one who supplies all of our needs, if God is the one who supplies the seeds so that we may have harvest. He will also supply the spirit that we need for us to be able to give generously to him. He will pour out our blessings. And as I mentioned, some of the blessings that we receive because of being generous are really not the things that we expect. Like Love and unity and fellowship and friendship And community. These are all God's blessings for us. Now we we must be careful not to interpret this passage to mean that somehow we're called to challenge God to do something if we give. The challenge is not on God. God, let me give this to see how much you're able to bless me. The challenge is on us. The challenge is on us to be generous. God is always faithful. God always does his will. God never breaks his promises. If he says something will be, it will be. We don't need to challenge him. You know, brothers and sisters, when we didn't deny ourselves certain things for the sake of others, when you say I'm not gonna eat Chick-fil-A, which I really love on Monday because I want to be more giving towards others. You know what's happening in our hearts? When we regularly and frequently deny ourselves of things that we could have For the sake of being generous, we are enlarging our hearts to receive rich contentment from God. The more we give of ourselves The more our hearts are being opened up, and God is just allowing things to happen in us that we wouldn't believe would happen. And we find ourselves being more Content with what we have. So that when people challenge us to give of our time and to give of our gifts and of our talents, we oh yeah, by all means But the more we we hold out, the more we say, let me keep the things that I want to keep, the more we we we refuse to be generous, the more our hearts are closed up and we would we're never content. It's the catch 22 Like you keep getting and getting and yet you just want more and more and more and never want to be generous Again, a small and significant gifts may have immense potential. How many of you have ever spent time with a friend that needed a shoulder to lean on? for five minutes and you felt like that was nothing and you went home and you're like man you know I could have could have done more, could have done something And then years later that person came to you and they said, I could have been dead. Those five minutes saved my life See when we give our time and our room and anything that God has given to us. Let's remember we're giving to God's kingdom. You may never know the impact that your giving is having. And God can take those little things and turn them into massive, amazing gifts to his people. If Jesus can feed the five thousand with only five pieces of loaf and two breads, what isn't he able to do Freely we have received, freely we give. Everything that you and I have is a gift from God. We cannot hold it. We cannot Keep it. We gotta give it away. Again, remember 1 Kings chapter 17, the beautiful story. Elijah goes to the widow and asks that she uses the last of the flower that she has to feed her Risking death to herself and death to a son. But what happens? Who provides? God provides As one Paul Barnett says, he says, God's grace towards us reproduces his graciousness within us. Since God's grace towards us is infinite and not measured out, we who receive it are to show generosity. without measure or calculation. Secondly, what happens then? So if those are the principles of giving, of a generous living What happens when we give? There are results. And we'll look at look at them in three headlines. One, generously living has a does something to us. For others, sorry. It does something to others, it does something for us, it does something for God. Three simple points. What does it do to others? You know when we all know when we deal with people that are neglected, people that are poor, people that are struggling in life, how would you describe their feeling? How do you how would you describe where they are? Are they happy? Are they rejoicing? Do they feel like they are part of everybody? No. They feel neglected. Sometimes they feel worthless. Sometimes they feel like they're not part of the the human community. But then what happens when we meet their needs? What happens when we bring that cheer to their life and and provide the gifts? They're able to see God's love being demonstrated right in front of their eyes. That's what verse 12 is talking about, meeting the needs of those that are Indeed. See our generosity brings about thanksgiving from others. They're able to give thanks to God. Not just because we met their need, but because God has provided for them. And that's the reciprocal effect of generous living. That those who receive end up honoring and bringing and giving glory to God for the virtues of love and kindness, that those who are bringing a gift are doing so. And if you really think about it in terms of the context, the Jerusalem church, when they receive a gift from Corinth and Macedonia, what does Paul say they would do? Paul says in verse 14, they are going to pray for you. They will be interceding on your behalf, giving thanks to God. They will want to be closer to you, they will want to have a relationship with you. And this is the same thing that happens to the Church of Christ because we're all one body in Christ. There are no divisions. And sometimes when we give, you know imagine us giving to our church um somewhere in Reley or in Kittensville And we may think in our own understanding that we're just giving to a church, a congregation, or to uh an organization, or just giving to an individual, but you just don't know who you've given to You may have given to the kingdom of God in a big way. You don't know what impact assisting or helping that church is going to have. Some of those things may appear as if we're just helping one small group, but God has the whole kingdom of God in perspective. Secondly, our generosity does something to us. What happens? When people are watching us as we obey God, people are able to see the evidence of our Christian faith. Evidence of our faith. People are able to see that our faith is not just merely about our words, so we just say we believe in God, we understand grace, we know what grace is all about, but we're actually doing it with our own deeds as well. Well. Now think about it again in terms of context. The church in Jerusalem is filled with Jews. The church in Corinth mostly has Gentiles. The church in Jerusalem had heard about all the disunity and all the chaos that were going on in the church in Corinth and probably doubted about their faith and they thought, I'm not sure if these guys really are Christians, if these Gentiles are really Christians But now they're about to receive a gift from this Gentile church, from a people that they had shunned. They are seeing God's grace at work in this church and they're saying truly, truly God is at work in that Gentile congregation. Because they understand God's grace and that's why they're giving towards us. See, when we give, when we give our time and our our talents and our gifts and And our resources. It really does show, it speaks volumes about our own theology as a church. It shows our own passion, our zealousness for the gospel of Christ. As James says, faith without works is what? It is dead. See, if God is able by his grace to help the Macedonian church to give out of their poverty way beyond what they could afford to give. If God is able by his grace to help the Corinthian church, to help the church in Jerusalem in the same way by understanding the by understanding God's grace. Our God is able to help us to understand his grace towards us so that we may give more of our time, so that we may give more of our resources, that we may give more of our room, so that we may give more of our attention to one another. And why are they praising God? Why is praise being given here? Is it thanksgiving to the church in Corinth because they gave? Is it thanksgiving because they gave money? Is that what the text is telling us? Who receives thanks and praise? God Which is our third result. Our generosity does something for God He makes our prayers go up to God when others see our good deeds and glorify God. God, not us, not the gift that we give. You see, w when we give of our of our time and anything that we have Our expectation should not be that someone will say, Oh, Josiah, you are the most amazing person. Glory and honor be to you for doing all this awesome things. That should never be our expectation. What should be our expectation? For God to receive all the glory. See, I grew up poor But I don't remember a day that I went without food. I do, however, remember days that we did not know what we're gonna eat the following day So we'd sit around, you know, dinner table and my mom would tell us, well, this is about all that we have for the day. We had no clue what we're gonna eat the following day, and then we would hear a knock on our door. This happened so many times I couldn't tell you how many times And someone that we knew would walk in and they would say, Well, I was on my journey going to a different city, but I I decided to stop by and see you. Because it's late and I need somewhere to sleep. I was like, oh yeah, sure, come on in and we're just about to finish up eating our meal. And we say, Oh yeah, and I brought this to you It would be a bag full of flour and oil and vegetables and fruit and enough to last us a week. We entertained angels. You know once our guest left, what we did, we did not go saying, Oh Mr. John brought no, you know what we said? Let's all pray. Father, thank you that you provide for us even when we do not know how you're going to do it. God receives all the glory. And what would we want better than God receiving glory when we are the ones being used to give what already belongs to him? Give it away. See when we deny when we don't live generously and deny uh we we really deny others A chance to receive from God and for their needs to be met. But you know what else we're doing? We're denying ourselves an opportunity to promote God's glory. Do you want God to be glorified in everything that you do? I bet you do. He's a bonus result of our generosity. Our generosity unites the church Brings the church together. See, there's nothing as special as Paul talks about fellowship, this this language that is just so rich of us being united Together in Christ Jesus. Living generously is actually one of those steps, one of those great steps that we can take to be united together as a body of Christ. Again, think of it. Did Jerusalem church really have so much respect for the Gentiles? You remember the problems in Acts chapter 15? And Peter and Paul fighting about the Gentiles and everything else? Now, can you imagine The Jerusalem church receiving this major gift from a Gentile church, people that they had shunned, and now they're saying, Oh man, we cannot wait to see you. We want to pray for you. We want to to to be united with you, to be connected with you. Because they realize how grace unites people together. They understand we are made in God's image. We are all one body of Jesus Christ. That's what happens. Even when we help a church that we may never even think that we're going to receive anything from them because they have nothing. We may receive something much more bigger than we you could expect. Their prayers. What more would you ask for other than your prayers being lifted up by someone that you don't even know? So we may be separated by distance and culture and all these other things, but when we give ourselves, when we give our time, when we give our resources, We create a special bond between those that we help. Which brings us together. As a church of Christ. And then in verse 15, this beautiful doxology that Paul ends with. Thanks be to God for his inexception. It's a gift that we cannot define. It's a gift that we cannot understand because it's so too lofty and grandiose God's divine gift of giving his son to us to redeem us. It goes beyond our description. And Paul is trying to show the church, trying to show us that all of our generous living, all of our giving of ourselves, of everything that we have is based On understanding this great, amazing, indescribable gift that He has given to us. There is no other gift as special as this. It's a gift whose wonder we cannot exhaust. It is a gift whose story we can never fully tell. That he who did not spare his son, but gave him up for us all, how will we not also with him graciously give us all things? Can you possibly As those who have received so much grace from God live any other way than being generous? Is it possible? Talking about participating in God's mission, aren't we? See God's mission for us requires Giving of ourselves. Generous living does not begin with deciding, I'm gonna give something, I'm gonna give my time Generous giving begins with giving of yourself to God. If you have not fully, completely given of yourself to God. Then you don't understand God's grace. Then you're not going to understand how to live generously. So here's my prayer for us as a church. It's an encouragement We have given, we have pursued living generously. Yet God says, my encouragement to you is that you may do even more. That you may give of yourself even more. That you may sacrifice even more. That you may willingly And generously give even more. Are you willing to do that for God? For his mission? I hope you are. Father, we thank you for this day, for this time as we are encouraged by you and how you've given of yourself to us. Cheerfully, willfully, and joyfully, and yet you ask of us to do the same I pray for this congregation, for us all, that Lord, you would continue to work in our hearts to remind us of this great, awesome gift of your Son Jesus Christ And how your grace continues to work in us to allow us to understand your grace even more, so that we may give more to you. For all that we have is you yours and all that we are is all yours. So allow us to be a giving, generous A cheerful congregation to your name and to your glory. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.