This is from First Timothy. Uh it's Paul writing to Timothy, who's a pastor, giving him instructions. Uh do not rebuke an older man, but encourage him as you would a father, younger men as brothers. Older women as mothers, younger women as sisters in all purity. Honor widows who are truly widows But if a widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to show godliness to their own household and to make some return to their parents, for this is pleasing in the sight of God. She who is truly a widow, left all alone, has set her hope on God and continues in supplications and prayers night and day. But she who is self-indulgent is dead even while she lives. Command these things as well, so that they may be without reproach. But if anyone does not provide for his relatives, and especially for members of his household, he is denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever. Let a widow be enrolled if she is not less than sixty years of age, having been the wife of one husband. and having a reputation for good works. If she has brought up children, has shown hospitality, has washed the feet of the saints, has cared for the afflicted, and has devoted herself to every good work. But refuse to enroll younger widows, for when their passions draw them away from Christ, they desire to marry, and so incur condemnation for having abandoned their former faith Besides that, they learn to be idlers, going about from house to house and not only idlers, but also gossips and busybodies, saying what they should not. So I would have younger women, younger widows, marry, bear children, manage their households, and give the adversary no occasion for slander. For some have already strayed after Satan If any believing woman has relatives who are widows, let her care for them. Let the church not be burdened, so that it may care for those who are truly widows. Let the elders who rule well be considered worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in preaching and teaching For the scripture says, you shall not muzzle an ox when it treads out the grain, and the laborer deserves his wages. Do not admit a charge against an elder except on the evidence of two or three witnesses. As for those who persist in sin, Rebuke them in the presence of all, so that the rest may stand in fear. In the presence of God and of Christ Jesus and of the elect angels, I charge you to keep these rules without prejudging, doing nothing from partiality. Do not be hasty in the laying on of hands, nor take part in the sins of others. Keep yourselves pure. No longer drink only water, but use a little wine for the sake of your stomach and your frequent ailments. The sins of some people are conspicuous, going before them to judgment, but the sins of others appear later. So also good works are conspicuous, and even those that are not cannot remain hidden. Let all who are under a yoke as bondservants regard their own masters as worthy of all honor. so that the name of God and the teaching may not be reviled. Those who have believing masters must not be disrespectful on the ground that they are brothers Rather, they must serve all the better, since those who benefit by their good service are believers and beloved. Amen. Thanks. Please be seated. Um here's a story of a lovely lady who was bringing up three very lovely girls. How's it go after that? The youngest one in curls. The Brady Bunch. I'm sure you can find it anywhere. Um I know I watched it an awful lot. Back in the day. Two divorced parents, right? Each with three kids, three boys and three girls, all thrown together. Now, my hypothesis for you today is that's a lot like the church, except without a housekeeper. But we have our own zany mishaps and crazy storylines we're thrown together too and and Paul is telling us how to figure it out. Some of you have done this in real life, been thrown together. It's not always through divorce, but like I'm about to go back to Missouri and be with my family, but my family now includes my oldest daughter's husband, Adam, who didn't go on vacations with us until he showed up. My youngest daughter, Anna, is bringing her boyfriend, who probably she's gonna marry, right? Jeannie thinks so. Um so so now we have this vacation at the lake with Ben. Of course, Jeannie had me. Shw she wasn't too crazy about for a while. Uh so yeah, we we sort of like you have me. So we have to figure this out as we go. We have We're adopted into the family of God. We have new brothers, we have new sisters, new fathers, new mothers, new aunts, new uncles, and we got to work it out. Paul gives us some house rules House rules. For Timothy in Ephesus, way back in the sixties, the actual sixties, not the nine And it applies to us, right? We we learn these house rules, and in this passage, he's talking about widows and elders and bondservants. Let's be honest, it's also the word for slaves. We'll talk about that. So it's applicable not just to Ephesus in 60 AD, but to Maryland in 2024, all these years later. So the first point is leaders honor widows. We're talking about leadership in First Timothy Okay, it's not just elders, it's not just deacons. All of us are leaders somehow, somewhere, someplace. So leaders honor widows. Practical care is an imminent concern For Paul here. Who to help, how to help, what policies we should have. And any organization that has resources has to have policies to know how to distribute them You have some sort of policy on what you give to. If you apply to grants For schools or anything. There are policies, right? And Paul gives a per a framework. He says, be humble. Be patient. Help and encourage older men. Be loving and firm with younger brothers. Treat older women like you would treat your mom with love and care and respect. And treat younger women like sisters Tease them mercifully. No. Stick up for them. Be there for them. Support them. And that's true in our family. In our family, when you hurt, we hurt. In our family, when you succeed, we rejoice. We succeed. We're together in community. Even as we add new members, new people come in. But especially then he's talking about a specific problem, right? Widows. Widows That's true now, but in back in the day for sure, widows were regarded as nothing. Especially if they were childless. Children were their ultimate identity, and after that, husbands. This was their status and their survival So practically helping widows really needed help. They needed it back. Positionally, widows felt worthless. They lost their status. And so Paul tells Timothy, get on it, get organized. You have to care. In some sense, this is a lot like James. Faith without works is dead. Let's see you do it So Paul writes about this at length, right? This is a big problem. And in fact, some women were posing as widows to get help. I saw a a video where someone followed a panhandler, female, uh Who after getting money for a while went back in and this person actually worked in a very nice office And during lunch hour would put on clothes and go out to try and get money. Paul wants people to take care of their own families for sure, right? He's saying don't use the church. This is 5, 6, and 7. But she who is self indulgent is dead even while she lives. Command these things as well, so they may be without reproach. But if any one does not provide for his relatives, and especially for members of his household He has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever. Whoa! So it's not just the elders and the deacons' job to take care of people. We take care of our own. Let the church do its job as we in the family do our jobs. And love your parents until the day they die. Last Sunday I went back into Fells and was listening to music and a woman came up right when I walked in the door, she gave me a big huge hug. Because her mom had died that week, 91. She loved her mom, and she said, I'm so glad you're here. I wanted to see you She loved her mom and I was able to be there for her to talk with her about her mom and how she cared for her all the way until the end. This happens, obviously. Our parents need our love and support. Okay, another concern about this widow thing is who's on the rolls? Obviously there had to be some organization. So there's some scroll that Timothy has that has names on it, right? And these women look a lot like deacons. The things they do, what they care for. These are good, faithful, they're good and faithful in their marriage. They have a reputation for good works. They have godly children, show hospitality, service, care. They are devoted to good works, right? And if we see women like that, widows like that, enroll her. That means designate her. Recognize her. It's sort of like becoming a nun in some ways. I'm not looking for a future husband at this point. I'm going to devote myself to God, to church, to service. I have time for that. I am not going to pursue other things. And God will use the pain that I've just gone through for his service. And there are millions, billions of godly women that do exactly this thing. Praise the Lord. So thankful. But then he says, if you're a young widow, nah. You might want to get remarried. Not a bad idea. Don't sit around. What is the um phrase, an idle mind is the devil's workshop Stay busy, but don't be a busybody, right? Get back in the game. Don't gossip. And I also think in our time, especially divorce is a lot like being widowed in many ways. Um We let's talk about my my grandmother, I think I've mentioned this. She was much happier when my grandfather died. He was a real son of a gun. And so she got to go live in assisted living and she had all these friends that she got she was cooking all the way up until m my grandfather died for him. Couldn't drive, didn't go anywhere. Now she had friends She had activities, it was wonderful for her. So that's happened sometimes, right? So we as a church, Paul is telling us, practical help for widows, single moms Caring for them honors the Lord is on God's heart. God says He's a father to the fatherless, husband to the husbandless. And Jesus had a heart for people in society who've been cast out. He had a heart for people without status or hope. He gives people a place and a name and a family. And the church is supposed to be the renewed family of God. And sometimes things happen in our lives and it's hard to see the Lord, what he's doing. There's a song that's hard to sing. Maybe we'll sing it someday. John Newton wrote it in 1779. It's called I Ask the Lord. It starts this way. I asked the Lord that I might grow in faith and love and every grace, might more of his salvation know, and seek more earnestly his faith. Lord, help me to know you and love you and follow you more. And I hope that he would answer my request. And he'd subdue my sins and give me rest. Instead of this, he made me feel the hidden evils of my heart, and let the angry powers of hell assault my soul in every part. Yet more with his own hand he seemed, intent to aggravate my woe, crossed all the fairs, designs I schemed, humbled my heart, and laid me low. Lord, I wanted to know you and love you, and you are taking me down. What's up? Lord, why is this? I trembling, cried. Wilt thou pursue thy worm to death? 'Tis in this way, the Lord replied, I answer prayer for grace and faith. These inward trials I employ From self and pride to set thee free, and break thy schemes of earthly joy, that thou mayst find thy joy in me That is a hard song to sing, I promise. But the Lord uses these things in our lives to bring us closer to Him if we will listen. And be broken and follow Him. Don't let our marriages and our kids become idols in our lives. Paul is saying the church has to discern between groups and needs. Second, leaders honor elders and leaders Back in chapter 2, Paul wrote about qualifications of elders and deacons. And here he's writing about pastors, those who labor in teaching and preaching. And he says, all elders, whether you're a pastor or an elder, are able to teach. Should know the Bible, should know theology, can apply it to people in public and private. That may not be all of our best thing that we get to do, but we can do it. And so in the church, there's three offices. Ruling elder, teaching elder. This is where we get the term teaching elder, which we use in the PCA. I'm a teaching elder. They are ruling elders. I don't like that term. I like pastor. Elders, pastors, and deacons. And they're all interrelated to each other. They're not completely separate. We all do deacon things, we all do elder things. And you do too. Leaders do these things. But Paul says you should double honor The pastors. Let me have it. You shouldn't pay the pastors the least amount possible. You should probably have a rule of thumb. Uh a lot of times in our circles we talk about like school administrators, like superintendents. People with similar qualification or education or experience. And I demand respect Not really. And then Paul talks about discipline. Tells the congregation, be careful, be prudent, be wise, be slow. Don't accuse quickly your leaders. But pastors, like anyone else, are fallen people who get into trouble. We've seen it in our own presbytery. There's hashtag me too and there's hashtag church to for a reason. Recently, uh the Baltimore banner has done a series about the church greater grace in East Baltimore. I don't know if this is the way East Baltimore Um fifty people have come together realizing they were all abused somehow by the pastor and his sons. They have named themselves the Millstones. This happens all the time. So go slow, but when things are true, follow the course. The man is found guilty, not on every little thing, but on these big things, then he should be rebuked in front of all to purify the church. This is the problem in our own denomination. I'm glad to say we've been working on it more. But there's lots more work to be done. Very sobering. I've mentioned a few times that I've seen people shipwreck their faith. I've seen pastors shipwreck their faith. And I've been involved in these discipline cases Sometimes pastors are sort of removed for a year or two or six months and then they're allowed to come back. Sometimes they leave the ministry, and sometimes they're excommunicated from the faith. So all of us can shipwreck our faiths. It's true for all leaders. None of us are perfect. Pastoring isn't easy. I gotta tell you, it's a weird job. We all need to be persistent in our sanctification and repentance. For any pastor, don't let them off the hook just because you like them. For all pastors, don't criticize every single thing just because you don't like them. I think our Presbyterian form of government is pretty good. But like anything else, it can be misused, manipulated. It can become a good old boy's network. Qualified leaders should lead well. John Stopp Maybe you don't never heard of him, doesn't matter. He has five qualifications for pastors and elders and leaders. Okay, leaders. Appreciation. You should really affirm good people and good performance. Fairness You should not listen to unsubstantiated accusations. Impartiality. You should avoid all favoritism. Caution. You should not reach hasty decisions. Discernment. You should look beyond the outward appearance to the heart, and you should know what to say. Now I would add, think thanks John Stott, enthusiasm. At the church that I started back, we were electing elders, and I had an elder candidate who was a very, very close friend of mine. And I said, you cannot be an elder because you don't like church. So I'll be there every single I'll be I was like yeah but you don't smile Don't greet people. It's not just a duty, enthusiasm. Organization I know a church and the pastor would email on Saturday night the text he was preaching on. So the administrative assistant would know to put it in the bulletin. Saturday night? Jones got them all all the way to November. Right? Makes her very happy. Enthusiasm, organization, and I would also say emotional intelligence. Right, you've got to be able to be with people and read the room. Now, I'm not saying you have to be extroverted or this is not a personality type. You just have to be able to do these things. Somehow, and we're not all good at everything, right? I'm not good at everything. Honestly, I'm not good at chit-chat. I don't know why. I get nervous. Yeah. I'm not great at just visiting. Uh it's so it has to do with my ADHD, I think. It's like I got the ne I gotta do the next thing, I gotta do the next thing, I gotta do the next thing. Just sitting. is very difficult for me. I'm also not good at contacting. I will always respond to anything. I will try to contact. So if you ask me to lunch, that is wonderful. I can't keep track of all the people when I've asked everybody to do the things. So I'm love to go to lunch with you after church on I'll always answer the phone. I'll always respond to your text. We all need to take care. Because Christ our Lord, the angels, and God care about these things. Now it's funny he puts this little parentheses in here, right? It's very odd. Let's read it. Verse 23: No longer drink only water, but use a little wine for the sake of your stomach and your frequent ailments. Paul like lost his train of thought all of a sudden, right? So here's what's happening. Paul isn't writing this, right? There's something called amenuensis. Amenuensis. You learned a word today. Amenuensis. Amenuensis is like taking dictation. This would be in a in a courtroom, right? Someone who's typing what everyone's saying. So Paul's in a room, somebody else, probably a dude, is writing down what he says. And all of a sudden Paul like gets up, you know, he's doing something. He's like, oh Write this. I f I don't want to forget. I just told Warren and I told Neil, I've got a box in the car that's the missing tent box that I don't want to forget because I brought it here and I want it out of my car so you guys can put up the tent while I'm gone. Um so so I think oh tent box. This is like that. Oh no tell m don't write write this down. No longer drink any water but use a little wine for the sake of your stomach. in your frequent ailments. Now I don't know if that's really the best advice. Do you think it is? If your stomach hurts, here's what you should do. Drink wine. I don't know. Doesn't seem like the best, but maybe it's because Timothy Wouldn't drink wine at all. And now he he's like, you need to chill out, Timothy I don't know the answer to this. I don't think it's super important. It's in parentheses after all. That's not very common. Okay, last point. Leaders honor work and workers. Leaders honor work and workers. This is the beginning of chapter 6. This is my second least favorite part of this book I already talked about my least favorite part. And it makes me wonder why I picked this book. But we have to talk about the rough stuff too. This is talking about respect and honor and care for those in need. This passage he's talking about double honor leaders. Discipline them but holding them responsible. He's talking about ordaining cautiously, making sure people are trained and ready. And then now he's talking about slaves and masters. And this verse, these verses have definitely been used to promote American slavery, which we would call chattel slavery. Now it's important to realize we also have slavery still in the world today. So we are not past it. Um human trafficking. Definitely slavery, right? Debt bondage. Maybe more like indentured servants Forced child marriages. That's slavery, isn't it? And you know that there are migrant workers who get picked up and they get dropped off Mostly in Asia, and they are forced to work 20 hours a day in a box six days a week, and their job is Scamming. Trying to get your money and our money. Pretending to be people. Setting up fake Instagram accounts and Facebook accounts and all of this. And that is slavery because they are forced to do it. In compounds. So Christians, throughout the ages, all these years, have been sometimes 100% committed to slavery. Christians throughout all these years have been complicit to slavery Just okay with it. And thankfully, Christians have been some of the fiercest champions against slavery. Amen. But what's important to realize is this slavery, Greco-Roman slavery, is very different, very different from what we think of when we think of roots. Okay? It's estimated that sixty percent of the population would have been slaves, bond servants. Fifty million in the empire. In the U. S. , from seventeen ninety to eighteen eighty, four million. 50 million in the time. Now these were domestic servants, laborers, clerks, craftsmen, teachers, soldiers, managers, and the big difference is they all look different. It wasn't racial. It was the people that they conquered, and they conquered a lot of different people. You couldn't walk around and say like you're obviously a slave, you're obviously a slave. That wasn't the way it was. It wasn't based on skin color. It wasn't also connected to social classes. Where the slaves were on the bottom. It just wasn't that way. You could rise up. People put themselves in slavery to get a better job, better working conditions. And you could buy your way to freedom. And it's very important that we say the Bible, and we all know this, but I'm going to say it right. Slavery is not in God's design. We're not ranking people. Remember, uh we said this in verse 110. He calls out enslavers. Chapter one verse ten. In his list Slavery was regulated, though, not promoted. Just like divorce was regulated, not promoted. The Bible says kidnapping slaves, enslaving people like this, is punishable by death. Exodus 21, 16, Deuteronomy 24, 7. Negligent homicide is punishable by death. Deuteronomy 22, 8. So, in other words, all of our American slavery directly violates God's law. Bond servants My cousin David went to Harvard. He racked up a ton of student loans. When he graduated, he wanted to work at Barnes <unk> Noble and sell books You don't gotta go to Harvard to do that, yo, David. So he put himself into a job in New York City that he hated working for an insurance company to pay off his debts. That's more what we're talking about here Not racial. He was in a job he did not like to pay off his debts. So he had a boss in a job he didn't like. He had a boss he didn't like, he lived in a city he didn't like. He had a job he didn't like to pay off his debts. When we find ourselves in that situation, which you will Do we all like our bosses? Do we all like our jobs? Every person has a job that they don't like or they have a part of the job they don't like. Every person has a team person on the job they don't like that they don't like. What do you do when you're in this situation? Paul says, honor your boss. Just because you don't like your boss, you don't get to not honor him or her. Even if he or she is a jerk, you honor your boss. You honor the work You do your best. And that honors the Lord. It glorifies God. So all of us, this is why I'm saying this book applies, right? You can easily read this like, oh, I'm not a bondservant. You are bondservants. We all are bondservants. Somehow we are to honor the Lord in our work. To be good workers. In our big jobs, in our small jobs, the big tasks, the small tasks in school With a teacher you don't like. So our key word for this whole passage is honor. We're honoring widows. We're honoring pastors, double honoring pastors, and we're honoring bosses, okay? We're honoring people. We're honoring creation. We're honoring work. We're honoring Jesus Himself. We're honoring the Bible. If we go to Revelation, Which isn't very not very many books away from where we are. Revelation four is similar to one of our Bible verses that we had last week, Bond. four eleven. Worthy are you, O Lord our God, to receive glory and honor and power, for you created all things, and by your will they existed and were created I'm surprised that wasn't a Bible verse. Maybe it was. Worthy are you, O Lord our God, to receive honor, glory and honor and power. For you created all things and by your will they exist and were created. The elders are singing that to Jesus in chapter 4 of Revelation. Singing it over and over and over. You're worthy for glory and honor and power. So let's be honest. How are we doing? How are we doing with our family members? We honoring them? How are we doing with our widows? Single moms, divorced. How are we doing with our elders and pastors, our bosses? How are we doing with the warrior king Jesus? Giving him on. So what's so amazing is Jesus deserves all of that, right? The Warrior King came to the earth as a baby in weakness He lived humbly, obscurely, and he loved extravagantly. You know this, I'm just reminding you. Jesus gave away his dignity. There are so many times when someone watched him do something like, dude People don't do that. What are you doing? You're touching lepers Are you crazy? We don't like you. We don't want now we don't want to touch you. We don't want to be around you. You're with prostitutes Really? He gives us dignity He gives us honor, and he takes our dishonor. He turns widows into brides. He turns orphans into adopted children. All of us get to be in his Brady bunch. So we gotta figure it out. That means where there's a lot of grace for each other, right? As we follow him in what he's doing. And then