Speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal. Now if I have prophetic powers and understand all mysteries and all knowledge And if I have all faith so as to remove mountains, but have not love, I am nothing. If I give away all I have, and if I deliver up my body to be burned, but have not love, I gain nothing. Love is patient and kind. Love does not envy or boast, is not arrogant or rude. It does not insist on its own way. It is not irritable or resentful. It does not rejoice in wrongdoing, but rejoices with the truth. Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things Love never ends. As for prophecies, they will pass away. As for tongues, they will cease As for knowledge, it will pass away. For we know in part and we prophesy in part. But when the perfect comes, the partial will pass away When I was a child, I spoke as a child, I thought like a child, I reasoned like a child. When I became a man, I put I gave up childish ways Where now we see in a mirror dimly, but then face to face. Now I know in part But then shall I fully know, even as I have been fully known. So now faith, hope, and love abide, these three. But the greatest of these is love. Pursue love and earnestly desire this the spiritual gifts, especially that you may prophesy First Corinthians twelve thirty-one to fourteen one. Thanks for that. Thank you. Please be seated. I wanted to give you a free hands update. Um I burned my hands seven weeks ago on piping hot caramel taking out of the microwave. And last night I slept without bandages for the first time. Today was the first day I put these on myself. So I'm relieving Nurse Julie from her duties. She's very sad about that. I learned how to fish, that's right. Um so that's good news. This is the last sermon in our Fruit of the Spirit series, which we began in Advent. We took four weeks and we looked at other fruit of the Spirit, not in Galatians 5, uh the fruit of union, the fruit of faith, and ultimately the fruit that became our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, born of a virgin. Um when I was a kid, I've mentioned this several times, but this is my last chance. I used to listen to this record, Agape Land. We have sung a song from this in worship. Have patience, have patience, don't be in such a hurry. Have patience. You'll only start to worry. Remember, remember that God is patient too, and think of all the times when others have to wait on you. It's a good one. We won't do any more. That's the most memorable one. I don't remember what the one on love is called. It's probably cheesy and I didn't like it as a eight year old boy. Self-control, no good uh gentleness, who cares. But there you go. If you want to borrow this, you need a record player. But we know people who have record players, right? So how was your Valentine's Day? Good. I'm glad to hear that, Gus. Uh the Beatles have taught us that all we need is love, right? We we know that. It's core value. All we need is love. Nothing you can do that can't be done, no song you can sing that can't be done. And I like going backwards so we can end on this one because of course it's a big huge deal So now faith, hope, and love abide, but these three, but the greatest of these is love. So we've been assessing and evaluating and developing how we feel like we're doing with the fruit of the speech. But we're not trying to do that very much because this is not a beat-down evaluation of us all. It's to encourage us that the spirit is working in our lives. This is the fruit not of our own self-effort, not of our own getting it right, but it's the fruit of the Holy Spirit who loves us and is in us and is invigorating us. In one of the episodes of Planet Earth is about the bird of paradise And they have a complicated mating ritual where the males spend a long time getting this nest ready. I mean l a long time. The females are out doing their own thing and the boys are getting the nest ready and they they have to gather all these things. And finally when it's ready the females start to come in and they start checking out the different nests. Like to figure out where they want to go, who they want to be with. And the male puts this elaborate ritual on, right? With a whole lot of uh staging and propping and fussing. uh puts on a show, puffs his face out, starts clicking, clicking, struts around, and then the ladybird goes, nah See you later. Flies away. Right? And in the um in this episode on Planet Earth, the narrator is brutal. Brutal. The narrator says it's hard not to feel deflated when you're not good enough. Whoa! That's true, though, isn't it? It's hard not to feel deflated when you're not good enough. When your love is unreciprocated, when the affection that you are trying to get nobody cares about. We all want a love that doesn't hurt. But there's no such thing as a love that doesn't hurt, right? We all want us to receive love, but we all have been rejected. It's risky to give your heart. It's risky to love. And we fear risk. We fear rejection, of course. And this fear of risk and rejection can keep us loving away from loving not only In our own family, spouse, can keep us from loving our neighbors, it can keep us from loving God Himself. Because what we try to do is control the narrative. make this the the right situation, right? But we know that love does take risk and sacrifice, and we certainly see it in our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, don't we? The risky sacrificial love that where he came and gave his life and died for us to give us his love to us. And when we reunite with him by faith, God desires that we would know him and love him. And that faith is given to us by the blowing wind of the Holy Spirit. Spirit. Paul calls us to that fruit of the Spirit. And he calls us in 1 Corinthians 13, right? We've read this, I'll read it again. If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am a noisy gong or a clinging cymbal. If I have prophetic powers and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith, so to remove mountains, but have not love, I am nothing If I give away all I have, and if I deliver up my body to be burned, but I have not love, I gain nothing. If I have peace, joy, patience kindness, gentleness, faithfulness, goodness, self-control, but I do not have love It doesn't matter. It's zippo. It's nada. Right? Blah blah blah. This famous wedding text still sort of floats around in our culture. Right? You'll hear it. But we nudge out love by so many ways Religious righteousness, precision, dogma policing Our own duties, our devotion. Without love. Meaningless. Right? Banging gongs, clinging cymbals. You can memorize the Westminster Shorter Catechism, and I highly recommend it. Try to memorize the larger catechism. Good luck with that. You can know the BCO, the Book of Church Order, front to back. You can negotiate presbyteries and general assemblies. You can type up perfect minutes. You can preach excellent or subpar sermons, right? But if love is not at the center, what are we doing? What are we doing? Are we known for love, Church, right? Are we known for love? Here in Relay, in Hailthorpe, in Arbutas, in Catonsville, are we known for love? Do we love different types of people, different types of groups, different types of places, different types of music Things that aren't just exactly what we grew up with, right? Because we have a lot to do, don't we? We have a lot to do. We are called, as Mark prayed, to be missionaries out there. Preaching and teaching the gospel, right? But our love has to direct us and define us. Not what we're doing Okay, love. Our culture says love is what you feel. Our culture says when you look deep into your satisfied soul, you find love. Read a good essay about this a few years back because one of the uh complete truisms since maybe two thousand five is at a graduation Someone has to say, find what you love and do what you love. Steve Jobs started this in two thousand five. Bedrock gospel advice in these situations. Find your passions. Be authentic to your true self. Give your whole self. Well, what are they talking about In these speeches, they're talking about work. Right? Find what you love and do that job. Well, what's interesting about that is if that's what you do, then work becomes your identity It it becomes your community. It becomes your life purpose. And if that's true, work makes demands on you. Work will not let you go Right? It's a taskmaster. Work wants your body, mind, soul, and heart. Work says, hey, we're in a relationship here. Yeah, you need to love. I want all of you. Don't give yourself away. Work doesn't care about the kingdom of God, does it? I don't really think work is trying to make the world a better place. But it's common to give ourselves to work, to love it so much that we give ourselves to it, and work will not love you back. Apple will not love you back, Microsoft won't love you back, BG<unk>E won't love you back. But we want to curate our identities, our leaked in accounts, what we do so everyone can see who we are, our identity is tied up into this. And I can't lose my identity. I really struggled with this when I moved to Baltimore three years ago because I was not a pastor. At the time. I had resigned from my church in Oklahoma, and so I'm in Baltimore and I'm trying to figure out what am I gonna do? And as much as I can tell you, I will say this, being a pastor is not my identity. That is a lie. It's a lie. I can say it out loud as much as I want, but I was walking around like I don't know who I am. I don't know how to relate to people. I've always said like I'll give it up any time. I don't think I would. I'd say I would. I promise I would. go with. It's tied up into who I am. It's work. How much of me is being a good Presbyterian pastor? Now, I'm not suggesting we should hate our jobs, and I don't hate mine. But we are called to love the Lord with our heart, soul, mind. And strength, right? And after all, we also know that God is love. 1 John 4. We read this: 1 John 4, 7 and 8. God is love. And that love we find in Christ, right? And love is patient, and love is kind, and love does not envy, and love does not boast, it's not arrogant or rude, it does not insist on its own way, it's not irritable or resentful, it does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices with the truth, love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. That does not sound like what I watch on reality TV. I don't know if the dating apps are really promoting those characteristics. We often see love is romance, feeling good, even self-indulgence. Love has no rules. Paul calls that the desires of the flesh. He says it brings us to destruction. I don't know if you've been around people in an affair or having an affair or have had an affair and they'll you'll hear this very commonly I've never felt so alive. I've never felt so free. I've never felt so happy. This is what God has wanted for me. He's unleashed me from the burden of my spouse. I've been suppressed till now. I'm free. Paul says love is patient. But then we will say, well, well how patient? Give me a barometer on how patient I gotta be in this situation. I'm not happy. Love is kind. Love endures. Love faces conflict, but with commitment. And connection, right? And we are called to love even our neighbors. Love God, love our neighbors with patience. Be patient in loving your neighbor. Well, my neighbors are annoying. Right? How do I get out of this? What's my escape clause on this patience part? On the hoping part? Jesus even rashes it up a whole nother level, right Love God, love your neighbors, and what does he say? Love your enemies. Oh, Jesus. Love your enemies? Can we just say frenemies? And and you know, we all have enemies. It may not be your arch nemesis, right? But there are people in your life I've been trying to make this point, I don't know why it keeps on coming up, that don't like you. Right? And we are supposed to lovingly endure for our enemies. Lovingly be patient with enemies. Maybe we have political enemies, societal enemies, familial enemies, personal enemies, cultural enemies, but there are enemies out there. Might have mentioned that A few years back when I was in yoga, at the end when we were being quiet, I would pray for my kids. And that was a delightful And then I don't know several months of this I felt the Holy Spirit say, Well you also need to pray for this guy. I was like, no, I don't like that guy. I don't want to pray for that guy. Uh okay. So I start praying for this guy that I really don't like who really has hurt me. And so I do that for a month, and I'm like, okay, we don't get no. He doesn't take it off. He adds another one on. Now I got two enemies I'm praying for every day. And that's I I like I would I would actually wrestle with Jesus with this one I would he I'll say Jesus Please stop. I want to be mad at this person. I want to be right. I want to be smug. I okay, I'll admit it Those are not fruit of the spirit, are they? Being right, being fair, being on the policy are not fruit of the spirit. I'm not saying they're wrong, right? They're just not fruit of the spirit. And we love our disagreements in the denomination, in the church. And we say it's okay to we can agree to disagree. That's not a fruit of the spirit either. It's a negotiation tactic. It's not love. And then we even go further down, like what about the things in the world that aren't just enemies, they're evil? They're horrors. What do we do about that? Well, we talked about this. Love does not gloss over those things, right? Love doesn't put its head in the sand, pretend like everything's fine and dandy. It takes wisdom to mimic It takes wisdom to know how to be patient with people. It takes wisdom from the Holy Spirit to display the fruits of the Spirit. Love can look differently. It can take time. It can be fast. It takes wisdom. It can be incremental. You remember uh back in the eighties we always said true love waits? True love weeps True love is honest about the state of things in the world. True love goes to counseling. True love processes hurts and enemies and experience. True love can say no. True love sometimes raises its voice. True love protects others. In other words, there's no real formula, right? The Holy Spirit has to help us. How do you love people when they come out? How do you love people who are excited about a marriage that you don't agree with for lots of reasons? What's the way to love in these situations that we encounter all the time? I can't tell you. The Holy Spirit has to help us. How do I love people I disagree with? One time I had a guy in my church and he He was gay and he asked his mom whether she loved the Bible or him more. And she said, the Bible. The wrong answer, but it was a trick question, right? Some of what some of our love is also cultural. Um there's a way that we love that's an American way to love. There's a way that you love that you got taught in your family. Right? Are you a huggy family? or you know no huggy family. And then it's like this is how you love. And then you meet someone who didn't do it that way. Like, what the heck? So the cultural, I have a friend who he is American and his wife is Swedish. And the words for I love you, Yag Elskade, in Swed. Swedish have never exited her mouth. She can say I love you in English, but she's never heard anyone say I love you in Swedish. It's culturally not done. So she never did it. He's like, I don't know if she loves me in Swedish So that's how it can be cultural, right? How do I love with what I grew up in, with the trauma that I bear? How do I love with that? I mean we're we've all been hurt and damaged. So how do I process that and work with people in love? I've been told lies about love. I've been told lies about myself, about relationships. How do I go through these? Well, we have to go to Jesus. That's of course what we're called to do, and that's what we want to do here at the church each and every Sunday is go to Jesus. Look to Jesus who washed his disciples' feet, who were on their way out to betray him. Look to Jesus who said, Repent or you'll perish. Said hard words, didn't he? Look to Jesus who talked about judgment and hell and self-righteousness quite a bit Look to Jesus who called us to bear one another's burdens, to take on his yoke. Look to Jesus who's coming back and will make all things right. We will live in perfect shalom. And that shalom is breaking in all around us if we will look and see So it's not a dating algorithm. It's a covenantal relationship. Marriages are good pictures Um they're supposed to be good pictures. It aren't always great pictures, but it's It's the picture of this covenantal relationship where you stand in front of people, in front of God and these witnesses, and you say, I will be with you as sickness and in health, in plenty or in want, till death, till we part. That's the goal, at least, right? And then what happens normally, not always, is there is a fruit of that union, right? Kids come. And so someone in the relationship has to bear this child, birth this child, and the baby comes out, and what do the parents get then? Work, crying, no sleep, diapers. And this is an unequal relationship, right? Well what are you contributing, baby, to this thing? I want you to speed up and get a little more self-sufficient, right? And so sometimes your spouse will ask, why why do you love me? And you can give reasons. You can give reasons, right? Right? Well there's this and this, and when I fell in love with you, we were doing this and I thought this was so great and but look how you've changed and it's been amazing. But when your child asks you, Why do you love me? You don't have any of that. You've got because I made you. Right? There's not a reason, it's not a list of things. I can tell you things that are great about you, but that's not why I love you. I will serve you, I will die for you. But you cost me a lot too at the same time, right? And so then when we think about Jesus loves me, this I know. The Bible tells me so. When we think about the deep, deep love of Jesus, what does he get? Us. We are his children. We are his bride. It's not an equal relationship, right? But he still says he loves us. He came for us He was birthed in Bethlehem for us. He grew up, did ministry, died on the cross, went to the grave. Rose from the grave, is coming again, and we are made for that. We are made for that relationship and loving him. And he loves us. It's a book I liked called Three Things You Must Do. It's about um at the end of our lives or if you have a loved one at the end of his or her life. And it's it's things like you really need to say I love you. This is basic. Uh you need to say I'm sorry or ask if there's anything that you can apologize for. These are good em important thing so people could die well. And you can have these important conversations. One of the very memorable stories is about this twelve year old girl, Gabriella, who has lymphona. Lymphoma, terrible, right? She fights it for four years. And you know, she's a teenager. So she's still a teenager with lymphoma. So she fights with her siblings, her parents, and the court terrible. And finally, uh, there was a rough night, and the nurse said, You guys need to come, this might be it. And so the parents were talking, what are we gonna do? What are we gonna What are we gonna do? What are we gonna do? And the mom said, We're gonna hold her, tell her that we're proud of her Tell her that we love her. Tell her that we're sorry. Tell her that we're not ready for her to go, but it's okay. It's okay. She went to sleep. And she Woke up the next day in different spirits. I think this was right around Christmas time, and she said she wanted to go home and she wanted everyone in the family to have champagne and Hershey kisses. It w didn't seem like the time to say no to this request, right? So they're like, okay, and she gathers her siblings around, and so now they're all drinking champagne at noon. Um and she makes this big production out of all of it and directs everyone in exactly what she wants, right? Do it this way, do it this way, do it this way. Okay, baby. Okay, okay. And then the mom goes and gets a towel and comes back and Gabriella has died. I do think that people go um at the right time a lot of times. And it has to do with love too. Being loved, being precious, being a delight to your family. family. And someday there will be no death. We will live in a perfect world, right And all will be love. There will be no more clanging gongs or banging cymbals. There'll be no more nothings. The death toils for thee will be gone. And we are called into this amazing place. Psalm 6:4 says, Turn to me, deliver my life, save me for the sake of your steadfast love thirteen five. But I have trusted in your steadfast love, my heart shall rejoice in your salvation. 25, 6 and 7 Remember your mercy, O Lord, and your steadfast love, and they have been from old. Remember not the sins of my youth or my transgressions, according to your steadfast love. Remember me for the sake of your goodness. Verse ten, All the paths of the Lord are steadfast love and faithfulness for those who keep his covenants. 26 3 For your steadfast love is before my eyes, and I walk in your And what do we do when we understand that love? We respond to him and love him back. The one who loved us first. I mentioned before that I have six words tattooed on my back shoulder. The first three are faith, hope, and love. And the greatest of these is Love. The other three are in Hebrew ones Mishpat, and that's the word for justice. The second one is shalom. Flourishing in all ways. Way more than peace. We talked about this last week. And the last one is Hesed. which is steadfast love, covenantal faithfulness, not breaking your promises as some do Hasid love, covenantal love. I was just on uh Friday playing pool with a guy that I don't know very well and it was uh sort of quiet in there and I've mentioned before that one of the th things I like about pool is you're not always playing pool. You're taking breaks because you don't always win. At least I don't always win Right? So then someone's sitting with you and you have a ten minute conversation. It's not it have to be an hour. And this guy says, Oh man. I'm having a rough time. He had told me before he had gotten in a fight, got his lip split, lost the tooth, uh stitches, and he felt like a complete dummy. Probably was, right? But then he told me, he said, you know, I've been questioning my relationship with God. The last time he and I had talked, he told me he didn't have a relationship with God. So something's changed, right? So I don't feel like God's listening or I don't feel like I'm improving or he had several things. And I said, Travis, I can't answer all these questions, you know. I I we would have to talk a lot longer. Um but I want you to know these three things. God is sovereign. He's in control. Now that may sound weird after you just told me you're mad at him because you got in this fight and your lip got but Hey, this stuff is gonna happen. Just telling you. You know that. Believing in God doesn't stop bad things. God's sovereign, but he's also good. So he's not doing these things. to mess with you like you think. Now he might be messing with you, that's true. Right? He messes with people. But it's because he's good. I I I think it's no good to have a sovereign God who's not good. I think it's no good to have a God who's good and not sovereign. You need both. But I said the third one also is God is love. God is love. Oh, the deep, deep love of Jesus Vast and boundless and free and for all of us. So then we go out and we bear his image. We become a loving people, even to our enemies. That's radical. That's radical. We need the Holy Spirit to do that, right? Paul doesn't say all you need is love. There's lots of other things he says you need. Right? We've been talking about them. It's not only love, but without love the other things. So let's have that be right at the center. And let's say we're sorry when it's not. And a loving Savior forgives us. Amen? Amen. Well