But it really is good to be back with you. And as you may or may not know, Eric and Lee were part of the ministry there in Washington, D. C. Eric I had met a number of years ago, who at the time was a senior at University of Maryland and he was doing an internship uh on Capitol Hill for a congressional member, a member of Congress, and uh through all that we got to know each other and then he became part of Ministry of the State uh eventually then made his way uh here to your church and as you well know uh it's been a very uh significant part of your ministry but it's been Very encouraging for Debbie and I to see the way in which the Lord uh has used uh Eric and Lee, and uh just we're just so thankful to uh be here even today. Just to give you a little bit of background in regards to the Ministry of the State, if I may, this ministry is under the Presbyterian Church in America. It is a ministry to people and government in three different theaters. One is Washington, D. C. , which is a very large theater. There's a uh ongoing developing team there, of course, as I mentioned, Eric uh has been part of that. Then there is an emphasis towards state capitals, and then there is some emphasis towards international capitals. And we try to do a number of things as we minister to the people in these government centers. Obviously one is in regards to the gospel that we do everything we can to develop relationships and provide and find ourselves in circumstances where people would like to hear it, as Jonah has shared in regards to uh understanding what it means. To come to a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. Another part of the ministry then is discipleship and helping people understand how to apply the truths of the Old and New Testament, the truths of the gospel to their personal lives. And one of the things that uh I will do on occasion is put together some material, uh, like writing a book, and one of the most recent books Is love and power, glimpses of the gospel for those addicted to self. And part of the work on that book I'm going to be sharing with you more as we look at this particular passage in Mark chapter 10. But if you're interested in uh a complimentary copy of that book, there's some in the North text, please feel free to take a copy or any other materials that are there. But it will give you a little bit of sense of of the way in which we are ministering to people in these government centers. And of course We have no ministry unless we have the gospel. And I think that it's important for us as a church to be reminded of the fact that the gospel is needed in these government centers, in these workplaces And so as you think about us, uh I would appreciate your prayers for Debbie and myself and the rest of the team. So with that said, let's look at Mark chapter ten. Which, as I mentioned, is very much the basis of the book. Mark chapter 10, verses 17 through 31. We're going to be looking at This passage and trying to understand for us today what it means to be aware of what I'll refer to later on this morning as impossible repentance. But Mark chapter 17, Mark chapter 10, verse 17 and following. Listen to this portion of the Word of God. As Jesus started on his way, a man ran up to him and fell on his knees before him. Good teacher, he asked, What must I do to inherit eternal life? Why do you call me good? Jesus answered. No one is good except God alone. You know the commandments. You shall not murder, you shall not commit adultery. You shall not steal. You shall not give false testimony. You shall not defraud, honor your father and mother. Teacher, he declared, all these I've kept since I was a boy. Jesus looked at him and loved him. The one thing you lacked He said, Go sell everything you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. Then come and follow me. And at this the man's face fell, and he went away sad because he had great wealth. Jesus looked around and said to his disciples, How hard it is for the rich to enter the kingdom of God. The disciples were even more amazed at his words, but Jesus said again, children, how hard it is to to enter the kingdom of God. It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for someone who is rich to enter the kingdom of God. And the disciples were even more amazed and said to each other, Who then can be saved? And Jesus looked at them and said, With man this is impossible, but not with God. All things are possible with God. Then Peter spoke up. We have left everything to follow you. Truly I tell you, Jesus replied, no one who has left home or brothers or sisters or any any others or mothers and fathers and children or fields for me and the gospel will fail to receive a hundred times as much in this present age, homes, brothers, sisters, mothers, children, and fields, along with persecution, and the age to come, eternal life. But many who are first will be last, the last will be first. Will you pray with me? Father, we ask that you would help us understand this portion of the Gospel of Mark And not only enable us to understand how it applies to our own lives, but help us to live it out. Help us to understand how it will make a difference in the way in which we serve you. We ask and pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, as you can see, Mark is providing for us an account of the interaction that Jesus had with a man that we might refer to as the Inquisitor. Sometimes we refer to this man as the rich young ruler. He is indeed wealthy The passage reflects on that. Jesus teaches about the dynamics of what it means for those who are truly wealthy to interact with the gospel. Jesus also in this passage, however, wants us to understand just how crazy impossible it is. To actually surrender to him. To actually come to a point in your life where you are willing to repent. And so I use this phrase, impossible repentance, as a way of us trying to understand exactly what Jesus is relaying to us. As you can see, If you think about the interaction that Jesus has with this man, it doesn't take very long, maybe a few minutes. And in the course of that dialogue, that that conversation We learn something very, very distressing, and that is that to have a desire or a burning issue within your life and not define Jesus to be the answer. That's a fairly distressing thing, but that's exactly what we find here. A man who is leaving the presence of Jesus hopeless, sad. It hasn't been resolved for him. And so this morning, I would like us to take a better look at what it means for us to experience this impossible repentance. to understand what it means for us, even as believers. And I don't pretend to know you, and so I don't know if you are a believer or not. Maybe you've come here For the first time, maybe something like Joan, who has shared with us her experience. Maybe you'll have lunch with someone afterwards and the Lord will be working on your heart. I don't know your circumstances. Or maybe even the day As you've come, you say, no, I've known Christ since I was a child. I I've never known a time where I didn't know Christ. But I also know that there's a need for repentance in my life and I haven't found it to be very successful. So whatever category you might find yourself in, Let's understand what it means to experience this impossible repentance. And there's three basic things. The first is simply this. The first has to do with your view of self. If you were to write an outline of what I'm going to give you, point one is simply one word, and that one word is I. So even I can spell that. I'm not a very good speller, but dead people tell you I'm not a very good speller, but I can spell the word I. It's an incredibly small word, easy to spell But it's in a very large word in lots of ways. If you come back to the passage, you'll notice that Mark, as he places the spotlight on this man who has come to Christ You'll note that the man has this one basic question for Christ. As Jesus, verse 17, started on his way, a man ran up to him, fell on his knees before him. Good teacher, he asks, what must, now notice the next word, what must I do to inherit eternal life? Have you ever thought about that one phrase? What must I do to inherit eternal life If you will allow me, let's unpack that one word. What must I do? I All right, we know that the man was wealthy. Now that tells us quite a bit Uh I I don't know who you know. Maybe you are. Maybe you are the definition of wealth. Certainly in terms of the world, all of us here, I can assure you, in terms of the world at large, in regards to the Some seven plus billion people, the percentage of people who are truly poor, who who really work hard towards getting one meal, maybe even a day. We are incredibly wealthy. But let's Take it a little bit further in regards to this definition of I and wealth. Let's talk about people who are truly, truly wealthy. They wear the right clothes. I mean really wealthy people. I remember in because of my work and the need to to uh develop the ministry, I'll have meetings with people and sometimes I say to myself, this person really is wealthy. And in this one case, the person shared with me the fact that he was sat he sat down with his sons and he said He said, boys he said, do you think it's time for us to have our own personal jet? Now I don't know many people, right, who are having those kind of conversations at the at the kitchen table or the dinner table. You know, should we go ahead and and buy uh the jet and and then he went on and said my boy said no we don't like to fly in private jets we would rather fly commercial right so there's that type of person is truly wealthy in my at least in my own as the Mason. Debbie and I never have those kind of conversations. Okay. I'm just gonna be honest here. So uh so you know they they obviously have a lot of means. The material materials uh listic speaking they they have everything. I I uh was reading an article about what an expensive suit was. I thought an expensive suit was, you know, six, seven, eight hundred dollars, maybe a thousand dollars. That would be an expensive suit An expensive suit is made in Italy with this very special wool and it costs $22,000. Now imagine if I came in a $22,000 suit, right? I wouldn't even let you touch it, right? I would be like You know, I you I you can't imagine what what it would be like and I would and I tend to believe that this man here who has come to Christ wears a twenty two thousand dollars suit and he probably would have driven uh on you know on the weekends his Tesla and uh normally he's driven in a chauffeur car and everything that he wants is is there and he doesn't lack for anything. And he's a very powerful powerful person because when you have that kind of of wealth people tend to go to you for all kinds of needs and they go to you for advice and and so he's very influential, right? He's rich and he's young. Now think about being that wealthy and and for whatever reason that young that you were able to be that successful And so here he is in this position and of life, and he has everything, and yet there was one particular thing that he didn't have, and that was Security in regards to eternal life. Now think about that. You know, I would love to know, and maybe when we're in heaven we'll we'll be able to sit down with him and I I don't know if If he's in heaven or not, but the scriptures don't teach us that. But either way, it would be helpful to understand what exactly was it in his life that caused him to have this urgency. Right? Because if you notice, a guy in a $22,000 suit who was just chauffeur to price, and now he's down in the dirt, in his knees. How often do you read in the Gospels people on their knees in the dirt in front of Christ? Not very often So there's a great urgency here in this man's life, and he comes to Christ, but then he says this: what must I do to inherit eternal life, right? Why not? Why not say to Jesus, just help me out here? Just show me what I must do. Now I think it's relatively safe to say that probably there was some degree of narcissism in this man's being. You know what a narcissist is? I mean, uh, you know, simply put, a narcissist is someone who is so totally absorbed with self. Debbie will tell you that she lives with one Right? And and she understands the dynamic of how of what it means to be with someone who is who who is selfless doesn't mean I'm always that way, but But I know that it's there and they and the experts say that there's really even a a designation for certain people who who are who are in essence diagnosed with this narcissism and they say that there are different elements. For example, that they are poor listeners that they they aren't very empathetic towards other people. They they tend not to want to mentor uh not to be mentored, and they don't want to mentor other people as well. And they're very competitive. Now I don't I don't know if any of those things might pertain to you, maybe not, but but the point is probably all of us have some of those dynamics And then people who are narcissistic and then wealthy, well then it's like narcissism on steroids because the entire world is theirs. So that's what is so striking about the passage. You take someone with that kind of personality coming to Jesus and saying, Jesus, show me what I must do to inherit eternal life. If you put it in context, you realize that the I is really quite large because basically what he's saying is, just show me what I need to do to resolve this problem. And people who are incredibly successful like this man, all you need to do is just just kind of guide them, direct them a little bit, and then they're fine. It's what I call the Google mindset. You know what I mean when I say the the the Google world? So you y I see the smiles, you know, so you know, such and such like I need to fix my car. So I have a 2002 Camry and this thing is not working. So what do I do? I go Google and I YouTube, right? Now uh the It's amazing to me how how far this thing has gotten. So for example, back in the early part of the year, we had a partial government shutdown, right? You remember that maybe So some of our young friends, some of the people that, for example, Eric would have known and worked with, uh, were cherni were were sharing with me what their friends in government were doing during the shutdown. Now, they all ended up getting paid. It wasn't like they weren't going to get a paycheck. They just had to wait While they're waiting, they would do things like this. There's a certain app, some of you may know of it, where you can go online and you can, and let's say you need something done at your house, you need your tools fixed And so you go online and you can uh I guess put in I need my toolus fixed and then someone else who fixes to let's will pick up on your need and then they'll contact you and they'll fix it. Well These guys who weren't plumbers or carpenters or really knew anything, what they would do is they would contract themselves out, so tomorrow they're gonna go fix Someone's toilet. They don't know how to fix the toilet. They don't I mean they're not a plumber. But the night before, they go on Google and YouTube Okay, how do I fix the inside of a toilet? You know, and they're reading about it and they go they go to Home Depot, they pick up some parts or whatever, they have some tools, and then the next day They go to the apartment and they fix someone's toilet. Now I don't know if that really, really works that well, or if you would want your toilet fixed by someone like that. I personally I'm gonna pass on that. But the point is this. It's sort of like just show me what I need to do to fix your tools. That same mindset is here with the richer and ruler. Show me what I must do. Just show me. I can do it, basically. Just show me. Are you ever that way? Now, take that in contrast, if you will, please. To the latter portion of this passage here in Mark chapter 10. If you go to verse 47, note the contrast between Just show me what I can do. What must I do? And then if you read verse 47 in regards to blind Bartimaeus. Who cannot see and has absolutely no hope of ever being able to see, but he hears that Jesus is coming And so what does he do? Jesus, show me what I must do so I can see. No. Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. Now there's a significant contrast. How often do we cry out to Christ? Not, Lord, show me what I must do. And I'm not ignoring the fact that There's a lot for us to be involved in, but if we are gospel-oriented and there will then we will experience true repentance We need to understand that I have nothing to offer that except to cry out for God's mercy. A few months ago Debbie woke me up. It was three o'clock in the morning. We live in Washington area called Adams Morgan. It's on the east side of the zoo. If you've ever, I'm sure maybe you've been to the zoo. Uh not the whole city sometimes doesn't seem a bit of a zoo, but there's there is a zoo. And uh and so, you know Washington is is is a unique city in lots of ways and there's a lot of nightlife actually where where we live and so it's not unusual to hear voices and people who forget that they're in a city and there's a lot of people and and uh but she was hearing something that didn't sound quite right and so she was stirred and she kind of woke me up and she said, Do you do you hear that? and And uh I did hear it. And she looks out the window and there is a woman who is screaming at the top of her lungs. And next uh on the street is a man who is who was next to the a car and then there was a four-year-old boy. This is three o'clock, three thirty in the morning. And she was she she was screaming so loud that a couple days later, uh a a woman who lived at the end of the next block uh told me she could hear this woman cry out for help. And she was crying out for help because this man that she was with, we don't believe it was her husband. uh was attacked and now he lies bleeding. Debbie goes out the front door quickly and notices that that uh he his face is covered with blood and and uh uh and he was breathing and his vitals were pretty much there and of course the the uh police, ambulance and all were called and the whole scene through the night. Uh it was a really traumatic kind of evening, but We don't know, and the other thing is everything was in Spanish, so we don't know a lot of the the details of what happened. But what we do know is that this woman whose name we don't have, got to a point in her life where she was not able to do anything for this man, boyfriend, whoever or the circumstances, all she could do, right, at the top of her lungs, was to cry out for help. And people were coming, as you would expect. Is that the picture of you and the gospel? That you are so desperate in regards to your sin And the cer and your the circumstances of your sin and your life. And I'm not saying that every day you should be going out in the streets and hollering, but I think that in terms of The understanding of just how incredibly pervasive and dominating and suffocating sin is in our lives And sometimes it doesn't seem to be that significant, but it's always significant before God So that instead of us saying, Lord, just kind of show me what I need to do to clean my act up, right, to kind of fix these things in my life, we're more like the blind Bartimaeus. Lord have mercy on me. And that's a very, very different, very, very different picture than a rich young man who is who is basically able to fix any problem in his life is is incredibly successful and independent saying just kind of show me what I need to do to fix it As opposed to, Lord have mercy on me. Secondly, as you look at the passage in this whole dynamic of impossible repentance, we see just how blind he is. And you will never cry out for mercy. You will never have an appreciation for your circumstances. Unless you do see how blind you are. So for example, when this man comes to Christ and he says to him, Good teacher, what must I do? To inherit eternal life, he clearly does not see truth. He does not see his circumstances. He doesn't see really who he's in front of. There was some years ago, this was embarrassing for especially my oldest son who loves football and loves sports and I'm I'm just I'm just not there. I I I mean I know sports exists, but I'm not a advocate. Debbie will tell you it kind of frustrates some some of our friends that I I'm not more engaged in it. My my brother Chris who Some of you may know. So there's three there are three Gary brothers, right? So there's Craig, so there's me, and then the next one is Craig. Craig's thirteen months younger than I am. He's pastored for the 38 years of Faith Christian Fellowship. And then my younger brother who's eleven years younger, Chris, he at the University of Maryland does uh RUF. So there's three ministers in this little family that are that are pastors. Can you imagine that? And our father basically was a plumber. So where where all that comes from, I'm not sure. But The point is I never I never really got my my my brother, Chris especially is a sports advocate, loves sports. I Uh it's just not in my blood. And so when I met when I met this guy uh who who was speaking at this event some years ago And I asked him, oh by the way, what is it that you do? It just caused enormous amount of embarrassment because the guy that I was talking to is a fellow by the name of Steve Largen. Steve Largen played for the Washington Seahawks. He was a big quarterback at Hall of Famer and and some of you maybe don't know who seemed large in this, but Okay, let's say you uh let's put it in the context here. It'd be the same as going up to Johnny United. Anyone here remember Johnny? Maybe I'm going too far back. Anyway, the point is Somebody that's really famous in the whole world knows you're you're meeting them for the first time and you're asking them, tell me what it is that you do, right? And that's exactly what was happening here. I mean when you're in the presence of someone who's like a great football player or Brooks Robinson or whoever and you ask them, you know, oh tell me, you know, what did you do in your life Right? The rew the everybody else is just totally embarrassed. But here this guy is in front of in front of Christ and he's calling him a good teacher. Like he totally misses the fact he is actually standing in the presence of the living God. And he doesn't get it. He doesn't see it. Right. Secondly, we notice that that the man doesn't have any any connection at all. At all. With his offense. When Jesus asked him the question about the moral law, he's talking to, and I I didn't accent this, but I'll accent it now. This man is a Jew. He's a rich young ruler and he's a Jew. The reason why we believe that he's a ruler is because he probably was a leader within the synagogue, and that's where that part of the equation comes from. And so when Jesus asks him about his knowledge of the law, Jesus is pulling from the second part of the Decalogue, the second part of the Ten Commandments. The the commandments that deal with the relationships that we have with each other, the horizontal And so as he examines his life quickly, and he's speaking to it, yeah, yeah, yeah. You know, I need to know what what I need to do to fix this, and Jesus is talking to him about his past understanding of the law. He says, What? I've kept all those basically since I was a kid. I've known about them. I've obeyed the law. He doesn't see his sin. And let me tell you this. That's not only a problem within the world, I think that's a problem within the church. I know it's a problem within my own life. One of the reasons why I'm sure the Lord gave me Debbie is to help me at least begin to see some of my sin and my shortcomings. That's one of the beautiful things about marriage, by the way. It's a huge gift. But this man doesn't see it. He doesn't see how blind he is. And I believe that's a big issue for us. And sometimes, you know, our sin maybe is it's not the kind of sin that's going to be written up in the Baltimore Sun or The Wall Street Journal, maybe we think of it as being a little sin. It's just kind of a little problem. It's not a little problem to God. It never is But now go back to the scenario that we have in front of us. So Jesus asked the man specifically about the second half of the decalogue of the Ten Commandments. But then when Jesus says to him, sell everything, sell everything, and give the proceeds to the poor. We're told that the man left sad because he had great wealth. The point being this. Now Jesus is drawing from the first half of the old of the Ten Commandments And he's pointing out the fact that you have an incredible idol in your life and idolatry is so big and so loud and you don't see it. And here you are, a Jew, who's supposed to believe in the Ten Commandments, and you think that you've kept them, but the truth is, is that idolatry is your problem. You have worshiped your possessions And your position, and the power that all these things have given you. And that's where your life is. And you will never, ever, ever ever be able to see that until you get rid of it. And he wasn't willing to own any of it. He's totally blind to that. He's totally blind to the consequence Now just for a minute, ask yourself the question, do we live in a world that is somewhat described by this rich young ruler? And I believe the answer is yes. And if that's true, then as Christians, as people who have some appreciation, should have some appreciation for true repentance. And what it means to be so full of self and to be so blind that we ought to have a great compassion for the world around us, our neighbors, our friends, those with whom we work. We should expect them to live exactly as they do, to think exactly as they think, to to say the things that they would say, to write the things that they would write. Why? Because that's what it means to be so full of self and to be blind. And instead of, in a sense, condemning them and judging them, I'm not saying we shouldn't discern these issues, but we ought to have a hum humongous amount of mercy and compassion for them because they are full of self and they are incredibly blind. And that brings us then to the last point here, which is simply this. That is that this impossible repentance is not only about myself and for the word I and about being blind, but thirdly about the whole dynamic of love. Because the passage does say to us that Jesus looked at the man in verse 21. Jesus looked at him and he loved him. And then he said, one thing you lack, go sell everything you have and give the proceeds to the poor, then come and follow me. And so here you are confronted with the fact that Jesus understands what it means for this man to be blind. And he understands what it means for us to be blind. And he understands the fact that that it's so incredibly easy for us, even as Christians, not to see the things that are there in our lives. And in this particular case, not only did he have a compassion on someone who was blind, but he loved him so much that he made sure That he heard, at least for the first time, his root his true circumstances, meaning this. Not only did Jesus have a compassion on his blindness, but he wanted him to know the truth We experience God's love when we're confronted with that truth, when we're confronted with who we really are, how we really think, where we're really going. And I'm amazed at how it can how it can sneak up in our lives and how God will deal with us. One of the things that confronted me after 20 years of pastoring in Oklahoma City. Which was an enormous gift to me personally and to us as a family and to our children. I can't tell you how significant that was. But when we believed that God was calling us from Oklahoma City to develop this thing called ministry to state and come to Washington, D. C. After 20 years of being in the pulpit and teaching and and having the kind of ministry that the Lord afforded us there, we came to Washington without a church. I was out of established ministry, and certainly there wasn't any preaching for some time. And what I discovered easily uh what I discovered within the first several months of coming to Washington was that since I wasn't in the pulpit, then I was in the pew. And I found that over the first couple of months I was terribly uncomfortable with being in the pew and when I began to ask myself the question, why Why are you not enjoying the fact that you're not having to prepare and to preach and you can just enjoy the worship and and all that is afforded you? I realized the answer was this. I was addicted to the pulpit. I would preach two different services and teach a new members class Sunday mornings. And then I would do a Bible study, men's Bible study on Tuesday mornings. Uh so Sunday morning, I mean Sunday morning all the preaching and teaching, Tuesday morning, the Bible study, Wednesday I would teach at the Capitol Bible at the Capitol Downtown Oklahoma City, and then I had another Bible study, it's some training deal. I might be preparing to teach or preach maybe five or six times in a week. Now it's zero. And I was not happy. And the reason was because I found my life in the pulpit. We can take things that are really good and wholesome And we can just twist them enough. And then we won't see it. God loves us so much that eventually He's going to show you that. It might be through someone else confronting you with some sin. And just like with this rich young ruler, he wasn't going to leave the presence of Christ and not experience the consequence of that love. But then the other dynamic of love, and I'll end with this, was Jesus showing him that really the whole issue is in the word I or me, but not the rich young ruler. It's Jesus Go sell everything that you have, give the proceeds to the poor, and then come and follow me. Christ. Christ alone. Come to Christ. So we look at the passage and we may say to ourselves, yes, this is for the non-believer, and it is for the non-believer, but it's also for us. And it's also it's also for us every day. That we would recognize the need, the incredible need that we have every day of our lives for true gospel repentance I didn't just sin once and need forgiveness once. I'm a continual issue. Sin is a continual issue in my life. And therefore I depend upon the grace of the Lord. To show me my sin, to love me the way that he loves me, to show me the consequence of my sin, to see how devastating it is, and the need to be continually going before him. In a very real sense, crying out for his mercy and for his love. So, my prayer for you is that you might benefit from this passage. And that God will work within your life in showing you what impossible repentance is, but only by his grace. Lord, thank you for giving us this time today to worship you. Thank you for the testimony of the one who shared how she came to Christ years ago. I pray, Lord, that you would use this church and this community. For your sake, for your glory, bringing people to true repentance, to gospel repentance. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.