Good morning. We are making our way through the book of Deuteronomy and in particular through the Ten Commandments as we look to the fourth commandment this morning as we consider the Lord's um word that he's given to us. So As is a tradition, I'll ask you if you're able to please stand as we read from Deuteronomy chapter 5. We're reading verses 12 to 15. Hear now the words of the Lord this morning. Observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy, as the Lord your God commanded you. Six days you shall labor and do all your work. But the seventh day is a Sabbath to the Lord your God. On it you shall not do any work, you or your son or your daughter. or your male servant or your female servant or your ox or your donkey or your livestock or the sojourner who is within your gate That your male servant and your female servant may rest as well as you. You shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt And the Lord your God brought you out from there with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm. Therefore, the Lord your God commanded you to keep the Sabbath day. The word of the Lord this morning. Father, we do come to you with so much gratitude and consider what a wonderful opportunity it is to sit under the instruction of your word. And Lord, allow us not to take it for granted that we're able to do so. And Father, instruct us now we pray through your Holy Spirit in Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated. What would you expect to hear from a s uh a sermon on the Sabbath? What would you expect to hear on a sermon About the Sabbath. Two outcomes. There may be more, but at least in my mind, there are two outcomes that come to my mind. One is a sermon that tells you what you have been doing wrong and that you are a terrible person And you go home feeling guilty and sorry for yourself because there's no way you've been able to keep the Sabbath The other way could be, the other outcome could be, well, Jesus has come and fulfilled the law and the Sabbath is one of the Ten Commandments, and you know we We we we we love Jesus. We've been saved from obedience to all these things and uh church is just church. You know, you can come, don't be legalistic about it. So go home and feel good about yourself because all is good See the there's a temptation for us to either go to those sides, to those two outcomes. I honestly hope that that's not what you're gonna hear me say this morning. Are we going to hear some of that? Oh, definitely. Is it appropriate for us to hear some of yes, it is appropriate But I want us to this morning take a moment in our life and forget about the do's and don'ts of Christianity and of keeping the Sabbath. And for once in our life consider what does it mean to keep the Lord's day? What does it mean? Because it's so easy for us to go into don't or do without really knowing what does it mean anyway to keep the Lord's day? See, I say that because we live busy lives, don't we? We're all extremely busy and sometimes we like it that way. We love being busy. We we we love when we're pressed for time. I could borrow two hours every week. I need it. Because I feel like I need it. And it seems that there's never time for us to finish doing that which we want to accomplish. Now, I I want us to consider something here as we as we begin looking at this sermon. Is is is the question whether not the question but is i is it because we don't have enough time that we're always busy and pressed for time, or is it because we do not use wisely the time that the Lord has given to us? Let's think about that for a second. Is it because we do not God has not given us enough time? Like God, like really? Have you given us enough time six days a week and one day twenty? We need more. Or is it because we are not being wise in terms of how we use our time? And this is especially so when it comes to this day that we're talking about, when it comes to the Sabbath We all have a a hard time balancing work and rest and work and rest. But but you know what the truth let the truth be told that It's so easy for us to put on our calendars every year the time that we're going to do our work and the time that we're going to tell our bosses I am not showing up for work in July because that's my vacation and I deserve it We we we do that so so easily. We're able to set aside the time that we have for our vacation. We're also able to actually curve out some time that we enjoy our hobbies And the things that we love to do. But in some cases it just seems like church is always at the back seat. Somewhere there. It's just an afterthought. And in some sense it's like we we've we've lost a sense of what worship is, a sense of what fellowship is all about, a sense of what does it really mean to be a church. And one of the excuses that we use is hey look, you know, technology is helping us these days, isn't it? I can listen to a podcast, I can listen to a sermon online. It's the same as having church, isn't it? See the passage that we're reading this morning, God is reminding his people that he has given them a gift, a gift that they will do so well to accept. And what is the gift? It is a gift to stop And rest. So as we've been doing throughout looking at the Ten Commandments, we're going to look at what it means or what it meant for God's people to be given this command. to stop and rest and then we're going to apply it in in in our lives this morning. This commandment, if you look at it, is very different from the rest of the commandments. All the other commandments begin with you shall not, you shall not, do not, do not This commandment is actually set in a positive way, isn't it? Starts with observe the day, observe the Sabbath for the Lord. But th the the the positive wave may be what's what's what's given to us initially, but the uh the the negative implications are implied in in this particular command. But there's also something that's interesting here that there's a double obligation. A double obligation for God's people. And what do I mean by that? It looks like the command is to actually work. What does he say? Um, you know, six days you shall labor and do all your work. It seems like that's the command to actually do your work. Of course he implies that the the command is about rest. And so the implication, the double implication here is that God is calling his people to work, and then out of that work To find rest. And the reason here is given for God's people as to why they should rest. If you go back to Exodus chapter 20, verses 11, you realize it's different. But the command is in fact different. The first time it was given in Exodus, God told his people, and we read Exodus chapter 20, verse 11, says, the reason why you should take the Sabbath and keep it holy is because for in six days the Lord made heaven and earth and the sea and all that is in them and rested on the seventh day. Therefore the Lord blessed the day and made it holy. And here does he say that? No, here he says, because the Lord saved you from slavery, from Egypt with his mighty hand and outstretched arm. So does this negate the reason for creation? for the Sabbath. Absolutely no. This is really an extension of the first rule. Why? Because in Deuteronomy peop the people of God already know the command. They know that they're supposed to be keeping the command. Remember when they were in the wilderness, they knew that manna was not falling on Sabbath. It wasn't coming. You're not getting any food. So they understand the command. This is an extension of creation which is a reason for keep keeping the Sabbath. And here we have redemption. Redemption and creation are the basis for our for the for for for rest for the covenant community That this both experiences of God creating the world in six days and resting on the seventh, but also rescuing them from slavery are supposed to be to to emphasize God's dependence, God's uh people's dependence upon God Their complete dependence upon God. And the two reasons are supposed to complement each other, to enforce this idea that God's people are without any other help. God's people are without anything else apart from fully and completely depending on God and Him alone. And there is something special here too. That when God's people are actually having dominion over what God has created and made, they are participating not in just that creative activity, but also participating and sharing in God's rest. The Exodus was a form of creation, wasn't it? Because why did God rescue his people from the Exodus? He was rescuing them so that he could make them into a nation, into a people for his own purposes, for them to worship him. They were living in slavery, in bondage, away from God, away from their father Now God has delivered them, He has brought them out and and He He is promising to give them a a land that He promised to their fathers When when God's people are being commended to rest, they're being reminded to sit and stop, to seize and remember what the Lord has done for them. And they can do so with thanksgiving, they can do so with gratitude, they can do so with praise. They can do so remembering we have been rescued to be a people for God. Now you just take a moment and imagine what the what the Exodus or what the what the slavery in Egypt meant for God's people. You know how hard how difficult it was for them to be in slavery? Do you know how their self-worth was measured? It was measured by how many bricks you could produce a day And when you could not produce the amount that your master was calling you to, you were punished. And not just that, you were considered worthless. If you couldn't perform the work that you're doing, and every day they labored, they worked hard, they toiled, and they were oppressed by the Egyptians. They made bricks and their backs were hit hard. And here God is telling them. Or you can look back and see how you were oppressed and how it was so difficult for you. Now you can give thanks to God by taking a time to rest. Because that is what Sabbath means, isn't it? Sabbath means to seize. He means to stop. Stop And for them work was for forbidden for for on the seventh day, not just for the for the master of the of the home, but also for for the children, for the servants, for the beasts that worked for them, for the donkeys and and the resident aliens and the slaves Which is really uh a demonstration of here the nation of Israel. Um there was the the native Israelites, the resident alien or the sojourner who is mentioned here, and then the slaves. Of course you don't count the animals because they're not people. And so they're all called to take a break. There's a beautiful psalm. Psalm 92 is a Sabbath psalm That declares God's praise and thanksgiving to him for his faithfulness, for his head was love. You just listen to A few verses from Psalm 92. It is good to give thanks to the Lord, to sing praises to your name, O Most High, to declare your steadfast love in the morning. And your faithfulness by night, to the music of the lute and the harp, to the melody of the lyre. For you, O Lord, have made me glad by your work at the works of your hands. I sing for joy. It is a psalm that is bringing God's people as this covenant people, and they're being asked to remember what the Lord has done for them, his work in delivering them. And so Sabbath is here being tied to To the covenant, to God's covenant. It's a sign of the covenant that God has given to them that part of their job is to not only work, but also to rest out of their work. And they're supposed to work because God blessed this particular day. And he did not just bless it, he blessed it and made it holy. That's what he said. He has blessed this day of Sabbath and made it holy. You know, it's it's it's such a precious gift, isn't it? To imagine that God made all things by st by speaking everything into being in six days. And he looks back and he says, It is good. God creates the world and he looks back and he says, It is Good. And then he takes a rest. Then we read in Genesis chapter three, we hear the fall, and the ground is cursed, and man and woman, and and and the fall just comes into presence and and man is now to being told that you're going to sweat and toil. And here God is actually giving his people such a beautiful thing, he's telling them that I know that this is not what I intended with my creation. Everything was supposed to be good, but it's been corrupted by sin. And now God is giving them a day, just one day, to rest from the toil of the oppressive uh work that is to their body and their soul, to be refreshed, to be rejuvenated Because it's supposed to be a foretaste of what they shall experience when God comes and wipes away every sin, when God comes and makes things to be the way they were supposed to be. What a beautiful thing. That God would give us a gift for just one day to remember that yes, we know how broken things are. But on this particular day, this day of the Lord, we sit here and we say we know things are not supposed to be the way they are, but we can find something in our hearts and in our minds that reminds us That one day we will find rest in God with no toil, no sweat. No trial, no all these things that we have to experience today. And you know, breaking the Sabbath was not a trivial matter either You read Exodus chapter 31, verses 14 and 15, you will see that the death penalty was given to those who intentionally violated the Sabbath. You know, it was so serious because i i the Jews had a a list of the things that they could or couldn't do. In fact, during Jesus' times The Jews had a list that included 1,521 things that they couldn't do on the Sabbath. And that included you could not rescue a drowning man. Let them drown. Because it's Sabbath. Now you wonder why the Pharisees were so harsh on Jesus when he tried to perform miracles on the Sabbath. Because they knew how serious it was. You don't go rescuing someone who is who is who is dying, not on a Sabbath. Let them die. It's the day of the Lord. Even today if you go to uh parts where there are even here in in in Maryland, uh Orthodox Jews, there are things that they would not do on Sabbath Um how many steps they will take. They will not kindle a fire. They will not light a fire. But you know, keeping the Sabbath for God's people was such a profound act of love to their God. That's why they were driven to it so much because It was keeping the day holy w w was was meant to demonstrate their love for God. Because to them they were imitating God in creation. and and and in in doing all these things. And and Sabbath really for us and for for his people is to be understood as a restoration of a whole society. To its ideal, to to be that which it was meant to be And that's what we look forward to. Now, the big question having considered that then is how can we as a church today keep Sabbath. What does it mean for us? And I want us to start from a really good place with that, which I think sets the foundation for us to think about the Sabbath and what it means for us. And it is this, that divine rest must be a model for those who are made in God's image. Okay? The divine rest must be a model for those who are made in God's. What do I mean by that? See, we we follow the example of a working and resting God. That's our motto. And and that's what means what that's what it means for us to to to take a rest, to regularly take rest from from our labor But recognize that God is not resting just for the sake of resting, that God's rest naturally flows from him working for six days And then resting. And we must consider this, brothers and sisters, that rest is not just a nice idea, a noble thing that we can take or not take whether we like or not. The rest that we're talking about here is This is what it means to be human. This is what it means to be made in God's image, to take rest seriously. If work is the means through which we carry out our cultural mandate If work is the means through which we fulfill our calling as image bearers, then rest must be the reflection of the Lordship of Christ in our lives as image-bearers. You cannot have one without the other. Are you called to fulfill your cultural mandate, to work as an image bearer, to be a hard worker, to be to be doing the things that God has called you to fulfill and say, Yes? But then how do you reflect the image that the Lord is in control and powerful and ruling over all things and and he is sufficient for you, for your provision, for your of all things that you need? It is by taking the rest that he causes to See work and rest have to go together. They have to go in tandem. You cannot have one without the other. But because of our sinfulness, because of our brokenness, we tend to overemphasize one over the other, right? Either work too hard and no rest or rest too much and no work. They're both sins. Work without rest is idolatry, that's sin. And rest without work is laziness. It's sin And both ends end up being meaningless. Is what the preacher in Ecclesiastes talks about. They're meaningless, they're worthless, they're unsatisfying. But here's our problem. We have many. But here's one of them. Have you ever heard of an honorable sin? No? Honorable sins. We commit them all day long. You ever heard someone tell you or you told someone, I'm sure I've said this to people. Have you ever heard someone come to you and say, you know Man, I I work so hard. You know, I gotta do this. I have all these things to do, and I got no time for church, I got no time for my family I have no time for my friends, I have no time to pray, no time to do all these things. And and then you know they just lay out a lithium of things that they are doing so wrong, but they have a a smile on their face because they are showing you just how what how hard and long they work. And yet that person goes back home and sleeps like a baby. No repentance. No trying to change your ways. To make sure that you are using your time wisely. That's called pride. And we do that. I know I do that all the time. I tell people how busy I am and ministry is difficult and all these things and you know I wish I could spend more time with my wife and I wish I could do all these things and yet I go home and I don't make the change. To make sure that I'm resting. Now let me ask us a question. What makes us think that we are unfit for rest? From our labors. If the Lord, our God, the Creator, the infinite, unchangeable, eternal God, who did not need rest by the way. If he saw it fit to rest on the seventh day, what makes us think that we are unfit? Don't you think it's an absurd presumption for us to think that we don't need it? To ignore it in our lives. And you see, just like I mentioned, this is the problem is is is our pride The problem is we take so much pride and we find our sense of worth and identity in our work instead of finding it in Christ. Remember what I mentioned about the Jews and making bricks? And their self-worth was founded how much they could produce? We do the same thing. We identify ourselves with what we can do with our work. And the problem is if we were to find our rest in Jesus Christ Then we would find the time to take rest and be rejuvenated, be strengthened, be refreshed so that we have passion to do the thing that we are called to do and do it right. There's a reason why we feel overworked. There's a reason why we feel exhausted all the time. There's a reason why we we're grumpy all the time. You know our culture really is huge on this. Let me ask you a question. When you when you when you meet someone that's new What are the three questions that you're gonna ask them? The first one, what's your name? They tell you your name. Where do you live? Well I live in Arputus. The third one might be, oh you you got a family? Yeah. What's the what's the next question? You know it, right? Why? And then once they tell us what do you do, what do we what do we start doing? We form a perception on who they are. Like oh I'm sure you oh I'm sure you or I'm because that's our culture. Because the way we define people not by who they are in Christ, but what they can do. And by what they do. And that's ingrained in our culture. See listen, when I talk about rest, please don't hear me say that God does not value rest. In fact, I mean God does not value work. God values work so much that when he made Adam and Eve, he put them in the garden of Eden uh in the in the in the garden to do what? to cross their legs and snap their fingers so that fruit can come out of the trees and smoke a cigar and say, Woohoo, God is good. I need an apple? Apple come. I need an orange? No. God put them there so that they may do what? So that they may work. God values work. But you know what? We follow the example of a working God when we work, but we also follow the example of a resting God when we rest. A life that is marked by a constant restlessness. And by restlessness, I don't mean anxiety, I mean a lack of rest. is not only an indication of a lack of wisdom in how we use our time, but it is an indication of our rebellion. It really is. We must work in West to God's glory. But we must be careful that it's not rebellion that is driving us. Now, I've talked too much about the Sabbath and some people may ask, well wait, isn't the Sabbath the seventh day? Uh the right the Saturday, not Sunday? So are you talking about us then taking Saturday and just chilling and and uh no. So we we cannot conceive of a Sabbath without a reference to the finished work of Jesus Christ, can we? And so that's what we meet on Sundays. You're not gonna go find in in your Bible in the New Testament where it says, and from now on you shall worship on Sunday. It's not that, okay? But there's a reason why the church saw it fit for us to worship on the first day It's the resurrection day. It's the it's the day that the Christ finished. It it it it marks for us a liberation, just like the exodus. A liberation from an old life, a life of sin and death into a new life that is found in Christ Jesus It's a day that we remember we are God's children. We've been rescued. We've been loved by Him. We're completely dependent on Him and we come to give Him glory and honor. Now, while all of our life must be marked by worship, all of our life ought to be worship, that is so true It is especially true on the day of the Lord. Now I changed my language instead of speaking of Sabbath, the day of the Lord. It is especially true that on this particular day we focus on God's word and on his worship. And you know what And in fact, be reminded that Sabbath, or the day of the Lord, does not mean when we take rest is an absence of work. It's not just a mere absence of work, it's the presence of worship. We don't just rest and rest for the sake of resting and chilling. That's not what we're talking about. We are resting to worship God. We remember that He made all things and rested, that He began a good work in us. But we rest in Christ's work on the cross for our salvation. When we are resting on Sunday morning on the day of the Lord, we remember that God is in control. We remember that he has lavished so much grace upon us that he is still at work. While we may be resting, God is at work. It's a day of worship, a day of mercy, a day of grace. And you know what we're doing when we do that? We're demonstrating our love for God. When we put up an effort and a desire to be holy as he is, when we set our priorities right by making sure that we are showing up on the day of the Lord to worship him, to spend time with him and with one another Now we may disagree on whether worldly recreations are allowed on Sabbath or what's called the continental view of the Sabbath. I'm not even gonna go there. Because what recreation makes one holier than the other Uh Isaiah 58, a passage that's been used so much for people who uh like to you know talk about it, you know, I think that's really a reference to evil or sinful pleasures. Of course we're not there But one thing we can agree on is that on the Lord's Day it's a day of worship. But even as soon as I say that, I gotta remind us that church going is not the goal. Church going is not the goal. What is the goal? God and God alone must be the goal. Loving God more than anything else. Having a deep desire to meet with God, not because the ravens are not playing on this particular day, or you can't go fishing because the weather is bad, so church will just have to do. Loving God more than anything because our sense of worship, our sense of church must be love and beauty and delight that goes beyond all other delights. Otherwise, everything just dwindles into formality. God is after your heart and not your rituals. God is after your heart and not your rituals. Because you can be here and not be here. That's not what God is wanting from us. See somebody argue and say, well Pastor, I mean, really? Are we really allowed to like Keep the Sabbath, you know. Jesus says in Mark 2 that the Sabbath was made for man, not meant for the Sabbath. So the Son of Man is the Lord even of the Sabbath. Does that mean we don't obey it? Well Jesus did fulfill the law. Christ's atonement is completely done. There's nothing that you and I can add or do anything to add to that. You may be experiencing part of the already and the not yet, which is eternal rest that you have in Christ, but we're still preaching the gospel, right? Some of his sheep are not there. Christ is still bringing many under his feet. There's still work to do And so there's an obligation in that fulfillment that's not complete yet, and it will not be complete until Christ returns. That means the Sabbath. That means obedience to the Sabbath. But we should be careful. Again I mentioned we should be careful not to mechanically obey this law and observe it as simply as this law without work without The spiritual aspect of it, anyone can rest from work. Anyone can rest. We everybody can rest from their work. But for us as a church, we rest to remember. We rest to remember and reflect. What the Lord has done for us through Christ. It is not a meaningless day. It is not an idle day. It is not a day for us to do whatever we wish to do. See, St. Augustine, one of my favorite philosophers, says that rest is accepted universally. But the only pure and true rest is only found in God. So when people just rest for the sake of resting, they're resting for their own reasons. But we don't rest for just our own reasons. Do you know what we do when we gather? To church on Sunday, or what we're supposed to be doing when we come to the Lord's day, and on a Sunday morning. We we are stopping, we're seizing from our self-sufficiency. So think of work as what we think we do to supply and provide for ourselves. We we're basically resting from all those labors of self-sufficiency and saying God is enough for us and we have come to meet with God He has come to show us himself. He has come to show us his ways. He has come to give us his purposes for us. He has come to declare his glory so that we may glorify him. We tend to think of a Sunday morning or Sunday as an extension of our weekend, don't we? So we show up at church and hurry back because we've got unfinished projects that we didn't finish on Saturday. We need to get ready for the important stuff, which is coming week, Monday through Friday, our work. And we wonder why sometimes we feel God is so distant. Because we're so busy chasing the things of this world that we completely, completely forget what should be central in our lives. Church worship worship Fellowship marginalized. It's a small part of what we do. It doesn't matter that much It speaks volumes how we prepare for this day. It's not just about the day. But it's about how we prepare for the day. What do you do on Saturday night? What is on your mind on Saturday before Sunday? Is the day of the Lord? Does it ever cross your mind that tomorrow I have a very important meeting? I have the most important appointment I could have all week. A meeting with Jesus Is the day of worship the highlight of your life? Everything else can be forgotten. But folks, I'm not going to party till 2 a. m. in the morning on Saturday, on Sunday morning. Because I I've got an important meeting tomorrow. It means the world to me. A meeting with Jesus If the question in your mind when it comes to Sabbath is, can I do A, B, C, and D? Maybe the problem is not because you're trying to find an answer. Maybe the problem is because we're trying to justify our own sinful things that we want to be allowed to do. And not really seeking to love God. See, the Sabbath is a foretaste of heaven, isn't it? Where every day will be the Lord's day, and that's all eternal glory. Unfortunately, we can rest and never be at rest. We worry too much. I am the biggest warrior of all. We can be here and still not really be here. Our worry may go from the things that we need to do or the things that we've done and shouldn't have done. Or worry maybe even pious of of all of our struggles with sin and how we want to change. But by focusing on those things, do you think you're honoring the Lord and his day? See friends, we have rest because we have peace with God. And Jesus is our peace. He is our shalom. He is our Sabbath At the end of the day, the question for us is one, are you resting in the finished work of Jesus Christ? That's the only question you gotta ask this morning. Are you resting in the finished work of Jesus Christ? And if you are, does that affect how you live your life? Does that make a change at all in anything that you do from Monday through Monday? Does it? Does it change how how does it affect how you you do your work? How you make decisions about your money and and and your time and all this? Does it make a sense? Does it change you? Does it transform you? Because that's our problem. If the day of the Lord is supposed to be this day that is called Allah, it's a communal meal of worship. Something that the early church was so accused of indulging way too much. Man, I wish the world could accuse us of indulging so much on the day of the Lord. I can't wait for that day To be accused of praying too much, singing too much, fellowshipping with one another too much, and taking a break from all the labors of the world too much. That's something I want to be accused of. See there's good news. The good news is this is that our struggle with lack of finding rest in Christ is because we're not home yet. The reason why I struggle to rest, the reason why I struggle to find rest in Christ is because My complete rest is only found in perfect union with Jesus Christ, in his death and his resurrection. And that hasn't happened yet. And that's why I struggle so much But instead of instead of instead of asking the question of reducing the Sabbath in terms of what can I do, what I cannot do on a Sunday morning, may God give me the grace to understand what it means for me And this is what it means. This is what it means. My Lord and Savior Jesus Christ has Come. He has overcome sin and death and evil. He has delivered me from Satan. And the battle still continues. We are not home yet. And our seven-day week is actually a reenactment Of our journey as Christians. That on this particular day we come together, we we are recharged, we're strengthened, we're nourished, we're re-energized, so that we may go back in the battlefield to fight. To work, why wouldn't you want to get that, Christian? Why wouldn't you want to come and be refreshed, be strengthened, be energized so that when you go out there, you are passionate. You are not overworked. You are not stressed out. Because you had your meeting with Jesus. And you feel good. And that in those seven days we continue over and over again, reenacting that journey of a Christian until he returns. Six days we work. And on Sunday morning we come together, we are recharged and sent out. So that we can say with with the author of the Hebrew. So then there remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God. For whoever has entered God's rest has also rested from his works as God did from him. Let us therefore strive to enter that rest so that no one may fall by the same sort of disobedience. Find rest in Christ alone. That is our prayer this morning, O Lord, and we ask That you would allow us where we failed to truly and really find rest in you, Jesus. Would you allow us to Uh be able to follow this example of what it means to follow you as a working God, but also as a resting God. Help us not to focus so much on chasing vanity. and the things of this world for chasing after you, seeking after you, so that we may truly find rest in you alone. We're thankful for your word and we acknowledge this This morning, as we come to you in prayer. Pray all this in Christ's name. Amen.