Good morning. We had taken a little break as we normally do. uh during the uh December month uh from our study in the book of Deuteronomy. And so we return, we come back to I'll study and we are going through the Ten Commandments. Uh we are on the third commandment and we'll keep going through them until the tenth and then keep studying the book of Deuteronomy. So we're looking at Deuteronomy chapter 5 verses 11. If you're able, would you please stand as we read this third commandment that we're given? And the Lord says, You shall not take the name of the Lord in vain. For the Lord will not hold him guiltless, who takes his name in vain. The word of the Lord this morning. Father, we do come to you and we're so grateful to your word that is living, that is true. And we cannot make any claims that we understand it apart from your Holy Spirit. And so, Lord, we do ask that you would eliminate our hearts and minds. Fill us with your spirit this morning that we will truly hear from you and we would believe the things that you were teaching us this morning. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated Brand name cells. Oh, name brand sells. If you're wearing something that is a name brand, or if you use product in your household that are name brand, you know what that means. It comes with a certain prestige, doesn't it? And it sells. You see, advertisers know the secret. They place labels and names on these products that have great and magical powers, so to speak And they convince us. They convince us that the name that is labeled on that brand, on that product, is actually real and true. And so we purchase, so we pay more. We pay more money for these things. If it's if it's not a name brand, it's it's it's not real. It's a fake. And it's not gonna do what it's supposed to do. So you gotta go for the name brand. But the difference between what is real and what is not real lies not in the product itself, not necessarily so The difference between what is real and what is not real lies in the label, on the name, the name of that product. Now you see it's not just in advertising that names are so important. That names are key, that names will just draw us into uh whatever it is into purchasing things into buying things names are important even in scripture and that is the case when it comes to especially when it comes to God himself That God's name is so important because all that God is, all that God is can be summed up in one thing, in His name. His character, his nature, that his being, that he is God is spirit, and and you know, all his attributes of goodness and love and and justice and goodness. Can be summed up in the name. That God is set apart as a holy God, as one who is righteous, as one who is perfect. And that's why there is a command that tells God's people not to take his name in vain. That's why there's this commandment not to take his name in vain because his name is his character. It is who God is. And so as we've been doing, as we've looked through the the first two commandments, we're going to do the same thing this morning. Look at looking at what does it mean to take the Lord's name in vain? And then how can we apply that in our own lives So first what this commandment really does mean for God's people. God is telling his people that they are not supposed to lift up. Lift up his name to emptiness. Lifting up God's name in emptiness, in worthlessness, in futility, or in vain. Now that that's an interesting term that that that that is used in scripture sometimes. Taking something in vain. What does that have to do with anything? What does it mean? If you go to Job chapter 11, verses 11 and other passages in the Old Testament, you realize that that term in vain when when it's used in Scripture, in most cases actually means wickedness. It means evil. So it's basically saying don't take the Lord's name in wickedness, in evil. Or in other words, do not associate the name of the Lord God who's our creator A God who is holy, a God who is just, a God who is perfect in all his ways with wickedness. Do not invoke his name In a trivial manner, in futility. It's a prohibition against God's people that were tempted to manipulate God for their own personal ends. It's it's not just about blasphemy. Uh that's very clear in Scripture did not blaspheme the name of God, but if we re we really think about this commandment as merely uh blaspheming the name of God will have a very narrow view of this commandment. This this goes into into the very name of God. The name that God had revealed to his people, and and God comes to his people as what God comes to his people as Lord, as Yahweh, as Jehovah, meaning he's got a relationship, an intimate relationship with his people. And we're saying don't take that for granted. Now, in the near ancient uh ancient Near East uh culture, the names of gods or persons were actually believed to contain implicit powers. So it's not just the importance of a name, but actually believing that a name had power. To invoke a name was to invoke or to bring certain powers over you. Um and we read uh a certain interesting text in the book of Numbers, chapter twenty-two, you know the story, right? Balak the Moabite king, uh who was attempting to emplo to employ Balaam in order for what? For him to to curse. to magically somehow curse God's people by invoking whose name? By invoking the Lord's name. Because there was power there. And so God is telling his people not to use his name in this magical way as a way to harness the power of God. So you can actually tap it and it does this, tap it and it does the other. And God reveals the glory of his nature in his name. It's not just an implicit power that it's important, but also God revealing his glory of his nature, of who he is in the name. Again, Exodus chapter 3, when when when God is sending Moses to go to rescue his people, and Moses comes back to the Lord and says, Well What am I going to tell the people when I get there and they ask me, so the God of your fathers sent me, what if they ask me, what is his name? What will I tell them? What does God tell Moses to tell them? Tell them I am who I am. Say to them, I am have sent you. Tell them that the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob has set you, and that's the way I'm supposed to be known forever and ever. That is my name. And then in the introduction of the law, in chapter 5, verses 6, how does God introduce the giving of the law? He introduces himself as what? He says, I am the Lord your God. The God who saved you out of Egypt. What does that tell us about him? About his name? It means that God the Creator God Almighty who made all things does not depend on anything else outside of himself or his existence or for his character. God is God because he is God. Nothing else determines who he is. Nothing else determines his character. Nothing else can determine his existence. And so God's people are supposed to not be careless or irreverent uh or use his name in an in a in an irreverent way, especially, especially not just in magic as we mentioned, but as it comes to taking of oaths. To taking of vows. And God's people are known to be doing this. And also cursing and blessing other people. Don't use it In a way that does not bring reverence to God. Don't use it in a careless way to take a vow, to take an oath. There's an interesting fact about the ancient city of Rome. Did you know that we do not know what that city was known? Actually, historians said that the name of the city of Rome was a secret. It wasn't wrong. It was a kept secret by the by the priests. And the reason why they kept that name so top secret was so that the enemies would not learn of it And then use hostile magic against the city to destroy it. It was so top secret that to this very day historians have no clue what the city of Rome was called. See the God of Hebrews had a name. Has a name. Always has a name The God of Hebrews had a name that was only used once a year on the Day of Atonement in the privacy of the Holy of Holies by the priest himself, and it would only be involved once to give blessings to his people. Now that name we tend to think is Yahweh or Jehovah, but they stopped using that name. Scholars are not even sure if that's exactly the name that they used. Because it was so important. It was so sacred and secret See the warning in this commandment I think goes farther than that. The warning in this commandment j simply says, be careful how you touch God. Be careful how you touch God. He is dangerous. There's another story in the Old Testament. In the book of 2 Samuel, chapter 6, we're told of this man Uzzah, when the Ark of the Covenant was about to fall, he stretches out his hand. To help it, thinking that, oh, I'm I'm helping to touch the Ark of the Covenant because it's about to fall. But what happens to him He gets struck by the indwelling power of God and he dies. Why? Because you gotta be careful with God. You gotta handle God with caution, with fear. I love C. S. Lewis's example that I've given before. Remember in the Chronicles of Nanya with Susan and Mr. Beaver? When Susan comes and asks about the Aslan, the lion, thinking that he was a man, and so she says, Oh, is he safe? And Mr. Beaver says, Who said anything about being safe? I never said that. He's good. But he's not safe. He is the king. I tell you. See, I think we gotta take God's name very seriously because God's name was like a sign on a power plant that says high voltage. Don't touch. And therein lies the problem. There is There lies the problem with the with this with this commandment. Because where there is power, people will always try to use that power, whether for good or for bad, for their own purposes. And really that's the problem with this commandment. So knowing that God's name is powerful, knowing that God is powerful, God's people are tempted to use it for their own personal ends. But he's reminding them that God is righteous, that God is perfect, and his name cannot be invoked in an unholy manner. But there's also a positive side to this to this commandment, which is this. That because God reveals himself to his people as Yahweh, as their God, as their father, as the one who cares for them as the one who has this intimate relationship with them, that that they come to know him, to believe in him, and to be guided by him by faith in him. That that's actually good news for them. And it's good news in the sense that God's people only depend on God by faith in Him and that they're actually saved from all the other evil, magical stuff, influences of the world. And that's good. So they can actually utter God's name in a proper, revering, fearful way and find blessings. So they can worship God in a in a proper, revering way and find blessings. But they are away from the influence of magic and darkness and all those things. So it's a positive thing. And so we turn to ourselves and ask the question, so in what ways do we break this command And how can we avoid breaking this command, the application for us. So just like God's people and just like his power and we tend to misuse it, to use it for our own personal needs, we've also invented our own ways of breaking this command. And we do it really in two ways, as we're going to discuss this. By either calling upon God to come and justify our own sins. Or by not calling him at all when we really need to call upon him. It's both wrong to do the two. Calling him to justify our own sins, but also not calling him at all. See, the proper place for us to call upon the name of the Lord is here. Right? When we come before God in corporate worship, in our invocation, in our prayers, in our praise, in our thanksgiving, all those things that should be proceeding from a pure and believing heart. And when we do so, we're setting apart God's name as holy. That's what we're doing. In fact, Jesus teaches his disciples, teaches us to pray. And what is the first thing that Jesus teaches his disciples to pray for? Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Honor God's name in holiness. That's the first thing that we do, Luke 11, 2. And yes, it is through prayer that we communicate with God, but you realize that even in our prayers we can actually break this commandment. You know how we do it? Sometimes even in our prayers we can try to channel God's powers towards worthless ends And I think that's why we need the Holy Spirit to sanctify our prayers because our prayers sometimes are so geared towards our own worthless purposes. And in some cases it's so direct and overt. Have you heard people pray for the so-called enemies that they have? That God destroyed them so that I may be profitable, so that I may gain something. Now I know, or maybe you're not, but I'm pretty sure some of us are thinking, okay, Pastor, are you going to tell me whether as a Christian I should curse or not? Because you haven't mentioned it yet. So let me get that out of the way and then we'll keep going. What about casual profanity? What does this have I'm sure you're thinking about it as I was thinking about it as I was looking at this passage. I'll start by saying this. Casual profanity might be the least of your offenses when it comes to this commandment. It may be the least of your offenses. We'll see about that. Uh but a few notes here. I'm not gonna tell you whether you can curse or not. I promise. But a few things for us to consider. First What should be the question that we need to be asking before we use any words? And just even in general in our own lives, the question must never be what can I get away with? Okay, the question should always be, how can I be Christ-like? Okay, so that's out Here's another consideration. See this little thing in your mouth that's called a tongue. It is not an isolated part of your body. The tongue speaks for the heart. If there is re if I spew rebellion with my tongue, there is rebellion right here. If I spew profanity out of my mouth. I must be able to ask myself, who am I really angry at? Am I spewing profanity towards someone because I'm angry at them? Am I angry at God? Well, we can still ask what about just idle flippant cursing? Isn't it not Cool and hit to curse and to swear for Jesus, especially when it comes to you know addressing like gross evil when we see some really horrible things and use those four-letter words that we really want to use against that evil because we are right. We can use them for that is evil that we're describing. Is it right? Again, I'm not gonna tell you yes or no, but here's what I'll tell you. As Christians, we are called to have a reputation of a Christ-like person. To be clean. That's what scripture tells us. Now, while using vulgar and obscene language might be debatable as to whether it is really actually breaking this commandment or not Let me ask you a question. Suppose I started wearing dirty clothes. Always. Suppose I came with shirt that has food from last week. And not just once, but I always do that. You know I have a washing machine at home. You know I can clean up. But it what if I chose to do that and just do it for the sake of doing because I can't. At first you may not think of anything. You may say, oh, I just thought I just had an accident, you know, just some food on there. But then if I keep doing that and I can actually see it, you're gonna start asking questions. What is wrong with him? What is wrong with Josiah that he is doing that? Church, we're not called to be needlessly offensive. Being needlessly offensive brings reproach to the church and to the gospel. People already judge me and see my weaknesses. Why should I add on top of what they already see? We should be careful. Careful not to give others cause to think of us as impure or unclean. I mean, Paul says in Ephesians 4. 21, let not corrupting talk come out of your mouth. But only such as is good for building up as fits the occasion that it may give grace to those who hear Well, but Pastor, the Bible does use cursed language. I mean, Paul used the word scuba-on. I mean, what does that mean? The Bible gives us permission to do that. Well, let's be careful not to do that Why? Because words have meaning in context. Okay? Words there are obscene words that you can use in the West that would not be obscene in another culture At all. People don't think of it that way. But here's the thing: that word, scubalon in Philippians 3. 8, has a wide, wide range of meaning. It doesn't mean the four-letter word that starts with the S that we like to think it does. I think the ESV is right. Just translating it as rubbish. Let's keep it at that Having said that, now you know whether you can curse or not, if the first commandment teaches us who we ought to worship, The second commandment you may consider it as a commandment that teaches us how we ought to worship. Then the third commandment really does teach us what manner are we to worship God. Okay, how what is what is our posture? How do we respect God's name in his very being? be drawn towards making prayers that are so self-centered. But also in our worship that we anything we do that is distracting from God's attributes from his works, from his nature, from his word, from the sacraments, from everything that we're called to do in the house of the Lord. That this goes deep into a very attitude of worship when we show up in God's house to worship Him. Our actions in worship matter. What you do in worship matters. And so when we do anything that really is taking center stage and not Christ, When we speak, when we act, when we think, when we when we do things in our corporate worship that really is not revering to God, but is it's really drawing attention to ourselves We're breaking this commandment. On a personal level, we do break this commandment when we take false vows. Because what are we doing when we take a vow of falsehood? We're basically calling out the Lord to witness to our lies, aren't we? And we do so sometimes when we make rash promises to God. This happens when we are in trouble, when we're in trial. We tell God, God, if you heal me from this, I will do, I promise, I promise you, God, I will do one, two, three, and four. As soon as I get better, I forget the promises that I made to God. Jesus said, let your yes be yes and your no be no. You don't have to make promises that you do not know if you're going to be able to keep. But other times we take vows by other names apart from the name of the Lord. And when we do that, we actually make those other names or whatever we're taking a vow by to be the standard of truth and not God. We're actually guilty of not just breaking this command, but actually of idolatry. Because we're using a created being As the standard of truth. And you know what's even so bad about that is the fact that we we're we're basically saying We're basically saying that we believe that God can and will deal with us Even if no one else sees that we've broken our vow or we've not followed through our promises, we're just making God to be a liar. And we're forgetting that God is holy and perfect and just and that he will deal with our sin. He will deal with our lies. You've heard it. People say I swear by my grandmother's grave or something like that. But what can a grandmother's grave do if you don't keep that promise? See, we misuse this name, God's name, by saying things like, the Lord moved me to tell you, or God told me to tell you. You've heard that language before, right? Especially when we feel like a friend needs to hear something special from the Lord. Sometimes our intuitions, if they're not according to scripture, they may not be from the Lord. And we must be very careful to use that language when you tell people the Lord told me to tell you If that's not coming from Scripture, then I will tell you, well, if the Lord told you, I'm sure He's going to tell me too. So I will wait. You don't want to make God a liar You can tell I'm slowing down here because I'm getting pretty personal. Because we're building up on this and some of this stuff is so true to all of us that it really does convict us See sometimes we look upon the evil in the world and and we frown at the sin that we see in people and yet forget the huge plank that is in our eyes. And we judge others. And when we do so, we even go farther. We actually call upon God's judgment to be upon them. And we only do so because the only information we have is by just looking at them and we think that they must be the worst of sinners because of how they are dressed or how they talk. And yet we don't know anything about them. Self-righteousness is at the root of this sin. It's spiritual pride. Where we believe our own righteousness and not the righteousness of Christ that is imputed upon us. Even more We break this commandment when we profane or abuse anything where God makes Himself known. See, every time we mistreat someone Every time we insult someone, every time we gossip a brother or sister, we do so to people that are made in God's image, people that reflect the image of God. Do you know every time you gossip and every time you mistreat your brother and sister, you're attacking the God who made that person? You are not just merely attacking a person. You are attacking God. A yet strange way that we misuse this commandment is what's called the modern trick of not using the name of God at all. You know, I I know that so many people have been hurt by the church. There there's so many people that associate the very name of God with just darkness and so many other things just because uh churches run by people that are sinful and we tend to do that. But they're still seeking faith. And yet we would rather think of God as a force, as an inner inner force, or inner energy, or uh a universal law, or positive energy, or whatever it is. But I want you to know that the moment we begin to not using that name of God that He has revealed Himself to us, we are on the way to losing the truth. God must be known as God. He had revealed to us what his name is. Isn't it interesting that there was a time in the Old Testament when God's name was so great? That it couldn't even be pronounced, and how little we think of his name now that it is so small that it actually cannot be believed. That we would rather not use it, but speak of other ways to address God. When we treat his name as if it meant nothing. Let me ask you, church, as I ask myself as well. How do you talk about God in everyday conversation with people? Because the way you talk about God reveals what you think about Him. Saving the the best for last. We cannot claim that Jesus is Lord and live differently. If you're united with Christ and your identity is with Him, are you living as such? I think this is the big one for me. How am I representing the gos uh my God's name in the way I think? In the way I make life choices, in the way I talk to others. If you bear that name, Christian, If you bear that name, Christian, are you living like one? I often forget who I am in Christ. I often forget how I ought to live. I often forget how to honor him. Which means being careful, not just how I speak, but how I live. And you know at times I often forget who I am, that I am ashamed of God. But I am ashamed of the gospel. See, my heart is so cold and sinful, and I am bound to sin. And yes, I will. And we all have used the name of the Lord in vain. But if the law points us to Christ, if the law points us to the name of Jesus, where every knee will bow in heaven and earth, and under the earth and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of his Father, then there is good news for us. It's good news for us. There's good news for us because that's where we can go to seek forgiveness. But not just ask for forgiveness. But it is the place where we will find grace. Grace to help us grow in our knowledge of God so that we may know how to live lives that bring honor to this name. The name of our Heavenly Father. So that we may be able to say with the psalmist, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my God, and my Redeemer. It's not about behavior change. It's not just so that you may speak well and proper. But it's about a heart change. That our hearts are truly changed, so that we may live in fear of God who has made us. Lord, we do know how we have sinned before you and We know that we're bound to not truly live as it becomes of your children. And so we come to you confessing our sin. Have mercy upon us, O Lord. Thank you for your word, we pray. In Christ's name.