Good morning. What does the pastor do with one verse, a short verse of the Bible? Someone told me this week I don't know how true this is, but someone said maybe you should just come up, stand up, read it, and walk out Let it sink in. Because we may understand it. It's a joke, of course. We are in the sixth commandment. It's a short one. I will still make a stand because we need to honor the reading of God's word for a second so that we can wake up. Deuteronomy 5. 17 says, you shall not murder. The word of the Lord this morning. Heavenly Father, we do come to you. This morning as we as we read and hear and proclaim your word. And I I know for myself there's sometimes we come into your word with a sense of it's just another word. Without fear, without awe, uh without just uh being made to realize that this Is your very word that is coming from you, your breath, your life that you give to us. And so I do ask that you would work in our hearts right now as we um get into you into it that Lord we would be allowed to to worship you to be convicted of our sin to Be encouraged to be built up and to honor your word as you call us to. We pray all this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. What does God really care about? What does God care about? Our actions, our desires, our thoughts, our speech Is God only concerned with the things that we do, or is God also concerned with what we think and what we say with our desires? You know, I think at times we we tend to make light of the things that we say or think. Have you ever said something like this? Well I it was just a thought in my mind. I really didn't mean to. It was just a thought. We ever said, well I I I just said it. I'm not gonna actually do it I just said it. I I I did not really mean that I could go that far to actually do it. I'm sure if you are like me, you you've said you've made some of those comments And I think when we are looking at this particular commandment as well as the next one that we're going to be looking at, it's important for us to realize that Th there's a sense in which we tend to focus only on the action and forget about the process that takes us there. And we forget that God cares about that process. as well. And it is especially so when it comes to the sixth commandment that most people think that they actually haven't committed anything wrong. They have not sinned or broken this law for as long as they have not committed murder. Of course, we all sit here thinking, of course, I haven't done that, which is true. But while it is important for us to willingly, so to speak, or literally obey the commandments that we've been given by God. It's not enough. It's not enough. Because God's law for us deals with not just the way we're going to bring forth those actions, but also our hearts. But God is not interested in simply behavioral or behavior change that I can act and do this, but that God is actually interested in what's in my heart. He's concerned about our actions, our thoughts, our words. And so this particular commander that we're going to be looking at is dealing with Specifically, the unlawful taking of someone's life, but also the attitudes that go with it And so before we we're gonna spend a lot of time talking about the attitudes, before we get there, I want us to lay a foundation for this particular law because it is one of the debate well, all of them are debated, but this is Debate it as well. So every commandment that God has given to us, people always try to debate and to, you know, say, well, it really doesn't mean this, or it really means this, or All of us. So let's lay a foundation. And I want us to go to an interesting place and then look at the history of the Old Testament. And you may even wonder, if you really think about the history of the Old Testament, you may even question and ask Why did God give this commandment to the Hebrews? Why did He give this commandment not to murder to a people whose history is Horrific to say the least. Have you read the by the the Old Testament of late? What is the one thing that is just Over and over you read about it, Lod Shed, war, battle, there's just so much of it in the Old Testament. And in so many instances actually God commands his people, especially when dealing with it with the Canaanites, he commands his people to go kill every man Woman, child, destroy property. Don't even take prisoners. You can't even take anything. Just destroy everything. I mean it's just violence at its best. And I think it's difficult, and it should be difficult for us to hear that, for us to just come to terms with why is so much violence warranted by God? What are you doing? Why is there so much bloodshed? But I do think that there's one place that we can look to to realize and to what to even begin to understand, not to fully understand, but to begin to understand What is going on? It is two attributes of God. It is God's holiness and God's justice. God's holiness and his justice. That God is using Israel as an instrument of judgment. Towards a wicked nation. The Canaanites who are pagans, they were wicked to the I mean the worst wickedness you can ever think of And so what God is doing is He's calling His people, He's setting them apart, and that being set apart is being set apart for holiness, for righteousness. And so He is using this tiny little nation as a weapon, as a as a means, as a as an instrument of judgment towards a wicked nation. But I think there's something there too, that it's also a warning to the people of Israel. But dare not go there. Because that's how God's just judgment and justice is going to deal with you Now, the way God did that was through what's called harem, or the holy war, which you know we we study in the Old Testament, which is allowed in the Old Testament. Our sixth commandment does not deal with that. The sixth commandment, as I said, deals specifically with murder, which is intentional premeditated killing a a and not all forms of killing. So as as we start this, just don't don't think about, you know, do not murder means any killing This commandment is forbidding a specific form of killing. For instance, it doesn't prohibit c capital punishment which the Israelites practice We read in Deuteronomy, we're going to address this later on in chapter 17. What is the punishment for idolatry? Being stoned to death. This commandment also doesn't deal with uh issues of uh you know killing and war, like I mentioned. Again, we're gonna look at that in chapter 20 and 21. What about manslaughter? What about an intentional accidental killing? Again, chapter 19, we shall see what that has to do. This particular commandment, God's people are supposed to understand, is supposed to help them against killing a member of the covenant family for personal or illegitimate reasons. It's very specific. It's against unlawful unlawful killing. And there's a passage in in Genesis chapter nine verse six uh which really does give us an idea of how serious God takes this commandment. Genesis chapter 9, verse 6 tells us that whoever sheds the blood of a man, by man shall his blood be shed. For God made man in his image. That's part of this law. That shedding innocent blood, intentional and lawful shedding of innocent blood, is a serious thing So that if you take someone's life intentionally, you forfeit your responsibility to keep your own life or your own right to live, so to speak. But there's also both a social and and a religious reasons why God is giving this command, right? So on one part, God is telling his people, you cannot take the innocent life and lawfully take the life of another Because that person deserves to experience uh the the the benefits and and and the blessings of God in the covenant family, to live a long life as we saw last week And to experience what God is doing to them. That's a social uh aspect of it. But on the religious aspect, it is supposed to guard the fact that life only belongs to God, only God can give life And if he is the only one who gives life, then he alone has the responsibility of terminating life. No one else. Life belongs to God. And so to take someone's life away unintentionally, unlawfully, and I'm using those words very carefully, is to take the divine responsibility from God upon yourself. And then the prohibition seems to be addressed in the first place to uh killing a neighbor, if you will, or people that belong in the covenant uh family. In any case, I think it's really the sanctity of life But the sanctity of life is a gift that is coming from God which is being established. Remember Genesis chapter 4, after Cain kills his brother Abel? And shedding his own blood which continues to cry out. The reason there is is that when you do that, it's an awful reality to be filled with guilt that comes with s uh spilling or shedding innocent blood. But there's a basis for this commandment as well. What is it? We looked at the first four commandments have to do with loving God, and then the rest have to do with loving others. That's the basis for this commandment to love others, to see them as image-bearers, to see them as those people that have been created in the image of God and in the likeness of God Himself And so to commit murder, to do that which is an act of taking unlawfully the life of another person is to completely ignore their worth in the sight of God. People bearing God's image. There's a beautiful passage in Leviticus chapter 19, which says this: You shall not hate your brother in your heart, but you shall reason frankly with your brother, lest you incur sin because of him. You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the sons of your own people. That's very specific. The sons of your own people. But you shall love your neighbor as yourself. I am the Lord. God identifies Himself. But notice notice what is omitted in this particular commandment. What is it? It just simply says, you shall not murder. Who is the object? Whose life is supposed to be spared? There's an implication to that. The implication is suicide is out of question. That the life that is supposed to be protected is not just the life of others, but your very own life And so anything that we do that endangers the life of human beings, others, but also yourself, with the carelessness, with the hatred, with the anger, with the revenge, all of those things amounts to breaking this commandment. And so premeditated murder involves certain processes. That the way you get to a place of actually taking the life of another, as people are reminded, it's a process. It's a thought process for you to get there. And that both the process and the act contravene the commandment. And you know it's interesting actually in the Old Testament that people are only held accountable for the act itself. in terms of the the covenant relationship. They were only held accountable because that's what was legislated, you know, the the the act itself Now we know what happens in the New Testament, don't we? As Jesus fully applies this commandment and tries to flesh it out for us. And leads us to a place where we understand that both the Old Testament legislation, but also Jesus' interpretation of this commandment, both do point to the love of God To loving God above all things is the path to obedience, as the fulfillment of the law. So love for God leads to love for fellow brothers and sisters. And that's the basis of it. So in what sense then do we break this law? If that's how we're supposed to understand it, if that's what murder all means, both the process but also the act itself, how then do we break this commandment in our lives? And I want to talk about it, we're we're going to read this passage in just a few minutes, but understanding that as God gives us the law, that we're not just simply called to follow the letter of the law, but also the spirit of the law. Okay? It's not just the law that's written there that you just follow, but there's more to it. What do I mean? It's very easy for us to externally keep the law so that we may gain favor with God. While at the same time inwardly breaking. And that's wrong. And so there should be, but there needs to be a correspondence between our inner disposition And the outward action, or if you will, a correlation between our hearts and what we do. They cannot be separate You know what God cares most for us? God is more interested in our loyalty than he is of your legality or legalism. God cares about your heart. Not just that everybody can see that I'm able to do one, two, three. We're gonna see that more. But before going any further, let's take care of the easier stuff first So to address the first questions that kind of come up when we talk about how this law is broken and and the many debates that we have. So let's deal with the easy things, right? Like death penalty Pacifism and all these issues, they're not easy. Um and all I'm gonna say about this is if you really wanna Make a decision as to whether you believe in you know abolishment of the death penalty or not, or if you're a pacifist or not. This is not the commandment to go to. Uh we we gotta study scripture in a holistic kind of a way, and there's so much for us to study. This commandment is not your place to go to, and that's why we're not gonna address it. But also we must be very careful as we use some of Jesus' words. Remember when Jesus says, turn the other cheek? We can use that passage out of context. Um when when Jesus is really speaking of self-seeking violence and anger without cause. So that's one. Secondly We are Christians. We believe in the resurrection. Not just that Jesus rose again from the dead, but we believe that one day we're going to be raised again to a life that knows no death, don't we? We believe in a real bodily resurrection. And because of that, we need to understand, even as we deal with this commandment, that death is not the greatest evil. On earth. You know what is the greatest evil? What did Jesus say? We said, be afraid of those who are able, no, do not be afraid of the one who is able to basically take your body, but be afraid of the one who's able to take what? Both your body and your soul. We should be afraid of dying without Christ. The death of the soul, the damnation of the soul is the greatest evil Okay? So I think we we need that's what Jesus came to save us. Jesus did not come to save us that we may not die here. Jesus came to save us that we may die and die without hope. So that we may rise again with him. Finally I find no biblical grounds for that permits either suicide, either in order to hasten uh or enter into immortality or to avoid um temporal evils Uh this command is very clear. It's really forbidding even self-destruction and requires a preservation of life, not just of others, but of our own. Yet suicide is such a difficult thing It's difficult because we never get to talk to the people that have done it to understand what they were thinking in the thought process. But we must be careful as a church to never brand suicide as the unforgivable sin. It is not. Okay. I have to take care of those really easy things. Let's take care of the harder things. So having said that Where do we begin then in this conversation understanding how as a church we really do need to address this commandment because there's a place for us to do so? I think the best place for us to understand is that murder is a brazen assault on God Himself. Murder is a brazen assault on God Himself. Of all the creatures that God has made What is the one which is the one creature that that that that resembles God the most? You are sitting right here. That we resemble God. We are more like God. We are made in His image, in His likeness, as our passage for the day went. We are created. We are created to reflect. We are created to proclaim God's glory. And so, what does that mean, brothers and sisters? It means that any attempt to unlawfully take the life of another is an attempt to kill God Himself. An attempt to kill God Himself. But that we must be careful not to only go there and just think about murder in terms of the act itself, as I mentioned. So we read Matthew chapter five, verses twenty-one through twenty-six, and here Jesus tells us what this law means for us. He says, You have heard it, it was said to those of old that you shall not murder, and whoever bur murders will be liable to judgment. But I say to you, everyone who is angry with his brother will be liable to judgment. Whoever insults his brother will be liable to the counsel. And whoever says, you fool, will be liable to the hell of fire. For if you are offering your gift at an altar, and then remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there before the altar and go. First be reconciled to your brother, then come and offer your gift. Come to terms quickly with your accuser while you are going with him to court, lest your accuser Hand you over to the judge and the judge to the guard and you'll be put in prison. Truly I say to you, you will never get out until you have paid the last penny. It is Calvin who used to say that the hand truly does give birth to murder. But the mind, when it's infected with hatred and anger, conceives it. There is no an act of murder without anger and hatred. It's impossible. We wouldn't have an a lawful, intentional, premeditated murder if there was No anger, if there was no hatred, because we wouldn't we wouldn't get there. And we must be reminded that God, who sees all things in secret, God who sees all things in secret is displeased with not just the fruit of our action, but the root of our actions. They are both things that displease God. And so, how do we apply Jesus' interpretation of this commandment in our lives? That Jesus is dealing with the inner realities of what this commandment means. He's dealing with the words of our lips, with the thoughts of our hearts, with overt acts of hatred towards other people And that when those things remain unchecked, when those things are not dealt with, that sin will bear its ugly image before us. And you know, uh let's deal with the first thing that he mentions, right? Anger. I I mean it's it's so hard for us to distinguish between uh righteous anger and Sinful anger. I mean the Bible doesn't say don't get angry, the Bible says don't sin in your anger. So we can get angry. But how do we distinguish between a righteous anger and an anger that is completely sinful? Now, I think we really do need to allow ourselves and to submit ourselves to be scrutinized by Jesus, by his Holy Spirit, especially when we're angry with fellow brothers and sisters. If you're really angry with someone, I think the first place you need to go is ask yourself, why am I so angry at this particular person And the reason you do that is so that you may have wisdom so that you don't plant seeds of hatred in your heart. Because if it if it's left unchecked, trust me, you're going to start wishing harm upon them. And that's sin. You know there's there's different kinds of anger, isn't there? There's there's anger that just comes upon you and you're so angry you just want to strangle someone and immediately just passes on. You know what I mean Unless I'm more sinful than you are. I probably am. But there's anger that lingers on. There's anger that broods. There's anger that just continues seething in your heart and you just can't get over it. There's anger that is selfish. There's anger that is unforgiving. There's anger that will just get to a place that you will not let it die. It just stays there and just grows and grows and grows and grows. And you just can't get rid of it. Now that's the kind of anger that Jesus is talking about. Anger that seeks revenge. But you see, it's not just anger that kind of keeps staying in our hearts. It's also anger that comes out of our mouth, out of our speech. And so Jesus adds, it's not just being angry with someone, but it's also insulting someone. And Jesus uses a very interesting word, uh that word there, vaca, uh, you know, which is to insult someone. Is untranslatable. You really can't translate it. It kind of means empty, but not quite. The idea is it's it's more of a tone of voice more than anything else. It's a tone. It's it's an accent of contempt. I mean just being filled with contempt towards someone that Just that attitude. One preacher puts it this way, and he's British, so excuse the language. To call a man racker was to call him a brainless idiot, a silly fool, an empty-headed blunderer It is the word of one who despises another with an arrogant contempt You know, we treat other people in contempt, especially when we ignore their dignity as image-bearers of God. And I think at the heart of our contempt towards other people really has to do with pride, doesn't it? So sometimes we're prideful because of our birth. Whatever that means for you, whether it's a a family, whether it's a race, whether it's whatever it is, we're we're prideful of that. We're prideful of our status in in in the community. You know, I belong to a certain class and you don't quite match. We're prideful of our education. You know, if if you feel like you're more educated than other people, then they they really I can't have a conversation with you But we must be careful. We must be careful never to look down upon people that Christ died for. And it's not about avoiding certain words. You may not have to say certain words. You don't have to say certain words for you to have contempt over people This is about truly submitting ourselves to Christ. And then Jesus adds, even calling others fool. Psalm 14, 1 defines who a fool is. Who is a fool? A fool says there is no God. Implication? They are loose living people. They they they don't care. They have no morality. They they you just are an immoral, terrible person. So when we call one another a fool, this is what we're saying. You are taking someone's reputation, you are taking someone's name, you are taking in an image bearer of God and basically branding them to be loose living. human beings without the image of God. Gossip. Envy. Malicious stories about one another. That's what's here. You know it's um it's really easy for us to see how we apply this commandment, right? Abortion, for instance. Horrible figures. About 2900 of unborn children are killed every day in America. Since 1973, Roe vs. Wade has been close to 57 million unborn children killed in the United States. Do the math of the 2900 about 137 unborn children die every minute in the U. S. Horrific, isn't it? But let me juxtapose this with something else. It is easy for us to see the tangible evidence of how we break this law. And completely forget the subtle sins that don't usually come out Racism, prejudice. It's real It's not a political agenda, it's real. And so I I think we must ask ourselves a really good question. If we're horrified by what we see in tangible ways of how this commandment is broken in terms of lifeless human beings, children, their life being taken away How much do you care when a young African American loses their life for no reason? Does that horrify you? How much you care when any other person, not just an African-American, who unlawfully loses their life? Unlawfully. Again, I'm using my words very carefully. Without justification. Do you care? See, I think any form of contempt towards another human being is a violation of this commandment. Because we are made in the image of God. That unborn child did not choose to conceive. I never chose to be born in the color that I was born. Neither did you. You know, the Westminster Larger Catechism does tell us what we ought to do about these things. The larger catechism tells us to justly defend, to protect, and to preserve the life of the voiceless and those that are innocent. Why? So that we may not be guilty of this. Or breaking this commandment by omission, because we can. That when we refuse to participate in defending and protecting the life of those who are innocent, We may be breaking this commandment by omission. And then Jesus ends this particular pericope that we just read this morning by saying, if you have A problem with someone and you've not been reconciled, run. Run from the church and go back home and tell them what you've done and ask for forgiveness. Right the wrong as soon as possible with urgency. Why Because your relationship with God suffers. He's not going to listen to you. Your worship is not going to be acceptable if you're still holding grudges and envy and hatred and contempt and all these things towards your brother and sister. Man, if that doesn't get to me and remind me of all the people that I need to always seek to be reconciled with So, have you ever struck someone? You may not have ever struck someone. But have you ever wished to strip someone? How many of our desires and and our feelings and our thoughts don't come out in our actions? You know how much A ton. And Jesus cares about that I think it's a good thing that we can only be judged by God Because there's so many of us that can pass the judgment of the world, which judges us by merely external things. We can pass with flying colours in terms of what they see. But do you know when what happens when we come before the all-eye-seeing, the all-seeing eye of God? Just completely collapse. Because God is seeing way. He sees the secret of our hearts. And that's good news. It's good news because if the law is supposed to point me to Christ, if the Lord is supposed to point me to my sin, then I can stand before you and tell you that my thoughts are not perfect. My desires if if they were to be opened up and be put on the screen, you would all run away and go back home and never come back. But that the good news is this. This commandment forces me to recognize just how sinful I am It exposes me, completely exposes me, so that there is only one place I can go to, and that is to trust in the righteousness of Jesus Christ. Because mine mine is is nothing. And I understand that God cares more than what I do, but He wants to change my heart He wants to take away like a chisel and a hammer all of my thoughts. And all of my desires that don't honor him. So let us run to him Let us pray. Father, we do come to you this morning and we're truly thankful to you for your word. And that your word does Help us to know that there's only one place we can run to. And that is to what you've accomplished for us on the cross, to your righteousness and not our own. And so we come to you and we thank you for this word that you've given to us. May we not just be hearers of your word, but also doers of your word. We pray this in your holy name. Amen.