Good morning. We are working our way through the Ten Commandments. I think we're going to be camped in Deuteronomy for quite some time. Hope you don't get bored. uh looking through it. How is it that one of the things that affects our whole lives in a huge way Something that is on our TV screens, on all the literature that we read on billboards, uh, on our movies, on absolutely everything in our lives, whether privately or publicly. How is it that something that affects us in such a huge way can get so much attention out there in the world when it comes to us talking about it We barely talk about it. We keep it in secret. How is it? We're dealing with the seventh commandment this morning. We're going to talk about some of those things. If you're able, would you please stand as we honor the reading of God's holy word this morning? Deuteronomy 5. 18, the seventh commandment is this: and you shall not commit adultery. The word of the Lord this morning. Father, we do come to you this morning that you've given to us, and we acknowledge that your word is true, your word is living Your word is sharper than any double-edged sword. It cuts through the crevices of our hearts, of our souls, and our minds. And so we do pray, Holy Spirit, make it alive this morning. Help us not to simply understand and believe it, but to live it. We pray all this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. So our story goes, a great and wealthy and powerful man is strolling on the roof of his palace. One day just chilling and having a good time. When he notices a beautiful married woman, he looks He gazes, he admires, and his admiration turns into lust, and an affair soon begins. She conceives. He tries to cover it up. He sets up the woman's husband to die, and he ends up dying It's a classic example, isn't it, of how last can easily lead to an actual loss of the body. We all know this story. The disastrous consequences that followed after David, King David, a man after God's own heart. Sins with Bathsheba. And what he ends up doing afterwards, trying to cover up for his own sin. And this particular sin opens up the door to a multitude of many other sins, to murder. To lying, to coveting, to just a whole lot of other things that follow him. And it's the seventh commandment here that we're looking at that teaches us the importance of dealing with the root of our sin. And so I ask all of us this morning, how much do you care for your soul? How much do you care for your soul Because if we truly care for our soul, if we truly care for who we are in relation to Christ, then we will do well. To look upon our own sin and ask the Holy Spirit to deal with our sin from the very beginning, as early as possible, so that our sin does not open an opportunity for us to get to a very dangerous Place. But before we get into the details of how that looks like in the seventh commandment, I want us to spend some time first examining the commandment itself. What does it really mean when God's people are being told that you shall not commit adultery? And it's it's curious for us to understand that this particular commandment, even as as it appears in in Exodus and also Deuteronomy, that The issue of illicit relationship was actually a big deal way before the Ten Commandments were given, in the very beginning in Genesis We read in chapter 39, verse 9, that the illicit relationship between a man and a man's wife was such a wicked, criminal thing to do before God, but also before men. And that passage is just alluded to, it's the story of Joseph, who we all know the story, why he gets sold in Egypt by his own brothers and And there's this woman part of his wife and she she sees this handsome, awesome looking, you know, young man and she tries to to have a a relationship with him But Joseph's answer is what tells us just how wicked this sin is. What does he say when when he's running away, fleeing, running away from prodigious wife? He says, for me to commit such an act is such a wicked And sinful thing before my God. I cannot do that. And then we read in Leviticus chapter 20, verses 10, just how adultery and idolatry are put together. The scripture says that whoever commits adultery, that person and the adulteress shall be put to death. That's how serious it is before God. And this is way before the commandments are given to God's people. But when we come to Exodus uh and also come to Deuteronomy, the second giving of the law We have to understand why it is that this commandment has to be dealt with in the in the Decalogue, in the law. And there's one specific thing. It is because this commandment has to do with faithfulness. This commandment has to do with faithfulness. And faithfulness especially that is involved in a relationship of commitment. Remember God's people, right? They're called to be a committed group of people, one group of people towards one God, not any other God. You shall have no other gods, one God And remember how God institutes and ordains marriage. What does he say? Marriage is supposed to be a relationship between one man and one woman. It's so sad that we gotta define those terms now and actually be very careful to say those things aloud. That marriage is between one man and one woman. And so to commit adultery, therefore, we need to relate that. It's a social crime, so to speak. It's a social crime that is equivalent to a religious crime of having other gods. So if God's uniqueness in making male and female and man and woman was supposed to for them to be committed together in this relationship of of marriage. It alludes to the covenant that God has has with people. You're Israel, you're my people. You shall have no other gods. I am your God. You shall be faithful only to me And so committing adultery is unfaithfulness before God Himself. It's a reprehensible thing to a God, especially a God who's proved to be faithful to his people. And so the emphasis on this commandment is very specific. It's on faithfulness. Faithfulness which must permeate the lives of God's people. Both social life and also religious life. But actually, every aspect of their every sphere of their life has to be determined, has to be influenced, has to be all about their faithfulness towards their God who's called them And here's the idea. That committing adultery towards your partner is not just simply committing adultery towards your partner Adultery towards your spouse is adultery towards God Himself. It's an insult to God Himself. And scripture does use this analogy throughout. We read in Hosea and Ezekiel and Jeremiah and Isaiah, all these prophets are talking about the analogy of marriage uh uh th that God likens to a relationship with God. And it's it's both positive and negative in a in a in a negative way We are the adulterous people, aren't we? God's people are described as those that are adulterous, those that are unfaithful towards God. Uh and these are these uh I mean there are many pictures that we can paint in scriptures as we hose. God asking Hosea to go take on a wife who is adulteress And then that's supposed to be a picture of God's people and how they've sold themselves, so to speak, to prostitution. And yet God remains faithful towards them. But there's also a positive way to look at it, and it is this: that God is depicted as one who has steadfast love towards his people and who remains faithful even when they are unfaithful. So just as idolatry leads to destructive consequences when this act is committed uh for the ancient Israelites. The the analogous sin of adultery itself leads to destruction on a societal level, so to speak. There's a there's a there's a great passage in uh 2 Kings chapter 17 that uh I think it begins from verse 6 there where we're told the story of how God's people end up in Assyrian exile And what's the reason? God is telling them because of the sins that you've committed in secret, because you're an adulterous people, because you refuse to repent. You've refused to come to a recognition of what your sin is, to turn away from your sin and come to me and obey me and love me as I have called you. Therefore, you shall be judged, and you're gonna end up in uh exile because of your sin. And I think there's something for us to kind of summarize all of that, the faithfulness and unfaithfulness here in this commandment That God's purpose all along in creation was for a monogamous relationship to exist between a man and a woman. As we relate that to a covenant relationship between God and his people, there is no other God. And there is one people, one body of Jesus Christ. But there's a question that arises that in the Old Testament, because we read the Old Testament and we get surprised when it hears stories of of of of uh Lamak and Solomon and all these people that took on more wives. So why was polygamy then allowed? You look at the old testament, it really doesn't say much about it. It just says people did that and shh let's not talk about it. Why was divorce allowed? In fact, there's a story that goes, not a story, but the truth in the Old Testament is sometimes married men were somehow allowed to have illicit relationships with unmarried women, not married women, but with unmarried women. And they could kind of get a pass out of it. Women, however, were not allowed to do that. Interesting, isn't it? And so we wonder why did God allow these things to happen? Why would He let it happen? Not that silence meant God accepted or God was pleased with these things. And Matthew tells us the reason why in Matthew chapter 19. Doesn't it Jesus responding to them as the Pharisees are asking questions about why why the law allowed for divorce and all this thing? Well, Jesus said, Well, yeah, because of the hardness of your hearts. Because of your sin, because of the hardness of your heart. That's why God allowed for these things to happen. And he says, whoever divorces his wife except for sexual immorality and marries another commits adultery. So those things, when it comes to the New Testament and in Christ and the way he fulfills the law and interprets this particular commandment, those things are unthinkable, to say the least. Okay? So then how do we apply this in our own lives? See, w we we have to think of adultery as an extremely serious sin before God. And the way to think about it is just what I've been laying out before us, the analogy that is given in Scripture that God in the very first place gave us a a com a command, a and he ordained marriage, a covenant between uh a man and a woman, a covenant between us and him. And if God ordained for marriage to be a loving relationship between one man and woman where they can enjoy a sexual relations, that's the only proper place to enjoy such a relationship. Then we must see adultery as a violation of that killed covenant. Then we must see adultery as as going against this truth. It's a rejection of God's truth that He has placed before us and ultimately Ultimately, a rejection of God's divine authority over our lives. So adultery is basically spitting on the face of God It is spitting on the face of God and telling him, Well, you have no right to order my life. And if God has no right to order our lives, then we're saying, God, you have no business whatsoever, no business whatsoever in human affairs at all. So everything comes crushing down if this relationship is broken. Do you see how great this sin is? And again, as I mentioned throughout scripture, the relationship between God and His people is described as a bride and bridegroom. Go read Isaiah 61 and see the beautiful picture that God uh paints there, Ephesians 5. 22 through 33. And so to worship other gods is idolatry, the same way to engage in sexual relationships with someone besides your wife or your husband Is the same thing. It's a form of idolatry. A refusal to acknowledge God as the covenant Lord. And man, there's a graphic picture that God paints. That what we're doing is when you do that, you are replacing God Almighty Himself With that illicit sexual relation. That's exactly what you're doing. That's the graphic picture that the Bible paints. And it really affects a violator relationship with Christ. Jesus who sees you as his body, as his bride, and proves to be a husband, a husband who is ever faithful You know, I think there's a reason why Jesus permits, not commands, why Jesus permits divorce when this sin has been caused, uh has been committed. It's because of how grievous this sin is. Because it just has disastrous consequences, breaking trusts between spouses. So we look to Mat Matthew chapter five verses twenty-seven through thirty. You can turn there if you like. I'm not going to read it, but I'm going to give you a summary of what Jesus says about this particular commandment. He says, if you uh look upon a woman with lustful intent, you have already committed adultery. And he goes on to say, if your right eye causes you to sin, come on now. Take it out. Throw it away. If your right hand causes you to sin, do the same thing. You know the Pharisees had this conveniently narrow definition of what sexual sin was. But they also had this conveniently broad definition. Of what sexual purity was all all about. So, as we saw last time, if we can commit murder through our words, we can commit adultery with our hearts and minds. Now we we must be careful here to note that Jesus is not forbidding looking. Jesus is not forbidding that we we can look at people and say, well that's a handsome man, that's an attractive woman. That's what that's not what Jesus is forbidding otherwise we wouldn't have the book of Song of Solomon, right? What is Jesus forbidding then? Jesus is forbidding a look that is lustful. And as John Stott uh notes, one of the great theologians, he says, you know the difference. Every one of us, every man and every woman knows the difference between Basically admiring someone who is made in God's image and saying that's a beautiful woman, that's a handsome man and and lasting. I don't need to explain that to you. We know it And so uh we have to look at adultery as as as Jesus interprets it as something that encompasses all the sexual, immoral sins that come along with it. It's not just lust in general, it's incest, it's homosexuality, it's it's it's it's all kinds of things that you can you can think of, sexual abuse and and and all those things and all of them put together as one sin called sexual immorality. Now, having said that, we also must be careful to understand that each one of those sins has a different impact and consequence than Mill and Logan. They're all sins. They all sin before God, but the effect and the damage that is caused by each one of them is different. We saw last week that the heart is the center of all life. It's the center of our emotions, of our thoughts, of our wills. And so committing adultery is actually going right into the heart of who we are in Christ. And so Jesus is basically saying, if your eye, if your hand, if anything causes you to sin, you don't try to treat the symptoms. What do you do? You go to the root of it. You cut it out. James, I think, captures this really well in James chapter 1, verse 15. He says, Then desire, when it has conceived, gives birth to? Sin. And sin when it is fully grown, brings forth death. You know, God has given us a gift of imagination. This is especially for you men out there, talking to guys. To all of us, but especially to men. God has given us a gift of imagination. And we're all affected by imagination differently. I must admit that. So please don't hear me being legalistic By telling you what you should or shouldn't watch on TV or read, I'm not gonna go there because we're all affected differently. But the idea is if we know that something affects us in a way that we struggle And don't go there. Don't go there. Don't don't try to toy to play with sin. Sin don't play. It's gonna take you to a place that you don't want to go. So don't even start going there. And the imagination is God's gift. Otherwise we wouldn't be able to enjoy good art, good music, and all these things. But you know all of God's gifts Can be misused. We can use them irresponsibly. And so we we can use the we can misuse the good that God has given to us and we can lead ourselves to temptation with an eye And and look, I mean this is as Jesus is addressing this commandment talking about the look and how important it is, uh and he and he especially talks about the right eye, we've got to think about that for one second. You know, a warrior who did not have a right eye was not a respected warrior back in battle. I mean, you were basically deformed and disabled. So the right eye was such an important um eye in battle It's like the most important part for you as i as as you fight and so think of it analogically in terms of our Christian Christian life. And so Jesus uses this hyperbole. Of course, Jesus is not saying, go right ahead and douge out your eye He's using hyperbole to demonstrate how important it is for us not to toy with sin that can easily corrupt our whole bodies. Don't play with it So he's saying if you're tempted to do something because you see it, you may as well just lose your sight for the sake of your soul. Jesus is not advocating self-mutilation. Jesus is not saying that by taking out your eye or your hand, that's somehow gonna take out the desire. It's gonna go once you take that hand out. It's not gonna happen. Jesus is encouraging us to take whatever measures necessary to control our natural passions. Passions that are God-given, but passions that can easily flare out of control. The theologians once called it the modification of sin. I love that word. Modification of sin, what does modification of sin mean? Sicking up Jesus' cross and following him. That's what modification of sin means. And it's not easy. Neither did he ever say it was going to be easy. It's taking up his cross and following you, which means rejecting sinful passions and practices so resolutely that we're actually putting them to death. With killing them. That's how the catechism defines sanctification. We are dying, daily dying to sin and living for righteousness. There are passions or evil passions that die. And so if For temptation comes because of what we see, for temptation comes because of what we touch, if our temptation comes because of where we go. Jesus is saying, act as if you had plucked out your eye, your hand, and your feet. Don't go there. Don't see it. Don't look at it. And mortification of sin simply means that we must be drastic. We must drastically and radically, as necessary, cut off every avenue. That may open the door for us to sin, so that we may cultivate purity of heart. Anything that trips us out We all have those, right? Whatever sin you struggle with, we have those things that trip us up. Things that just kind of lure a sin. Just bring us in so slowly. And you know most of the times those things are good and most of the times those things seem so harmless. Well there's nothing I'm doing with it. It's not gonna affect me in any way. It's uh it's it's all right. I I'll stop when I can And before we know it, our feet are there, and our hands are there, and our mind is there, and our whole body is there. And when we re we recognize it we can't get out. So we start screaming, I can't get out So how do we get clean desires then? And corrupting thoughts out of our minds. Have you ever told yourself, I'm not gonna think about that? How how did that work for you? The more you tell yourself I'm not gonna think about that, the more that particular thing fills your mind. So that don't work So we can't be telling us um today I will not. 'Cause it's gonna happen. So are we going to become hermits or monks? Go live right in the middle of nowhere, as if the mind stops working when we isolate ourselves from people and temptation. Good luck with that. Because your mind never stops. So So what do we do then? Again John Stott has a really helpful when I first read it I was like this doesn't work. Very practical, helpful things. Just two. Not many. So John Stott encourages us to begin to a good thing, a good act. Is cure for corrupt mind. Huh? What? A good act? Is a good cure for yes it is. That the moment we begin to think about other people, the moment we give ourselves to Christ and service and to to helping other people and and seeing people as image bearers and and actually loving on people in a real practical way. So that I'm not just thinking about myself and my mind is not just idle, but I'm actually thinking about the church of Jesus Christ and people and my family and my wife and I'm actually serving and giving myself wholeheartedly to God and to others. Oh, we leave no room for Satan to play with our minds. And secondly he says, so you don't just say I'm not gonna think about that. You've got to replace it. Garbage in, garbage out. So you take it out and you replace it with something else. Paul says, be filled with the Holy Spirit. Be filled with the Holy Spirit. So when we say that I have all these images and all these thoughts and all these things that fill my mind, well, yeah, you gotta replace them Otherwise it's not gonna work. Because they will stay there and they want to rule your heart and your mind. And you see, brothers and sisters, the consequences are so grave, the consequences are so dire that we really must think about it. Because otherwise we're leading ourselves to a really hard place. So I talked to the men and women as well. I'm going to talk to all of you young people that are here that are not married yet. I'm going to talk to us who are made, especially those of us that are made. Somebody's getting married soon. You know it's possible for us to outwardly have love and hope, and yet secretly Hold this reservation in our hearts and minds of something like if it works I'm gonna go into this if it works. If Naj was ordained by God to be A union of total commitment. And you go into it thinking, well, I'm going to be committed, but if it works. You are setting yourself up to fail. Because we we opened the door Especially when we go through difficult times. I mean you you you can all be honest in your own heart. What are the times that you struggle most? It is when you have problems. In your relationship. And we open ourselves up to self-seeking. We open ourselves up to suspicion We open ourselves up to having high demands of our spouses that we should never have. We open ourselves up to that eye that looks with an intent. Of committing the adultery of their heart. See, marriage is not a a contract Marriage is not a business deal where you give as little as you can and gain as much as you can. Marriage cannot live by legality alone, however necessary that may be. Marriage is a total commitment, a union between one man and one woman. It's interesting that scripture only says of one sin. Don't play with it. Run. Flee. Run as far as you can. Don't even try to say let me pray. No. Run. And you see the world really lies to us, doesn't it? The the world tells us that romance, erotic love is the only thing that makes the world go round. And that for marriage to survive, erotic love has to be the main thing. And when it dies, so does your marriage. Is that not? C. S. Lewis once said, We grew up surrounded by propaganda in favor of chastity. But there are people who want to keep our sex instinct inflamed in order to make money out of me out of us Because of course a man with an obsession is a man who has very little sales resistance. Having said that, I think it would be remiss for for us not to address one particular question. So as a a preacher says I'll address it in one minute, which means ten minutes. How difficult then is it for us to stand for purity in the church? And And offer grace to people, offer grace of the gospel to people that have actually sinned this way without compromising God's holiness and his requirements for us. How do we do that? How do we restore those that have sinned grievously without compromising God's holiness? I must admit, this is an extremely difficult thing. Very difficult. But something that we must deal with. And we must be reminded that sexual sin is not the unforgivable sin. Just like we talked about marriage. It's not. That those who turn to Christ and fully repent, they also have a place at the table of the Lord. It would be a lie for us to say that we haven't committed this sin. First John 1 8. I don't know how much you're following the news lately, but one young lady, a believer. demonstrated this point a couple of weeks ago and she gave her testimony during the sentencing of the US gymnastics uh doctor, Dr. Nasser as it was being sentenced Uh Rachel Den Holland has said this to him. I pray you experience the soul-crushing weight of your guilt so you may someday experience true repentance. And true forgiveness from God, which you need far more than forgiveness from me, though I extend that to you as well. Powerful words of God grace. And I think that's how we must deal with this sin as well for those who fall. So how much do you care for your soul, brothers and sisters? How important is your soul? If it's important enough to you, you will know that you have broken this command. As I have. And so you will join me in looking and asking the Holy Spirit to help us deal with our lust, lost of our hearts. See Jesus is not interested in just making you walk around as if and look like you are a perfect person. Jesus is interested in attacking the very core of your soul, of your heart, that sins, the root of your problem. So, would you join me as we ask the Holy Spirit to replace our desires with pure ones? And finally, may I remind all of us that when we sin in this particular sin, you're not just sinning against yourself. You're not just sinning against your spouse. You're sinning against the body of Christ. Now none of us wants the church, the pure bride, the holy body of Jesus Christ to be tainted by sin. Do we? So may we ask the Holy Spirit to help us so that we may not bring scandal upon the Church of Christ, to preserve the purity of his holy body until he returns, so that he may present us before our Heavenly Father. As blameless children of God. May that be true for all of us. Holy Spirit, we do thank you and for your word and ask that you would Come upon us and as Psalm 139 reminds us to. Lord, will you search our hearts? See if see if there's any sin that is in us. Would you purify us? Would you replace our sinfulness with not only true repentance? But also with thoughts, imaginations that are pure, that bring much glory to you. We confess that we have indeed failed We confess that we have one who is gracious and one who is just to forgive all of our sins if we confess them. In Christ Jesus, we do pray.