Good morning. The uh title for the eighth commandment is a little misleading. I think a better title could have been something to the effect of covenant relationships or Christian relationships or relationships or something like that. We'll find out why. We're reading God's word this morning from Deuteronomy chapter 5, in verses 19. If you're able, please stand with me as we honor the reading of God's inspired inerrant word. And Moses writes to the people in their way to enter the promised land and he says, and you shall not steal. The word of the Lord this morning. Father, we do ask for your blessings this morning as we delve into your word. We ask your Holy Spirit to help us understand it, believe it, and live it. We pray all this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. There's an interesting story, a chilling story. In the book of Joshua, chapter 7, towards the end in verse 10 through 26, you may be familiar with this story. It's a story of a man by the name Achan. And Joshua and and the armies of God are about to battle in Ai and they are commanded not to take devoted things. And this this man, uh Achan, does take and steal these devoted things that God had told them not to take. But he doesn't just steal them. He steals and he lies about it, hides them in his tent, and pretends as if nothing had happened. He stole a nice-looking clothing, he stole gold, he stole silver But the punishment that is given to Achan is rather severe. Because we're told that what happened to him is he was marched by the whole of Israel and he was stoned to death. Him, his children, his animals, and then they were buried, including the stuff that he had stolen. It's a severe punishment uh for someone who committed such a crime. And and and the idea here is that Achan who who who who sinned against the Lord by sinning and lying The consequences of his actions are not just on himself. He's not the one who suffers the consequences, but his whole family, his animals Um everyone suffers. And there's a similar story that we read as well, which I'm sure all of us are familiar with in Acts chapter 5, verse 1 to 11, about Ananias and and Sapphira who sold a piece of property under nobody's obligation. They were not asked at all to tell to sell their property and bring the proceedings uh the proceeds to the church. They basically did it. Uh and to them they you know they were doing it uh though they were supposed to do it to help the church But what they were thinking was, well, this is all about our ego and our reputation. So they sell this piece of land and they lie about how much they sold the property And we know what happened. The man walks in and uh he's asked a question and he lies and he dies and his wife walks in not knowing what had happened to uh her husband and the same thing happens and she dies. What do these two stories demonstrate? They're very similar. I think they demonstrate one thing Different things, but one of the things, the obvious thing that they demonstrate for us is God does take our sin and especially the sin of stealing seriously It is a serious sin to steal and it's when we steal, when we commit this particular th uh crime or break this commandment, the idea here is that we are not just offending, we're not just hurting the people that we think we've stolen from. It is a sin against God Himself. It is an offense to God Himself. And so we begin there by looking at so what does what is stealing all about? It's not a hard thing for us to define ceiling, is it? The unlawful taking or acquisition of someone else property property, right? Uh that's an easy way to look at it But if we were to only look at that definition in scripture and think that that's what stealing is all about, then we would miss the whole concept of what God is teaching us in this particular passage. What do I mean by that? And as I said, uh the the that the uh Uh the title for this sermon could have been Covenant Relationship because stealing actually affects or has to do with covenant relationship Has to do with God's people's relationship within the covenant. And that the what was being prohibited by God in this commandment was something in particular. What's called man stealing. Let's read a passage in Deuteronomy 24, verse 7. It says. If a man is found stealing one of his brothers of the people of Israel, and if he treats him as a slave or sells him, then that eve shall die. A theft, man stealing, kidnapping for slavery. Man stealing was taking people by force. Uh and selling them for profit. And we we we we have a good example that we can go to, right? Genesis 37. What's this story? Joseph, the beloved uh son of his father, gets sold by his own brothers To Medianite Traders, they gain from the sale. But what happens to Joseph? What happens to Joseph See what happens to Joseph is that Joseph is cut off from his immediate family, from his father who loved him dearly, from his brothers and his sisters. But above all things, Joseph was cut off from the covenant family. From his the people of God, from Israel. And basically from God Himself. And so this commandment is supposed to guard against disrupting that covenant relationship that exists between someone or between a person and their God and their people. It was supposed to guard this fellowship And of course we see you know a parallel uh commandment. We can actually compare all these commandments and see how they kind of relate together, right? So compare the eighth commandment with the third commandment. You remember the third commandment? What does it say You say, I now take the Lord's name in vain. And we saw that the idea behind taking the Lord's vein was one thing in particular. It was this: that man is always trying to manipulate and to control God for their own personal. reasons. That's at the heart of the third commandment. In the same way, man stealing is trying to to manipulate, to control a fellow Human being that is made in the image of God for personal gain. And this law in particular actually does assume that human beings, people made in the image of God, have inviolable freedom under God that should never be taken away from them. And so to do so, to take someone as a slave, or to take someone, uh to steal someone and sell them, uh, is to transgress their freedom. It is to intervene in the realm that only belongs to God. And of course, those who are selling others, those who are kidnapping, especially people within the covenant family, are being told that you are actually taking control over someone's life and determining someone's fate, which is some something that only belongs to God. You're taking that right away from God. And of course this goes against everything that we're saying, right? You know that we talked about loving God and loving others And so if if you love God, if you're if you're loving people, how is that how is taking someone by force and selling them or or or enslaving them or kidnapping them expressing that love that God has given in the covenant community? And of course, the worst kind of ceiling, as we've mentioned, is slave holding. Why is it so bad? It is because slave holding denies even the ownership of someone's body that belongs to them. You can deny someone's rights about their property and about their freedom to move and all of that, but to deny someone of the very body that God has given to them, that they cannot be who they are. It is a sin against those who are image. It is taking violating their own dignity. And on this Black History Month, I cannot miss to mention the a perfect example of what happened in the in America and slavery, talking about slavery. Now what's really sad to me is reading through the histories of of this country and recognizing Christians who actually advocated for slavery because they claim that, you know, the Bible does allow for slavery to happen. But not even back then, to this very day There are Christians that argue that slavery, well, you know, it's it was okay, it was fine. There was nothing wrong with it. It's a biblical thing. Now I think what they failed to recognize is the difference between biblical slavery and the shadow slavery that happened in the 19th century in America. There's a huge difference Okay, biblical slavery, people were still treated as human beings. In fact, they had options to get their freedom. They could get out. There was a way for you to Get out of slavery. What happened to the poor Africans that were taken out of their homes and families and sold as property, as pieces of meat in the market is nothing to compare with biblical slavery, which is pretty sad. And and the idea here is is not just on on on stealing human beings. If you if you go to Exodus actually If you read the whole chapter of Exodus 21 and 22, Leviticus 9 and 16, you see different things. Like for instance, Exodus 22. 1 tells us that theft was uh this command actually applies not just to human beings, but also to animals. It says if a man steals an ox or sheep and kills it or sells it, he shall repay five oxen for an ox and four sheep for a sheep. Stealing is expensive. And this law actually allowed for s for someone to use force if if a thief broke into your home. This commandment does allow for you to use lethal force if someone broke into your house to repel them. Uh and again as I mentioned Leviticus six and nine, uh actually they said that if you steal from a fellow Israelite or even if you fail to return Something that you found in your property that didn't belong to you, or if you participated in any kind, any kind of extortion of some sort. It was punishable by restitution, 20% plus a gift offering. I mean you you're really get paying back. You know if you even if you were found with with a property that wasn't yours but you failed to return it, that was still considered theft. But you know the interesting thing about this commandment is it does appear, look looking not from biblical perspective, but from a historical perspective, it does appear as if the command was against, so it was more lethal towards the poor Think of it. In the Roman times as Jesus is being crucified. Who was crucified alongside Jesus? To what? Two robbers, two thieves. And so the idea is a poor thief could be crucified, killed on a cross But a wealthy politician could get off easy. Now, if we look at the biblical perspective of stealing, we know that the Old Testament condemns in the strongest terms ever. When a wealthy person steals from a poor person, we know that that's scriptural. The Old Testament is very clear about that. There's a perfect example. Jezebel, you remember that name? who steals Naboth's vineyard and kills him. And and of course we find the the culmination of this teaching when Jesus in Matthew 21 goes into the temple and he's turning the tables for all the money changes. What does he call them? You den of robbers. A bunch of thieves. Of course, again, as we mentioned, he is he does welcome the repented um thief on on the cross And so this commandment is really forbidding the wrongful treatment uh of people, of of one another. Uh in economic relationship, especially if you consider uh Israelites and where they are where you know they were living in a time that there was limited um resources and then they were the the whatever they had, whatever little they had, was necessary for their survival. And so the idea is not just the sanctity of private property. It wasn't just about, you know, respecting someone's property. Yes, that's true, but you had to go beyond that. It had to do with how do we use our limited and necessary resources For the sake of one another, for the good of our community. And the idea is that if you have a whole lot and you are Abusing or stealing from someone who doesn't have much. I mean it could mean life and death for that person. Not even that You you you you have a control you have a pull over them in some sense because they have to come to you beg you know i think of it if you're an employer you're not paying the people that are working for you for instance and the kind of pull that you may have over their lives. And so in summary, the the eighth commandment is is a generic co commands, isn't it? It doesn't tell us, for instance, what's the object. It doesn't say you shall not steal from an Israelite or from an it doesn't say that, does it? It just says you shall not steal. It doesn't tell us when we shouldn't steal. Not that there's a time that we should steal, but it also doesn't say from whom. And so the idea is you shall not take anything that does not belong. To you from anyone at any point in time. And there's a reason there. Why is it that God's people are not supposed to take anything that does not belong to them? The idea is this: you are called to trust God. You are called to trust in God's kind providence for all of your needs. And so stealing becomes a sin against God's providence. Do you believe that God is able to provide for you? Then trust Him to provide for your deeds. Don't be the one who takes the measures that are wrong and unethical to provide for yourselves because breaking this commandment shows a lack of trust. In God. It shows a lack of love, not just for God, but for your neighbor who is made in the image of God. And acting in a way that brings harm to them is really hurting not just them but the whole community So God is saying that trust in this faithful God who's been faithful to you, who's provided and sustained you, and do not steal. You know, I think when when we look at this commandment, it's so easy for us to think of the ways in which the obvious, the government does break this commandment, right? It is so easy for us to think of all the great multi-billion corporations and how they take advantage of people and and steal from them, right? And rightly so. And how they're involved in breaking this law. It is so easy for us to point fingers and see people that are breaking this command and exonerate ourselves and say, Well, well, that I'm not there I don't steal from nobody because it is so easy for us to see other people's sin and fail to see our very own sin I think if we really look carefully at this commandment, we our sin will be exposed. And some of the ways that this command is broken are more obvious than others, so I'm gonna leave the obvious ones. uh for us to kind of think about like cheating in school or in class. Yes, cheating people's ideas is stealing And point us to some of the things that I want us to think through and and and just mention that the old per Old Testament perspective of stealing is, as I mentioned before, is not just a crime against the person that you're stealing from. But again, it's a community. That when we break this command, we're not just hurting an individual. We're hurting the whole family of God. What do I mean by that? Let me let me give you examples, some practical examples. Have you read of late of the statistical reports that come out of IRS and how much money is stolen um from from government because of underreporting or income. Can you guess how much every year money is lost $400 billion is lost because people underreport their income. She's shaking her head because she knows Have you read statistics about how employers lose billions of dollars in their companies? Not because there's thieves breaking in and stealing stuff or shoplifting. Do you know who steals? Employees. Time. Misusing the account expense Taking property that belongs to the company and using it for your own personal we've seen it on the news. It happens all day, right? But what what is the ripple effect of all of that stuff happening? Of four hundred billion dollars being lost by the government that is supposed to be providing different things for the community. Guess who who hurts? Guess who suffers? It's not them. We do. And I I mentioned that just to remind us of our responsibility as Christians that we must always be careful that we don't get involved or engage in an ethical deal. So we must seek to protect our Christian reputation and witness. And even when we're in secret, when nobody else knows what I'm doing with my taxes, or what someone knows about my investments and what I'm doing with all of that. That honesty must be the main thing. Because God sees. And the moment we get involved in or we start seeing people as opportunities to make money and all that stuff. We're the ones who are gonna get hurt at the end of it. Now we can talk about and debate all day about gambling, right? Whether it's right or wrong for us to gamble But what's the what's the basis? What's the basis of of gambling? Is is gambling based on a win-win situation? It's based on a win-lose situation. It's a redistribution of wealth, isn't it? I win and a ton of people lose. And we hurt when we don't win. I mean when you gamble and you don't win, you you're not happy. But when we win and someone else Loses, they hurt. Now you know I've heard stories people say that gambling is the same as stock market. I don't think so. I think the stock market is creation of wealth, not redistribution. That's what I think of it. Now we can talk about the flaws in Wall Street and all of that. I am no economist, so I'm not gonna go there We can talk about all of that, but we know that gambling in most cases preys on those that are poor and harms them. Uh and and gambling really does create this desire for quick wealth. What's the biblical principle? What is the biblical principle for us to make our ends meet? What is it? Work. God blesses what you do, and your needs are provided. That's it. I see no other thing. Work. God blesses what you do. Don't forget that. It's not that you work and you need the men. No, you work. God blesses what you do and you need That's the biblical principle. And that's why theft is getting something out of nothing. Or for nothing. Getting something for nothing. Now, having given that statistic, I'm sure you really don't want to hear about all of that, but we can go on and on giving all those examples and how they uh how we can break this command. But let me ask you a question, uh a question that Malachi poses Can we as Christians then rob God? The answer is yes. Do we rob God? Malachi would say yes. You probably heard this story from uh the former broadcast and commentator, Paul Harvey. Uh if if you've heard the story you can hear it again this morning. Remember the story about the Bottle Bowl company that set up a hotline to answer questions about um holiday Thanksgiving turkey And so this lady called the the butterball company to ask a question about a turkey that was sitting at the bottom of a freezer for 23 years. Yes, 23 years And so she calls the represent the representative to ask if it was okay for her to eat the turkey. And the guy on the other line says, Well, you know what lady, you can eat the tur it might be okay for you to eat to eat the turkey. If the turkey if the freezer was at below zero for the entire twenty-three years. But then he gives her a warning, he says, but wait While it may be okay for you to eat the turkey, it's gonna taste like cardboard. I mean it's not gonna have a taste in it, so I wouldn't really recommend you eating. Until the lady goes like, well, that's what I thought. I guess we'll give the turkey to the church. Now it's a funny story, but how true is it though that sometimes we actually do think that what is left over and what is yeah yeah this can go to the church Whatever we don't need, whatever is not useful for us, let's give it to the church. That cannot be our attitude You know, Paul calls us to be a generous, cheerful givers. People will give back to the Lord because we know that everything that we have is a gift from God. A God who loves us, a God who does not withhold his good gifts from us. And giving back to him is a demonstration of our gratitude for him for being so gracious to us. How can we then therefore steal from the source of all of our blessings? How is it possible that we would seek to steal from the one who provides our every need? And I know sometimes things get so difficult, you know, and I think this is actually one of the times that we we break this commandment You know those moments of panic when life is just a struggle and so difficult? And here is an opportunity for you to do something so unethical, but it's gonna fix your problem Instead of waiting and being patient upon God, and so you act in a moment of panic, and you're thinking, if I lose this moment right now, my children are not going to be provided for, we're going to die, we're going to lose it, and I'm going to do this and ask for forgiveness later. What defines us as Christians? We are not defined by fear. We're defined by faith. We are a people of faith and not fear. So if we're driven by fear to make decisions that are unethical And not looking to God for discernment and wisdom and saying, Lord, I will not break your commands. I will not go in a way that is going to hurt people, but I'm going to wait upon you because I know you will provide. Because if we really love God and love our neighbor, if we really trust God's providence, then we'll make sure that we do the right thing, even when we don't see how God is going to provide in certain situations. situations because sometimes we don't and that's what we're called to be a people of faith and hope because we don't we can't see it but God always comes through for us It's not the shortcuts that are going to provide provide for us. It's not always seeking to find loopholes in our tax code so that we can somehow cheat and get more You know, Paul does say that for those who have been changed by the power of the gospel, as we read this morning in Ephesians 4:28. For those whose lives have been transformed by the gospel of Jesus Christ, there's a way that we're called to act. It is to be honest. I find an interesting passage in Titus 2, 8, and 10, where Paul is actually talking to slaves and telling them that as much as they may want to be tempted to steal from their own masters, they are called to act in a way that Proves that they've been changed, that they've experienced the grace of God, and even though they hate their masters so bad and they would want to steal from them, they will not do it. Why? Because they've been changed by the gospel But our problem is, and we need to ask ourselves this question, is do we believe God will provide for us? Because most of the times that's all doubt. We really don't believe that He's gonna provide for us. But here's another part to it. Are we content with the blessings that God has given to us? Because He's given us a whole lot. And sometimes we're not grateful. We want more. We don't trust his providence. And greed and envy starts to take root in our hearts and we desire what the Joneses have without working for it. And you know what? Sometimes we actually feel that we are entitled to have what they have. And so we must use every means and ability that we have to become like them and take it. While this should be our prayer, Lord, remove far from me falsehood and lying. Give me neither poverty nor riches. Feed me with the food that is needful for me, lest I be full and deny you and say, Who is the Lord? Or lest I be poor and steal and profane the name of my God. You know, I think at the heart of this commandment is one question that I haven't addressed yet. You may have wanted to ask me, Josiah, what does this commandment tell us about private property? Because I think that's a huge debate in our wall today. Well, I think that's at the heart of this commandment. And I think we can go to both extremes. I think we can view all the possessions and property that God gives us as this inalienable right, absolute right that we must have. Or we can go to the other extreme and say it's useless. Even to pursue it is sinful. I think both extremes are wrong. We must ask ourselves: how does Jesus view worldly possession? How does scripture teach us what world possession is all about? It's a loan, it's a trust, it's a test of our faithfulness. We may keep it as long as we use it responsibly. The things we have have been given to us by God to be good stewards, not for us to worship them, but not for us to dismiss them. It's for us to see them as God's blessing upon us. The size of your bank account is neither bad nor good. It's what you do with it. It's what you do with it. So who is the thief? The thief is in the mirror. It is the dishonesty that lacks privately in our hearts, which we must all bring at the foot of the cross. May he help us to live by faith and not by sight, so that we may love God and love others And be driven not to take from anybody, either directly or indirectly, which may apply to us. But so that we may trust God's providence for all of our needs, that He may take away our greed and envy, and we may not succumb to discontentment, which leads to breaking this commandment. And you know Jesus is calling our lives to be lives filled with gratitude, thankfulness. May He give us thankful hearts. To know that everything that we have has been given to us by God who loves us, His grace and His providence. Father, we do thank you for your words this morning, and we do ask that you would allow us to truly be thankful for all that you have done for us, but also for all that you've given to us. Would you allow us to be good stewards of that which you've given to us? And above all, to be mindful of who you are, to love you more than anything, and to love our neighbor as ourselves. Thank you for your word. We thank you for all these things. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.