Now the tax collectors and sinners were all drawing near to hear him, and the Pharisees and the scribes grumbled, saying, This man receives sinners and eats with them. So he told them the sin This parable What man of you having a hundred sheep, if he lost one of them, does not leave the ninety nine in the open country and go after the one that is lost until he finds it? And when he is found it, he lays it on his shoulders, rejoicing. And when he comes home, he calls together his friends and his neighbors, saying to them, Rejoice with me, for I found my sheep that was lost. Just so, I tell you, there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous persons who need no repentance. Or what woman, having ten silver coins, if she loses one coin And when she has found it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found the coin that I had lost Just so, I tell you, there is joy before the angels of God over one sinner who repents. And he said, There was a man who had two sons, and the younger of them said, And he divided his property between them. Not many days later the younger son gathered all he had and took a journey into a far country and hit the There he squandered his property in reckless living. And when he had spent everything, a severe famine arose in that country, and he began to be in need. So he went and and hired himself out to one of the citizens of that country who sent him into his fields to feed pigs. And he was longing to be fed with the pods that the pigs ate, but no one gave him anything. To himself he said, How many of my father's hired servants have more than enough bread, but I perish here with hunger? I will arise and go to my father, and I will say to him And he arose and came to his father. But while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and felt compassion, and ran and embraced him and kissed him. And the son said to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you. I am no longer worthy to be called your son. But the father said to his servants, bring quickly the best robe and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet, and bring the fattened calf into it, and let us eat And celebrate. For this my son was dead and is alive again. He was lost and misfound. And they began to celebrate. Now this older son was in the field and he came and drew near to the house and he heard the music and dancing And he called to one of the servants and asked what these things meant. And he said to him, Your brother came and your father has killed the fattened calf, because he has received him back safe and sound. But he was angry and refused to go in. He killed the fattened calf for him, and he said to him, Son, you are always with me, and all that I have is mine. Mine is yours. It was fitting to celebrate and be glad, for this your brother was dead and is alive. He was lost and was On this passage about three years ago when we went through Luke. This is one of my favorite passages. It's obviously a famous passage. I I do tend to think this is one of Jesus' most important stories. Um the way it sort of hits and the occasion of it. It's a theme that he's on. But it comes in in this sort of a little sneaky way. We've heard this many times. And I'm thinking of course uh of stories of rescue. We tell stories of rescue. It's one of the values I think should be of Our church, of churches telling stories of rescue. Think of the movie Castaway. Remember Castaway with Tom Hanks? dumped on this island and um think of the show Lost which seemed so long ago again. But really when you start thinking about shows and movies, w what is happening in Stranger Things? There's a monster art doesn't know Um We need to be saved from the upside down. We need to be saved from the mind the the the mind slayer, right? What's the theme of Buffy? Well what is she? She's a vampire slayer. We need to be saved from vampires. We all know that, right? Um it at the very end of MASH, right? That the famous last episode of MASH, what needs to happen? Are we gonna stay here forever? Korea? Are we gonna get saved? What's the point of religious or I mean uh political shows like The West Wing? We need a president to save us from the mess we're So these are all about rescue. Telling stories of rescue. We need help. Mufasa hates us. Right? We are in wherever. We need help. We need to be saved from the bad guys. We need to be helped. We need to be saved. Rescued from the terrorists, from the corrupt police And so we as a church want to notice rescue stories, tell rescue stories. Um we want to tell them proficiently and Even sometimes we might tell them reluctantly, because they're our own stories, but we want to tell them also repeatedly for we serve a rescuing God. Last week we looked at we long to worship together. I was thinking about some of you maybe were at the very first worship service of this church. And then you think about all the Sundays since then. And then there have been other days, other services. Church has consistently worshipped together then for forty plus years. Many different voices, mostly you've heard from Dan, but you've heard from lots of people, different pastors but different people, different elders, different prayers, different songs, right? But the message is still the same. Jesus Saves. Jesus rescues us from our sin. And we are here to worship Jesus, so let's worship Jesus the rescue. rescuing God. And rescuing stories are fun. I have a lot of uh boat rescue stories are pretty you can wrap your mind around pretty quick. I probably told you this one time I'm coming up on a dock and I only have one engine. We had to swap Boats because there was a rat on the first boat. That wasn't good. So they brought us a new boat, which was great, except they gave us a boat with only one engine. You know, there are two engines I can normally that's not a big deal. I can move it around in the ocean, but when it's time to go to dock with one engine Different story. And I was pulling into the dock that they wanted to meet me at so they could fix the engine and it has a current. And and and they weren't really ready and I was ready and so I had to come around the wrong way and now my engine's sort of on the wrong side and when you're coming into these marinas putting up on a a mooring boat out in the middle of nowhere no problemo. These docks they're like you know fitting into the These pews, right? And there's only so much space. And there's million dollar boats on every one of these corners. And I'm in a million dollar boat. It's not my boat, but that's No big deal. And of course you're also coming in and and basically you whoever is coming in is TV for everyone else. Watch this. Watch this It's gonna be amazing. And what you really don't want to do be is the rescued. It's way better to be the rescuer on the dock. Throw me the line, I'll help you. And no, I was the rescued this time Guys, we are in a world of hurts here 'cause we are coming in and I can't so they had to grab me with the lines and the one boat had to actually pull me out of this marina so I could get in and go the right way. I needed rescuing. I mean we we weren't about to die. My reputation already died Even before that. And this is a passage about rescuing in my So let's just talk about these. You're familiar with this text. Two lost items, two lost sums, right? This is the text where this first sentence First two sentences matter so much. Now the tax collectors and sinners were all drawing near to hear him, and the Pharisees and the scribes grumbled, saying, This man received leaves sinners and eats with them. Tax collectors, sinners, these are bad people with bad character And of course the Pharisees are like, Jesus, I don't know if you understand really the way the world works Um but but you know we despise these people. We despise these people. Of course the the classic um analogy is use car salesmen's. I don't think that's true anymore. You go to CarMats and no use car salesman is gonna even talk to you. They don't know anything about cars. They're just gonna look at the thing and read it. Whatever you're looking at, they're looking at. Now you can just go on your app, right, and they'll deliver the car. So we've eliminated sleazy used car salemans. Is that true? Don't come in contact with it much anymore. So maybe another one would be going back to what I talked about last week, spies. We don't like spies. We all know. And and just recently, like last week, one of the famous ones died. Aldrich Ames, uh near DC in Maryland somewhere Uh he had been working for the CIA back in the seventies and eighties, and they say he's responsible for the arrest and execution of many, many officials. Um he's he did it the first time, uh had these secrets and he contacted the Russians, the Soviets, and said, I'll say you the This information for fifty grand and they were happy to do it. He ended up making four point six million dollars by selling secrets to the Soviets. Suspicious because he made sixty thousand dollars a year and yet he had a five hundred and forty thousand dollar house that he had bought with cash. He had a jaguar that he bought He had a monthly phone bill of five thousand dollars a month. He had servants that he flew over and back and forth from the Philippines to to work wait on him and his wife. And he was arrested on february nineteen ninety four. Now again we I made this point last week is Did he look like a bad person? No, he looked like a normal person. And so so, you know, one of the things that we're going to be talking about is what What does a bad person look like? How do we know these are tax collectors and sinners in our mysteries? How do we know these are the rif and erdo Wells, the people with loose morals. Because you know, Jesus, people are talking about you. People have seen you with sinners. Now one other thing about sinners, like, you know, uh Aldrick Ames. Uh Aldrick Ames would say like you got the wrong guy. I'm not a spy. No no one's walked around saying, I'm a spy, I'm a spy, I'm a spy, I'm a spy. So uh Ald Great person. I'm helping. I'm I'm uh you you you don't need to turn me in. And so there are notorious sinners that we all can sort of know and see and identify. And then There's the sneaky ones. Sneaky sinners, right? Philip E and C this week. Famous Christian author admitted to somehow got caught with an eight year affair. He's like seventy-four. Um eight years Cheating on his wife, Philippians' beloved author. And still we can be servants. Fair seats. Talking about Marriage, cheating on our wives. The Pharisees were very good at this They were the rule keepers of course. Um I looked up that maybe we could all enter, and maybe some of you have done these courses, you know, the School of Manners and Etiquette But we we learn the proper way to set a table. This is how you greet a person. This is how you finish your meal when you put your silverware on your plate this is how you do it and of course the thing is when you learn these things what it what is your natural instinct when you sit down to a meal like This is not the proper way to set a table. You might not say it, but you're thinking to yourself, this is very very true about uh cooking, right? I was watching a cooking show last night when Martha Stewart was the judge, and they're turning in their dishes like, that's not the way you blanch those carrots. That's not the way you use this ingredient. Truffle oil is only put on at the very end. These people obviously do not have know how to fillet fish. And so we become this uh rule expert. Here's another example. one Sunday in Oklahoma City band practicing up before church and um and one of the guys he played years and years and years and for whatever reason this one day his guitar wouldn't get into it. And he just kept on trying, he kept on trying, but he left it. He didn't seem very urgent about it. I sat there for a long time, 30, 45 minutes, figuring he would get it it worked out and he just never kept and I basically said, hey Kyle, you know like if it can't get in tune then I don't think we can play it. Right And in essence he never talked to me again. He could not believe that I called him out at that time. practice for an attitude guitar. And so like he called me a Pharisee. Now you know I think to myself, well I don't know, was I a Pharisee? I think I cared about how in tune the guitar was from someone who I knew could tune it, right? I'm fairly tolerant about lots of things, although some people know I will Notice when something's a little bit off, and I can let it go, but if I come up and straighten something, that's just on me, right? No big deal But it's not the proper way. That's not how you like. So we can all be a Pharisee We can all grumble. The Pharisees and the scribes grumble, saying, This man receives sinners and eats with them. So Jesus takes them somewhere. He he wants to show them something. He tells them this story. So he told them this parable. What man of you having a hundred sheep if he had lost one of them And when he comes home he calls together his friends and his neighbors say Saying to them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep that was lost. Just so I tell you, there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over 99 righteous persons This question here is of course you would go find your sheep, right? Of course you would. It's a rhetorical question. Who of you would? I mean, of course, who of you wouldn't? You would all go find the sheep. We're not talking about a penny, we're about to talk about a penny, but we're not even talking about a penny. And it doesn't exactly work on every single thing. It's like, well, I still have ninety-nine percent of what I have But what if it's a child, right? I still have most of my children, almost all of my children are fine. Sheep are valuable. Um you would go get it Just this week I was cleaning out my car and had some trash in there and I had you know got them in my hand and I was walking to the apartment and they'd have the big dumpsters, right? The big red dumpsters And um and I threw my trash in there and I heard a thump because I had grabbed a speaker. I'm gonna guess this is twenty bucks. And so I look into the thing and It's the only trash in there. There's no other trash in this thing. And so now I am contemplating the value of a speaker to get into this dumpster, which I'm pretty sure I could get in. Getting out was going to be trickier because there wasn't another ledge on the inside, right? And then I went around and like, I know there's a way to open this up, but you have to have like the special tool And so who of you would leave a speaker in the dumpster? Yeah, and I I told Julian, she said, I was looking for that speaker, but I know where it is. It's not lost, it's just gone But don't you think if this shepherd knows these sheep, this isn't his first day of work, right? Wouldn't you guess the shepherd knows Which sheep like the wander wear. And what do you think? This sheep probably has a name, like Lost Larry or something And Lost Larry wanders into this one spot because he lost Larry thinks there's something good back there. It never turns out that keeps going. So I think the shepherd knew where to go Approximately. Right? It wasn't anywhere in the world this sheep had a pattern. And the shepherd's thinking this sheep sheep, although it may be oblivious, is probably scared and trapped and hurt. And this sheep is certainly in danger. And I'm not just gonna let it get easier. And so when it's found by the shadow So then he tells the next story you've heard. Or what woman having ten silver coins, if she loses one coin And when she has found it, she calls together her friends and neighbors and saying, Rejoice with me, for I found the coin that I have lost. And just so I tell you, there's joy before the angels of God over one sinner who were born. She lost ten percent. One out of a hundred, now we're at one out of ten. Silver coins, yeah, it's not a penny. I don't know how much it's worth. Um maybe it's sentimental. Maybe there's more value than just the currency. Someone's special gift to it right? And of course we all know, think about your kids, right? You lost your beanie baby? You have fifty beanie babies I don't have another beanie baby like this one! It's special. Can't just replace everything. Charlie has this weird thing. Charlie is always with his leash. Always He carries it around, he drags it around with his mouth. He will uh drag it. Sometimes he'll leave it where he can see it. Sometimes it's gotta be next to him and touch it We have two of them that look pretty close to the same, but you can't just insert another leash in there. It's not gonna work I don't know what would happen. It would be bad for everyone. I know that. It's this is not a it's not a option, really. We've gotta find the leash So this lady says, I gotta find this. She scours the house. She scours her home and this time it's it's a little more in private. It we had a we were looking out at the fields or the forest. Now we're looking inside of a home, probably a small home. She's lost it. She's lost some Um I tend to think this one's personal in some ways. So we could think of losing maybe not a a physical item, but maybe losing joy or maybe losing a marriage o or losing a a hope that we had had. Um And so we can be scared and anxious and doubting and confused and mad, but still lost. So do you He just tells these two stories to the rules committee. Right? The rules committee. He's telling these stories too. And he's saying to the rules committee, Who are you in this story? Pharisees. I'm going to tell you this story. Who are you in this story? I'm going to tell you this So you think you're the the shepherd? You think you're the finder. He didn't even put it that way, right? Who of you would not Go look for your sheep. But what he's releasing is, nah man, you guys use the lost stuff. I mean that's what the point of the story is. Which he's gonna drive home on the last story, right? He's saying to them, I am the great shepherd I am the great warrior. I am the great champion. I am the great rescuer. Because I have come to seek and save the lost. Now Jesus hasn't said that yet in the text. He says that in Luke 19. And who does he say, I have come to seek and save the lost to? Zacchaeus. A tax collector. Can we rejoice when a tax collector gets found So he does the last story, right? The duozy. This one is the is a a big blow. We've all heard it, we've talked about it. I've made this point many ways and the point really is there are different ways to hate the father. There are different ways to run away. Um there are different ways to ask for your inheritance? And I know we would all say to ourselves, I would never ask for my inheritance. I've thought about it. Um, hey mom, when do we get the life insurance public? Where's that money? It occurs to me. Well, you know, son That's not yours. Oh, that's true. We didn't actually have this conversation, by the way, so uh it's just a conversation that occurs to one. Um And remember, this in this day and age, it's important that there's no liquidity. You know, he can't just go to the bank and draw out A quarter million dollars. Right? It's not a Bitcoin account. It's not an e-trade. Oh yeah, I'll just switch around some stocks. I'll sell that Apple stock. I'll get to you by uh cashier check, how do you want We're talking chickens. You want in chickens? Okay, chickens. Um It's more like land rights, you know, or like like these oil rigs. Like I'm gonna put an oil rig, so I need the land And then the stuff that comes out of it will be ours. But then I want it to be mine. I don't want to share it anymore. It's more like that. Um, my buddy Craig, don't know who I've known some College. His father recently passed away as well, and he grew up, my buddy Craig grew up on a pig farm in Illinois. I don't know, 500-acre pig farm in Illinois And so recently I I watched and he's been reflecting it's it's different but similar like stories. They were selling all the stuff because nobody in the family wants to run a pig farm anymore. His father ran to like 85. And so you you see these like the combine is for sale. All I don't know what machines are called. The tractors for sale, right? And and Craig is like walking around touching the stuff. It's more like that, right? Son, if you Want this money? By the way, I'm still here, yo. I'm not dead. Okay, then we gotta sell the trap. We gotta sell the combine we gotta sell the pigs, we gotta sell the cows. I'm gonna keep some for your brother, but this whole gonna be gone. And he does it Right? We don't know if he's mad about it. Maybe he is mad about it. He lets it happen. We don't get recorded a big speech. Big uh wild and phone Time passes, right? And this younger brother wakes up in a real bad His plan didn't turn out exactly the way he had imagined. Not exactly the story, but it's a it's a funny story. My buddy Greg Kellogg Well he and I went to high school together. He was telling me recently that he and his wife went to Vegas uh maybe five years ago. And they get they fly into Vegas and for whatever reason he says you know what let's get some marijuana gummies uh and his wife is like okay well we've never done this before so okay we're gonna be in Vegas you know, it'd be fun. So they so So they they get to their hotel room and they're like, okay well I mean let's take a couple and they take a couple and they wait an hour. Take a couple more. Wait an hour. I don't s I don't notice anything, correct? I don't notice anything either, Stephanie. Let's take some more So they wake up four days later in the hotel room at Vegas. That was a fun vacation, Greg. And who could they blame? Only themselves, right? It's again not the same situation but a funny story of what you can do to yourself, right? To imprison yourself in the thing that got you there is classic. And that's why I have on my phone Boat Tow US. I can call Boat Tow US. I don't think they'll come to Vegas at the hotel room, but they'll get me anywhere on this harbor. Um A and I need to have that. I have called boat tow US before, right? Because there are times when we're all gonna have to say, I need a toe. Yeah I took I took those gummies. And so the so this younger brother's in Vegas like this, right? He's in the pigs And he's like, I'm gonna go back. Anything's better than this. I'm gonna shape up. It's sort of like I went into the transfer portal And now I want to come back, coach. But I understand I'll be a water boy. I know I can't be number one. Number of one or number two. You have two sons, and I don't even need to be number two son. I I'm just happy to be a servant, right? Um I don't expect much. I'm happy to go on the proving ground. You know, I'm a probation period. Well how long do you want? A year? Five years? Um That would be normal, wouldn't it? Be normal. My dad had an employee in like best buddy employee who was the maintenance man and and the way my dad sort of worked is they also worked at the house on the property too sometimes. It's like eh was a little loose on the job description sometimes. But eventually this beloved employee stole that stuff. a ton of stuff for my dad. For my mom. And he was buying tools and then like reselling them, you know, and going through these tools fast Should my dad let him back in the building? So so I so I do think What Jesus is not giving us a lecture on business practices here. Right. So it's not crazy to put people on a probation period. That's not really the point of the story, but a lot of times people will then interpret I've heard this many times as I think the older brother was right. Well it I if you're thinking about our business proposition, right? Yeah. My dad should not say, Hey man, here's the keys of the house again. Everything's yours. That's not why That's not the point of the story. Okay? The the real point is when the the the son comes home, right? And this is again we're talking about Um Aldrich Paines? Benedict Arnold? A traitor? In some sense a blasphemer? To his dad? I wish you were dead, Dad. I'm gonna take your stuff, Dad. And I'm gonna waste it all? I mean he it would have been better as like, you know uh But I turned this into one talent. It gave me five talents, I turned it into one at least. You know, I've been writing the great American novel. Perfecting the culinary arts. Like, what have you got to show for this? So he comes up the path with this plan, you know, I'll be the water boy. And he knows he might die. We've talked about this. What would normally happen is you'd get stoned You can't have a town that runs like this. This isn't gonna work. Right? If we let this behavior go, we'll be out of business It's a joke. So he knows he's gonna walk through if he makes it all he's gonna Here is shame. Shame. Shame. Shame. And you know that sound there's in a I hear Why the younger brother is coming home. Somebody saw him a long ways. He's gonna be here tomorrow. Oh yeah, bring the tomatoes If there's some fresh cow dung, grab that. Like as much as you can. This is gonna be awesome Because be so cathartic. We've been talking about this for years now. I can't believe he's gonna come back. Done So who takes the shame? Because the father takes the shame. The father takes the shame. The father hitches up his bridges, runs to his son, right? Right? Rescues his son. It's shocking. It's shocking. The younger brother starts a speech. Right? He's got it all planned out He had already thought of that. I will rise in front of my father and I'll say to him, Father, I've sinned against heaven before you. I'm no longer worthy to be called your son. Treat me as one of your hired servants Starts that speech the son said to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and earth, heaven and before you. I am no longer worthy to be called your son. The father stops him. Let me stop you right there. Now to me this is a dramatic And if the younger older brother has maybe like, oh yeah. But don't For it. Get him, Dad, you know. I can do it, but I want you to do it, Dad. Let's give it to him. I mean, don't kill him, but let's torture him at least, you know. Jeez But he so he paused at this moment. Ah the father said to his servants, quickly bring the best robe put it on and put a ring on his hand, shoes on his feet, and bring the fattened calves and kill it and let us eat and celebrate. But this is my son. He was dead. And he's alive again And he was lost. And he is found. And they began to celebrate. Amen. Amen. That was a party, right? Good party, except shocking it was a shocking party. But a party nonetheless. One person's not Super happy about the party. Now the oldest son was in the field, and as he came into near the house, he heard the music and he heard the dancing. And he thought to myself, what's going on? I didn't see a party on the schedule. Um Did they find a cav a a sheep again? Can we find a sheep again? Larry. Um I have a good friend of mine who's a um in the uh developer department for uh uh a seminary. I don't know why I I'm afraid to say seminary Uh he's developed the department of a seminary and and he so you know you know that one of my jobs I have lots of jobs, raising money and everything that you do. But one of my jobs is to worry about everything so the president doesn't have to. I will worry about every single thing because if something goes wrong to the seminary it hurts fundraising. And other things right so that's a part of my job is to always be on the lookout and I feel like this is the the part of the older brother like you're paying me to do this I'm on watch when Things go wrong, right? And there's something going on, and I wonder what it is. Did a prince show up? A famous person show up, right And he gives a lecture. Sort of like when the boat tow US person comes to tow you and they say, Here's what you do did wrong. So you don't do it next time. Okay, I'm ac actually happy to take that lesson. I'd rather watch him tell it to someone else. Um but he was refa angry and refused to go in His father came out and treated him. But he answered his father, Look, Dad, come on. These many years I've served you, and I've never disobeyed your command Until now. Yet you never give me a young goat that I might celebrate with my friends. But when this son of yours, who has devoured your property with prostitutes, you killed the fatted cat for him. It's not right, man. It's not proper. It's not fair. This can't be the way the world works. Are you gonna treat me this way? After all I've done for you? So I will protest this abomination party Spin easy. I'll be a man. It's interesting to think then maybe about what we protest. Well protesting. Sometimes we go to an actual protest that's a little extreme. But we all I need to speak to the manager. This is not right This is no way to run a family. You know that it's not even just the principle of the thing. The principle of the thing is always a good thing to think that you think is the principle of the thing, all right? But honestly, a lot of times it's not the principal thing. It's me. I don't like it. But the principle is I didn't get treated the way I wanted to get treated. You use your stuff wrong. Here's a better plan Listen to me. I know best, and I will show you what love is. Because, you know, Father, you are just And you are holy, and you have laws and you have commands and you have rules and you have policies. So what is the deal? And the deal Jesus is saying is, this isn't the business manual. This is the way the kingdom works The kingdom works it's it's complicated, right? Because there are rules and there is justice and there is holiness and there are commandments, there are patterns And there's this too. If you forget this part, then you don't understand the other parts. And it's easy To miss this part if you're so wrapped up in those parts like the older brother was. I have always been faithful. That's a lie. That cannot be true So the question here that Jesus is asked Is how would you operate a farm? No. The question is, do you rejoice when sinners get rescued Pharisees? Do you share the heartbeat of the father who runs after his lost children? Do you need a rescuer You need a rescuer. Do you know the true shepherd, or do you think you're the true shepherd? Do you know the true shepherd? Do you know the seeker and the saver? Do you know the sacrificer? Do you know the true older brother? The firstborn of all creation who was Seek and save the lost. Do you know how to tell stories of rest? Because one of the cool things about it all is the backdrop of all of these stories is this feast. There's a feast, there's a party, there's rejoicing. And so we're invited to the feast and the party and rejoicing. And it may not even be you that got saved. You're to be rejoicing that other people got saved, right? Or maybe you got saved before. Maybe they This lady loses her coins all the time. Like, ah, normal day. Well, I found it again. Yay! So we have another party. Great. But we're invited to the party Party. We're invited to the party. And here at the end of this, it says, Let's have a party. My boy's home. He ran away. I lost him, but now I have him back. And Jesus told him God isn't like the dad that who couldn't stop loving his boy. And the people are like the son who said, Does my dad really want me to be happy? And Jesus told people this story to show them what God is like and to show people what they are like So they could know, however far they ran, however well they did, however lost they were, it was Because God's children can never run too far or be too lost for God to find them. Can't that be true? Take a few moments. Spawn. Silence for a minute. And then we'll continue in prayer.