Rundle County and then uh Baltimore City Jail, uh which as you probably know has been torn down and yet there are about two thousand inmates on that So God used us there and uh I'll allude to some of the things that God did through my ministry. Well C. S. Lewis once uh said, There are no ordinary people. You have never talked to an uh a mere mortal. It is immortals whom we joke with, work with, marry. We need to be to remember that every person we meet has a splendid Spiritual destiny and uh as we do. So Chr sharing Christ with everyone we can meet in one way or another is so so important because we all have a destiny What I want to say to you today, I want to first of all say this is to the glory of God, and it's not because of anything I have done. I just see what God is doing in lives, even before Before I even get there. So I give glory to God, not unto us, O Lord, but to your name give glory because of your loving kindness, because of your truth. But also God is not unjust so as to forget your work and the love which you have shown toward his name, and having ministered and is still ministering to the saints. Saints in prison. So thank you. Um yes, even in ministering to the jail and prison church, um you and I are are giving glory to God and we uh appreciate what you have done. Well how much does God really care about you and I? What what about prison inmates and the other nobodies of this world? Like the view of one church has a goal of winning, equipping, and then sending. And that's certainly one of the things that the Emmaus materials can do. Win, equip, and send. The first book that we send to men is called Worn to win. And uh it's really how you can have a personal relationship with Jesus. In all that I have seen God do, I have observed and felt a strong sense of God God's providence. God's providence. In a sense, providence is a practical way to look at the whole sovereign idea of the sovereignty of God, that God is in charge of all things. We're all familiar with the verse Romans 8. 28. God causes all things to work together in a pattern for good to those who love Him. That's a great providence verse. And certainly we can look at our own lives and think that God has worked through me and in me in just amazing ways that I never anticipated. For instance, some time ago I met a I met three men in the Goose Creek facility Uh one was spiritually as hard as stone. He basically listened but didn't want anything that I had out had to offer particularly Bible lessons. Another was clearly moved by my sharing the gospel, and he thanked for thanked me when I was finished. On another occasion back in Baltimore City Jail, I had a request for a King James How do I see that? Well, I was amazed that a day or so later after this man made that request, that a lady called from the Charlestown retirement community and had a bag of books, a very small bag And I picked up that bag from Charlestown and uh uh and uh lo and behold there was a large print King James Bible. Um So I saw God's hand at that at first. There was another book in the bag, but I I read a little bit of it. I should have kept the book just for the sake of the title. But the book's title, believe it or not, was Things Just Don't Happen And that's how you think we one way we can look at providence, things just don't happen. Uh a couple of years ago I met a really stressed out native former inmate Who just had prayed for a pastor. Again, God's providence. He had just heard that his wife had disappeared or walked off in the native village where he was from. story. Uh I was waiting for a plane to take me home from Chicago and uh we got to the gate and it was everything was just fine. Uh but they came out and said the plane has been damaged. a service vehicle had backed up into the wing and knocked out a light. And so we we think we can fix it. We sat there for an hour and they came out and said, no No, we can't fix it. You all have to rebook. So we all went out front, you know, beyond the security area and rebooked. Well I thought, man, I'm gonna be stuck in Chicago like I had been some years before that. But I finally got to the gate of a new and rebooked flight and uh got on the plane, sat down with one man on my right and one on my left, and At my feet was a a bag which had the word Bible on it. It had actually had the word I had been to a conference at Moody Bible Institute, so this man asked something about the Bible and the the school And uh immediately as I talked to him, the man on my left said, I have been praying for a pastor. I didn't know this man He was a native Alaskan. He was praying for a pastor, and I said, Well let me be telling my story. He wanted to tell me what was going on. on he was stressed out and uh discouraged and sometimes uh we try to butt in too quickly but I talked to him a little bit I also sent him some of the Emmaus materials but he he was really gratitude That he ran into somebody who could pray with him. And in the course of our conversation, he pulled out a rather large Bible. He told me, I don't want to do anything stupid. He had already said it served some kind of time In a penal facility in Alaska. So there again, the providence of God in helping me connect with that man. That kind of raised the question with me: what is God's agenda? Now you think about uh U Ukraine, what about North Korea where the Christian community is terribly oppressed? What about Iran, where there's tremendous oppression, and yet they tell us that Iran the Church The Church of Iran is growing faster than any church in the world. The church is growing. And uh so what is God's agenda? Well, it seems to me the agenda is the salvation of lost men and women, followed by a plan of discovery. Discipleship, a plan of helping them grow. Our prison ministry is about both leading inmates to Christ and then planning the a plan or a program of making disciples. And of course the the the great commission as we think about it is really not so much go as make disciples. The real imperative there is Make disciples. Or as you go, as you go, make disciples. That is where my involvement with the Emmaus materials comes in. into play. Uh I didn't know anything about this or very little about EMAS until I got involved, but forty five million correspondence courses were distributed since nineteen forty two from EMAIS International now called Emaus Worldwide. It is truly a worldwide ministry and one of the from the program travels and helps churches of in various countries to translate the material. There are roughly 90 books. I have some of them in my My my p my bag I can show you later. I so showed to our friends downstairs a little while ago. Um this organization gets testimonies almost every day from students around the world Who have started doing these courses. They have a project of translating 24 of the courses into 24 major languages. Um I'm a prison coordinator for EMAIS. That's how I uh got to talk about this. I knew about uh the Emmaus program uh back in Baltimore City Jail and uh the Decided when I get to Alaska, at least I can give them out to the inmates at the Palmer Correctional Center where I was focusing my attention. Uh but I found out later and really met a man of Fred Steenmeyer, who apparently Apparently had got involved with the courses because of or as a result of a major uh loss on his part, a major business collapse. I think he was even had to declare bankruptcy. He had been involved in putting up some major buildings in Anchorage. But uh all I know is his business went bottomed up and but God used that to get him involved in Emmaus. God's invisible hand, providence. But you're vital you're part of this ministry too. You're vital to this, and you can be used in this. I'd be glad that one of the things I wanted to do, uh and maybe if if you feel like you you should or might want to, take my card, has it my address on it. If you hear about somebody who has Gotten locked up. It might be from a neighbor. You just never know. I'll have these up here as well, so feel free to take one. Correspond with me. Let me know how I can send a course to anyone anywhere uh in this area. It's not just Alaska, it's anywhere that we find a need. Let me just share some testimonies. with you from uh the students that I have had. A guy named a guy by the name of Larry. He said, I want to thank you for all you've done for me. The Emmaus courses has helped me so much. I am eternally grateful I cannot change the past, but I now have a future. What in front of me, what is in front of me, is far more important than what I have left behind Behind me. I have a new church. I go to the Juno Christian Center. This is a new day. My old dreams have died. God has given me brand new dreams. He is the supernatural With God all things are possible. My best days are in front of me, and I am a new man in Christ. All the glory goes to God So I just I'm amazed as I hear about uh uh God's working in inmates' lives and that and the these things that they say just by doing Bible lessons Well I I witness, I I share, I do Bible studies in the correctional facility. Uh as I told the ladies and gentlemen downstairs, I'm involved with the TLC or the Transformational Living Community at the Obama Correctional Center. And uh and certainly we are there to disciple men, men who have volunteered to come into the program and And uh I'm glad that the COVID thing is behind us. We're able to meet face to face with these guys. And I actually went in one time and said, How many of you guys have started or done any of the Emmaus courses? And I hadn't met n I had not personally met met any of them. And about half a dozen hands went up out of I guess about twenty men or so. Um one minute put it this way. I want to tell you I I do appreciate having the opportunity to do This course. I am having a better outlook on life because what I ex what I'm accepting into my consciousness. What I'm accepting into my consciousness. Service to the facility. He said, Your riches await you in heaven. God bless you and all you do. Well I'm going to talk about the riches in heaven in a few minutes when the passage in Luke. Some inmates have moved on and lost contact with them. One man said this, I am not sure where I left off. I keep careful records. I know where they left off. Thank you for all you've done and still do for me and all other inmates. May God bless you. Uh another said this, I would like to learn all that I can. Anything to open my eyes, anything to open my eyes, soul and heart to the Lord Well that's what we're up to. Opening people's eyes to the of their soul and heart to God. Uh here are a couple more, just short testament testimonies. Thank you very much for your help in leading me to Christ, and may God bless you always. Another said I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for this up this correspondence Course. By the time I finish each lesson, I feel I have gained understanding, being led by the Holy Spirit, the Spirit of God. I am looking forward to receiving my next lesson. Another said this and in spite of my conviction, I have come to realize the blessing that I have received and that I have been saved. I have been saved. Thank you for your advice and spiritual guidance. May the Lord bless and keep you in all All you you your undertakings and thank you for listening. Uh another said this I have been reading the Bible every day and it has I'm hungry for the word, another said. I'm just taking uh little bits of pieces from letters. The Bible lessons are a much needed therapy. A much needed therapy. All I can say is there are testimonies that we can share more and more. I have ke I keep a file of the of the the ones that I cut that come back to me. Um well one year back in nineteen uh twenty nineteen uh we sent two courses actually as I explained downstairs the Mayus courses and the Good News courses Um in uh one year I sent out four thousand one hundred and forty-five forty-five of the good news courses and s eight hundred and twenty of the Emmaus courses. Not all of them came back, but many of them did. When they come back we have them graded by graders in the community. Um but again all that I see that the s the providence of God. What is providence? I've seen God work in people's lives and I know He's still working. It's not so much what I do, it's what God does. Um providence has is that continuous activity of God, what God continuously does, whereby He makes all events of the physical, mental, and moral realms work out Yes, evil has entered the world, but it is not allowed to be a Someone has defined providence as God's performing a miracle and deciding to remain an example of the same. Anonymous. God performing a miracle on his deciding. And that's exactly true with the book of Esther. Maybe you knew this already, but the book of Esther has no reference to God whatsoever. His name does not appear, no reference to God, but the whole story of Esther is kind of well it just happens to be this way. Well let me just make a couple of points. Uh Esther just happened to find Fabron In the sight of the royal official in charge of the beauty of the beauty contest. It's about a beauty contest at the beginning. Mordecai just happened to overhear the plot against the king Against Xerxes. The sensual and fickle king Xerxes just happens to point his scepter at Esther to welcome her. Xerxes just happens to have in insomnia, can't sleep, and s and This idea of God at work in in the in c in w in our world. And that's certainly w one of the things that's happening in Ukraine, I am convinced. God is working under the radar. He is working under the radar. Um interesting that you've all heard of the name of Providence Rhode Island. Uh somewhere I picked up the information that that the and I'm pretty sure it got that name because the founder of Rhode Island, this guy by the name of Roger Williams. He left the Bil Mississippi, the Massachusetts Bay Colony, traveled south, and on his way was accosted by some Native Americans I guess they chased him for a ways. And the only reason we know that happened, or that maybe even Rhode Island got founded by him, was that he was able to find refuge in a hollowed-out tree. Could hide. He was able to hide and he survived. Well, maybe that's maybe that's why Providence, Rhode Island, got its name. And then the whole story, the biblical story of Joseph and his brothers How it just happened that the caravan was going south toward Egypt and they could sell their brother into slavery. Bad stuff. Bad things happen in the providence of God and of course you know That Joseph was able to save his own family uh from starvation and became a great spiritual example and even an illus an illustration how Jesus was rejected By his brethren, and someday will be accepted by the Jewish people. Hester interceding for the Jews against the murderous plot of Haman. Just happened. Well, things just don't happen. in God's plan. Uh I think of the founding of the of the Good News Jail and Prison Ministry. I showed a couple of the pictures downstairs. Bill Simmer and Harry Green. In the picture, Bill Simmer has an open Bible sharing with Harry Green Harry, it's a setup. But the store the reality is that he did exactly that and led Harry to Christ behind bars. And uh Providence is at work in Bill Simmers' life He was in the Washington area to get some Bible training and uh got a parking ticket. Some kinda it wasn't doesn't regard a fine, it didn't have anything to do with breaking the law in any way, shape, or form. But he had to go to court to pay this because it was a requirement of the county and he was out of state. And in the courtroom he saw a group of inmates And he asked the question, who ministers to these people? And they really didn't know what that meant. This was well before prison fellowship was established. And that got Harry got Bill Simmer on the path of starting Starting a prison ministry called Good News German Prison Ministry. One of the converts of that prison ministry was Harry Green. So God used a parking citation or a traffic citation citation of some kind to get Bill to court and to ask a an important question. Who ministers to these people? Well there are a lot of t a lot of that didn't really happen uh in the in in years past. Uh one course that uh of course we run into people who have abuse problems in Alaska is a big problem of abuse One course deals with that big problem. One inmate told me he had been beaten regularly by his mom, so he hid in his house regularly. home from school he would hide. Well why did he hide and why did mom beat him? Well uh his father was down at the bar getting drunk. And she was angry at him and and beat him up on a regular basis. I don't know how badly But God's God's working through through difficult situations, a course on abuse. ECF's courses include, as I mentioned, Born to Win, another title, The Believers Battle with Temptation. Boy, isn't that a big one? Forgiving and being forgiven, another huge area. A biblical view of marriage, a survey of Bible doctrine. All the New Testament is covered. Bible survey, Old Testament Testament survey, books on Old Testament poetry and prophecy, uh part of these ninety books of Maya studies. I go to two or three, actually just two right now. Hopefully three soon. But during COVID uh I had to rely on sending out my yellow cards to inmates and to the chaplains uh send them out sending them out to men who had already started the program and I w just uh I think I have some where somewhere. I would just think suggest that if you can think of anybody that might uh appreciate a Bible's lesson program, uh ask me for one of the cards or my little yellow card down there, my yellow personal card Um but uh born to win, men who met the master doing time with Jesus. But I had to rely on on the the uh correspondence program an entirely but I was able to contact connect with new peop people I've never met, still never met, through the cards, uh the postage paid cards that inmates could then send back and and and I got many com all all my new contacts from various parts of the state come from inmates who are starting uh who have started the program giving these cards to others who haven't Um so a hundred roughly a hundred Emaus courses, two hundred uh simple but very direct uh good news courses. I'll be glad to send to anyone. Uh it's interesting as statistics says I never came up with this, but one of the statistics the good news ministers Pointed out was that 86% 86% of inmates who uh have started Bible study on a regular basis do not get in trouble once they're released. Eighty-six percent stay out of trouble simply by doing Bible lessons. A ninety-eight percent, according to the PG County statistic of those who get in get discipled by a local church stay out of trouble. Almost a hundred percent of those who are discipled by a local church in their neighborhood. And they have at least in the past, had an active program of integrating men uh into a local church that can disciple them. Uh let me tell you the story of Robert and Leo Hoffman. Uh Robert Huffman still needs our prayers. But Leo, his brother, was one of the worst personal proper possible persons that you could think of. Leo had been uh involved in in uh intimidating people to get into drugs, prostitution. He was implicated in a murder. He was never going to get out No. He was a very intimidating individual. In fact, I was told by one man you would cross the street just to avoid Leo. When I knew him, when I met him, he was a man He was totally changed, transformed by the power of God, truly. He wasn't perfect. In fact, uh I heard that he had intimidated men in the seward prison to go to chapel He had this kind of a deep voice in him, You better be in chapel night. That's kind of how he came across apparently. He was a big guy. So he intimidated people to go to chapel. But when I met him at Palmer, he was a different man All three were gather referring to me as a brother in Jesus. Um well his brother Leah b brother Robert certainly needs our prayers. He still is in and out of And uh and Leo was there leading other men to Bible study. Just a great way to see what God can do through someone. Feel free to take my little brochure here. I'll put them up. Tell you a little bit about my ministry as well as some of the inmates that I have had dealings with over the past number of years. Again, I bring I give glory to God because many times I hear someone Someone will want a Bible study and and it's not me that's even talked to him about it. He hears about it through the grapevine. And I I'm there to provide it, uh a resource Um well consider Jesus' last commandment. His last command was not just go, but to make disciples. And certainly these courses and other Materials are a part of that. That's what the church should be. Make disciples. How do we make disciples? Well, uh the passage that uh is in the bullet in Luke sixteen was one that came Here's a guy working for a master who is squandering his material property or whatever, and he's about to be fired. You've had it, he tells him But the master praised the unrighteous steward because he had acted shrewdly. He was shrewd For the sons of this age are more shrewd in relation to their own their own kind than the sons of light. Well then Christ goes on to say, and I say to you, make friends for yourselves as this shrewd corrupt employee was doing. He was lowering the bill, cutting the price, or cutting what the man owed, or number of men owed And uh and so that they would they would accept him in when he was fired, that he'd have a w place to go. But Christ says, I say to you, make friends for your Make for yourselves friends. And of course we don't I think we sometimes avoid passages like that because it talks about money. That's a very practical way of thinking about what we what we spend our money on. Someone had a pass a professor say to me, money is coined life He's coined life. It really represent what we have done with our lives to some degree and a major degree. But make for yourselves friends. And certainly this church has done that through funding my ministry and what other missionaries have done. Making friends. So that when it fails, they will receive you where? Into the everlasting dwellings. There are got to be people in heaven who we have touched And there's a a whole network of Christian ministries that you have connected with in one way or another and encouraged, and you'll meet some of those friends Now, what is the end result of all this? The ultimate end, as I've already alluded, 1 Thessalonians chapter 2 Paul is talking about his the church there at Thessalonica and he says I wanted to be with you. I wanted to get together with you. We wanted to come to you. First Thessalonians chapter 2 verse 17 and following. Paul then, but Satan had thwarted us, had hindered us. But then he asked the question: who is our hope, or joy, or crown of exaltation? Now o okay, a crown. I think we all think about crowns in heaven. Well we're gonna throw them at Jesus' feet, so I don't gotta get to wear a crown very long in heaven. Who is our crown of exaltation? Is it not even you in the presence of our Lord Jesus at his coming? For you are our glory and joy. I remember hearing a sermon on that on that passage and it really encouraged me to think of what the crown in heaven will involve. It will involve people that we have won the faith or had some influence on. You are our glory and joy So I'm looking forward to seeing my friends from jail in heaven. So I'm gonna be hanging around hanging out with some of the worst people of all history. I've come up with this thought that some of the that uh uh heaven will have some of the worst characters you can find and hell will have some of the best people you can find. But best only in the They will receive you. So it's not just stuff, it's not just a mansion on the hill, it's people. That we have one to Jesus And uh influenced for the kingdom of God. So God's providence puts us in connection, connect contact with individuals. I hope think of and think of God's providence. God's sovereignty as you go about the day and the and the years to come. How can God use you? How might God use you? Uh and uh let me just read a couple of more testimonies and I want to get to one that's uh kind of really charmed my heart. This inmate said this, Praise God for what he has done But I do thank God for the TLC program that I'm working with. Transformation Living Program. All of that is and more are all wonderful parts of my maturing in God. But you know that is that I am so appreciative. I'm so appreciative For the Emaius studies. Yes, I've had other that could contribute, but this definitely is one of the best, if not the best. So uh I did not invent the Emmaus program. I'm relatively new to them But I'm grateful for the years of ministry that have uh been accomplished around the world uh by that program. Uh I'm trying to think of the man's name, uh I'll I'll remember it eventually I was there at the conference when I was coming south to speak with you and uh do some vacation time here in the lower forty eight. We think of you as the lower forty-eight Okay. So if bad if bad things happen in the lower forty eight, well we got the buffer zone of Canada, keep us out of that. So um but anyway, um I just uh you know uh uh I met some people that I I've heard from and And enjoyed. Let me just read a section of a letter. I got a letter from one of my graders. I have a number of graders that grade Bible studies, and they're very simple to do And as you might have uh noticed downstairs, uh we had uh some pictures uh on the screen, my player, of uh some gray-haired people Uh now if you're graying at all, you can be a part of ministry. And there are people who will never see the inmate, but they will be sending these Bible studies, so feel free to ask me f the to give you names and so on. Here is a lady from Charlestown retirement community. She wrote me a very touching letter and I I really appreciate her ministry of grading. Very, very uh careful, a very conscientious individual. Thank you very much for sending the books about the Bible Very enlightening. I am truly thankful that the Lord is showing a new way to read and to pray scripture. God has become a bigger part in my life Um, more understanding of His Word and have to uh better how to better live the Christian life, all for His glory. Many times I have learned as so much from the essay answers and on the test book. This helps me in under and knowing that others think and feel as I do. In other words, the inmates themselves. My sincere thanks to all who have helped me to met to mature in my fellowship or relationship with the Lord. Now this lady asked asked to be involved in some kind of ministry so the child So she's saying I've learned things just by reading the essay portion of the inmates' answers to uh these questions And uh she comes from a religious background that really doesn't have much to do with the Bible. And uh in fact she asked me for one of the books that she had graded. I want that book myself. I must do that course. And then when I saw her a few weeks ago, she said, Will you send me the one on ready to give an answer? It's a defense of the Christianity Christian faith. Um well you send then I'll do that when I get back home. And uh that's gonna be for her. But she has uh has been uh influenced She has one of these uh little note cards, you know, you put in a little envelope Cats on the front. She'll write notes to the inmates. And they'll they'll ask, Will you let Mary Ann uh grade my lessons? It's a personal thing. Now you can just imagine if you were an inmate and you're cut off from society and you get stuff in the mail time is a huge thing. Mail time and if you get nothing, you feel contact with loved ones and friends. And many times they've ran off their families and done things that their family has nothing to do with them. But God does. And so as they Well let me finish up with uh uh I I did wanna I did want to make a comment about I just thought of this as I was preparing The other day, um a man who said of himself, a great sinner and very poorly educated, and yet he had a s amazing impact on one part of the world. namely the country of Ireland. I think it's the fourth century. A guy by the name of Patrick was kidnapped by Irish by Irish Pirates. The Roman world had never ventured onto the island of Ireland. But this man, Patrick, a nominal Christian, was taken captive, went to Ireland, and spent Six years as a slave out in the wilderness sh tending sheep. Now he had nothing to do with the Pope in Rome. This is not the Catholic Church. It was self Celtic Christianity, self Christianity at that time. But uh he was a captive. Uh he began to pray, but he knew enough about Christianity to pray and probably knew enough Bible to get away with it. But he became a believer and was told one day to go to the coast, get on the ship, and you'll get home. When he got home, his parents begged him to stay home. But God laid on his heart Irish to Christ. Uh cannibals, uh people who are totally paganized, idol out of idolatry and uh the occult. And uh you ever heard of the book of Kells Well the Book of Kells is the Gospels. Well embellished with artwork, but it's the Gospels. Well how did the pat how did the Irish get the Book of Kells? And how did they uh revere that as a national treasure Treasure, well largely because of Patrick and probably others uh in the succeeding centuries. Uh unfortunately they that the uh the country was kind of kind of claimed by the Pope, but uh initially Patrick was the the tool of God, the minister of God, but he was a slave. What can what things happen by being a captive? Captivity can bring out uh some great things And it result in some great things. So think about Ukraine and people in prison for their faith and winning others to Christ. But he did save himself, a great sinner and poorly educated. He was poorly educated because he was kidnapped as a sixteen year old and he was w n he n he was robbed of a lot of schooling But he was just a nominal Christian at first until God got a hold of his life and he went won many to faith in Jesus. Uh in I in any ministry there is opposition. There are difficulties. You'll never s see up see anything but opposition many times. Someone put it this way, there is no winning without working and warring. No winning without working and warring. There is no opportunity without opposition. Whenever the saints say, Let us arise and build, the enemy says, Let us arise and oppose. There is no triumph without trouble. There is no victory without vigilance. The Apostle Paul stated, For I a wide door of effective service has opened to me, and there are many adversaries. Later he wrote, Be on the alert, stand firm in the faith, act like men, be strong That all be done t for love. Our desire, I picked this up from a book on winning people to Christ. Our desire is to win men and people To Jesus and to disciple them. A well-known president of a college, in fact, Biola was one of the colleges he started, a guy named by the name of R. A. Tori, stated his own personal vision for evangelism In the following words. And this was a very well-educated individual. I think he was educated in Germany and some of the schools there, higher learning. But he said this I would rather win souls than be the greatest general that ever commanded I'm not sure if you're not going to be able to do that. As many as possible. Oh, it is the one thing worth doing to save souls and men and women, we can all do it. We can all do it. Of course we need it So I I I encourage you to take some information about About me and my work. Pray for us and and feel free. Have some have have my card. Again, only three or four of the books are specifically directed toward inmates and the inmate community, doing time with Jesus and so on. Teaching and doctrine. And so uh if you just know of a neighbor who might get like to get into the Word, take my little card or the I have a yellow card in my seat. And so feel free to connect with me So we can be a part you can be a part of what I do and I can be a part of what you do. So um God bless you and thank you again. I guess someone else uh finishes the with the song. Let me just pray quick. Lord, thank you for this opportunity. Thank you for the opportunities you give to us as you providentially work on our behalf and a behalf of the of your kingdom. Lord, just use us today and this coming week to touch lives. We thank you for it in Jesus' name. Amen.