Good morning. After taking a little break from the book of First Corinthians, we turned this morning and we're considering First Corinthians chapter twelve. We will be reading the first part of it, verses 1 through 11. So if you're able, would you please stand as we honor the reading of God's holy word? 1 Corinthians 12, 1 through 11. Now concerning spiritual gifts, brothers, I do not want you to be an informed. You know that when you were pagans, you were led astray to mute idols, however, you were led. Therefore, I want you to understand that no one speaking in the Spirit of God ever says, Jesus is accursed. And no one can say Jesus is Lord except in the Holy Spirit. Now there are varieties of gifts of the same Spirit, and there are varieties of service. But the same Lord. And there are varieties of activities, but it is the same God who empowers them all in everyone. To each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good. For to one is given through the spirit the utterance of wisdom, and to another the utterance of knowledge according to the same spirit To another, faith by the same Spirit, to another, gifts of human by the one Spirit, to another, the working of miracles, to another, prophecy To another, the ability to distinguish between spirits, to another, various kinds of tongues, to another, the interpretation of tongues. All these are empowered by one and the same Spirit, who apportions to each one individually as he wills. The word of the Lord. Father we Come to you this morning. Though I may be unworthy, inadequate, I completely rely on the power of your Holy Spirit given to us. Who alone can illumine our hearts and minds and make it clear in our hearts. So I pray that Lord you would convict us of our sin this morning. But also encourage us in the gospel of Jesus Christ given to us in his word. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. John and Jane, not their real names, were members of a a congregation that I was a part of not too long ago. They were what you would call an odd couple. She is a sweet lady, loving and caring. People love to talk to her. She's quiet. She has a quiet spirit. He is what you would call an oddball. He's one of those guys that just makes you a little uncomfortable when you talk to him. It's a little awkward socially. But this couple um as we as we knew them in our in our congregation there were certain things in you know in our church that were just so hard for some people, especially for guests that would meet John, not really Jane but John And they would be put off by his his demeanor, his personality, his character, the way he talked, the way he asked questions, some of them very private questions that he would ask, and people would feel a little comfortable But there is something beautiful about this couple that I came to learn while I was there for about three and a half years. It was The ability to serve the Church of Jesus Christ in a way that was so beautiful. That when Jane and John were not at church, we would all notice that they were not there. You see, they would make the best coffee. on Sunday morning. But they would also clean up after the service in a way that no one else could do. And so every time they were absent from the congregation, we would all notice because coffee was not good. And when we showed up at the office on Tuesday morning, the church just was in a mess because there was no one. That would stay behind to clean up. See, really, it reminds us that we may be different. Our personalities could be different. We're not all the same. But it's a beautiful thing that Jesus Christ has given the church of God so many gifts, and that these gifts are supposed to serve the common good of the church. See, this couple knew how to use their spiritual gifts that God had given to them, regardless of how people looked down upon them and how what people thought about them So here's my question for you this morning. How are you using your spiritual gifts that God has given to you? You see, things haven't changed since the first century when Paul was writing this letter to the church in Corinth. The debate rages on. Even in the modern church, that we're still debating and arguing about how to use our spiritual gifts, how to understand spiritual gifts in the church. See we're still making the argument and looking down upon those people that we don't feel that they ha they are gifted as we are, and so we we tend to debate about what are the prominent gifts that we have and which ones are temporary that we need to not really think about like making good coffee. Which ones are supernatural and which ones are natural. So we want the supernatural ones. All in the name of trying to in some way To prove that just because we we have certain gifts that we've been given by God, that we somehow occupy a higher place. Than others in the Church of Christ. See, Paul is dealing with a church in the first century that is exactly the same as today. And so Paul's encouragement to the Church of Jesus Christ is this. That the Holy Spirit has graciously given these gifts to you so that you may benefit one another for the common good. So he begins by Showing us in verses one through six. It's actually verses one through three and then four and six, but I will put them together. Verses one through six that The the the Holy Spirit is the source of all spiritual gifts, and that's important. Because Paul does not want the church to continue being ignorant. He says, I don't want you to be ignorant in the way you use or in the way you understand spiritual gifts in the church. Why? Because some believers, as I just mentioned, were actually using their spiritual gifts as badges of superiority. And we know what the problem was in the in this church. We're gonna see it in chapter fourteen that the problem was actually the gift of speaking in tongues and so those who who who who had that gift felt that they were better than others, elevating one spiritual gift over the other. Now remember the church in Corinth is not a church that isn't aware of the effects of the outworking of the Spirit, whether that's the Spirit of God or evil Spirit. Why? Because this church actually we're told that most of these people would go into temple uh uh buildings and they were worshiping different kinds of gods. So they knew the effects of evil spirits in their former and in their pagan life. That's what verse 2 is telling us. Paul is saying that they were led astray. They were led astray to what? To mute idols. Of course, these were idols that were made of wood or stone or whatever it was. But I think Paul is actually alluding to something even much more than just a mere stone or wood idol But these were idols that were in in the that were not capable of speaking. That when they went to them and prayed to them, they were not able to answer to their prayers. That the people were being led blindly to and in darkness to these spirits, to these idols, until the Spirit of God came upon them and shone light in their hearts And they were freed from this darkness, and now they were able to confess Jesus is our Lord and Savior. But they were misled during their pre-conversion lives. That they were ignorant, ignorant of who God is, the one true God. And Paul is saying, I don't want you to continue in that ignorance. He wants them to have a better understanding of how the Holy Spirit continues to work in the lives of men and women. Not just by mere emotionalism and ecstatic feelings that they were experiencing when they went to the temple uh cultic worship. Now The idea of the idols here and the we we talk about idols being many where while God is only one is that you would only go to to a specific idol for specific needs. So you have many idols and if you have a specific need you go to a particular idol that is able to provide That which you need. And it's just so beautiful that Paul is here painting a picture of God being one. A God who is a source of all gifts. So that when you need anything You don't need to go to a different God to to acquire certain gifts. So if you want a a gift of speaking tongues, go to the God of speaking tongues if you need A gift of mercy, go to the God of mercy. But we have all things that our God who is one provides everything that we need only in Christ Jesus. We find all of our blessings All of our gifts, everything that you will ever need, is provided for only in God and in God alone. So look at verses 3. Paul giving us two extreme opposites. One that is negative and one that is positive. And then this is an idea of how to recognize or how to have spiritual discernment to recognize what should and what shouldn't be attributed to the Spirit of God. Okay? So the pronouncement of one over the other will show where your allegiance and your affiliation is. To declare that Jesus is accursed is to set oneself against God Himself. It is to reject Jesus and s and to stand in opposition with in opposition with him. Now Paul does not tell us if there was people that were actually making that that claim and and and cursing Jesus Is he speaking hypothetically? We don't know, but that's okay. But Paul's stress here is this. That the presence or the absence of of the Holy Spirit is what helps us to speak one thing over the other So that you cannot curse Jesus and be speaking from the Spirit of God. And you cannot declare that Jesus is Lord and be speaking On your own accord, or speaking not by the Spirit of God. In essence, or in summary, it's a denial of the Lordship of Jesus Christ. Cannot be from the Spirit of God. But confessing his Lordship, confessing that Jesus Christ is Lord, is also not a human endeavor or discovery, but it can only happen. It can only happen when the Spirit of God is at work in the hearts of men and women. See, the declaration of Jesus is Lord is one of the greatest and the most important creed that we have in Christianity, isn't it? Declaring that Jesus is Lord, that he reigns. And it's not just merely a statement of theological conviction that I know what that means, but it's actually a personal allegiance That I'm not only just declaring I know that Jesus lives and Jesus reigns and Jesus is Lord, but I'm actually saying I know he is Lord, and I am coming under him, and I am letting him take reins in my life, and he is my Lord. Now we have to be careful though when we think about that language, right? As Paul is writing Jesus' word. Because we read another passage in Matthew chapter seven where Jesus says that not everyone that comes to me saying, Lord, Lord Will enter the kingdom of heaven, right? So what is what is Paul alluding here? I think we really have to go back to the context of the church that Paul is speaking to And really think about the words Jesus is Lord and what they meant to the church in Corinth. You see, this is the first century church, a church that was persecuted. To make that declaration that Jesus Christ is Lord was to make one of the most radical and most revolutionary statements you could ever make in your whole life. It meant this. Losing your job, losing your family and relatives, and even losing your own life. So when they're making this declaration and saying Jesus is Lord, they are basically saying, I am saying goodbye to everything else I know. And I am leaving myself wide open to be destroyed, to be killed, and to be persecuted and despised by everyone else because I know who Jesus is. They meant it. I'd like for us sometimes when we made those comments and truly don't make don't mean them. How we should be encouraged that every time we make that statement that Jesus is Lord that our lives must reflect what that means for us for ourselves. See this church that Paul is speaking to the church that is divided, divided in some sense because they were taking pride. Taking pride in their own giftedness. They were looking down upon those whom they thought they were not as gifted as they were. They were taking pride in their super spirituality. And Paul is trying to show them that the only way for you to know that you're super spiritual is by a declaration that Jesus is Lord. is by recognizing that your gifts are given to you for the benefit of the church. Look at verses 5. He uses this word over and over again. He says They have varieties of gifts, varieties of uh activities, varieties of of service. I I think Paul is here trying to show us that the church uh of Jesus Christ really does reveal the unity that we see in diversity The unity that we see in diversity, it's like if you think about it, a well-shaped tree. A tree that has a multitude of many leaves, and yet none, not two of those leaves look alike. They're all different but from the same tree. For those of you have many children or have kids, children born of the same parents, and yet each one has a different personality and character, and they look different, and yet they're from the same. Family, mother, and father. See, Paul is encouraging us not to be tempted to be divided because of our differences in being gifted in Christ. That it is Jesus who works all these gifts, all the diverse gifts that He gives to us. The different or the different kinds of activities that we And function that we we have in the church is not a means, is not a way, is not a reason for us to be divided. It is through the same Lord. Who works in them all. That's the essence of verses five and six. And I love the way Paul is actually using the triune God, showing that the source of all of our spiritual gifts is not just the Holy Spirit, but is actually the triune God. It's God the Father. the Son and the Holy Spirit. The point, as one commentator said, he quotes, the diversity in the church comes from one divine source. Consequently, conformity is not necessary for unity. Whatever is necessary for unity of the church is the Lordship of Christ, declaring that Jesus is Lord. Secondly and very closely related, the Holy Spirit is not only the source, but he also determines and distributes Spiritual gifts to us. He apportions spiritual gifts. Look at verse 7. One of the most important passages in this particular pericope that we just read this morning that each one has a gift from God. All of you sitting here. If Jesus Christ is your Lord and Savior, you have been gifted by God. And that sometimes we're not able to see our gifts, but other people are able to witness, they're able to perceive our spiritual gifts more than we can notice them. And that these gifts are not given so that we may be rivals So that I may show that I'm able to do something much better than someone else. And now given so that we we can be jealous of one another. That I look upon someone and see, oh man, that man is so gifted in in in their service or in whatever they do. And I am not as gifted as they are. All of our gifts are given for the edification of the Church of Jesus Christ. And that we all go to the same place to receive all of our gifts. That none of us here stands with a special ticket or a special networking right or a special connection with God somehow that you can go to Him and get the best of all gifts But that we all come to Him, poor, rich, young, and old, we all receive our spiritual gifts from the same Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And that's a great thing, because we all have the same standing before God. You see, too often we tend to make the distinction between the sacred and the secular, right? As if God is not king and lord and ruler of all things. But also too often we tend to make a distinction or elevate certain gifts over others. And we must think about this because if you belong to Jesus Christ, if you have declared that Jesus is Lord in your life, the Bible tells us that the Holy Spirit dwells within you, right? What is the manifestation of the Spirit of God in your life then, if you belong to Jesus? It is this. He's gifted you. That's what Paul is saying here. The manifestation of the Holy Spirit is the ability or ministry which the Spirit actually actualizes in our lives within the believer, which reveal the presence of the Spirit of God among His people. That's how we know that we're growing in Christ. Because we bear fruit, because you your gifts come forth. Because the Spirit of God is working in your life. That's how we know we belong. And this manifestation is really a celebration, as one commentator puts it, it's a celebration of The attributes of God. If you look at the the list that Paul gives it gives us of the spiritual gifts, if you really think about it, you think about the attributes of God, his wisdom, his knowledge, his power to heal, discernment, going forth, going on and on And that actualizing this gifts is a way to promote the good, the common good of the Church of Jesus Christ. And by doing so, we are celebrating God's attributes, but we're actually bringing him much glory To him. These gifts are not given for our own indulgence. Do they benefit the possessor of the gift? Absolutely. But they are given for the benefit of the church. This extended list is by no means the whole list of all the spiritual gifts we have. If you go to uh Romans 12 and Ephesians 4 and 5, you will see there's all kinds of different lists. I mean it's just it's a beautiful thing that informs us that we cannot even have a a complete list of all the spiritual gifts that the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit grants and provides to the church. What a beautiful thing And we're not gonna go through the list. We're not gonna take every you know each one of those particular gifts and explain them because that that's really not the point for Paul. Paul's point in this passage is not to tell you or to explain to you what faith means, what knowledge means, what wisdom means, what miracles mean, what speaking in tongues means. That's not the point. We'll get to the speaking in tongues later That's not the point here. You know w whether Paul means by tongues, the ability to speak in an unlearned language or human language or angelic language as as you might think, is not really that important I think the most important thing we see there is in verse 8. The repetition of that word, same spirit. The same one spirit. He keeps on repeating that language over and over again. Because our problem is sometimes we tend to focus on discerning what these gifts are and what they mean and and all of that and we're obsessed about what the gift of speaking tongues is. We argue, we debate, we fight, we we we're we're divided as denominations as to cessationists and to those who say that They continue and all of that stuff. But you know what? Those arguments are good and the debate is good for us to understand what the Word of God tells us about these things, but sometimes We spend so much time and obsessed on what those gifts mean that we actually completely miss the point as to why God has given these gifts to the church. That we completely forget that we are called to love one another, to build each other up, that these gifts are given for you, for me, for us to build one another. So Paul's idea here is to look at that language of the same spirit. Is one God, creator of us all He is the one who works in us. He is the one who gives us these gifts. But he's also the one who produces the fruit that comes from our giftedness. And so you know, when we look down upon someone else because they're gifted differently than we are, you know what we're doing? We are basically trivializing that which God is doing in and through that person. It is a dangerous thing to do. You look down upon someone just because they're not as gifted or because we don't think they're gifted as we would want them to be gifted. We see this in worship, don't we? Not the looking down upon each other, but in terms of how gifts spiritual gifts working i i i in the moment when we're gathered together as a people of God. You see when when we come to church every Sunday morning we're we're not just basically showing up to have this liturgical Exercise that we've learned and practiced over and over again. What are we doing? We're actually coming before the presence of God to experience His presence. to experience the activity of God himself in and through his people. What a beautiful thing that is We're coming to worship Him. We're coming to bring all of our gifts and ask the Lord to allow us to build one another up. We're coming to seek to give thanks to God for his gracious generosity towards us. That God has been so gracious to us to provide for us and to give us All his spiritual blessings. We're also proclaiming his favor and knowledge that we are completely indebted to him And all the things that he has done for us. I think that's really what leads us to a better understanding of what worship is all about, isn't it? That we lavish or we lavishly use our spiritual gifts for the well-being of one another, but that we also generously share those gifts. with one another. So when when you're withholding, serving, when you're withholding, using that which God has given you, you're not sharing with me, with your brother, with your sister. Whatever it is, but that when we boast, when we boast, we're actually suppressing that knowledge that we know that all gifts come from God. When we boast, we're refusing to be good stewards of the gifts that God has given us. See, Paul wants us to see one another. As a people that God has appointed, as a people that God has called and given different tasks and functions in the church at you Sit here this morning that you are worthy of the task that that Christ has called you to do That we're all equally important in the presence of God. And the truth is, we all don't have the same gifts, right? That's what Paul is telling us here. No one has all the spiritual gifts. I wish I did It's not possible. So what does that mean for us then? It means we need each other. Because you have a gift that I don't have, and someone else has a gift that you don't have. Listen to how Peter 4, 1 Peter 4. Um tells us as each has received a gift, use it to serve one another as good stewards of God's buried grace. Whoever speaks is one who speaks oracles of God Whoever serves is one who serves by the strength that God supplies, in order that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ our Lord. I think Paul is just stressing the unity of the church for us, a unified body. And since all these gifts are coming from the Lord, we must use them for his service. See the temptation for us is to emphasize the gift of teaching and prayer and all these things is way much more important than people who work with their hands. We need the carpenter, the electrician. We need the person who cleans up around here, the plumber. We need the person who stands back there and just smiles as people are walking into our doors. We need the people that are not afraid of walking with our young children downstairs. And yet not be recognized for it. They are all equally important before God. Leon Morris says, humble everyday service is not to be despised. What a conviction for me in my own heart. Because sometimes we do tend to look down upon those who perform meager. Tasks in the church. I want you to know. Briella? Rob? Trevor? Nancy, you've been gifted, every one of you, and God cares that you are here That you sit on these pews because you are important, every one of you, to him See understanding what it means to have spiritual gifts and knowing how to use your spiritual gifts is important. As we've been singing this morning, it actually helps us to have an understanding that God's kingdom is a kingdom without borders. Helps us to understand that you, every one of you here, have been called and equipped. with gifts from God to go not just here at Grace Reform Presbyterian Church, but to go out there in every sector, in every part of society to make his name known everywhere, to declare that Jesus is Lord, that he has given you power Power to heal a broken world that is in need of whether physical, emotional, or spiritual healing. And He has gifted you to do so. And at the end of the day, brothers and sisters, it doesn't matter How sensational or spectacular your spiritual gift is. That is not what's important. The most important thing for you and I to understand is How am I able to use my God-given gifts to be a witness of Jesus Christ and to live a life that reflects the Lordship of Jesus Christ that brings him much glory and honor? Because your gift, brother and sister, is not a badge of honor for yourself. It is a benefit for the Church of Jesus Christ. We thank you, Lord Jesus, that you truly have given us all these spiritual gifts so that we may use them for the well-being of your church that you've called us to be a part of. So Father, I'm thankful for this congregation, for this church, and for all the wonderful gifts that you've given to us. Father, would you allow us to use them Uh, not just for the benefit of one another, but may we use our gifts to bring you much, much glory and honor. We pray this in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.