Been a PCA pastor for a long time. He did RUF, he planted a church in Houston. He's recently taken a call at a Methodist church that has left the U United Methodist And so this is in Memphis. It's one of these old cool hundred year old Methodist churches where they built the best gym in the city. Well, not the city of Memphis. In the little town outside of Memphis, and they've got like a kitchen that is amazing. And of course they're gonna bring in a donkey. So what they do. Um beautiful. One of my other good friends uh in this cohort that I'm with, he has planted his second church He planted a church in Columbus, Ohio, where he's from. And now he's moved to Naples, Florida. Rough, I know. And uh he has started a church called Anchor Presbyterian Church. Amazing. And um I was looking at his website and it goes this way. Anchor Presbyterian Church is an ordinary church with an extraordinary These days everyone feels the pressure to appear impressive. We feel it too. Then we are reminded that ordinarily God does his most profound work through ordinary people using ordinary means. Bread and wine, water for baptism, the words of Scripture faithfully proclaimed, and a church community filled with people doing their best to follow Jesus together So that's our aspiration. Ordinary people doing ordinary things for the glory of God and the good of our neighbor. Pretty Awesome, no donkeys mentioned. Umrdinary things, ordinary people, ordinary means of grace. We've been talking about uh with talking about the church. Uh these last since uh the beginning of the year. And then next week and the the week after we're out we're not doing that. We're gonna look in uh first and second Peter And um and use that those texts uh for our Palm Sunday and our Easter Sunday. But our our thinking has been, you know, what is it that makes a church what what uh uh gives church life and vitality. Um we haven't been talking about doctrine, although of course doctrine is super important. It's a foundational for us. Scripture and then in Presbyterianism are our catechism larger and shorter in the confession of faith. But so um thinking today then to wrap all this up, why do we come to church? Um you know You've made an effort to be here. Some of you were brought here, but most of you came here, got up, you got dressed, drove, you got mostly here on time, relatively Um is it just a habit? What we do on Sundays? Or you can't wait to hear the awesome sermon. um to hear, to sing, to to watch Rob play, right? Um it's to be together. Um to hear the Lord the Lord to to sing the songs of the faith. But you know, um fewer in people fewer people are coming. In twenty twenty four the statistics say that about thirty percent of Americans come weekly Approximately weekly, 30%. 20 years ago that was 42%. Ten years ago that was 38%. And now here we are. are at thirty percent. Eleven percent would say they go once a month. Twenty-five percent would say they go seldom and thirty-one percent Never. Ever. Why don't people go to church? Eighty-seven percent of Americans say they feel judged. American Christians uh American people label American Christians as judgmental, critical, disapproving, condemning, inex It could be for behavior or clothes or looks or friendships or parenting or how they consume the media. And so I think we should ask ourselves, could we be less judgmental? Sure. Uh people will also say they don't come to church because they don't want to be lectured. To sit and to listen Or to sit and watch the show. They want to participate. They have questions. People have questions. They want a discussion about their doubts. So could we engage people in more discussion? Would say that the American church is filled with hypocrites. The church insists on an impossible standard, and its leaders constantly fail, even the basic standard. So could we be Be more genuine and authentic with our lives. People will also say the church is irrelevant. Doesn't make a difference. People aren't looking for theological trivia or bland platitudes And so would it be possible to experience God a church? To make connections with each other. To see our faith as a real faith or the the term for churches that don't really experience real faith could be called moralistic therapeutic deism. I've mentioned that term before. Moralistic therapeutic Deism. People are being raised with some of these truths, some of these stories, uh, some of the liturgies, but not experiencing the Lord on their own. So these texts today uh push us a little bit. Uh we've uh gone over these before they're familiar, um, because these are some of my favorite It's important that we as a church, Grace Church, keep looking outward while we continue you healthy inward love. Healthy inward love, healthy outward love, a focus, a framework, a missionary focus and framework, right? To reach the world, to reach our neighborhood, to reach our families. And so this text, Mark II, we've heard this before, that Jesus was on the move You know, he didn't just hang out in one place, hang up a shingle, and say, come listen to me. He was moving around, right? And that reminds us that he was incarnational. He came, set up shop, moved in town, and knew people and walked with people, right? And I think it's important that we also see that he's doing that because none of us are insiders. None of us are born insiders. We're all from the outside. Even if you are raised in a Christian family, we all must be born again. Right? John tells us that in chapter three. And Jesus continually is eating with tax collectors and sin. And of course the the people are are continually saying to Jesus, this is not proper. You should not be doing this. This is beneath our standards. But Jesus keeps on saying what? When Jesus heard it, he said to them, Those who are well have no need for a physician, but those who are sick, I came not to call the righteous. But sinners. I think for us maybe then we could ask ourselves, where am I like a Pharisee? Do I see Pharisaical thoughts or tendencies in my own heart, my own life I wouldn't dare to say these things to Jesus out loud, because we know we're not supposed to, but I might say them to somebody else. I d and I think it's true that we all have these thoughts, judgmental, hypocritical thoughts. Um Um maybe you've heard then of Tony Campolo. He's got a famous story. May or may not be true, but that's okay. It's still a good story He wrote a book called The Kingdom of God is a party. He great at throwing parties. And he Tony Campola tells a story of when he was in Honolulu one night at 3 a. m. His body clock is all whack. and he's at a diner at three A. M. and uh enrolls about twenty prostitutes They've just gotten off work. Um and so they come into the diner and he's sort of there, they obviously cause a sort of ruckus in some ways. And one of the women mentioned that The next day was her birthday. And all the other women laughed and they were like, Well, I don't know, what do you think you're gonna get a party? or you know, we're not bringing you presents and she laughed. I I know, I know. I just th Thought I'd mention it, no big deal. So when they finally leave, maybe an hour later, uh Tony Campolo goes to the um guide, I guess the cook, and asks what her name was. Her name is Agnes. And if they come in every night, yeah, they come in every night around three in the morning. And he said, Well, could could we throw a party for Agnes The cook is like sure I'll make a cake And so sure the next day uh three AM it's Tony Campolo and the cook And a cake, and they come in, and apparently people had heard about this. Word had gotten out. So the whole diner was filled And there were balloons. And there were presents. And when they walked in, Agnes got a happy birthday, Agnes surprise party. completely blew her away. And Tony asked if he could pray for her and they had a grand old time And then when they all left, Agnes was so excited, she left early with her cake. She hadn't ever gotten a cake before, so she just left with her cake No one else got to eat it. And um the cook was, you know, they were reflecting, he said, Well you didn't tell me you were a preacher. He said, Well Oh he said, what kind of church do you pastor at? I never see anything like this. He said, I pastor a church where we throw birthday parties for ours at three thirty in the morning And the guy said, I don't believe you because I've never heard of a church like that. If there was one I'd go. Jesus eats with tax collectors and sinners, right? On a mission. Throw parties. But most of the time people experience church radically differently. They experience church going back to before uh like a police department that hands out tickets for bad Behavior. Or they experience church as a political action committee that's trying to get its agenda done with its issues and its problems and the Sometimes people experience church like the movies. You just come and you watch. The lights go dim, the fog machines come up The song gets loud. There's not just one warren. There's three Warrens all playing drums, right? And ha you seen some of these? I mean, like, there'll be churches That they'll do a summer in the movies, right? And they'll have like the best musicians in the city at their church And they'll dress up like Disney characters, and it'll be better than Disney. It's amazing. And so you get to watch. Stuff elaborate sets productions. On the other hand, some churches oppositely are are like somber mortuaries Just deathly quiet. A lot of those churches are like museums of death Days gone by. Stuff we used to talk about. Maybe seminars. Or or we could be a little more on the Tony Compose side I don't know how that would look exactly. Generous, different people gathering together. Gathering together because we talk about how we we want to throw good parties and we long to worship together, right? And how we are generous, we're living generous lives, and we're trying to care well for each other So we would come together and share our struggles, not as hypocrites, not as judgmental people, but sharing our struggles, but enjoying the feast. That Jesus has set before us. We've talked about lamenting and celebrating That we understand that we are captives who have been set free. That we are lost people who have been found. And that we have orphans and widows that we celebrate in our midst And we learn and we love content, but we're not learning to quote the catechism and lose our Alright, so I didn't put this text in here, but it's important because we love this text as uh Romans twelve, two Romans 12. 1, you maybe know, I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which are spiritual worship. Verse 2 says, Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you will discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect Perfect. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. This is a very awesome Presbyterian verse. The renewing of your mind. Right? Um back in the sixteen hundred or so, uh Johann Kepler said, we must think God's thoughts after him. thinking, minds, right? Descartes said, I think, therefore I am. A lot of times we can have a Cartesian outlook on our faith Thinking, thinking, learning, studying, knowing. And so in this text a little bit I want to then get at we're sinners. Jesus eats with sinners. tax collectors and sinners. And we are called then to renew our minds, but then also love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, and with all your strength, right? James says this way, but be doers of the word, not just hearers only deceiving yourselves. For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man who looks intently at his natural face in the mirror. For he looks at himself and goes away and at once forgets what he's like. But the one who looks at the perfect law, the law of liberty, and perseveres, being no hearer but who Forgets but a doer who acts, he will be blessed in his doing. Bob Goff has a book called Love Does Now I think love also thinks, love contemplates, love considers, love renews its mind But love does, so we're not just as a church then thinking about love and justice and mercy. We're pursuing love and justice. And mercy. Some churches do so much but they don't think. Other churches think so much, but they don't do But God has given us souls and minds and bodies, right? And symbols and psalms, right? And history? And weird stuff? And normal things that we can relate to and things we have to ask about. And it's a big big amazing book uh given to us with lots of things to talk about and follow and do and understand. Um some churches um are filled with then symbols. They're beautiful. Symbols stained glass with Windows, but no one believes any of it. They have forsaken historic orthodoxy. It's tragic, isn't it? But other churches have stripped out symbols and beauty, and they are only focused on doing And they leave out the majesty of it all, the story of it all, that God didn't just give us Paul. He gave us lots of other things. To formulate our minds and thoughts and conform ourselves to, right? And so, in this sense, then we want to engage our hearts and our minds. In our truth, our practices, our theology, our love, our learning, in counseling As we pursue wholeness and humility with each other and hospitality with each other, right? That's what we have to offer Jesus. So we walk with him. And as we engage as missionaries in our world, however Small it feels like to remember then Jeremiah 29. Another awesome text. But Seek the welfare of the city where I have sent you into exile and pray for the Lord on its behalf, for it in its welfare you will find your welfare For in its welfare, you will find your welfare. That word welfare is that word shalom. One of our goals, of course, is that everyone would know Jesus. But but the The scriptures tell us that that we are to seek the welfare of the city, and of course in this text it's Babylon Babylon, remember, in Revelation, does not have a great reputation. The Bible does not think well of Babylon, but the Lord has sent his people there. Not to torture it, but to bless. And so as we consider how we can bless Our neighbors. And as as the gospel moves into our lives, it changes our outlooks. It changes ourselves. If we go to uh Galatians The end of Galatians 3. There is neither Jew nor Greek. Neither slave nor free. There is no male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. And if you are Christ, then you are Abraham's offspring. Paul is teaching us here that the gospel changes us and and the these promises that have gone to these patriarchs, to these people These covenantal promises are expansive. They go out. So we now have become Abraham's offspring. And so we are included in that history and in that story. And so this is our book too. The promises are our promises. That we can have. So then when we go out into the world as these missionaries, we're going out as Christians. With Christ. How we still have our own peculiarities and stories and personalities, right? We're not Stripped of them, but we ultimately find ourselves with Jesus talking about him. um sharing about him. I was reading about a a man who moved to town also in Florida, but not a Not my friend's neighborhood, but he moved to town. He was asking neighbors where they went to church. And several neighbors nobody went to church But one neighbor said, Well, I don't go to church, but if I did go to church, I would go to this one it was called like Seven Rivers or whatever. Seven Rivers Church. Why would you go to Seven Rivers Church Because they love the city. When they're involved, they love the city. And that's the type of place I would want to be. Now I don't love Jesus. Okay, so this is a big problem, right? Loving the city is not all we're doing, but we can do that too. Love Jesus and love the city Love each other. Love God. Love each other. Love the city. Be involved. Share the gospel. This is what we are want because then the what's happening is all are welcome. Everyone that is welcome with us to be uh involved in these projects, but the projects flow out of the gospel message. Sometimes people are coming in this way And we're going out that way too, right? Because ultimately when we uh read these texts and we're reminded of this that Jesus eats with tax collectors and sinners, right? Well, Jesus eats with me. Right? Okay, my logic problem then is, therefore, I am a tax collector and sinner. Wait, no! That can't be right. Jesus has to eat with other people besides tax lessons and sinners, right? There's a whole other category And he's like, No, you know, your religious self reliance, your religious self sufficiency is a big thing. It's the thing that keep us apart, isn't it? Kazai didn't come for the healthy. Came for the sick. And if you don't see yourself as sick, you don't see yourself as needy, then we're not gonna be able to eat together. That's a big hurdle for some people to get past. Um and there's a spiritual dynamic to that. Um this is not sort of older brother stuff, right? Not younger brother, prodigal son stuff. You guys remember Hudson Taylor? Hudson Taylor was a great missionary Went to China, I think. What did China? Long time ago. Yeah. Uh this is so back in my navigator days. He was And he read the Bible forty times in forty years. Once a year for forty years. And there is a way I and I'm known people who would say, well if Hudson Taylor read the Bible 40 times in 40 years, I'm gonna read the Bible eighty times in forty years. I'll show him. You want Christian devotion? Sign me up because I can be a good soldier. What do you need me to do? Perfect attendance pins? I had a bunch of those. You want me to memorize scripture two weeks? H how many weeks? How many weeks do you want me to do it? Ten years? No problem. No problem. Share the gospel once a week? Check. Quiet time every day? Check. All of it. That's religious self-reliance. religious self sufficiency. But Jesus is saying, I came to eat with tax collectors and sinners, man. And and Peter You think you can do it? Peter says out loud. You know, it's like we kn not supposed to say that, Peter. You'll never deny him. He lets him do it, right? So we can see that he needs Christ alone. My sufficiency is in Christ alone. And that, friends, is such good news for us, isn't it? The truth is we can be an ordinary church with an extraordinary God. Right? And God normally works, ordinarily works through ordinary means. Bread and the wine. Water for baptism, discrete scriptures taught and read, the people coming together, and a community of people that care about each other in the world. Amen. That's the church. Simple enough. Let's take a few moments and uh consider what the Lord is saying to us