Get everything on, get everything on. Good morning. It's really good to hear that uh Christmas Eve is the day before Christmas. Do you know what the day before Christmas Eve is? No, it's Christmas Adam. That's what our family celebrates every year. Our Christmas Adam is you is regular well it's Christmas Eve to us, and then Christmas Eve is our Christmas Day, and then we spend Christmas Day with family, so we ha get to have our own Christmas Adam and Christmas Eve. I've been struggling a little bit with backspasm, so you'll forgive me if I if I lean a little bit. It's uh hard to stand when you're planning on preaching for six hours. Okay, good. Dang, I heard the ooh. It's not. I'm joking. I'm joking. Uh if we haven't met before, I my name is Tripp. Beans and uh I am the campus minister for Form University Fellowship, which is the PCA's college uh arm, and we are serving at UMBC. My wife Joy is on stage staff with me and uh just really grateful for the opportunity to be here with you all this morning. Um semester's wrapping up and I'm excited to report that God has been at work. Uh we've been able to see students come in and our group grow. We've been able to uh we've been able to have opportunities to meet with them and talk with them about the gospel. You should know they're asking hard questions And they're welcoming they're wel welcoming the truth of God's word into their lives. Like they're not they're they're actually asking for it. And um they may not always agree, but they are listening and that's encouraging And it's been a true delight to be a part of this ministry this semester, actually the last year and a half. Would you pray for our students? They're about to start the last day of class is tomorrow, and then they have a reading day, and then they have exams. And uh the difference between UMBC And our ministry at Millersville University is academically UMBC is much more rigorous and students care about their grades. And so if you pray for them, pray that they would remember what they've learned. Pray that they would not find their identity in their grades and their performance but in Christ. The hard thing about it is that students who want an academic school school tend to find their identity there. And so pray that they would resist that. Thanks so much for for uh partnering with us. We have hosted thirty thirty-five students in this room for our small group Bible study, not really a small group Bible study. We have you all pray for us and you financially support us and we're just we're just Just super grateful. All right. I have been charged to continue your Advent series based on the titles of Jesus out of Isaiah 9, 6. And my title is Mighty God. And I chose Jeremiah 32, 16 to 25 as the text that we're going to use to explore this title of Mighty God. And what I want you to hear as we explore this passage this morning is hear the prophet Jeremiah teaching us that nothing is too hard for the mighty God. including tasks that seem impossible or purposeless to us. So I will start with the Isaiah text and move into the Jeremiah text. So hear God's word. For to us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder And his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Isaiah 9. 6. After I had given the deed of purchase to Baruch, the son of Nariah, I prayed to the Lord, saying, Ah, Lord God, it is you who have made the heavens and the earth by your great power. and by your outstretched arm. Nothing is too hard for you. You show steadfast love to thousands, but you repay the guilt of fathers to their children after them. O great and mighty God, whose name is the Lord of hosts, great in counsel and mighty indeed. Whose eyes are open to all the ways of the children of man, rewarding each one according to his ways and according to the fruit of his deeds. You have shown signs and wonders in the land of Egypt and to this day in Israel and among all mankind, and have made a name for yourself as uh sorry You've you brought your people out of Israel, out of the land of Egypt, with signs and wonders, with a strong hand and an outstretched arm and with great terror, and you gave them this land which you swore to their fathers to give them And they entered and took possession of it. They did nothing of all you commanded them to do. Therefore, you have made all this disaster come upon them. Behold the siege mounds have come up to the city to take it, and because of the sword and the famine and pestilence the city is given into the hands of the event. Chaldeans who are fighting against it. Though the city is given into the hands of the Chaldeans. This is the word of the Lord, and it's trustworthy and true. Let's pray. Lord God. As we come to uh as we approach Christmas, we uh we we are we are confronted with the presence of Jesus. And we're confronted with the sinfulness of our hearts. And the truth is that none of us want to leave the same people we came in. We want to be conformed to the We want to understand better who he is and how he works and who we should be and how we should work as a result. Would you speak to our hearts through your word, through the power of your spirit this morning? We're grateful to be together, and we pray all of this in the powerful name of the mighty God. Amen. You may be seated. In nineteen seventy nine there was a severe flood in Assam, India. The flood destroyed everything. And it also brought a lot of snakes in its wake. It was one of the odd things that happened. Flood came through, destroyed everything, and all these snakes showed up. But because everything was destroyed by the flood, even the snakes died eventually. It was in this destruction of the flood that a man named Name Jadav Payang invested his time in planting trees. He planted one sapling every day, and to replant a forest you could imagine would be I would go out and get a bunch of people and let's go plant, you know, a hundred saplings a day or a thousand saplings in a in a uh in a week or whatever. This w I mean what would the impact of a sapling a day really be Similarly, our passage starts out with Jeremiah. He's imprisoned by Zedekiah, the king of Judah, for prophesying that Judah should patiently submit to the Chaldeans. He's he's basically saying, look, you're being judged for your sin, you haven't obeyed God, and just recognize this is going to happen. That was not a popular message. Um it was not it was not something anybody was excited about. The other thing you should know about this passage, I forgot to put this in my notes, is in this moment the Chaldeans have actually backed off of their siege of Jerusalem. Jerusalem because an Egyptian army was coming. And they actually left Jerusalem to go fight the Egyptians. So they got a little bit of space, a little bit of time, and that that's going on in this in this moment. moment. While Jeremiah is in prison, a relative shows up offering to sell a piece of land. We've had some we've had some dramatic uh changes in the price of land around here. in the last few years. Imagine what it would be if you thought everybody was about to lose all of their property. Uh all the property values would drop because it wouldn't be worth anything because you aren't going to own it in a week, a month, a year. But this is family land, and the way uh the the Jewish culture works is that it had to be offered to family first. And so Jeremiah is offered this land, and God instructs Jeremiah to purchase the field. What a foolish investment. Who wants to buy land when your country is about to lose everything? But even though he is in prison, even though the Babylonians are about to overrun Judah Jeremiah obeys God and he buys the land. A sealed deed and an unsealed deed are placed in a jar and they're stored in a safe place. This was like uh this was like the fees you'd pay for record keeping on in your uh in your mortgage. This is part of that, you know. They put it in a jar and uh and put it in a safe place. What follows the closing of the purchase of the land in verse 16 is actually a prayer. Jeremiah prays to God. But if you skip to the end of the prayer And you look at verses 24 and 25, Jeremiah remembers that the Babylonians are going to win, and the Lord just made him buy the land. And he's actually a little put off about it. So the text portrays Jeremiah as the owner of a piece of land that he's never going to get to you. Because his people are about to be overthrown by a godless nation. Has God ever asked you to do something that seems like a foolish investment Seems kind of like a waste of time. Then you can relate to how Jeremiah feels. This was foolish. This was a waste of time, God. Why did you make me do this? In the midst of Jeremiah's frustration, he prays. And when he prays, he gives us a great understanding of the title, Mighty God. In verse 17, Jeremiah announces that nothing is too hard for God. Isn't that great? What makes God mighty is that he does things that are far too hard for anyone else to do. But it's not too hard for him to do. Listen to the ways that Jeremiah points out that God is mighty. Jeremiah points out that God has made the heavens and the earth by his great power just by stretching out his hand. When was the last time that you made anything? Come to be because you spoke words. And and I'm not talking about dinner because you told your kid to go make dinner. I'm talking about dinner because you told your kid to go make dinner and you have absolutely no food in the house. I mean, because you reached out your hand, something from nothing came to be. Nobody does that. Jeremiah points out that God shows steadfast love to thousands and judges the guilt of the fathers and their children. I struggle to love my family. And I love them more than anybody else in the world, but I'm just selfish. I'm selfish. God loves thousands. His love is steadfast. But it also means that God has the qualifications to stand as judge Not a diploma and election and an election like our judges. He's perfectly righteous. Let that sink in for a second. He is without fault or sin, and it is entirely right for him to stand as judge It's common for God to remind Israel that He was the one that led them out of Egypt. He often does this in the Psalms or when he's about to create a new covenant with his people. But here Jeremiah does it as an example of how mighty Mighty God is. Think of it. Israel had been crying out to God because of the oppression of the Egyptians. That's what Exodus says. He's heard the cries of his people. No one in in Egypt, none of the Israelites in Egypt have been able to lead the Israelites out on their own And God sends Moses equipped with all sorts of signs and wonders, many of them things that other people couldn't do. You know, like turning the Nile to blood, water to blood He did those things to bring them out from under their oppressors. That's a mighty God. Nobody else could do that. Jeremiah's final reflection on God's might is that God gave Israel the land he promised to Abraham. Over hundreds of years, and in spite of the people that already lived in the land, God led Israel into Canaan. And all of this happens because God is mighty. Nothing is too difficult for him. Nothing is too hard. Jeremiah bought a field and he waited for the Babylonians to invade. He would never see the day, seventy years later, when the Israel would return to Jerusalem. He would never see his descendants take possession of the land that he had purchased. He fulfills stand as divine foreshadowing of what Yahweh is all about When Israel and Isaiah announces the coming of Jesus, saying, For unto us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder. And his name shall be called wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. When Isaiah does that, he's announcing the coming of the long-awaited Messiah. This Messiah will take away the sins of the people and restore an intimate relationship with God the Father. Consider again the greatness of Jesus, the mighty God. The redemption he brings is through his birth as a baby in a manger. His perfect life, his death on a cross, and conquering death by rising again from the dead. Who does this? Jesus Who plans this? God does. The mighty God does. Because nothing is too hard for Jesus. Not even your sin. And if that isn't enough, the coming of the mighty God will give context and hope to all our activity that seem like foolish investments We come to we the coming of a mighty God helps us understand why we love our neighbors as ourselves The coming of Almighty God helps us understand why we care for the fatherless and the widow, why we give to our church, why we honor marriage vows. Why we obey our parents, why we forgive others, why we work as if Jesus is our boss, why we ask for forgiveness. Why we find our identity in Jesus and not our possessions, our efforts, and our accomplishments. And as I go through that list, we see again why we need Jesus, right? Because we struggle so hard to accomplish those things. But we're trying. Whenever we find ourselves obeying the instructions of our Lord, we're placing all our efforts in the hands of a mighty God, not in our activity. Our response to being under the authority of a mighty God is a lot like our friend Jadev Paying, planting one sapling a day for decades. Today, the forest that he planted covers over 1,300 acres. Just to give you some context, that's over two square miles. And it's still growing. This is huge. There must have been days when he wanted to quit. There must have been days when he watched saplings die and been so discouraged. This is what our work apart from Christ is like. We just go out hoping it's, you know, something we do is going to stick. But working for a mighty God actually means that we go out day after day obeying Him, no matter what the perceived odds are It doesn't matter what we can do, it matters what Jesus can do. In fact, that's the point of asking us to do such grand and seemingly absurd tasks If it was just simple, we'd do it, pat ourselves on the back, and say, look what a great job we did. Look how wonderful we are But Jesus calls us to big things, not because we can do it, but because nothing is too hard for him. He's the mighty God. Advent's a great time of year to reflect. The title Mighty God gives us an opportunity to consider the opportunities that God has placed before us. Do we trust in ourselves to accomplish the task? Do we see Jesus, the mighty God, at work around us? Do we feel the task before us is absurd, a foolish and bad? Let me encourage you to wait, to watch, to be quiet before the Lord, and faithfully invest in all the mighty God calls you to do Because nothing is too difficult for him. Let's pray. Lord, we come before you Admitting that we are cynical, admitting that we are frustrated, admitting that we um are arrogant, that we can accomplish the thing Tasks that you've assigned. Would you remind us again of your power? Would you remind us again of your mightiness? That nothing is too difficult for you. And you work through sinful, broken people? You work for people work through people who are actually making the job more difficult? Would you energize us for the task before us? Would you give us hope for what you are going to do? Remind us. That you are at work. We are grateful. Thank you for Jesus, for his life and death and resurrection. And it's in his name we pray. Amen.