Uh a sermon, a pastor talking about money and hell. Your uh suspicions have been confirmed We are looking through this middle section of Luke as Jesus walks from his place of ministry in Galilee to his place of ministry in Jerusalem. Well he'll spend his last week. and then die on the cross and be raised again. We're looking at most mostly looking at the parables that he tells along the way. Parables are these earthy stories They're almost always something rooted in normal everyday life. This one that Angie just read is one of the exceptions. When I was a campus finister in RUF, we would drive every summer down to Florida for a summer conference with a thousand college students. And we started stopping in Baton Rouge about halfway, and my friend Keith, who had lived down there for a long time, would we would almost always be there on the weekend of his crawfish boil. Have you guys been to a crawfish boil? Oh. Very awesome. Now you go to uh crab baits and all that stuff, so that's you're sort of on the same track. And we found a place that does a crawfish boil right over on Alisanne, so it's amazing. So so we started loving that. When I moved to Oklahoma City, I decided to throw a crawfish boil. And so I called my friend Keith and said, How much crawfish should I get? He said, two pounds per person. It's a little harder to find in Oklahoma City than in Baton Rouge, but I found uh sixty pounds of crawfish They come in twenty-pound bags. A bag would be about this tall and this walk of wive crawfish all crawling around. So I had three of those bags, right? And I thought to myself, I don't know how much of people are gonna So I'm gonna do half of them and then we'll see what happens. So I I had a buddy come over and we cooked up thirty pounds of crawfish and you set them out on this big table, right, with newspapers, put a couple uh tables together, everybody gathers around. But uh about an hour before the crawfish boil I started getting texts. Will there be hot dogs? No. Will there be sandwiches? No. Can we bring something? No. So I started getting nervous and what I realized when I watched Oklahoma people They would walk up to the 30 pounds of crawfish and they wouldn't take two pounds, they would take two. Two and they were done. There's corn and there's potatoes And I was so disappointed and I couldn't bear to see these ghosts, so I stood and ate maybe ten pounds of crop. So that didn't work out so well for me. Sometimes what you love other people don't love. And sometimes people miss the feeling Right in front of them. That is what Jesus is talking about over and over again. That he is trying to communicate the kingdom of God is all around, and you are invited to the feast. And he's trying to wet our appetites and rotten our palates so that we can see and taste what is good So we have two strange parables for us today. And I want to back up on this first one. It's called the Dishonest Manager. So you might uh open your Bible or look on your phone. It's on the very beginning of chapter 16. Jesus is wanting us to learn. Illustrating what the kingdom of God is like. And his point is very and uh Angie read this in verse ten. One who is faithful in a little is also faithful in much, and one who is dishonest in a little is dishonest in much. If then you have not been faithful in the unrighteous wealth, who will you entrust to you true riches? And if you have not been faithful in what is in others, who will you give who will give you what That which is your own. No servant can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other You cannot serve God in money. And then listen to what happens next. The Pharisees, who are lovers of money, heard all these things and they ridiculed him. The message did not go over real hot. to the Pharisees. So so we talked about last week with the prodigal son stories and the lost coins and the lost sheep. But the kingdom of God is here and the king is here. They were looking for a Messiah, a king to rule them. They were waiting for a new King David, a better King David. And Jesus is saying, I am, and I'm here. But they wanted to drive out the Romans. They were an occupied country. And Jesus is saying, I'm taking care of sin. Way bigger than the Romans. They wanted their past glory days back, and he's saying, I'm bringing my glory. You have to look around because The kingdom of God is here and you're in its midst. The kingdom of God doesn't look like the Ark of the Covenant or wars or Jericho falling or armies. I was thinking about this this week that um really what the Jewish people wanted at the time was what Putin wants. To restore themselves to the motherland, to their glory days. And they'll do whatever it takes. Now they want to do it righteously, but they want the Romans out. That is their goal. And Jesus is saying, the kingdom of God, I'm the king of it. And it looks like A mustard seed. It's not the impressive thing that you want. It looks like putting manure on a fig tree. It looks like finding lost things Coming home, rejoicing, feasting. It looks like justice and mercy and humility. And who is welcomed in? The first in line. Not the VIPs, the poor, the beggars, the lost, the broken, the lepers, the prostitutes, the tax collectors. He is giving sight to the blind, healing the lame, giving freedom to the captives, and he's announcing it and embodies it. And the people that get what he's putting down. are the people that need it the most. They understand he is what they need. The needy get it. They repent for the kingdom is near. They get ready and participate in the presence. Now Jesus does say repent for the kingdom of near, but he also tells them These stories. How little things, common things, humble things make us participate in the story. And oftentimes what we do is we'll say, I'll get to it later. I'm a little dizzy right now, Jesus. I'll participate in the future. And that's a dangerous thing. It's dangerous to brush it off and our hearts go grow colder. And greedier for what they want instead of what he wants. And so then we that's why he says it here is you cannot love both God, and the word there is mammon. And that means all your stuff. Everything. It's not just physical, you know, money, credit cards. It's money and possessions. There's this famous project by a guy named Peter Menzel and he took 16 families, representative families from 16 different countries. And he pulled out everything from their home and put it on their front lawn and took pictures of it. Sort of like Bethany could have done this Right. And so you just see, oh when you see somebody's all their stuff, every single thing, it's a lot. It's way more than you would realize. We pare down. You pare down. But when you don't pare down, you grow and grow and grow and grow and you can realize you accumulate so many things that can be shocking. One of my favorite songs is by Lyle Lovett. It's called Step Inside My House. And he just talks about little things he has. um you know a a book of poems, a a picture on the wall, a prism. And then he says the course sort of goes this way, step inside my house and I'll tell you where I've been. It shouldn't take too long I'll show you all the things I own, my treasures, you might say. It shouldn't be more than ten dollars worth, and it'll brighten up your day. But my treasures The things we own start to become our treasures. And our treasures can own us. And Jesus says we cannot love both and serve both God and money. And if you're like me, you will say, let me give it a shot. I will prove you wrong. He says that's exactly the wrong idea. Money is not wrong. Money is not bad. It's just dangerous. Because we fall in love with it. And the only way we can release the power that money and possessions have in our lives is to remember it's all God's anyway. To give generously. That's how one way that you pry your fingers off of what you've got. And then the third is to use what we have for the kingdom. To bless people. So give generously. This is interesting statistics If you make under twenty thousand dollars a year, you on average give four point six percent of your money away If you make from fifty to a hundred thousand dollars a year, you on average give away three percent of your money The lowest is two hundred to two hundred fifty thousand dollars a year, two point four percent a year If you get up to $10 million, no, you get $10 million, you give 3%. And if you make over $10 million, you give $1. 9 You know think about how many millions of dollars Sam Walton has given away. It's a fraction of what he has. Right? So there's an ex just a statistical example of the more you've got is not true that the more you give away And so we should give generously uh to the work, to the things that we support. Um so then be right before that he he gives us this odd parable about the dishonest manager. What is going on here? Is that what Jesus is looking for? And so the deal with this is there's this wealthy landover, estate manager who owns, let's just say, a thousand acres or properties, right? And so he has all this stuff going on. He's renting out his his properties. People are, you know, tending cattle, raising corn. Uh they got cheap, and so he has a manager who goes and collects the rent. Sometimes it's probably money, sometimes it's in kind. You know, you have 500 cattle, I'm taking five. But the manager is dishonest He's cutting corners, making side deals, and the owner finds out, and he gets fired on the spot He's guilty as charged, and getting fired is not fun. Can I get a witness? I was working on a project and I got pulled off the project even just in the last week and I'm like, hey It doesn't really matter. It's not this project at least, right? Um so the key to this parable is it's easy to miss is at the end because what happens is When the manager gets fired, he learns about his boss, that his boss won't tolerate misjudgment, mismanagement. There are consequences, but he didn't go to jail He was fired and free. So he gets an idea. He makes a decision because the boss is fair and kind, because the boss is just and gracious. He leans in on it and he knows he doesn't have much time because not everybody knows what's going on yet. It's sort of like he still has the keys. And word hasn't gotten out. So he goes back to all the tenants and he he brings them in, right? And he tells them the book the owner has cut you a deal. You only need to pay this much. And he tells them how much. He rounds the numbers. He doesn't have an abacus out or anything like that. And it delights the tenants. They're so impressed. They're so happy at the generosity of The owner. So he presents the final tally to the owner, and now the owner has a choice, right? Because now the owner, if he wants to go back to each Tenant, he's gotta say, I was mismanaged, and you have to pay way more than you just did. And they are not gonna like that, right? So he sort of put in this bind because he doesn't want to go back and explain the mistake. Explain that he's been fooled, explain that he's gotta raise the bill. That's gonna cause distrust or confusion. Or he can be the generous landowner, which is what he is. And so he brings the manager in and says, you are wise. You are shrewd. I'm sort of not mad at you because you used your life smarts to make friends and you knew I was generous That's true. I am. I'm also just. I'm not just generous. I'm just and generous, right? And so think about in chapter 15, the prodigal son. He screwed up. He wasted a bunch of stuff. He disrespected the boss man, his dad. This manager is doing the same thing. But there's grace. The kingdom of God is a gracious kingdom. It's not only a just kingdom. It is a just kingdom. But it's also gracious. And so this manager and that son were surprised by grace. Which is always a surprise. They neither one of them got what they were due. The debt was paid by the person who had the money. One of the things I hope at this church, our church, is we can be surprised by grace and surprise other people with grace. Now I understand not everybody likes a surprise party But you sorta do. You like surprises at a party, right? Like when the petting zoo shows up, that's awesome. And surprising people with not just business as usual is a wonderful thing to do for a church. So this is my my other good friend, Mudd. His name is Brian, but he goes by Mudd Mud. And and and and Mud and Derek and our other Brian, we're the ones who own this boat together, this two thousand dollar boat. I just want you to when I say boat, it's not It's technically called the yacht. Derek always reminds us it's a yacht. But uh so we're not talking this lavish thing here, but we took it out yesterday, right? And so we went to get gas and we had to move it to a slip. But along the way we had a little side adventure and we took it and we parked at the sort of uh not supposed to be your boat there place. And uh and we jumped in and we w went into this uh restaurant called Little Havana that they neither one of them had been to be for and it was awesome right and it was a surprise on our trip and even just that little thing right there is like the kingdom of God is like a surprise that you didn't know was coming Now you're gonna be surprised to hear me say this. I also want us to be a promiscuous church with our money. With our money, with our space, with our possessions. We would be frugal with our bodies, our chastity, and our fidelity. Life in the kingdom is the surprise of grace, the unexpected goodness for people who deserve wrath, not for good people. Okay, the second story is probably a little more familiar. This is uh the rich man and Lazarus, right? So this is another strange parable, even though it might be strange. Familiar. It's about another parable about squandered lives and surprises. There's this rich guy. Well liked, has it all. fine arts, cigar cigars. He's living a great life and he dies. Boom. The other guy super poor. His friends were dogs, homeless, dumpster diving, living on the margins. And we see both of these types of people at Bells Point. And we all have, and I'm putting myself a hundred percent in this I'm a first confessor on this one. Avoidance strategies to not see the poor, not be around the poor, not talk to the poor. And I have some for sure in my mind. I have others that I do talk to, but I will sometimes go around a different way because I don't want to walk by ten times in a day, right? And so we should be able to relate, because none of us, if we are in this room today, we are in the richest percent of people in the world. Well we always have to remember who we are in the story a little bit. So so we have these avoidance, Sergei, so did he, and this guy dies, both of them die, and Lazarus Gets a name. That is very unusual in a parable. It almost never happens in a parable. So he gets a name and he goes up to the Abraham's side because in his poverty, like we're talking about, he knew he needed God. He cried out in his his knee. He had nothing else. And the unnamed man goes to Hades not because of money. of money. But because money is dangerous and it distracts people, it's an impediment to knowing need if you have everything you want. Now, you know, this parable is a story, so we don't know how they get to talk to each other, what this distance is, the flames, you know, all there's a lot of stuff in there. But Jesus is talking to us about eternal destiny, but also how we act now, when we have time to know who God is The point is this rich man asked Lazarus to make a visit, sort of like the voice of Christmas future. Right, you know, go down there and shake them up so that they'll know this is all real. And Jesus says Well, the in the Abraham says, Moses and the prophets are enough. They won't listen if I if Lazarus goes. They have the Bible. Yeah, and it's like, do you think that's true? If Lazarus showed up for five minutes or an hour or a minute, do you think these five brothers would come to their senses? Well, they've already discounted all the evidence they've had already. There's miracles in here. Now I I know you would think if you saw it in the person, but there are ways to discount anything. For not being true, right? And and they discounted Moses and the priests and the prophets and the kings and the histories. They haven't listened to to to the teaching of the Bible about mercy or justice or kindness or generosity. They've just blown all that off. These are people that don't care There's another Lazarus in the Bible, right? In John eleven. This is Jesus' friend, real person now. Jesus' friend, Lazarus gets sick. And Jesus doesn't run there right away. He delays for whatever reason. He's doing ministry. And by the time he shows up, Lazarus has died. His sisters, Mary and Martha, are upset. If you would have been here, you would have saved him. And this is where one of the greatest Bible verses that you can ever memorize Because it's so short. Two words. Jesus wept. Okay, we got it? John 11, 35. Jesus wept. Now just as an aside, in the NIV translation, in Job 3. 2, there is one Bible verse that says, he said. So you can get two of 'em. Two Bible verses in one day, you got John eleven thirty-five, Jesus left. And it's such it's so important because we often think of Jesus like this hovering above stoic person who's never ruffled and he knew this was going to happen and he knew he was about to save him and he hates death He hates death. Death is not the way it's supposed to be. And he weeps because his friend, his friend's body and soul were ripped apart. It's a terrible, tragic, tragedy. But he also knows that death does not reign. He doesn't have the final say. It stings for a bit, and all will be set right and restored. And that's why he says, I am the resurrection and the life. In a cruel world of death, Jesus speaks about resurrection and life and hope. And we all say, could you not have prevented it? Why didn't you? But he says there will be a resurrection In John 11, with the real Lazarus, he gets resurrected on the spot. And you know what's interesting? The Bible doesn't say, and then there was mass repentance for everyone who saw Lazarus walk out of the tomb. They just saw a dude raised from the dead. You'd think they would say, what is the deal? That's not normal. So maybe Jesus is tying that Lazarus and this Lazarus together to say that's not how we work. Now, you know, Jew and I come from the show-me state, so we want to show me. Show me this. But all of us have confirmation bias. And we discount evidence all the sun. And these five sons need to listen and know and repent now because the kingdom of God Is real. It's not a mirage. It's not a hoax. And there is an eternity for we can cast our hope upon Jesus. And we all know people who have died. Of course. I don't know anyone who's raised from the dead. I love to watch cooking shows and I'm still mad that Anthony Bourdain killed himself. Curious at him about that. My friend Jameson was a pastor, and he slowly, slowly died later. behind the wife and kids. My friend Chad Scrubs was the pastor of the Covenant Shooting and his daughter was shot. My dad. So is there any hope in this world? Is it all despair? Well Jesus wept about these things, right? He raised Lazarus from the dead, who subsequently died. But the hope today is Jesus racial today. That's different. It's not the same thing. And he takes the pain and the death and the destruction. He takes the dishonesty, the dishonest manager, he takes prodigals. He takes lost things and lost people. He takes even people that mock him. Brings them around. Right? Because we have his words and his promises and his forgiveness and his hope to see the kingdom of God and Jesus in it. And if I were to tell a little parable, it would be The feast of the crawfish is awesome and it's here. Participate in it. Come to it. Don't come up and nibble around the edges, right? Dive into it. It's a surprise party for all of us. The grace is real and here. Amen? Amen. Well we have several ways to respond, and this is a part where we're reordered a little bit.