Is temporary. And you sort of see that pictured in the candle that is about to go out. So you gotta tell me when it does, right? It's not eternal. It will go out. And that one doesn't last very long. So when we think of this and when we enter into the psalm, we're thinking and we're reading: the Lord is Not just light, he is. Not just the light of the earth, he is. Not just the light of the world, he is. But the psalmist says the Lord is my light and my salvation. So all of Scripture, and we often don't get this in our Western world. All of scripture is written to a collective world, to a collective society where identity is not mine. It doesn't belong to me. It belongs to us. And I belong to us. And I have to know who my us is. My us might be family. It might be the body of Christ. We find our us and we name our us in a lot of different ways. We could name our us by the color of our face, by the language we speak. speak by the place we're from, by the place we worship, by the place we go to work, by the amount of education. We identified our us in a lot of different ways. This psalm brings it down to me, though. It says, In the midst of us, the Lord is my light and my. Salvation. God's light and God's stronghold lasts. Now the reality is that my candle Often burns low. That's why you're watching that one. Because your candle may be burning low. And it may not take very long for that candle to burn low. I mean, you would think I I could at least make it through a worship service, right? That's supposed to be the time when when when the light infuses me. Sometimes we don't even make it through a worship service before the light in our hearts begins to burn low. And we become discouraged. We start thinking about what's going to happen when we go out the door. And we're afraid, well, maybe that light isn't sufficient. Just like my kids. Is that light still going to be burning when I wake up in the middle of the night? Or is it going to be all darkness? My candle doesn't compare to God's light. So we say when when we come with the psalmist, my salvation, that salvation is not for a candle time. It's for an ever time. And if our salvation is built around candle times, then you've got to have more than a box of candles to get through a day. You you're gonna be forever lighting a candle. So what is it that gives us that light, that hope, that ability to walk, not a box of candles? It's gotta be something more. Is it still going still going? I'm surprised. That guy's uh, you know, it's sort of collecting all of the melted wax. And it's uh it's gonna hold on a little longer than we thought. It's all the way down to the bottom. There's a metaphor in that too. I'll let you think about the metaphor. Go ahead and meltdown. Find the hope of salvation in your meltdown. And know that Jesus is your light. could see before. It's been an amazing thing. I don't know if you've followed it very much, if you looked at some of the pictures that have come in, but it is amazing what it seems Or what people can see through that telescope. Things that always were in darkness are now becoming light. And I don't understand the physics of it. Um but I the little that I do understand is this description that things that we're seeing are already dead. Stars so far away, we're still seeing the light today, but they are dead. They have imploded and gone out. And sort of mind-boggling about the size of God's universe. But as surely as one goes out, there are billions more to light up the sky. So God's box of candles, even, is a lot bigger in our closet. And it takes a web telescope to just give us a little, little glimpse. Into the grandeur and the splendor of God's world. The psalmist goes on at verse 2, and I'm just going to walk us through this. It's my security, not just my light and my salvation, but my security. My security is in the presence of God And so the psalmist says, When evildoers assail me to eat up my flesh, well, you know, this is a metaphor. We're we're not actually looking at enemies. Uh That physically eat up our flesh. But they surely consume us. Surely you have been uh in that experience yourself where Uh maybe it's not even a personal physical person, but you find yourself drained, the experience of engaging with somebody, of engaging the enemy, the enemy, not the human person in front of you, but the enemy, working in that person's life. Bringing them to such a difficult place, as you begin talking to them and you share that pain and that difficulty, it takes the life out of you. You are drained. And so when we walk through this journey with our family and our friends, and we realize: wait a minute, the evil one has got a hold of them. It drains you. And the psalmist is simply reflecting on that. When evildoers, when the evil in my world around me assails me, My adversaries, my foes, the psalmist says, they are the ones ultimately that will stumble. Last night Debbie collapsed in bed. So can if I tell us. It was a really hard several days. And like I could watch her melt down. And she sort of stumbled upstairs, sat in the chair. And her eyes were glassed, exhausted. We had spent ourselves holding on to the pain. those things, trying to put food on the table before those people who who were carrying these burdens. And all of a sudden we feel the collapse, the weight affects even our physical bodies. Simply what the psalmist is saying. But and here's the but It is not we ultimately who will stumble upstairs and fall into bed. We will. But by God's grace we will stand, and His truth will stand. And it doesn't stand in us, it doesn't stand because of us, it stands because of him. Because he is still Lord of the universe, he is still shining. In our world and in our light. I had another experience this week. It was part of my week. We Uh it was a good thing I had this on. The Peace Studies program that I started in Manila now uh about twenty years ago. And w we've had some stellar uh dissertations and and people from all around the world that have come through that. uh influencing their world teaching uh the next generation uh with programs in many different parts of the world because uh they have graduated through the Peace Studies program. So uh it it's been a it's been a joy and a challenge, but this week it came to an end. I I I've been hoping. It it had a interim director and uh you know they I've been trying to trying to retire, you know that. Um you guys are part of the reason I can't retire. But but he was picking up more of a uh and I just felt all of a sudden this week the steam went out. There wasn't anything left. Even the last cohort, I don't think they're gonna get through. Uh they might finish their coursework, but there's Not going to be anybody to guide them through their dissertations. That's the second half of the program. Sometimes what we put our lives to simply ends. And there's a sadness. There is a sadness. But here's the thing. If my security, if my sense of who I am in Jesus Christ is based on what I have done, I'm going to say. And I will be sad. And the sadness of the ending of that will have no end Uh probably most of us in this room at one time or another have been asked to leave a job, an opportunity, a place, a relationship. If you haven't had that experience you've missed in real Moment in your life. Most of us have had that. And if you've had that, you know there's this pit in your depth of the pit in your stomach to say, I have failed. And if your security is based on your success, you just lost your security. There's nothing left. We do fail. The work of our hands fails. Our light, our candle, goes. Out. And if that's your security, count on the fact it'll go out. But God's people do Last. That's what the psalmist tells me. They do. God gives us a confidence. Verse 3: Though an army encamp against me, my heart shall not fear. It doesn't matter what the odds are, my heart does not need to fear. Though war rise against me, impossible circumstances. I feel my world falling apart and the images that we have coming out of Ukraine, one bombed, burned out building after another. Bodies stocked on top of bodies. It is painful to see the damage of war. But the psalmist says Although war rise against me, yet will I be confident. There is no confidence if our confidence is in I'm going to win the war. I'm going to reconstruct my life. I'm going to put my farm back together, and it'll all of a sudden become a flourishing farm again. my mind and my eyes going to a farmer that was interviewed in Ukraine, trying to navigate his way through landmines so that he could plow again, plant again, and harvest again. It'll only take one landlord and it'll stop him. But the psalmist says though war rise against me. So my confidence is when I look and I see that Christ has secured me. That's my past. He has walked with me. And he still walks with me. He is sufficient. I'm not sufficient. What I do isn't sufficient. It's going to pass. It's going to go away. But God. But Christ, when I look to Him, I know the future. That is my confidence. Verse 4 talks about our confidence Based on a it puts it into a spatial sense. One thing I've asked the Lord that I might dwell in the house of the Lord. Forever. So my sheltering is in gazing upon the beauty of the Lord. Inquiring, asking in His t in his tabernacle, asking, Lord, what is it I should do? What I've been trusting in isn't there anymore. What I wanted to have happen isn't happening. Lord, where am I and where are you? What do I trust in now? My confidence. My shelter. My confidence is in the fact that I am sheltering. in Christ. And that's the one thing. That's the center of the psalm. The one thing. The one thing that I want now, I know, we all ask a lot of things. It's like God of Santa Claus. And we give him our long list. I want this, I want this, I want this, I want this, I want this. Boil it down to one thing. What do you really want? I want my kids to walk with the Lord. I want to walk with the Lord. I want to obey the Lord. One thing. That I might dwell in the presence of the king If you're there, you have confidence, you have hope, you have security, you have light, everything is built around this one thing. Everything So the psalmist says it. Yes, I need light. God is my light. God is my security. God is my confidence. That's why the one thing I need is to be in his presence. I might gaze upon his beauty. A gaze is not a glance. A gaze is that steady, fixed reflection. I am looking. I am seeing. I am understanding God's presence And that's the shelter that gives me confidence. My hard days, my good days, my depressed days, my joyful days, I gaze, I meditate on the presence. of the Lord. Verse 5 continues that sense of place. For he will hide me in his shelter in the day of trouble. He will conceal me under the cover of his tent. Get the different ways that the psalmist uses this idea of you know he talks about shelter, temple, tenth uh house, just in a few verses we've got all these different images of a place that something that goes over me and I'm dwelling somehow under it or in it or Uh and that that tent, that temple, that that shelter, that all of that is God's mercy and God's love. That's where dwelling. That's the one thing that I desire. And if I'm there. If I'm there, under the tent, temporary, under the temple, very permanent. I have confidence. There I am in God's hand. Is my light going out? It's still there. I'm amazed. I've melted down. But the light can still be there. My confidence can last. Why? Why can my confidence last? Verse 6 tells us. Now my head shall be lifted up above my enemies, or all around me, and I will offer in his tent again. Sacrifices with shouts of joy. I will sing and make melody in my heart So, where does my confidence come from? Well, basically, because I sing and praise the Lord. That is actually why we sing in our worship services because that's what it says and that's what happens to our heart. We sometimes, as bad as I sing, I have to sing God's grace into my heart. I don't want to sing very loud because then you'd hear it and might take God's grace out of your heart. But but it may sing it into my heart. And that's that's what our sacrifices of praise are. I remember the day Now many years ago. I don't even remember how many years ago. I was pastoring my first church. Everything was falling apart. I was frustrated with the leaders. I was frustrated with the congregation. Didn't seem like anybody was doing anything. Nothing was growing. I looked at myself in the mirror one day and it was almost Thanksgiving time. I looked at myself in the mirror and I thought, dude, you're a failure. You can try hard, but it didn't work it. And I was preparing my Thanksgiving message. So well I wasn't I'm a real fact. I gotta say something think about something, right? Took a pen in my hand. Those are the those are the days. The typewriters, but not computers. I had pens, pencils. And I started to go through each one, each member in my congregation, and it caused me grief. And just wrote down something that I could be thankful for for them. And I wrote for the next two hours. Had it not been for that, I'd have had nothing to say. Our thanksgiving, our praise to God is what allows us to stand in the midst of defeat In the midst of discouragement, in the midst of failures, in the midst of lost expectations, it's our praise Lift it up. That's where our confidence comes from. That's what the psalmist says. My head will be lifted up. Why? Sacrifices with shouts of joy. That's why. God will put into you, He puts into me, He puts into us the sacrifice of the shout of joy. I don't care if you're it's your heart that's shouting and not your voice and not your voice, not your throat. Let your heart shout. If you can shout with your voice, that's that's That's good too. That's better. Because then others can hear it. But shout. Shout with and give to God sacrifices of joy. If you're discouraged today I want to challenge you. Do the same thing. I've had to do it many times. Just start writing thank yous. Not to each other. You might do that later. But first, thank yous to God. Thank God for what He's done in each life. You can just take a minute and not look at heads, the backs of heads. Look around. Good do it. Turn around. Look at each other. Look at each other in the face. Can you give thanks for anything in their life? Start writing it. Start saying it. Because it's easy to be discouraged that we're few. Start thanking God. What he's doing in our midst. The sacrifice of praise. That's what the psalmist says. My head is lifted up. Verse seven. Because of that, I have security. My security is not in me, my security is in the Lord taking hold of me. So verse 7, 8, 9, 10. Hear, O Lord, when I cry aloud. Be gracious to me and answer me. You've said, seek my face. My heart says to you, Your face, Lord, I am seeking, I do seek. Hide it from me. Turn your servant, turn not your servant away in anger. Oh you who have been my help, cast me not off. Sake me not. You can only say this, pray this, think this when you look back. And you look back and you say, Oh, the uh wait a minute, don't don't ask me to look back, I'm gonna see all the bad things. In the midst of the bad things, you have to see some good things. And it's the good things that are crucial to see. It's the good things that God has done. It's recognizing that he has brought you through many difficulties. It's recognizing that he did not abandon you, or you wouldn't be where you are. Uh even the accidents, the near death experiences. Well, if you're here today You're here today. God has been with you God has done something in your lives. God has done something through you. There are lives that have been touched and impacted because God has been alive and at work. In you, because Christ is our Redeemer. And that redemption is not just the future. But I look back and I say, Yes, the Redeemer has been walking with me, He has been lifting me. And when I stumble, I reach out, and he's my handrail. So forsakenness seems to last. My seeking and my trying seems to last. But actually, those are the temporary things of life. By trying, by seeking, by feeling like God is missing. Even the sense of being abandoned. In verse 10. My father, my mother forsaken me. Well, that ought to be where our security is. But there are many people that don't have that security. Many of you can think to a father, to a mother. Who may have been abusive. Do I have security there? I don't think so. Did I make it? Yep. You made it. Maybe some scars. Maybe some scars. If you've ever had significant surgery, you know that there's a scar left in your body But that surgery is what brought you life, what extended your strength, what gave you the ability to walk or to move an arm or you got a scarf for it. So we look back, and sometimes there are those things of security that we wish we hadn't gone through. But God says, Listen, I did some surgery on you. And yes, you've got a scar on the great physician. I will keep you for your purpose. And for your end. God takes me in. He doesn't fail me. He's the one that doesn't fail. Christ. in me. Finally we end the Psalm. 11, 12, 13, 14. It's what I want to call a lighted pathway. We're back to the light again. Still going. Ever ready light today. A lighted pathway can be learned. Teach me your way, the psalmist says, O Lord. Lead me on a level path, and here's the surprise in this verse, because of my enemies Not in spite of my enemies, but because of my enemies. And if your heart is like my heart, I don't get it. How? How is it possible that I learn the way of the Lord? And I walk in a level path because of my enemies. They're not teaching me. You know how it happens? You've had to learn to lean. And your enemies were the occasion. The enemies of your life, the enemies of your heart, the enemies of your desire have forced you to lean upon the He is your strength. And he is the one that levels the pathway when you have to lean. If you don't lean on him, You haven't learned. So learning to lean is the center of what the psalmist is now telling us. I will learn your ways, O Lord. I can learn them. As I learn to lean on my Savior, my strength comes from seeing God's goodness, that He has been with me and He will be with me. During the dark times in Rwanda, um I knew a man that he worked with in He shared his story. He was a Tutsi in Kigali. And if you knew anything about that horrible chapter in Africa's past, uh you know that uh the Tutsis were hunted down and killed, and anybody who was uh even moderate Hutu was also killed. And he was hiding in a house. Uh he would not come out actually many of his Hutu friends would bring him food and water. But the shelling was terrible. The mortar fire uh just And Debbie had been in Eigali when the mortar fire was still falling. It's a horrible sound. It's a horrible antithmal banging around you. And he recounts the night that he heard mortar fire on his house. But the roof didn't come in. He looked out in the morning and he realized that the mortar fire had shaken the avocado tree next to him. And the avocados had all fallen down on the roof and on the ground. And that's what he ate for the next two weeks. In war. God says, I'll take care of you. No matter how bad it is, I am there. I will be with you. I will keep you to the end. He promises that as a congregation. So my waiting on God will bring courage. I want it now, God says. The psalm of Wait. Wait for the Lord. And while you're waiting, watch what he's done. So here's the thing. We um have a light We might make it to the end of the service. I think actually we will. But you can't take it home with you. It won't keep your fire burning. You can't have a stock of these things at home. Although God does say, I want you to be with me day by day. By day. So, in that sense, you need to light your candle day by day. Keep it burning. But God gives us something deeper, something greater than a candle. And that deeper, greater is Christ Himself. And it's in Christ that we're promised: I will be with you, I will never forsake you. It does not matter how painful you feel your pathway is. I will be with you. I will not forsake you. And because of that, he gave us a table. It's amazing. God knew that we needed a Constant reminder that our candles would burn out. They could last a long time, but they would burn out. I'm going to read from Mark. They went to a place called Gethsemane, and he said to his disciples, Sit here while I pray. And he took And took with him Peter and James and John and began to be greatly distressed. Even his candle was burning away. And troubled. And he said to them, My soul is very sorrowful, even to death. Remain here and watch He went a little farther and he fell on the ground and he prayed that if it were possible, the hour might pass. And he said, Abba Father, all things are possible for you. Remove the cup from me. Yet not what I will. But what you will. And he came and found his dear friend sleeping. And he said to Peter, Simon, are you asleep? Couldn't you watch with me just an hour? In my grief. Watch and pray, that you might not enter into temptation. The spirit is indeed willing, but the flesh is weak. And again he went away, prayed. Saying the same words. Second, third time. Finally he says, Are you still sleeping? Taking your rest? It's enough. The hour has come. And then you remember the story immediately. Judas comes, betrays him. Our security, if based on our friends. Ends. And Jesus is led before the council. All of that happened after Jesus had met with them. As they were eating, he took the bread. And after blessing it, he broke it and gave it to them, and he said, Take, this is my body. And he took a cup when he had given them and had given thanks, he gave it to them, and all drank of it. And he said, I won't drink again of the fruit of the vine until the day when I drink it anew. Kingdom of God and He drinks and He eats with us today. It is His real presence with us. That's why we gather. Because Jesus is not just a candle. Jesus is my sacrifice that takes upon himself The burden of my sin, and gives me hope, confidence, direction, and that's I want to ask that you might prepare your hearts in prayer. Just take a moment. Father, you have known the deep darkness of some of our days And yet you have come with us. You have come to us. You have come to us in Christ Himself. And as but as we partake of this table, we thank you, because you alone are Our salvation, our light, our hope, our confidence, our assurance, our security Come upon us now, that as we engage with each other's lives, we might not only shower you with thanksgiving for the ones that you've given to us. And for the one, Christ Jesus, that you have given to us, it never goes away. That does not depart, that does not cast us off, that does not reject us, but covers us. With forgiveness and transforms us with his goodness. Lord Jesus, we thank you. Receive our failures. Receive the things that we wish were different. Take them, Father. Cover them, Lord Jesus, and give to us again the brightness of your light. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Want to ask if the elders would come forward