Is it right to say good morning again? Okay. Great. If you are able, would you please stand? We are reading a long one this morning as we continue with our study in the book of Deuteronomy and um We'll finish up the last verse from last week. If you recall, Moses had been asked to write a song and teach it to the people. And we did not get to the part where he had actually written the song or even considered the song. So here is the song. So chapter 31, uh verses uh thirty ends by saying that Moses spoke the words of this song Until they were finished in the ears of all the assembly of Israel. Hear now the song. Give ear, O heavens, and I will speak, and let the earth hear the words of my mouth. May my teaching drop as the rain, my speech distill as the dew, like gentle rain upon the tender grass, and like showers upon the herb. For I will proclaim the name of the Lord, ascribe greatness to our God The rock, his work is perfect, for all his ways are justice. A God of faithfulness and without iniquity, just and outright is he. They have dealt corruptly with him. They are no longer his children because they are blemished. They are crooked and twisted generation. Do you thus repay the Lord? Do you foolish and senseless people? You you foolish and senseless people, is not your father who created you, who made you, and established you? Remember the days of old, consider the years of many generations. Ask your father and he will show you. Your elders and they will tell you. When the Most High gave to the nations their inheritance, when he divided mankind, he fixed the borders of the peoples according to the number of the sons of God. But the Lord's portion is his people, Jacob, his allotted heritage. He found him in a desert land and in howling waste of the wilderness, he encircled him, he cared for him, he kept him as the apple of his eye Like an eagle that stirs up its nest, that flutters over its young, spreading its wings, catching them, burying them on its pinions, the Lord alone guided him No foreign God was with him. He made him a he made him ride on the high places of the land, and he ate the produce of the field, and he suckled him with honey out of the rock and oil out of the flinty rock. Curds from the herd, and milk from the flock, with fat of rams, rams of Bashan and goats, with the very finest of wheat, and you drank foaming wine made from the blood of the great But Jeshuan grew fat and kicked. You grew fat, stout, and sleek. Then he forsook God who made him and scoffed at the rock of his salvation. They stirred him to jealousy with strange gods, with abominations they provoked his him to anger. They sacrificed demons that were no gods, to gods they had never known, to new gods that had become recently. That had come recently, whom your fathers had never dreaded. You were unmindful of the rock that bore you, and you forgot the God who gave you birth The Lord the Lord saw it and spurned them because of the provocation of his sons and his daughters. And he said, I will hide my face from them. I will see what their end will be, for they are a perverse generation. Children in whom is no faithfulness. They have made me jealous with what is no God. They have provoked me to anger with their idols, so I will make them jealous with those who are no people. I will provoke them to anger with the foolish nation. For a fire is kindled by my anger and it burns to the depths of Sheol, devours the earth and its increase, and sets on fire the foundations of the mountains. and I will heap disasters upon them. I will spend my arrows on them. They shall be wasted in hunger and devoured by plague and poisonous pestilence. I will send the teeth of beasts against them, with whom venomable things that crawl in the dust. Outdoors the sword shall be shall bereave and indoors terror. For young men and woman alike, the nursing child with a man of grey hairs, I would have said, I will cut them to pieces, I will wipe them from human memory, had I not feared provocation by the enemy lest the adversaries should misunderstand Lest they should say, Oh, our hand is triumphant. It was not that the Lord who did all this. For they are a nation void of counsel, and there's no understanding in them. If they were wise, they would understand this, they would discern their latter end. How could one have chased a thousand and two or put ten thousand to flight unless their rock had sold them and the Lord had given them up For their rock is not as our rock. Our enemies are by themselves, for their vines come from the vine of Sodom and from the fields of Gomorrah. Their grapes are grapes of poison, their clusters are bitter, their wine is poison of serpents, and the cruel venom of asps. Is not this laid up in store with me, sealed up in the treasuries Vengeance is mine, and recompen recompense for the time when their foot shall slip. For the day of their calamity is at hand, and their doom comes swiftly. For the Lord will vindicate his people and have compassion on his servants. When he sees that their power is gone and there is none remaining bond or free, then he will say, Where are their gods? The rock in which they took refuge who ate at the fat of their sacrifices and drank the wine of their drink offerings. Let them rise up and help you. Let them be your protection. See now that I, even I, I am he and there is no God beside me. I will kill and I make alive, I wound and I heal, and there is none that can deliver out of my hand For I lift up my hand to heaven and swear, as I live forever. If I sharpen my flashing sword and my hand takes hold on judgment, I will take vengeance on my adversaries, and I will pay a repay those who hate me. I will make my arrows drunk with blood, and my sword shall devour flesh, with the blood of the slain and the captive from the long-haired heads of the enemy Rejoice with him, O heavens. Bow down to him, O gods, for he avenges the blood of his children, and takes vengeance on his adversaries. He repays those who hate him and cleanses his people's land. Moses came and recited all these words of this song in the hearing of the people, he and Joshua the son of none. And when Moses had finished speaking all these words to Israel, he said to them, Take to heart all the words by which I am warning you today. That you may command them to your children, that they may be careful to do all the words of this law, for it is no empty word for you, but your very life, and by this word you shall live long in the land that you are going over to the Jordan. to possess the word of the Lord this morning. Father, would you, by your Holy Spirit, help us hear your word, believe it, be convicted, be encouraged And above all be transformed by it. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated. The hills of Ngomeni, a word you probably have never heard, are three hills that stand tall in a dry, dusty and arid lands, a small village where the man who stands before you grew up. They are a source of livelihood. If those mountains were not there, the people would feel as if they had no protection, no provision, and nothing for them to live by. I say that because in the middle of those three hills They are huge. They might be considered mountains, but I think they're hills. In the middle of those hills is a man-made dam. A dam that provides water for thousands of people. And the hills will draw the water, yes, but they also are able to help the water flow right into the dam When the water runs out, and sometimes it does, because this land is a dry land that only sees rain maybe twice a year. People lose hope. It is a devastating thing if there is no water in that one single dam that serves thousands of people. No wonder if you go to my village and talk to people and ask them how are you doing or how are things going and it's about rain time Someone will say, let's see what so-and-so. By so-and-so, they mean one of the names that's given to the mountain. Let's see what this mountain is going to give to us. Because they trust. They put their hopes and plans and dreams on this Three hills. No wonder as well that all the people that don't believe in God in this particular village continue to worship and make sacrifices to these three hills because they are the source. Of their life. They look up to those hills. They don't only stand tall for them, majestic, beautiful hills, but they look up to them as symbols of hope. As I was thinking about what this means or this what this has meant for me growing up as a kid, And hearing stories about these hills, I I had to stop myself and realize that every one of us has their own hills and rocks that they look up to. There is a place, there is a person, there is a system, there is a thing that you are putting your host Your dreams and your plans. There is a place on which you are standing And that place may not be God. That place may not be the rock of our salvation When the world comes crumbling, when when things go wrong, when when we when we're facing trials and temptation on all sides Where is your hope? Where do you stand? See, I chose out of this long, very long song that Moses is writing to his people There are so many themes that we could go by here. There are so many things that we can talk about in this long passage. But one thing stood out to me as I was thinking about this passage was the theme of God described as a rock. You couldn't miss it because it was it's repeated so many times. And I started thinking about what the rock really symbolizes in scripture and not just here in this particular song Now remember this is not the only song that Moses wrote. We know another song that he wrote that was uh way more beautiful than here that Moses is is talking about the people's sin and and calamities and all of that. But but think about it in in a general sense that a rock in scripture symbolizes God's outer reliability, his unshakable trustworthiness, that God is a is a solid rock that we can put all of our trust and hopes in. The idea of a rock is about God's reliability, but also his permanence, his stability. I mean, who can move a rock? Who can move a mountain? Only God can. It's his unchanging nature. He never changes. He cannot be moved. And so the image of Iraq, especially if you think about the Israelites and where they are, you Being in the wilderness or being in my village that is close to a wilderness provided for travelers a shelter from the storm, a place that they could hide, a shadow that would protect them from the blazing sun. Because there is nothing else to protect them. And in fact, in many situations we read in scripture that a rock provided it was in fact a place that people could go and find food A rock is therefore a place of stability in times of flood, a place of refuge in times of war. It is the security which God provides in a dangerous world. And I think that's what God is presenting and demonstrating to his people. And as we share as we're going to see here, he is demonstrating to them that he is a faithful rock. Reliability, fidelity, that God is a faithful rock. I love the way the song begins in verses one of chapter 32. with praise. Verses one and three is actually really the introduction. And if what to really be technical about this passage, we can think about as we've been talking about covenant, the idea of covenant, God uh describing introducing himself and it goes into accusations of what the people have done and and stipulations on how they're supposed to obey him and so on and so forth. But The beginning of this of this song is in fact beautiful, and it begins with praise, give ear, O heavens, and I will speak and let the earth hear the words of my mouth. And I think it's amazing that the first words that God utters here to the world that He has created is to hear. Listen that God speaks creation into existence and hear the first things that He's calling out the heavens and the earth And for the people is for them to hear, to pay attention to him. And to me that's powerful because God's creative power is in fact essential to the people's spiritual life. God has spoken and therefore we hear. And so the people are being reminded throughout this song that their contentment, their satisfaction in life in this land that they are about to possess is not going to come because they are going to eat and enjoy milk and honey, that they are going to have many cows and camels and goats and all these things. That's not where the contentment is going to come But their contentment and satisfaction is going to come only because the Lord has spoken from the word of God that comes from him, not by bread alone, but by the very life-giving word of God. So the song moves quickly after this identification on to the matter that is at hand. And what is the matter that is at hand? Moses stands as a prose as a prosecutor, if you will. Accusing the people and standing at a court of law and saying, This is what you have done, and he appeals to them. And it seems like Moses is going to the secret piles of information of what they've done, some of which we cannot really make out what he's talking about. But mainly appealing to things that are common knowledge, things that the people would know You know where you've been, you know where God has rescued you from, you know what the Lord has done for you, and that stands to accuse you, right? Know what God has done for you. And there are three things that stick out to me as God is here presenting Himself as God the Father, as a faithful God. God the Father. And the mother, by the way, God the Creator, and God the Redeemer. And so in order for the people to see his faithfulness, he again says, you can look back through history. History is not a very good teacher for us. But a history that involves God, a history where God Himself is acting on behalf of His people, creating and redeeming and rescuing them, electing them to be their own people and delivering them from the exodus. And not just that, making a promise come true of giving them the land. That's a history you can learn from. And by the way, God's election, his deliverance of his people, and his promise that he's giving to them, these are in fact the three foundations. On which God has a covenant with his people. And so he's saying, I have done all these things to you. I called you out of your darkness, not because you were many, not because you are famous, not because you are popular, not because you were good, not because you were obedient. I called you because I loved you and only you and I chose you to be mine. But I went a step ahead. I provided for you, even when you were in slavery, when I rescued, even in the wilderness So as the rock is saying, I am the one you need to be looking at and and worshiping and and being utterly dependable upon me. I do no wrong. I am the foundation of all of your integrity and justice. But how are the people described? Slippery, corrupt, unstable, crooked, people with blemish And again, I love this as God is describing Himself as this loving parent and maker. Seen as I mentioned as both a father, I am your father, but he also says, I'm the one who birthed you, I'm your mother. And yet the people refused to recognize their obligation that the relationship between a father, between a parent and and the child ought to be a relationship that has both obligations The parents are providing, but your obligation is to hear, is to listen, is to obey. In fact, he gave them a law that told them, if you do not obey your father and mother, you shall surely do what? There's a death penalty for their lack of obedience. Until the question then becomes for us as we think about it. How can God's people respond to this loving father, this faithful loving father, parent, by rejecting him and abandoning him and by refusing to honor him and worship him? But we can also ask the same question on the other end too. How can a loving parent who has birthed his own children, how can he abandon them? Because he's here describing, you are not my children, you are not my people. Is that possible? It was one great Samuel Lutherford as he wrote in a prison in Aberdeen, he said, Grace grows better in winter. Grace grows better in winter. And you you can imagine, I mean it that's cold. That's not as cold as it gets. It it gets really cold out there In prison. I'm sure there was no heat provided for them either. I love the example, the illustration, the analogy that Moses is giving here of an eagle. Thinking about a parent. An eagle that will will stir its its wings so that its young ones will not stay in the nest comfortably for way too long and be killed by predators But we'll try to make it to fly because you see, God is a loving God who understands the harsh and difficult experiences that we go through, that they are painful, but they are necessary for our spiritual training. And so the eagle comes and ruffles the nest a little bit so that the young one can begin to see you need to start flying. And as the eagle is about to get out of the nest and try to fly And realize, oh, I may not be as strong to fly. The eagle flatters its wings beneath it and says, I will catch you if you're going to fall What a beautiful picture of a God who provides for us. And in our trials and in our difficulties in life, that when we feel like we're about to crumble, we're going to fall down We're going to lose our minds, and everything is going to come to an end. Jesus, our Lord, comes and says, I am beneath you. I am your faithful rock. If you fall, you can be okay. I'm going to catch you. So don't fear. Don't fear. But as a faithful parent, he provides for them. He nourishes them. Again, how do the people respond? They are foolish, he says. The psalmist will say the f the it's the foolish, it's the fool that say that there is no God. They are senseless. And I think this is a a lament. You know the there's many songs, right? Songs of praise, songs of lament, songs of thanksgiving, songs of All those things. I think there's there's a little bit of lament here. Then it's and the lament is a lament of of human sinfulness. Just the tragedy of our sin. That we can become loveless, disobedient, and senseless You know, when I think about the idea of being loveless and senseless, I often think about how we are so prone to think that the enemy That the things that we really need to be fighting are the things that are outside, external. We forget that the enemy that's worse is really the enemy within, internal. It's so easy for us to get frustrated by the world that's breaking apart, right? Politics and secular culture We Christians love to attack secular culture, don't we? Look at what they're doing. Look at what look at what's going on. The world is coming to an end because so and so and this company and this people, they've done this and they've done it. And it's true that Sometimes there is so much immorality. But we are so quick to point to those senseless, loveless, disobedient people and yet forget who we really are. In what ways we become senseless and loveless And here God shows his people after they have eaten and gotten fat by enjoying his blessings, they forget him. And they forget him by abandoning worshiping the Lord, but they also forget him by simply giving their lives to other gods. Gods that even their fathers did not know, gods that they ought not to be giving praise to And it is the same thing with us as well. We may not, again, as I always say, we may not have those carved images of empty Canaanite gods. But we have our share of our own, that we easily forget God's goodness. And the best way we forget about God's goodness is by living as if everything we have has been achieved by our effort and by our strength. And we don't give God praise. It is a case of prosperity leading to contempt, and contempt leading to disloyalty. I think it's a warning for us against two things. One, expulsive materialism, and two idolatry, which is so true of us. Do you notice in verse fifteen? Look at the name that God calls his people. It's it's that's Jerus that's Israel's pet name. if you will. It's actually supposed to be a really sweet name. J Jeshuan me meant the upright one. It's actually a very positive thing. And yet the I then the idea here is not that it's a positive thing. How can the Positive, thou can be upright ones, reject God. You were supposed to be walking right with God. How could such right, upright ones reject the Lord our God? I think the reminder is that in our abundance sometimes we may think that we don't need God. I have what I needed. So why do I need God? As one person once put it, the self-satisfied life becomes so full of itself that it has no room for God. And then idolatry, which I mentioned the second thing. You know, every everybody worships something or someone. And what ends up happening is when we forget God, when we refuse to obey and to hear God. When we are seeking other things other than God, we are simply transferring that which belongs to God to another. That's idolatry. And so the moment we refuse to give thanks to God who has done all things for us. The moment we refuse to honor the giver and instead honor the things that we have achieved, we're basically transferring our worship from the giver, from God. And I think as we see here in this verses God is reminding his people that he is the only one who is stable. He's the only one who is reliable. He's the only one who can offer them security. In fact We can say that by achieving this land, this Canada land that they are going to achieve is not going to change anything unless the people are standing on a solid ground and that that is in God Himself. A change of circumstances, a change of geography, a change of land is not going to satisfy them unless they are trusting In God alone. How true is that in our very own lives? How many times have you have you said to yourself, you know, if I only got that Lamborghini, if that's your car If I only got a different job, if I only got a different boss, if I only got a new pastor, if circumstances just changed, everything would be fine And then those circumstances change and after two weeks of enjoying your new Lamborghini, you're like, oh, I I think it's getting a little old. And so you go, maybe I need a d Bugatti. Circumstances will not change a thing. A change of sinner will not change a thing. Only God will change things, and only trusting in Him will you be able to experience and enjoy all His blessings. And so the contrast is clear. The God is presented as a faithful one and the people are the fickle people And so are there gods that are flimsy. They are sinking sand, they are drifting sand that cannot hold. But that's not all. He's not just faithful. I think the the the other part that we see here in this verses, especially from verses 19 to 35, we see a God who is not only faithful but also a relentless lover. A relentless lover who restores or who seeks to restore his people. Actually, let me go back to verse five, four, and five, which says He he begins by saying his work, the rock, his work is perfect for all his ways are just, is a God of faithfulness and without iniquity. Just and upright is he He he is a God who is dealing with the corrupt, twisted, loveless, disobedient people, but they are described as no longer loving people. They're not his children anymore, quote unquote, because of their blemish Yet, despite their lovelessness, despite their obedience, despite their senselessness, God still loves them. God still is saying, I'm going to restore you. I'm still going to bring you back to myself. I'm still going to bring you back and restore you to myself Your life may be chaotic, your future may look deep and then bleak, but I'm still going to bring you back. And so God is responding to the people's unfaithfulness because He's a just God. He's an upright God. And the way God restores not just Israel, but the way God restores us is by one exposing our sin. But God doesn't just simply expose our faith uh unfaithfulness and our faithlessness and sin but he exposes our very impotence to fix ourselves. Isn't that good news? That God doesn't just show you your sin, but he also tells you I know you are not capable of fixing yourself, so I'm going to do it right for you. And I'm going to provide the means and the way for you. And so he condemns those sin, but he also pardons those who confess. And come to him in true repentance. That God is here being presented as both a judge and a lover. That he's showing his anger and wrath towards sin, and yet he is also loving and forgiving. And he shows us just how his grace Is not cheap to use von Hoffer's words. That understanding grace means going into the depths of our souls and our hearts and recognizing just how broken and sinful we are. But that understanding how broken we are, we go to the one who's paid the price on our behalf and there find grace. I've heard this story so many times. So many people will make the argument and say, well, there is a contradiction between God's love and mercy. How can God say that he is gracious and loving and merciful and yet, on the other hand, he says he's the just God who judges and has to punish sin. Isn't that a contradiction? You can't do both. You're either loving and merciful, and that's it. As a parent, as a father who loves his children, he knows that discipline is part of loving your children. He disciplines his people because he loves them. But you know, I really think that at the heart of that idea, when people contradict or think that there is a contradiction between God's love and and his Being a just judge, or between the law and grace, as some people will say, I think it's because of this human thinking that is in us The Biscali views God as the one yes who's made all things and created us, but he is only an imp personal mechanical God who lives up high in the heaven and crosses his legs and smokes a cigar and lets the world be That he is not in any way a personal God, that he's not concerned about every detail of our life and everything that we do, that he does not number the hairs on our head. I'm telling that's not God of the Bible. Who leaves everything to itself? The God of the Bible is real. The God of the Bible is not an imagination. He's not a force. He's not just something that's out there that says, Oh, yeah, you go ahead and take care of yourself. The God of the Bible is directly involved in every single thing that every single one of us does. Closely related to that is the problem of evil. And we see it here: suffering, calamities coming on be God's people. Why is there suffering? Why are there trials? See the truth of the matter is that the fire of God's judgment will truly burn. Because the anger of God is an awesome and terrible thing, the author of Hebrews tells us. But you know it follows from an equally awesome and beautiful thing. Which is a rejection of God's pervasive love for us I think it is something for us to consider when life is not going well, and there will be times when things are not going well. There's so many things that are wrong in this world, right? Hunger, poverty, injustice. Everywhere you look, not just here, but everywhere But notice the reason why God is reminding his people of the calamities that are about to befall on them in this verses is not that God is trying to threaten them. God doesn't threaten, he doesn't need to. I think it's really a reminder for God's people to know that they are supposed to be completely dependent upon Him in the good times and the bad times. Even when He allows suffering and trials to come, we must trust in God. Because he's our only help. Let me use this example. Thinking about the church And the failures of the church, and they've been many, and I'm not talking about this particular church, I'm talking about the church of God everywhere I can't tell you how many stories I've heard of sharing with people, and they basically point to me and say, Josiah, I'm not going back to church. The church hurt me. The church failed me The church did this to me. The church abused me. The church. We're dealing with the Roman Catholic Church and what the stuff that's coming out. It is horrible things for even any one of us to fathom and to think about. And yet the reminder is God is never caught off guard by such things. A reminder that even in those moments, God can use the mistakes. And the brokenness, even in the church, and still pursue his people and restore them to himself. And that's good news. We may fail, and we will fail. But God, I tell you, He is relentless in pursuing us. Our problem is we're still fighting this battle every time. We just want to be tempted to seek other things that will not help us, that will not resolve our problems. Again, as someone once said, false gods will never fail to fail. Sadly, we never fail to forget. But what a beautiful picture here. I think in the c concluding verses of this song As God is pursuing his people, he reminds us of how much he relentlessly pursues us in verse 36 with his compassion. That everything else we may put our trust in will fail. And yes, we will be tempted to put our trust in other rocks, in other hills. But we can never really get God to give up on us. Lifeless rocks will not help us. Only the living rock, which is Christ I I I searched for words for days to describe what this looks like. This weekend I couldn't find any words. I know Paul kind of talks about it, not kind of, but he really does talk about it. But friends, how many of you can really and truly say that in your mind You understand God's love, his relentless pursuit of you. Because I cannot. How many of you can put into words The things that God is doing in your life to restore you. Because I know I cannot. But here's one thing I do know for sure. The perfection of God's love that we cannot describe how high and how how wide and how deep it is A God who says he cannot love me more than he loved me yesterday because his love is so perfect and complete. A God full of mercy and grace, which my mind cannot even fathom What I do know for sure is this that my future is secure. If that is my God Who never gives up on me and continues to pursue me even in my sin, to the depths of my sin, if that is my God. Who sent Jesus Christ, who plumbed the depths of death, in rescuing me That's a God I can trust. That's a God I can hope in. That's my rock. Cleft for me. That's a God I can hide myself in. Forever and ever. Let us pray. Lord Jesus, thank you for your word this day that you've given to us. Thank you that you truly are our rock, rock of our salvation. Help us to trust in you, to believe in you. And to continually declare that you are truly our rock, the rock of our salvation. In Jesus' name. Amen.