Back up this morning. And next week we'll begin uh the the the little prophecy of Jonah, the book of Jonah. Very popular book. We'll start with that next week. Uh our our theme has been waiting in faith during difficult days. Let's stand and as we as I read God's Word. Today my title is My Salvation, My Strength. Chapter 3 of Habakkuk, verses 17 to 19. Though the fig trees should not blossom, nor fruit be on the vines, the produce of the olive fail, and the fields yield no fruit, the flock be cut off from the fold And there be no herd in the stalls. Yet I will rejoice in the Lord. I will take joy in the God of my salvation. God, the Lord, is my strength. He makes my feet like the deers. He makes me tread on my high places to the choir master with stringed instruments. Let's pray. Father God, thank you for this portion of your word as we wind up this wonderful prophecy. Lord, I pray you would uh give me clarity and give me uh boldness and accuracy and may the words of my mouth and the the meditation of all of our hearts be acceptable in your sight. You are Lord, you are rock, you are our Redeemer. Amen. May be seated Some of you know that uh well I think it was in the prayer list that went up this week. Um I have had a bad week. I have had a w uh uh this is the first time ever that I've experienced w uh the the the kind of dental pain that people have talked about this is they just want to die when it happens. Well that's uh that I've had those kind of moments all week Um it began actually Tuesday. Um I called the doc called the dentist, the specialist that I've been going to the butt my my gum problems, the the the the periodontal specialist and he said, I'll see you Thursday morning. He got some medicine medication for me. I went and took the medication for due days. And every time he He said, y the medication you eat with the medication, right? Well every time I eat with the medication it got worse. I mean the pain was just throbbing for like a half an hour and then it would go away I said, well medication is supposed to help me, isn't it? I mean come on. And so Thursday he saw me, he took x rays, he says, I don't see anything, you know, I don't know what's going on. He changed the medication and he says let me know on Saturday morning what happened. So uh so Did nothing happen on Friday. So on Fry on Friday I called my regular doctor who's close to our close to where I live. And he said, Come on, let me see if I can do something and and and uh and help you with your bite. And uh he did something, he didn't do much. Um Saturday morning, I I just it Saturday morning started to feel a little bit better. One thing happened, and this is interesting, that Friday night I had I had a prayer meeting scheduled tonight on Zoom with my people who support me through prayer And I Friday night I said look, I don't know if I'm here to preach. I don't know I don't know I I talked to Eric on Friday morning. I said, Eric, start looking at Hebak in chapter three I sent my prayer team and said, look, I got this tooth problem. I got I got uh I got a pre-Sunday, I got installation service. Uh pray for me, that then I'm okay and I'm gonna I'm gonna cancel the Zoom meeting and we'll have it next Sunday night And so then s Saturday, I'll all of a sudden Saturday it happens after I eat. It wa it just Saturday Saturday lunch. I felt that Saturday Saturday yesterday dinner I ate and I waited for the pain. There was no pain. I took my evening dose late at night. Took it. No pain. This morning I got I got up early to get to get it. In case the train came, I can come, you know. I took my six o'clock bills seven six and again, n no pain. Now Uh maybe it was medicine, maybe it was prayer, maybe it was both, but I'm feeling great and I'm just glad to be here But I've been I've had a lot of time to think about this. The pain reminds me of the emotional pain of a backup. How he had this emotional pain about what's going on in his land. And he said, Lord, do something. Take away this emotional pain we're all feeling. And God says, I'm gonna I will do something. And so God said, what I'm gonna do, I'm gonna increase the pain of sending the Chaldeans, the hated Chaldeans. And so the Habakkuk says, no, no, Lord, that's not what we know, that's not what we need, that's not what we want. And that's the struggle of this book. That what he wanted And what he got wasn't what he really needed. Wasn't really wanted. He he what he needed wasn't what he wanted. And it's the two of us sometimes in our lives. Sometimes the pain gets worse. Abek is the ninth century uh eighth century prophet that we've been looking at. And he's speaking out of the pain of godly people in Judah. Who were feeling that, Lord, the violence, the injustice, the sin, the evil, they're unbearable. So God raised up the aggressive, violent pagans, the Chaldeans. They would eventually come and take over Jerusalem and take the spoils and take back the best of of of the Jewish intelligentsia, take them back, take them to to Babylon to inculturate them. The book of Daniel, if you read the book of Daniel, is all about that, that process. Trying to give them Babylonian values and take away the Jewish values from their lives. Now to understand the text today, we need to understand the agrarian nature of the ancient society. Habakkuk speaks of national economic calamity using the indicators of his day. If we were writing in our day, we wouldn't we'd probably talk about the Dow plumbing to to the numbers worse than the Great Depression. We probably speak of the unemployment rate nearing 40% with no sign of reducing. We talk about gas prices that are so high that the roads are practically empty. We would talk about um the grocery stores with angry customers because the inventories are low and and the And the shelves are need to be restocked, but they aren't being restocked. We talk about small businesses that are being forced to close due to being hopelessly in the red. Habakkuk is not saying that that's where they are right now, but he is saying that even if things were to get that bad in the future, he wants it known that he will not doubt God. He will not get to the trembling, wobbly knees of fear that he said he confessed that he had in verse 16. We talked about last week. He declares that he will realize that temporal life is merely temporal, and that that which is spiritual is eternal and endures forever. He will therefore rejoice in the God Who brings deliverance to his own. And that's the kind of confidence the Lord wants us to have. Each of us. We learn in Habakkuk here that even during times of great calamity. Salvation, joy, and life-transforming strength are available for us as God's people. Even, even during times of great catastrophe and disaster, and calamity. There's salvation and there's joy, there's strength available for us. We're going to look at two points today: the disaster and then the deliverance. The disaster. In verse 17, the deliverance in verse 18 and 19. There are two important assumptions that Habakkuk and that Judah understand that influence Habakkuk's words in verse 17. Two important assumptions I want to look at first. One is ins is that God is the one who provides for us. I was looking at Psalm 104. The other psalmist is praising God for his creation and how his creation all works together And how it all and how man is blessed by creation. Psalm 104, verse 14 and 15. He says, You cause the grass to grow from the livestock and plants for man to cultivate and that he may bring forth food from the earth, and wine to gladden the heart of man, oil to make his face shine, bread to strengthen man's heart He's praising God. The glory of the Lord. He's praising the God in that whole psalm. And he says, well, it's not Mother Nature. It's not a product of evolution. It is you, the Lord God. Who caused these things to happen? That's his point. The God of Israel is the one to be praised. So he that in that song, the whole psalm from beginning in, he says, I will sing unto the Lord as long as I live, I will sing praise to my God as long as I have my being. Because God is the one who causes these all of creation to work together in a marvelous way that it does. The first assumption is that God is the one who provides for us. Now the second assumption Is that God is the one who, when he wants to, withholds from us. God is the one who withholds provisions. And again, in the Jewish uh uh uh uh uh covenant, Deuteronomy chapter 28, glance at that sometime. Moses in chapter 28 of Deuteronomy is summarizing the covenant blessings that would flow from obedience and the covenant curses that would flow from disobedience. And so it's not really a random thing for Israel, you see, where they were being blessed. They knew that okay we were doing okay we've been we've been right with God and when they were being cursed they said Lord Lord what's going on here have we have we sinned that was that that so here's a few verses from Deuteronomy 28 you get the picture here In verse 15. Verse 14, the first 14 verses are what would happen if they if they obeyed, if they were blessed. And then from verses 15 to like 68 or something is what would happen if they if they didn't. It's a very long chapter. But verse fifteen says this, if you will not obey the voice of the Lord your God or be careful to do all his commandments and his statutes that I command you today Then all these curses shall come upon you and overtake you. And then he begins to list some of those things. Blessed you be cursed in the field, your basket, your kneading bowl, the fruit of your womb, the fruit of the ground. Your herds, young of your flock. Cursed shall you be when you come in, when you go out, you travel. Verse 20, the Lord will send on you curses Confusion in all that you undertake to do until you destroy it and perish quickly on account of the evil of your deeds. Because you have forsaken me. And then down to verse 25. The Lord will cause you to be defeated before your enemies. You shall go out one way against them, and flee seven ways before them, and you shall be a horror to all the kingdoms of the earth. So, Habakkuk and the people of Israel, they're seeing bad circumstances, and they're not just thinking this is bad luck. This is this is random. No, they're God's covenant people. So there's a connection. God has told Habakkuk of the coming military defeat. That's happened in the last chapter. But Habakkuk talks about economic disaster. Is there a connection? Yes, there is a connection. And the connection again is we see it in Deuteronomy. The connection is God. God is behind both of them. God is on the throne at work in the world, maneuvering circumstances. To bless and to curse his people. He curses those who claim to follow him but continually fail and fall away. They don't experience the blessing. He blesses those who follow him and remain faithful by his grace. Because the just shall live by faith. The just see him on the throne. They walk by faith, not by sight. Jesus said that unless a man is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of heaven. Jesus said, Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. It's those it's the just that see that He is on the throne. And we can live by faith in him. So here in verse 17, Habakkuk uses a granular language, and he also uses animal language to describe the economic calamity that was to come. For his people. Fig trees not blossoming. Vines bearing no fruit. Wine was, of course, a basic staple on the tables of Israel. Olive trees not producing, fields not producing food. And now no fruit, no vegetables, no spices. No drink one one dr one one thing that they he hasn't talked about is at least on the table there's some meat, right? You know, fruit, veggies, spices, drink. But look at the rest of the text. Flocks, the sheep, goat are cut off from the foe. Herds, cattle, no, no stalls are empty. One thing that happened this week is uh as my teeth got real bad, I had to reduce my diet to soup, to jello, stuff like that. Couldn't and when I began to eat I Terry made some fish, some salmon, and uh had to eat a real small piece. 'Cause I every time I if when I you know, it would hurt to eat. And that'd get you one side of the mouth. And um I began to appreciate uh nice thick meat. A little bit more than I no and I normally do anyway. They're facing a crisis that uh that that is that is that that Habakkuk is for Habakkuk is foreseen of uh just uh disastrous calamity. And um so by faith, Habakkuk declares that no matter how tough it was gonna get, he was not gonna turn his back on his God. Sponsored Bible commentary summarizes it this way. Israel's prosperity was dependent on the nation's obedience to the covenant and on the Lord's consequent blessing. And such prosperity was forfeited by disobedience and disloyalty to the covenant, which incurred the Lord's chastening through natural and military disasters. In this vision of a devastated economy, Habakkuk acknowledged his nation's apostasy, which is the falling way, and the inevitability of judgment. That's exposure's Bible commentary. Summarizing that. Now when all these things come together at once, there can only be one reason that God is trying to say something. God is speaking to his people there. God uses national calamity to get people to wake up, to rise up, and to repent. Now, there was a day in our nation when the founding fathers declared they had a special unique covenant with God. Now, we can argue all day about the legitimacy of that claim, of that declaration. That's a big argument. But like this I do know, God is Lord over all the nations And when we what when we see a certain nation, when we see in a nation a compounding of disasters and uh and calamities and crisis after crisis, maybe God is trying to say something. Maybe he's trying to get attention of the people of that nation. Have you seen the weather forecast? Have you seen the hurricanes lining up to attack our nation? I I I learned the other day that the the Weather Central has gone through the entire alphabet, which usually doesn't happen and the the the season goes into the end of November, end of end of October Uh we aren't even through September yet, and now the next one is beta. Look out. Beta's gonna be a bad one they say. We've gone through all the letters of the our alphabet, now we're in the Greek alphabet, and they're just lined up Ready to attack us, parts of our nation. Here's the question for us. We who live in America and claim to live by faith, where is our hope? Now if the GNP goes crazy, if there's a depression that makes 1929 look like a little dip If there's an attack from outside and many die, we saw that in 9-11. If a crazy plague comes and people die, If the concept of manifest destiny is proven to be false If all life in America becomes a nightmare, like we have never seen before Will it destroy your faith? That's the question. Will you stand and still be able to say that God is still on the throne? Will you like Daniel not bow to the pagan king's image, but look towards the temple where the true and living God still sits high and looks low? That's the question, saints. Habakkuk declares that despite the most fearful calamity possible, he will trust his God During New Testament days, the Roman Empire was the kingdom that influenced and ruled much of the civilized world. I often look at Romans chapter 1, verses 18 and 32, and see a picture of what we're seeing in our day. Have you ever looked at it? Have you read it? In Romans 1, 18 to 27, Paul breaks down the progressive nature of cultural blindness that he saw in the Roman world, which was influenced by the Hellenistic Greek world. As he went through the Roman Empire from city to city, he saw things. There are at least five things that he talks about in verses 18 to 27: the rejection of creator God. The suppression of truth. The worship of idols. Bible, humans are worshippers. We're going to worship somebody or something. The worship of created things rather than the creator. In that passage, they didn't just create idols, they began to worship human beings. And that became distortion. Last, the dishonoring of bodies through unnatural, shameful passions. Paul saw that So in 28 he says, he summarizes this. Since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, that's where it began. God gave them up. He gave them up, gave them up, gave them several times. God gives them up to a debased mind to do what ought not to be done. And so then verses 28 to 32 of that passage, and read it sometime, because I'm going to read it in a second, I would describe it, as many have described it, as just total anarchy in a society. Total energy. He paints a picture of a culture that's internally destroyed due to sin and rejection of God. I'm going to read these verses, and they're twenty things. that he says about the society at this point. Evil, wickedness, covetousness, malice Full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness Gossips, slanderers, haters of God, insolent Haughty, that means arrogant, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents. Foolish, faithless, heartless, or without natural affection, and lastly, ruthless or unmerciful He used 20 descriptive adjectives and phrases there. And then verse 32 he has the ultimate foolishness. Though they know God's righteous decree that those who practice such things deserve to die, they know that internally. They know internally that these things, it's not the way to be. They know that They not only do them, but approve give approval to those who practice them. In other words, they know truth. They know that two plus two equals four, but they say no, two plus two equals five. They know that down is down, but they say no down is up. And so they say things that you say, how can people think like that? Have you ever said that to yourself? That was Paul's description of the Roman Empire as he saw beforehand, their coming doom. God is not marked. Out of the ashes of the ruined empire's destruction emerged a faithful remnant of people. A people who maintained faith in God, a people who courageously, humbly declared a profound no to the dastardly demonic path that leads to only to death. They would not bow to Caesar. They believed that Jesus Christ is King of kings and Lord of lords. And so, like Habakkuk, they declared that the just shall live by faith. Now I'm not a prophet, but unless there's a mighty turning of God, as we have seen in our nation's history, I see Some of the things in Romans 1 in our nation today. And if you're a believer in Christ, you need to know that. You need to know that we're living in the days of Habakkuk and say, Lord, what's going on? You may recall here's my here's one of my concerns. In less than two months there'll be an election again. You know that. Less than two months, about forty days You may recall the outcome of the election of 2016 produced violence in the streets on Inauguration Day. You might maybe you've forgotten that. There was great, there was violence in the streets It seems that this unity and the rhetoric and the arguing over conflicting narratives has only gotten worse in these four years, has it? And I'm pray the uh I pray we're not watching the end of a once great civilization. And I say that carefully. But I didn't say that. I don't know. But even so, this I know, God is still on the throne. Can somebody say amen? And beyond the disaster created by the rebellion of unholy mankind, Habakkuk sees the deliverance that is executed by holy God. And we like him need to have eyes of faith. And faith comes by hearing, and hearing comes from the word of God, says in Romans. Let's look at verses 18 and 19. The deliverance. The deliverance. Yet I will rejoice in the Lord. I will take joy in the God of my salvation. God, the Lord, is my strength. He makes my feet like the deers. He makes me tread on high places. To the choir master with stringed instruments. God is our salvation. Verse 18 talks about rejoicing, joy in the God of my salvation. It's not just a spiritual rest. The word salvation isn't always doesn't always just mean spiritual salvation. It can mean deliverance in other ways. It can mean rescue, deliverance. It's a very general word. God delivers, saves, rescues his people. Thomas Constable says the literal meaning of the phrase here in this verse is, I will jump for joy in the Lord. I will spin around in delight for God, for delight in God. Here is the hilarity of faith, the hilarity of faith. Joy at its best with circumstances at their worst. It's amazing. Isaiah chapter 12, verses 1 to 3. You will say in that day, I will give thanks to you, O Lord, for though you were angry with me, your anger turned away, that you might comfort me. Behold, God is my salvation. I will trust and will not be afraid. For the Lord God is my strength and my song. And he has become my salvation. With joy you will draw water from the wells of salvation. Isaiah chapter twelve. Before he goes into the long uh uh discourse about the nations being under God's uh judgment. The joy of salvation, joy of being delivered. I saw some videos this week of of a few weeks ago, I guess it was Labor Day weekend in California, there were the Creek you've seen the the the California fires. One of them was called the Creek Fire. Uh it was uh I think it was Labor Day. So it was a few days ago. And um the roads were swiftly closed as the fire line moved faster than anticipated. So there were folks they were at the the the this creek, this reservoir, who were there for the Labor Day weekend, just enjoy, you know, trying to have some outtime outdoor time with families and friends And and the fire got swiftly began to to to surround them and the roads were became fire blocked and and and they were stuck. Yeah, they were hoping for a pleasant Labor Day holiday and they were stranded. And so that during the evening, 224 people were rescued And during saw a video, one of them said that this is this they try to people were trying to drive through the roads and saw the road. They said, this seems like hell, because there's on one side there's all these trees burning on the other side, and I said, this seems like what hell would be like There were some who jumped in the water at a last at a last resort to escape the heat. They thought, one said, we thought we were going to die. But through the night, helicopters came in in in these military helicopters and rescued them. And the expressions of joy were overwhelming. We often see many illustrations of rescue in our world like that. And they point to the God who rescues us, who rescues, delivers his people from all kinds of situations. Spiritual situations, emotional situations, psychological situations, physical situations. God is a savior. He's a rescuer. He's a deliverer. But of course, our greatest need, saints, is to be rescued from an eternity apart from God. Jesus himself used fire as the main picture of how awful hell will be. He also used darkness as a picture. Either way, it's not fun. It's not pleasant. And it never stops. There's no rescue once you're there. Have you really trusted in Christ? Are you trusting in yourself? Have you been delivered from the coming flames? That may sound old-fashioned, I know. Doesn't mean it's not true. See, just as wonderful as God's promises of heaven are The promise of eternal separation, weeping, gnashing of teeth are just as real and certain. And never forget, if you don't believe this, that the strongest witness in the Bible To the truth of eternal judgment. It's not Paul or Peter or John or David or Moses. It's in red letters in some Bibles. It's the words of Jesus. In the Gospels. Escaping eternal judgment is the ultimate deliverance The ultimate salvation. The word, the name Joshua in the Old Testament, and Jesus is a derivative of that name, means the Lord saves. The Lord saves. The Lord delivers. The Old Testament figure Joshua was the warrior, deliverer, who led the children into victory over the enemies of God in the conquest. He was the deliverer, the savior, the warrior. His deeds and his very name point To one who would be the great deliverer, the true warrior savior, the man from Galilee, the Lord Jesus Christ. And in the gospels we see Jesus doing many um um miracles that were uh deliverance miracles. He delivered uh uh in Luke chapter 8 he did it says he delivered Mary Magdalene who had seven demons It says he delivered a man in Gadera who had leak and who had many demons. You remember that story how the man was just crazy, he was so aloof he had to get him in the catacombs and And he Jesus comes and and and they have this interaction and Jesus heals them in and and the legions go out, the the the demons go out and over the over the the the ledge they're into these pigs And you see, it shows the power of how powerful this man was dominated by these demons. And then the verse says that the man was sitting there clothing in his right mind. Peace. Jesus had delivered him and brought peace. And then also in that same chapter, there's a story about a storm. The storm was crazy, it was fearful, and everything, and Jesus speaks to the storm, and then there's peace, just like the man. Jesus delivers. Jesus brings peace out of order and chaos and fear. That's the message in the book of Luke, chapter 17. There was a lepers, and Jesus brings deliverance to the lepers. The story is that only one of them came back through Samaritan and said, Thank you. But there were ten lepers that he healed. Jesus Christ delivers And that's the picture of his salvation. If he can deliver the physical, he can deliver the things we can't see. He can deliver our souls from Christeless eternity. God is our salvation. God is our strength. Now, salvation in the past my sins are washed away. Hallelujah. Salvation in the future, my place in heaven is secure because of Jesus' death for me. Hallelujah. But what about now? What about the present? Well, God is my strength, Habakkuk says. And that's the answer to the present. He is my strength. He makes my feet like the gears. He makes me tread on high places. The Lord is, not was, not will be, my strength. The strength from God that's mentioned here is a transforming power. A strength that changes, that enables us to accomplish what with our own strength is impossible to do. Philippians chapter 2. Work out your salvation with fear and trebling, for it is God who is at work within you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure. God strengthens us. God enables us. God empowers us to do what we're called to do, what we want to do, that we might be blessed and he might be glorified, and that people might turn to him. Habakkuk began verse 17 looking at the plants and the vines and the fruit, and then he went to the animal kingdom, the flocks and the herds, and he stays in the animal kingdom now. As he climaxes the book. He says, My my feet were like a deer. Feet like a deer. He makes my feet like a deer. Constable says, even though the prophet's leg shook in verse 16. He, God enabled his servant to walk through the perilous valley he faced, as sure-footed as the hoofs of a gazelle enabled to navigate precipices. We think of the gracefulness of a deer moving across terrain. It's almost like ballet dancers prancing around a dance floor lightly moving across with their pointed toes swift Graceful, wonderful, beautiful. Makes my feet like that. He makes me tread on my high places. A deer in flight from a predator can go either can either hide behind something, camouflage himself They they're good at that. Or they can dart to a higher ground. And that's the idea here. They dart away and rise to the heights so quickly the predator looks around and they're gone. Unaware that high above them is a deer quietly watching, waiting for the predator to get weary and go elsewhere. He makes my feet tread on high places. Exposure's commentary, this reference to strength echoes the song of Moses underlying this chapter These allusions to Exodus chapter fifteen, which is right after the Red Sea, the the the song of Miriam And particularly in Deuteronomy 33 are corroborated by the note of praise and a reference to God as Savior in verse 18, so emphasizing the covenantal framework to Habakkuk's faith. The point is this, when we s when we face spiritual danger, when the outer issues of our world get us so discouraged, Do we want to run and hide? God enables us with strength like a deer to rise above it all, to find his hope, to find his joy in the midst of the real dangers that are around us. Now, practically speaking, how do we find that joy? How do we find strength in God? It's the Holy Spirit's ministry to do that in our lives. The Holy Spirit. Is there is in our lives when we trust Christ, the Spirit comes to empower us, to encourage us, to give us hope, to give us power, to give us strength. But practically, we gain strength from dependent prayer, recognizing our weakness, crying out to God. In 2 Corinthians, Paul said that when uh that the it in our weakness, God gives us strength. It's in our weakness, not when we're strong. It's when we're weak that he empowers us. Secondly, from fellowship. We're strengthened from fellowship, from encouragement. You know the word encouragement. Think of it. The word courage is in there. Encouragement is to give courage to one another. Encouragement. Encouragement of the saints. I was thinking again about Daniel, the book of Daniel. You remember in Daniel chapter three or four, I think chapter three, where the his buddy the the three boys were um The Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were in the fiery furnace. Do you remember that story? They found strength from not just from each other. There was strength in each other. Remember, Daniel had strength from these three But in that story, there's a there's that they saw another figure in the line in the fire furnace. Remember? And they said, look like one of the sons of the gods. It's probably a precursor of Jesus, of the the the angel of the Lord, the figure. The point that the writer is trying to make there, Daniel, is that when we fellowship together, the Lord is with us. There's strength from fellowship, strength to do what we can't do on our own. The Holy Spirit brings that to us. Third, we find strength from discerning history. What do I mean by that? We need to learn from the past, learn from seeing what God has done and delivering his people in the past. Now early in the chapter we saw allusions to the history of Israel. This is the part from last week. He talked about the Red Sea and all that. And he cried out to God to revive his people again, revive us again. In wrath, remember, and mercy. The Holy Spirit ministers to us as we see in the Word of God and in the act of God what He's done in the past. And there's a fourth way we strengthen ourselves from worship. From worship. How often has a song given you a sense of hope? And happen to you? Happens to me a lot. Songs do that. Music is very important. Ephesians chapter 5, 19. Says that we're to speak to one another with psalms, hymns, spiritual psalms. It's the most fascinating thing about that verse is usually we say, we sing to God. We sing praises to God, and yes, that's true, but in that passage says speaking to one another. It's in the context of one another because it encourages each other. It it certainly encourages God when we give praise. It encourages one another to hear someone else giving praise to our God. We are strengthened by worship, by fellowship with God's people, through history and through prayer. I'm convinced, by the way, that the thoughts of Habakkuk were influenced by the songs of worship in his day Now we're reading in this chapter his thoughts, and we realize that this is certainly the Bible, right? This is Habakkuk chapter 3. But for Habakkuk, as he's writing this, it's a song. We know that from the last part of the verse. To the choir, Master. It's a musical notation. This is a the in verse, even in verse i i it was a song used in worship and spoken to his situation. In in in the first verse of chapter three, this Edward Shigo shig she can never say this. Shigayanoff, I think is the way you pronounce it. It's a musical term. I'm glad I didn't preach last week. I'm glad Eric preached it. It's a musical term. And then again, look at the last verse of the book. At the end, to the choirmaster With string instruments. So they guitars, I don't know. But music. Music is part of this chapter, part of this book. And I believe Kabakuk has been reflecting on Psalm 18. Which is also, of course, a song. And there David is in flight mode. He's fearful of King Saul. And God shows up in delivering saving power. Listen for the connection. Inver just of Psalm 18. I love you, O Lord, my strength. The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, my rock. My God, in whom I take refuge, my shield, the horn of my salvation, my stronghold. I call upon the Lord, who's worthy to be praised, and I'm saved from my enemies. Verse 6, In my distress I called upon the Lord, to my God I cried for help. From his temple he heard my voice, and my cry to him reached his ears. Dropping that very long Psalms, got forty-something verses, but verses thirty-one, thirty-two, and thirty-three. For who is God but the Lord? Who is a rock except God? The God who equipped me with strength and made my way blameless He made my feet like the feet of a deer and set me secure on the heights. There it is. Was it back reflecting and meditating on Psalm 18? Even during great days of disaster and calamity, joy, hope, strength are available from God. The God who is, the God who was, the God who will be, the mighty deliverer of his people. Well, that's the prophecy of Habakkuk. Three chapters from his journal. I hope you've not only learned about him, but learned from him. Learned about yourself, and most of all learned about our God. And Bacchuk has invited us to be honest with God, especially regarding what we see in our world. Habakkuk has reminded us to go to the watchtower to watch and pray because God is not asleep at the switch. Habakkuk has reminded us that God is still on the throne and let all people be silent and bow down before Him. Habakkuk has reminded us that even in wrath as he judges, God remains merciful. Habakkuk has reminded us that The earth shall be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. And her backgrounds has reminded us that in light of these truths We can live today with hope, with joy, with faith, with strength that he supplies. To all who call upon his name, because the just shall live by faith. I'll close with this a phrase from a again, a song. Well, I love music. Israel Houghton said this in his song in Jesus' name. I shall live, I shall not die. The resurrection power of Christ is alive in me. So now I'm free in Jesus' name. Let's pray. Lord, I pray we would have the confidence that no matter what happens in our lives, No matter what happens in our society, in our world, Lord, you still reign. And if we're in you, if we're in Christ, we will reign with you. Well I think of the song Mighty Fortress, that they can kill our body, but they can't kill our souls. We don't know what our future looks like for ourselves, for our children, for our children's children, but we know that you hold our future. And it's that's our faith. What about pray for anyone hearing me today who has never put their faith in Jesus Christ That they're trusting in themselves, or trusting in their religion, or trusting in their affiliation to a group or denomination. Lord, it is in you and you alone that salvation comes. And we can have the assurance of life with you when our life here is over. Look, make these words clear to us that we might live for you as your people in Jesus' name. Amen