Happy New Year. We've all seen it done that uh countdown thing. Ten nine eight. We're going to do our own version this morning as we go through these seven Tips. Someone suggested I call them like biblical guidelines or biblical instruction. Tips is gives you too much freedom, but It kind of works in terms of ease of saying. So take it how you will, but I'm eager to share some points with you. We have about twelve hundred pages in the Bible Someone has averaged out. And we're just going to look at a few things from the scripture this morning. I trust that God would honor these. Tips this morning as we look to Him. Father, we do bow before you. Take this moment briefly. I know Steve prayed for us, but I pray again that These reflections, as we entered these 365 days before us, would find grace in our hearts And help us to walk more worthy of you and bring you more glory in a broken world. Christ's name we pray. Amen. Tip number seven coming down. In 2017, walk with integrity. Walk with integrity. Can you say that with me? Walk with integrity. 1 Thessalonians 2, verse 2. Walk worthy of God, who has called you into his eternal kingdom and glory. Walk worthy of God who has called you into his eternal kingdom and glory. When you think about this for a moment, what is it that has brought you to saving grace? Often we talk about uh Christ dying for our sins. That's usually the first place we go, and rightly so. It doesn't get much bigger than the cross, really. And yet all that led up to the cross has given you your righteousness. The integrity of Christ. His impeccable life is your hope. His death means nothing unless It's a perfect sacrifice, a perfect offering that God finds acceptable. And so when you think about your own salvation, This year, particularly think about the integrity of Jesus. Because really that's what saves you from your sins and gives you your impeccable, beautiful life record, integrity. And so as you go into the new year, walk with integrity. I mean, that's what's supposed to come out of us more and more, and that's the Holy Spirit's job, to make you more and more like the impeccable Christ. And you know, we're on our way to a bright city and and uh we are described as a city on the hill. And God wants to see some of that heaven more and more uh uh come out of you this year to light the way more clearly for the family and friends of people around us who haven't yet discovered uh where the grace is or perhaps haven't even figured out their lost yet And uh with your light shining uh through your integrity, uh I believe God will honor that this year as we look to Him for grace to be more like Him. So Number seven, walk with integrity. Tip number six Be slow at judging someone. Be slow at judging someone. Matthew chapter 7, verse 1, judge not that you be not judged, for with the judgment you pronounce, you will be judged. And with the measure you use, it will be measured to you. I'm going to give you one good reason. That's been helpful to me that a former member of our church passed on a reason why we should be slow to pass judgment on people It's because there's always one more thing you don't know There's always one more thing that you do not know. And so J. C. Ryle, the 19th-century English clergyman, he tells the story About uh the Spurgeons. Charles hadn't Spurgeon and his wife, uh renowned evangelist, a preacher from the past. And the story says that. There was a small faction of people who felt Sir Spurgeon wasn't the man of integrity that many people thought him to be. And so there was a rumor circulating about him and his wife that really they weren't the uh the generous, uh kind people that uh often uh people had thought them to be. And like some of you in this congregation, they had their own chickens. And so they raised some chickens. And with the chickens, they would take the eggs, like some of you do, and you sell them. The thing is, though, that it's Spurgeon and his wife, it said that J. C. Row says they never shared the eggs. You know, they had opportunity to just hand out here, you know, here's a dozen eggs, take enjoy, enjoy. But they weren't going there. They weren't doing that. They would just sell them and take the money. And so there's this story circulating about Are they real? Are they the genuine Christians we thought them to be? Isn't that aren't we supposed to be kind and generous and giving and all of that And then Mrs. Spurgeon passed away. And the truth came out. The Spurgeons were found out for what they were. It's found out that the profits from the sales was all being used to support two elderly widows who needed the money. That's why they weren't too quick to be generous with the eggs. You see, there's always one more thing That you do not know. So in two thousand seventeen, be slow to judge. Because there's more to the story than you can see. Tip number five for 2017. And this I hope you find helpful because many of us have been touched with pain. this past year. May be in pain now in some way. Tip number five let it go. Can you say those words? Let it go. I'm going to use Philippians chapter 3 a little bit loosely here. Philippians 3. 13. There's one thing I do, says St. Paul, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forward to those things which are ahead. I press toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. Philippians chapter 3 Forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forward to those things which are ahead. Sadly Life can hammer you. And I love the song they were singing. Uh for the auditory. Remembering some of the hammerings. that I have had and you've had as well the pain, disappointment, injustice Being misunderstood, being hurt by some situation, being hurt by someone Passed over, neglected. And so there's something surprisingly refreshing about bearing trees in the winter. Because they know how to let go of things. What painful experiences may be depleting your emotional reserves. Let it go. So Anders Ann Landers writes That quote, hanging on to resentment is letting someone you despise live rent-free in your head. End quote. Or to quote an Eastern philosopher. He says, there's an Arab proverb that states that you should write the bad things that happen to you in the sand. So that they can be easily erased from your memory. However, most of us engrave the bad things that happened to us in marble Therefore, our painful memories remain immortalized in our minds. Because Owen to say we walk around with our failures, our mistakes, our disappointments. and our hurts from the past shackled around our ankles, weighing us down. End quote. Let it go. So I was asking myself, well how do you do that? It's not so easy Because I think you have to keep letting it go as it revisits you. So uh Henrik Edberg, whoever he is, he writes in the blog, he gave some suggestions I found helpful about How to let go of the negative past. He says, when you don't let go, first of all, remember you you get to keep feeling like you're right Secondly, you can assume the victim role. And thirdly, you don't have to go out into the scary unknown. And then he goes on to say, Edberg says, accept what is, accept what is. That's the way it is. Accept Let it go. Forgive, if need be. Then focus on what you can influence in your life. C. S. Lewis he said he had a great analogy, and I quote, he says, getting over a painful experience is much like crossing monkey bars. You have to let go at some point in order to move forward. Really. End quote. So Paul says, forgetting those things which are behind. Of course, he's talking about his own personal integrity and what a great man he was before he came to know Christ. Then he realized that was all like ridiculous anyway. That's not going to get you anywhere. So he let go of his own self aggrandizement and his own self-applause. He went on to enjoy and trust in the applause of Christ, moving on to something far more productive. and putting his thoughts and uh faith there. Forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forward to those things which are ahead. Press on. 2017. The things that pain you, let it go. Let them go. When they revisit you, let them go again. And go through the whole process again, like I just mentioned. Tip number five. So tip number four. A familiar phrase to some of you, most of you. Walk by faith. In 2017, walk by faith. It's how you became a Christian. You stepped up and you put your confidence in Christ. Some of you are don't remember you. You were so young, you don't recall that. Guys like me, we remember. We were 26 years old and we had a history and we stepped up by the grace of God and put our confidence in him Galatians 3. 11 says, now it is evident that no one is justified before God by the law, for, quote, the righteous shall live by faith. Hebrews 10, 38. But my righteous one shall live by faith, and if he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him. The one thing about becoming Christian, I don't mean being born into a Christian family. Someone once says, you know, just because you uh something is parked in a garage doesn't mean that it's a car. You know, it could be a tricycle. And just because you're like parked in a Christian home doesn't mean you're Christian. But those of us who are Christian, we know what that is. That's when we recognize we deserve the judgment of God, and we put our confidence in Christ, asking him to forgive us accepting his integrity and now we're good to go. Our confidence is in him. But once we've done that, see now we have a way of life. You understand? Now you've just taken the first step. Now every day, 2017 Because it's a way of life of walking by that same confidence in him. We believe in a resurrected Christ. Can you say, I believe in a resurrected Christ? Say it. I believe in a resurrected Christ. So as we live these days, these 365, and we've already started this one. This first one, uh we gotta believe he's alive, you know he's uh he played well and uh he's able to help us every day, uh nine to five. And as Second Corinthians five seven says, we walk by faith, not by sight. And so uh that's what we need to be doing this year. And I know we make a lot of decisions and we plan, we put stuff on our calendars And the plans get all messed up and people intrude in our lives and we intrude in them and it gets all whacked out. Next thing you know, we're we're walking by calculations, we're walking by all this stuff we're doing, and a lot of it has to be done Decisions have to be made. You just can't sit there and say, I'm walking by faith. Well, you're really just sitting there doing nothing. There's no faith at all. So we're doing things, as James says, you know, I'll show you my faith by my actions And so we have to do the actions, but but in the bottom underneath, uh uh when we're when times are hard, uh Uh and sometimes it's very hard. Uh we walk by faith. Uh we when we pray for a yes and God says no, we have to walk by faith. Uh when we're praying no, don't let that happen it happens We have to continue to move forward by faith. When God is silent, we're still trusting in the risen Christ. Sometimes God can't be found. At least not in the way we're looking for Him So we sit in the silence, trusting. Maybe you praying that God would give us the grace that Job apparently had When he said, and he's lost virtually everything, and he would say, though he slay me, yet will I trust him. Some translations, though he slay me, yet will I praise him. Romans 8. 24. In this hope we were saved, but hope that is seen is no hope at all. Who hopes for what he can already see? In the pain, remember. Now we see but a dim reflection as in a mirror. Then we shall see face to face. Now I know in part, then I shall know fully, even as I am fully known. And so we live through the pain, walking, resting. In him believing with confidence that there's a risen Lord, and things are under control. Proverbs 24. 10 says, if you faint in the day of adversity, your strength is small. 2 Corinthians 4. 18. So we fix our eyes not on what is seen, but on what is unseen. For what is seen is temporary. What is unseen is eternal. You know, the older I get, the more I realize, particularly in practical things, that God cannot be predicted And so I'm preaching to myself this morning on tip number four: walk by faith. Tip three, as the ball is descending. Walk with a song in your heart. Don't just walk by faith, but walk with a song in your heart. Specifically, keep music as a part of your life I know it did a lot for me just sitting here this morning and entering into the music. But we need to keep music as a part of our lives. An important part. Ephesians 5. 19 says, Sing and make music from your heart to the Lord. Sing and make music from your heart to the Lord. Martin Luther once said, and I quote, Next to the Word of God, the noble art of music is the greatest treasure in the world. He went on to say, I have no pleasure in anyone who despises music. It is not an invention of human beings. It is a gift of God, and I place it next to theology. End quote I think he went on to say, I don't have any time or use for people who don't listen to music or like it. Music in the Bible, you know the longest book in the Bible is a song book. The book of the Psalms. Most of them were intended to be sung. It's poetry. You know, virtually every day I wake up, I'm hearing birds outside. I lived in the country. I could hear brooks. I could hear wind going through the trees, you know. It's a lot more nature. And you look around nature, there's a lot of singing going on around us. You know, these are God's brooks and God's winds whistling in the trees, and these are God's birds. He didn't have to put songs. He could have put unbabbling brooks. Birds that don't sing, they just eat worms. The passage that really struck me though on this on this uh New Year's tip was the prodigal. In Luke chapter 15. We won't read it here this morning, but in verse 22 and following, you know, the son has gone off. He's taken his inheritance. You know the story, right? He's gone off. He's run through the money. He had a good time doing it. Wasted his time in hindsight. uh spending on himself. He finally wakes up. He comes to him senses his senses. Uh how he's wasted his life. He's unworthy. He's feeling bad about himself. feeling and wanting another handout from his dad, but he knows he's unworthy to get it. And he says, well at least maybe he'll treat me like my like one of my dad's servants, one of his employees. And so uh he decides to return to his father for a little help. And uh the father's response, right, the father sees him coming at a distance, and the father runs, runs, uh uh to uh he's just so happy to see his son. And of course Jesus is making the story up. He's telling it, you know Because he wants to teach it. And this is the imagery that he's using. And the father runs to greet his son, he embraces him, he welcomes him back home, and then what does he do? He throws a party, a celebration. Luke 15, 22, bring quickly the best robe, put it on him, put a ring on his hands, shoes on his feet. And bring the fatted calf and kill it and let us eat and celebrate. For this, my son, was dead. That's you, when you're dead in your sins before you knew Christ And he's alive again. He was lost, but he's found. And they began to celebrate. Now his older son was in the field, and as he came and he drew near to the house, he heard music. And dancing. Music and dancing. Two thousand seventeen We got a lot to dance and sing about. Do you understand that folks? We know the end of the story. We know the last chapter in the book. We know how history is going to turn out. And we're okay if we know the Christmas child. The child is going to take us into the new season, who's now this incredible character in our lives, the Lord of history. And so enter the new world with or the new uh year with a song in your heart and keep music in part of your life, you know, it's like uh Chris Tomlin said, there's an endless song. It echoes in my soul. I hear the music ring, and know that though the storms come, I'm holding on to the rock I cling. How can I keep from singing your praise? How can I ever say enough? How amazing is your love? How can I keep from shouting your name? I am loved. I know I'm loved by the King. And it makes my heart want to sing. I had an opportunity to hear uh Jordan Smith recently down at the I won the voice down at the uh civic center. That's the one this point dawned on me when I was singing heard him sing Oh Holy Nights like whoa Just like Amy Grant and uh Michael Smith, they just like they refuse to sing after that. They just, No we're done, we're not singing anymore. Who's gonna follow that, you know? But but the music does something to your soul. It does things that uh help us far beyond words and preachers and It's a beautiful thought. Walk with a song in your heart. Keep music as part of your life this year. Tip number two. Amidst all the issues of 2017, stay positive. Stay, two words, stay positive. Can you say those? Stay positive. Romans 8. 28, there's a place, many places we could go, but Romans 8. 28, for we know that all in all things God works together for good for those that love God. And are called according to his purpose. I understand that you don't love God perfectly, nobody does. But you know what? I see your love for God and it it comes out in different ways and and you keep coming back to to God, you come to church, you uh read the scriptures, you pray, you find yourself turning back, and uh you have a promise. In all things God's working together for good, for those of us who love God. And so we have a something good going for us That's why we gotta be positive. Sunday to Sunday, seven days a week, uh January through December, uh twelve months a year, 365, 365 days a year, and this year you have an extra second. Yeah, they're adjusting the count, they're adjusting the clock. Don't know quite how that works, but the thing we that thing you do is we don't even use this anymore and now I use my cell phone. That somehow is linked to the solar system and all the universe stuff moving around. And they figured we need s a second extra this year, so a second more to stay positive. God is still good. Remember, two thousand seventeen. God is all wise. All good, all powerful. The world has way too many negative people. Way, way too many negative people And uh I love what Helen Keller said. She says, I long to accomplish a great and noble task. That's what a lot of you are going to want to do this year. Do something great and noble. She says, I long to accomplish a great and noble task. But it's my chief duty to accomplish small tasks as if they were a great noble. Small tasks like be uh an encourager Be a promoter of others, be a be a healer, be uh a contributor, a peacemaker, a person who makes this room a little better because you bring to it a positive attitude and do something positive. uh to make uh that second just a little better for everybody. So Stay paused of 2017. Somebody once said if you plan A doesn't work, guess what? You still have 25 letters left in the alphabet. Romans eight thirty-one ask asked you to believe uh uh asked you who believe a great question. If God is for us Who can be against us? God is forced. Say that question with me. If God is forced, who can be against us? And then tip number one, this leads us to tip number one, because the next verse says He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Tip number one for two thousand seventy is particularly if you're facing some issues Remember the scars of Christ. Remember the scars of Christ. He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him But also with them give us gracefully give us all things. You know when Thomas He wasn't in the upper room the first time that Christ appeared, right? The third day? So Christ appeared again. It's like ten days after he'd been put to death on the cross. And Jesus tells Thomas, put your finger here. See my hands. Put your hand here and place it in my side. Do not doubt, but believe. Thomas answered, My Lord and my God. And then Jesus said to him, He says, You've believed because you've seen me. Then what does he say? Blessed are those who have not seen and yet believe. You've not seen his scars. But in 2017, I want you to remember them. Remember his scars because the then when you remember them, ask yourself, how did he get the scars? You probably have scars on your body, or how did you get yours? You probably fell down, did something stupid. You were probably young, like me, you know, or maybe you needed an operation, so they had to open you up, you know, trying to fix you. How did he get his Well, he says I lay down my own life of my free accord. No one takes it from me. I've just come to lay it down. The scripture says, you want to look for love? There's no greater love than this. Than that a man laid down his light for his friends. And you are his friends if you're listening to him. Those scars are there because he's befriended you and he's shown you the greatest Communicated in the greatest possible way how much he loves you. It doesn't get any more endearing and more encouraging and more inspirational than to remember his scars. That's as loud as he can say. That's as big as he can hug you We love him because he first loved us. 1 John 4:9 says, This is how God showed his love among us. He sent his one and only Son into the world that we might live through him. This is love. Not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son as an atoning sacrifice for our sins. Paul says elsewhere, very rarely will somebody die for somebody else, though for a pretty good person someone might dare to die. But God demonstrates his own love for us in this, that while we were yet sinners, you're a sinner You deserve judgment, but guess what? Those scars are for you. Because he loves you in spite of all that's wrong about you and me Tip number one for 2017, when things seem to be going bad, remember the scars of Christ. And know without doubt that you are loved. Thirty-six days, three hundred and sixty-five days this year, including that little extra second. And nothing can separate you from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus. Lord, we bow before you. We reflected upon these tips. Now we've come to confess our sins to recognize that we are undeserving of your love And we come for renewed mercies. Grace flowing from the scars in your hands to embrace us afresh, to reassure us. That we are forgiven