Good morning. The advantages of going through or preaching through the the Bible Is that we get to experience and enjoy the great riches of God's word that He gives to us without selecting passages that we're comfortable dealing with. The challenge to doing so, however, Sometimes we come across texts that are confusing, challenging, even at times a little weird. We're reading Deuteronomy chapter 23. You will see what I mean this morning. If you're able, please stand and let us read. God's holy and inspired word, just the first eight verses of chapter 23 of Deuteronomy. No one whose testicles are crushed or whose male organ is cut off shall enter the assembly of the Lord No one born of a forbidden union may enter the assembly of the Lord, even to the tenth generation. None of his descendants may enter the assembly of the Lord. No Ammonites or Moabites may enter the assembly of the Lord, even to the tenth generation. None of them may enter the assembly of the Lord forever. Because they did not meet with you with bread and with water on the on the way when you came out of Egypt, and because they hired against you Balaam, the son of Beor from Pithor of Mesopotamia, to curse you But the Lord your God will not listen to Balaam. Instead, the Lord your God turned the curse into a blessing for you because the Lord your God loved you. You shall not seek their peace or their prosperity all your days forever. You shall not abhor an Edomite, for he is your brother. You shall not abhor an Egyptian Because you are a sojourner in the land, in his land. Children born to them in the third generation may enter the assembly of the Lord. The word of the Lord this morning, Lord Jesus, we do come to you again, just asking that you would allow us this morning to hear your word, to believe it, to understand it, and above all to be transformed by it. Praying in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. Let me ask you a question. When you come across a sign that says members only or reserved parking, How do you feel about that? Especially if you're not a member. What kind of a feeling do you get when you walk into Costco and you forgot that you are not a member of Costco and you need to shop? And you're turned away, and you're told this place only belongs to members. You see, that sign can be either a source of great joy if you are a member Or it can be a source of great frustration to someone who is not a member. Think about going to downtown uh Baltimore and you are looking for parking There's a Ravens game that's going on and you've been driving around and round and looking for parking. You enter into this garage and all the empty parking spots all stay reserved for Whatever that is. And you're thinking, how come I'm not one of those people? And there is a perfect parking for me right there See, if you're excluded, if you're not a member, this is a source of frustration and anguish and despair. It creates this feeling of alienation. You feel like an outcast, you feel like you're being left out. You don't belong here. It is even more frustrating if one aspires to gain acceptance only to be rejected by being told. You do not meet the requirements. No admission for you. No, sir. You do not qualify because you cannot belong. See, sometimes as Christians, I think we do struggle with this feeling of alienation, don't we? As Christians, sometimes we feel like we don't belong. We feel like the outcast. We feel like the the alien, the resident alien, the stranger. The odd one out in the church. Ever felt that way? This can be due to several factors. One could be because of our struggle, our constant struggle with doubt. We all struggle with doubt It could be because of our struggle with sin. We all struggle with sin that makes us feel like we do not belong. Now, you see, this morning, regardless of where you are, you may be feeling secure in your salvation, or you may be Thinking, well, I'm not quite sure that I belong, that I'm a part of God's family. I'm not quite sure where I am. I feel alienated. I feel isolated. I feel like the outcast The message for us this morning is both an encouragement for those who may feel or struggle with any nation, and it's an assurance for those who are already secure. And it is this. This is the message for us this morning. That our belonging to God ultimately belongs or ultimately depends on our faith, which is a gift from God. Of belonging to God is dependent ultimately on faith, which is a gift And because it is a gift from God, that's why God Himself purifies the unclean so that they may belong. We read this morning from uh our call to worship Psalm 24, and we're gonna look at that a little more, but it actually asks the question: who may ascend the hill of the Lord? And the answer to that is what Those who are clean are clean in a pure heart. And so because this is a gift, or faith is a gift from God, God Himself is the one who purifies the unclean so that they may belong. Look at verses one. And two. The chapter is definitely dealing with the admission or at admission into the assembly of the Lord. And we may wonder what is this assembly of the Lord that people have to belong or be a part of That the the the Moses is speaking about. The assembly of the Lord is simply this. All of those who belong fully to the covenant family, to the covenant community. And speci specifically those who gather for worship, those who gather for the reading of the law. So think about Mount Sinai as God's people are gathered before God as they're given the law. Think about where they stand right now on the plains of Moab as they are being addressed by Moses before they enter the new land. Think about them making uh uh uh uh pilgrimages to go to festivals that is the assembly of God It is God's people, covenant God's people gathered in his presence. And so the idea here is that the assembly included various different people that were actually not fully members of the covenant uh family. Uh you can think of resident aliens, you can think of the book of Joshua, we're told As God's people are possessing this new land, they did not destroy every other tribe that was surrounding uh the Canaalite nations. There were people that were left, the the stage And and their property may have been taken away, their animals were destroyed, but the people didn't. So some of these people are right here. And so here we see that there are three different groups that are being excluded from admission into the assembly of the Lord. The first one is the eunuch, the weird verse one that speaks of eunuchs who are usually castrated males Uh or those who are incapable of reproduction due to a birth defect. Now, there there's three ways that you can describe a eunuch in the Old Testament. Actually, we see that in the New Testament as well. One way is that they were born that way Secondly, is that they were forced into it, they were castrated by force. And thirdly, they made a conscious choice. They did that for their own religious reasons. And it's it's it was actually a common practice in ancient Near East Where sometimes for entering to particular forms of government or serving in the office, some people decided to do that so that they don't have to deal with Family obligations. We're not told here why the eunuchs were excluded, but it may have been similar to the exclusion from priesthood. We read in the Leviticus chapter 21, verse 17 through 20. It gives a list of all those people that were excluded from becoming a priest in the covenant family. And one of those people are the eunuchs. Could also be because, as I mentioned, this was a self-inflicted castration that was a certain future of religious pagan right that Israel was to stay away from. What was the sign that God gave his people through Abraham that would be a sign that they belonged to the covenant? Circumcision. And so for God's people to go beyond what God had given to them as a sign of their belonging and to self-mutilate in such a way Was to in fact cut oneself off the covenant family. It was to go beyond what God had told you. This is how you belong, this is the sign of your belonging To do otherwise was to basically say, I don't belong there. Another reason. Remember how land and kinship are so important to God's people. What are they doing here in Deuteronomy? What are they about to possess? Land. What did God promise Abraham in the very beginning? He'll be a father of a multitude of nations. But what did he also promise? He will give him land. And so think of a pre-exilic ape Israel that this may explain what Eunuch said Outside of the covenant family, because they are unable to reproduce, they're unable to have children. Think about the foreigners that we're gonna see later on that are being told that they cannot belong, that they they are excluded. Why? Because Foreigners were not allowed to own land in Israel. The second group of people that are excluded are those that are born or forbidden marriage. In verse 2, we read uh that they uh uh no one born of a forbidden union may enter the assembly of the Lord, uh even to the tenth generation, none of his descendants may enter the assembly of the Lord. Uh the idea here is these are children. That were born out of wedlock, or children that were born out of forbidden practices like incest. We saw a little bit of that last week. Leviticus 18 speaks to this While it is not clear, the term that is being used here in fact addresses a very specific child And it could be, and I think commentators agree that this is what is uh being alluded here, is that this means a daughter or a son of a temple prostitute. And the the idea is when a child was born by a temple prostitute, they were actually dedicated there and then at birth. To a foreign, to a pagan god. And so because of such a wicked and horrible environment, they were to be excluded from the assembly of the Lord. Now, having explained that, these are two examples of two different kinds of people that are excluded from the assembly of the Lord that show us that give us the sad evidence Of the physically and morally damaging practices of heathen religions. See, God has chosen had chosen Israel as his people He had set them apart for holiness. He had called them not because they were perfect, not because they were holy, not because they were mighty, not because they were many, but because he loved them. But he set them apart For his holiness, and he's saying, You cannot mix that which I have called you for with something else, including bringing people that are considered unclean, they cannot be a part of the assembly. See, these restrictions are really meant or aimed at preserving Israel's distinctiveness, that distinctive testimony to God's holiness. It was supposed to guard Israel's worship. against the influence of this wicked and horrible pagan practices. I like what one commentator puts it is He says, quote, by condemning this external bodily defect, he commands the excellency of his people that they may remember themselves to be his chosen property. Not that they should pride themselves upon it, but rather that the holiness of their life may correspond with such high nobility End of quote. Again, as I mentioned, the Psalmist cries out in Psalm twenty four, Who shall ascend? Who may ascend the hill of the Lord? And who shall stand in his holy place? And he gives an answer. And he says he who has clean hands Who has a pure heart? Later on in Psalm 130, David will proclaim and ask the question or make the comments and say, if you, O Lord, should mark on iniquities, who would see You see, who can who can then stand? If the ones that are allowed to be in the presence of God are those that are clean and pure hearts. Clearly, Israel was not chosen because of our perfect righteousness and our glowing purity, was it? That even after possessing the land, Israel will continue to hoore herself to other gods. They will continue to be unfaithful to the Lord their God. Yet they belonged. See, it may not be in view here in Deuteronomy, but if we go back to to the prophet Isaiah in in Isaiah chapter two verse two to four I'm not gonna read it. But the vision there is of of a time when salvation would actually extend not only to the Israelites, not only to the people that belong, but also to other nations, to other people that were once express excluded from the covenant community. They were welcome in the presence of God. Later on in Isaiah 56, actually the Isaiah notes the specific people that are welcomed before God. Do you know who it is? The people that we just read were not welcome. The eunuchs. Isaiah 56, 3 says, Let not the foreigner who has joined himself to the Lord say, The Lord will surely separate me from his people. And let not the eunuch say, Behold, I am a dry tree. I love it when Isaiah continues in verse 1 and 5. He actually offers this beautiful promise to them, he says, to the eunuchs who keep my Sabbath Who choose the things that please me and hold fast my covenant, I will give in my house and within my walls a monument and a name better than sons and daughters I will give them an everlasting name that shall not be cut off. Do you hear the hopes? Can you believe the hope that is being offered here in Isaiah? And then uh one of my favorite is is Acts chapter eight verses twenty-six through through forty. You do you think do you know that uh there is divine humor in scripture? We find one right there. You read the story of the Ethiopian Yuna can fill it He was both a foreigner and a eunuch. And what was he reading? The book of Isaiah. Then we read the story of Peter in Acts chapter ten, when Peter is hungry and wanting to eat something, and then he sees this vision of of this of this great She's descending from heaven and on its four corners, and it's got all these animals and reptiles and birds. And the voice comes and says, Peter, come on, kill and eat. And he says, Absolutely no. I have never eaten anything that is unclean. And the voice rebukes him and says, what God has made clean, do not call common Peter. The message, his salvation was for the Gentiles as well, who were considered unclean. What a beautiful picture That God shows us here people that were considered imperfect and undeserving because of their situation. They are here being given hope and promise in Isaiah and Acts, that it is God Himself who makes them pure, pure. It is God Himself who cleanses those that are unclean. It is God Himself who gives grace to the undeserving sinner. And you know, he doesn't say that we clean ourselves up and then come to him. He doesn't say that we purify ourselves up and then come to him so that we may belong. Listen, friends, none of us can clean ourselves up and be pure to enter in the presence of God. You can try all you want, but you cannot do it. Do you remember when Jesus comes and is born Uh as this poor man and the people expecting him to fight their battles and rescue them from The tyrants of Rome, and the Messiah comes, and he's judged and rebuked and ridiculed for spending time with the prostitutes, with the tax collectors and with people that were considered impure and unclean by the self-righteous Pharisees. And Jesus makes it clear to them, it is for these people that I actually came. I came for those that are sick, though those that needed to hear the gospel He makes it clear that it's for such unclean sinners like you and I that Jesus came into the world. And what he does is that he purchases us by his blood So that we may belong by his precious blood, we who were once impure and unclean Now belong. He doesn't just simply purify the unclean, but he also grants favor to the undeserving So that they may belong. Look at verses 3 to 6. We see here certain foreigners that are uh being excluded from the assembly. Uh and Deuteronomy is actually drawing uh from a more recent historical event talking about the Ammonites and the Moabites. Um and the Moabites are being excluded because of their failure to show kindness and hospitality. Verse 4 to the Israelites. The Moabites, it's because of their attempt to curse Israel. There's a beautiful story uh in Numbers chapter twenty two all the way to chapter twenty-four, which tells the story of of Balak the king of uh Moab and him hiring the uh you know Balaam to to to curse uh God's people and the story of the donkey and and all of that. It's a it's a beautiful story if you have time uh you can read through it And we also know there's a there's a little bit of history going on here, right? The Ammonites and Moabites were actually descendants, they were actually uh relatives of Israelites, right? Um Genesis chapter 19 tells us that it was believed that the Moabites and Ammonites were descendants of the illicit and decestuous relationship between Lot and his daughters. If you recall that story. And so this may explain that particular illicit relationship that happened between Lot and his daughters may actually explain why they are being excluded here. We saw in verse 3. Verse 2 actually, no one born of a forbidden union may enter the assembly of the Lord. So they were born of forbidden union that happened The Ammonites here we see were excluded for what they did not do, and the Moabites were excluded for what they did do. It's the sin of omission and the sin of commission. The Ammonites refused To offer assistance to Israelites in their journey in the wilderness. The Moabite sin of commission was rather uh their rather unsuccessful attempts to pull down Israel through the prophet uh oracles of Balaam and instead the actually what happened was the the attempts boomerang, right? And so instead of Israelites being cursed, they ended up receiving the curse themselves. I think there's a something important for us to learn here, right? In terms of how our sin can grieve God, both by what we fail to do and by what we do. There's a beautiful chapter in Matthew chapter 25 that gives a list of three parables. Ten virgins. The talents that were not used, the virgins were not ready for their wedding. And then the final one speaks of the needy that were not helped. Perfect perfect examples of how We can fail to do the right things before God, and that amounts to sin. Amounts to failure. Again, remember the promise that God had given to Abraham in Genesis chapter 12. What did he promise him? He said, I will bless those who bless. you and curse those who curse you. God is following up on his promise that he had made to his people But God is also able to turn curses into blessings. And I think again a lesson for us to learn as Christians, sometimes we should celebrate when we face trials in life. Sometimes it actually may take people oppressing and opposing us for God to bless us. I think God hasn't changed. He is still the same God who is able to turn our curses into blessings. And we find an unusual text here, and I say unusual because it is unusual, because the grandchildren of Edomites and Egyptians were allowed into the assembly of God Now the Edomites were also relatives because Esau is actually called Edom in Genesis chapter 25. But what about the Egyptians? I thought they enslaved God's people. I thought they were horrible people Why would God allow them to be included, their grandchildren, to be included in the assembly of God? See, the memory of God's people shouldn't just go as far as slavery is concerned. Do you remember what happened to the people of Israel before they were enslaved in Egypt? Do you remember when there was famine? Who provided them refuge? Who gave them food and a place to be? The hospitality is in fact being seen here that God goes beyond the times of slavery into a time when Egypt was actually a source of refuge. And for the Edomites, we know an Edomite woman, Ruth Who eventually is actually within the genealogy of David and Christ, so to speak. And that also could play in part in terms of our hospitality To the family of Elimelech and Naomi, if you remember the story and their need in time of their need and distress. But we must go back to that question and ask ourselves: why then does God deal harshly with some people and give clemency to others? What's the standard that God is using your fairness? There's such a thing. It's a hard question. It's a hard question for us to wrestle with and without forthcoming answers. You will not come up with answers that may satisfy a human mind. What we must understand is that God is both just and good in everything in everything that he does And so our call as God's people is to trust his judgment, to trust what God does, because he is just and he is good. And sometimes it's hard for us to fathom, it is hard for us to penetrate the depths of his thoughts. All we can do is stand in awe of who he is. Paul captures this when he speaks of God's sovereign will in Romans chapter 9, a beautiful chapter, I should add. But verses fourteen and fifteen he says, What shall we say then? Is there injustice on God's heart? By no means, he says, for he says to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I'll have compassion on whom I have compassion. Period. No questions asked. I think this is Great proof that belonging to Israel, or rather, belonging or becoming a member of the covenant family really ultimately depends on faith and not on bloodline Depends on faith. Many may have thought that you had to become an Israelite. Many thought in the New Testament that you had to be circumcised in order to belong. Remember Peter and Paul? But the door is open to others as well. And it is God Himself who determines who may enter And so the inclusion here of Edomites and Egyptians should actually be an encouraging thing for us. It demonstrates that the assembly of the covenant people is ultimately a spiritual community. A spiritual community. I love the Great Commission in Matthew 28. As Jesus is commanding his disciples to go into all the nations Judea and Samaria, you know, pre proclaiming the message of of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And and I think it's a great demonstration that entrance into that spiritual kingdom of God is not via your ancestry or anything else, it's only through Faith. And he comes by faith and repentance See, the vision of the assembly of God includes those who are once excluded. That's exactly what why Jesus came. Remember the vision that John sees in Revelation chapter 9? Who are the people that are gathered in the throne of God? Multitudes from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages standing before the throne and before the Lamb. I think this is even more assuring when we read in Romans eight the fact that for those who belong to Christ, because he has purchased them with his own precious blood blood, the promises that there is absolutely nothing that can separate them from the love of Christ. Hence the assurance. I think there's even more good news, and the more good news is this. But the fact that we don't have to work to attain acceptance, you don't need to meet standards to earn your salvation. you fail. I think the good news is you don't have to have a monthly fee to keep your membership going. By that I mean you still cannot work out your salvation to earn more favor, more grace from God. You cannot Even more good news. That your ancestry, your family history, your status in society counts for nothing. And so you're not gonna, if God has called you, you're not gonna come up and he says, well no, you don't qualify Because permission is granted by faith. Permission is granted by grace. It's free You come and you eat and you dine and you feast in his presence and you pay absolutely nothing. Your belonging is really given to you. It's yours Therefore, remember that at one time you Gentiles in the flesh called the uncircumcision by what is called the circumcision, which is made in the flesh by hands Remember that you were at that time separated from Christ, alienated from the Commonwealth of Israel, and strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope, and without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, you were once who are far off, have been brought near by the blood of Christ. For He Himself is our peace, who has made us both one And has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility, abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances that he might create in himself one new man in place of two So making peace, and might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross, thereby killing hostility. And he came, that is Jesus, and preached peace to you who are far off, and peace to those who were near For through him we both have access in one spirit to the Father. So then you, Church of Jesus Christ, are no longer strangers and aliens. But you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God, built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets. Christ Jesus Himself being the cornerstone, in whom the whole structure, being joined together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord. In him you also are being built together into a dwelling place for God. by the Spirit. Ephesians 2. 11 through 19. You are no longer excluded Father, we thank you for your word this morning that you give to us, as you remind us that you are the one who has come to purify us and to make us ready for you, and that you also grant us your grace and favor. Grace and favor that we do not deserve. So Lord, I pray that you would encourage us, you would assure us, you would build us up. As we seek to love you, in all that we do, praying in Christ's name, Amen