That same place, but I actually want to go back a little bit um behind Judas and behind Peter and behind our response and Ask the question, what was the setting uh that Jesus came into? Yes, indeed we recognize that we recognize because we we all have our palms and uh we recognize that this is Palm Sunday, but what was happening deeply in that Palm Sunday? We're going to read not from the thirteenth chapter, but from the twelfth chapter of John. Thank you, Bethany. Bethany managed to change the chapter for me already. So we're going to all be reading the wrong chapter, but we've got the right one. So I want you to stand as we read together the twelfth chapter of the book of John. And uh this runs us back to uh Mary and to Jesus, to Lazarus. at Bethany. Six days before the Passover, Jesus therefore came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, whom Jesus had raised from the dead And so they gave a dinner for him there. Martha served, and Lazarus was one of those reclining with him at the table. And Mary therefore took a pound of expensive ointment made from pure nard. And anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair. The house was filled with the fragrance of the But Judas Iscariot, one of the disciples, he who was about to betray him, said, Why was this ointment not sold for three hundred denarii and given to the poor? He said this, not because he cared about the poor, but because he was a thief. And having charge of the money bag, he used to help himself to what was put into it Jesus said, Leave her alone, so that she might keep it for the day of my burial. For the poor you always have with you, but you do not always have me When the large crowd of the Jews learned that Jesus was there, they came, not only on account of him, but also designed So the chief priests made plans to put Lazarus to death as well, because on account of him many of the Jews were going away and believing in Jesus. And the next day the large crowd that had come to the feast heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem. So they took branches of palm trees and went out to meet him. crying out, Hosannah, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel. Jesus found a young Young donkey and sat on it, just as it is written Fear not, daughter of Zion. Behold, your king is coming, sitting on the donkey's colt. things at first. But when Jesus was glorified, when they remember when they then they remembered that these things had been written about him and had been done to him. The crowd that had been with him, when he called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead, continued to bear witness. The reason why the crowd went to meet him was that they heard He had done the sign. So the Pharisees said to one another, You see that you are gaining nothing. Look, the world has gone after him. Now among those who went up to worship at the feet Were some Greeks. So these came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida in Galilee, and asked him, Sir, we wish to see Jesus Philip went and told Andrew. Andrew and Philip went and told Jesus. And Jesus answered them, the hour has come. Come for the Son of Man to be glorified. Truly I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and it dies, it remains alone. But if it dies It bears much fruit. Whoever loves his life loses it. Whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. The word of the Lord. Let's pray. Father, would you come and be with us? Receive the sound of our voice But Father, first speak into our ears that we might know you, that we might believe you. So that our voice might speak in a knowing and in a glorifying way. So, Father, we would see Jesus. Jesus today. Lift our heads to behold your glory. In Jesus' name. Amen Amen. There were some turning points and some reasons why the disciples Responded as they did, why the people dis responded as they did, why Mary responded as she did. And I want to sort of gather the threads that come together here in And um it it's it's simple the things that I want you to watch with me and think with me. There were different responses and they're all congested in this particular text. There was confusion. There's no question there was confusion. If you'd have asked many of the people who were busy waving and singing They would have had exactly the same answer that Gus had. I don't really know. But everybody else is, so me too. So there was confusion. But there was uh secondly, there was a deep sense of confidence that was working and proceeding in the midst of the people that were gathered. We're going to Look at some of those. But underneath it all, there was a pattern of a life, and the life was the life of Mary, who was confessing. So we're seeing these patterns woven together in this text. And I want you to experience it with me because we will walk together this week. I hope uh in Good Friday service, and we will reflect on the Passion, the death of Christ. And then we'll come together next week, next Lord's Day, and celebrate the resurrection. The high point in a Christian calendar, the high point in our Christian experience. So unless we understand who we are, we can't really get there. We can physically come, but we may be no better than the crowds that took their palm branches and waved it. And if this doesn't look like a palm branch Just be assured there not only does it break, but there are many different kinds of palm branches, many different kinds of palm trees, that's one of them Um it does remind me of the houses that we often saw uh and that many lived in in Kenya where we were and the roofs were entirely made out of these kind of leaves. Palm leaves. So I want to begin. I want to begin with the confusion of the crowd. They were gathered around, yes Uh and they were waving their palms, yes. But there was something deeper that was happening, some deeper sense of confusion. Uh if you uh with me were to look at some of these verses, you You will begin to see it. Look at verse four and five. Judas Iscariot was one of the disciples. We talked about Judas last week. He watched as Mary, and that's how the account begins, it begins in Bethany, and Mary anoints Jesus' feet with perfume. And Judas sees that and he is confused. If Jesus was really about caring for the poor, then Judas is going to put up his hand and say, but you know, what a waste. We could have sold that and given the money. We don't have money, but obviously this family has money, and it was true. That family did have money. Um uh they often hosted Jesus and his disciples. Uh but I think that the amount of money taken in that anointing was a far greater actually if we did the math, uh it would have equi it would have been rough equivalent to a year's labor. So just take your salary, your income And uh let me invite you to bring it next week. A whole year's worth. We're gonna have the best orphan we've ever had Uh that's what that's what they Mary brought, the equivalent of a year's worth of work. That was her gift And Judas looks at it and he is confused. Surely, surely we could have done something more with this. Well, you know as well as I do, because we looked at Judas last week that his heart was a treacherous heart. He was not interested in what he could do for the poor. He was interested in what he could do for himself. And he did. He got the thirty pieces of silver. Not that it helped him. His betrayal. But consider the crowd. The crowd in verse thirteen. Verse thirteen, the crowd clearly was expecting some form of a king. Yes, there was a combination. Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Not blessed is the Lord, but blessed is he who comes blessed by the Lord. Blessed is he who is a king. There was this deep expectation that Jesus as the Messiah, or the Messiah, whoever the Messiah was going to be to be was a political messiah. He was going to free the nation. Now political messiahs are still you know with us today. We still do the same thing in our society today. We're always looking for a political messiah that's somehow going to free the shackles that we perceive we have that is going to set us free from this and give us that. And the Jews were no different. They wanted to be done with Rome and they wanted a king. And here comes this king. This king who could do anything. And so they were happy. They were happy. They expected a king, but they were confused. They didn't begin to understand the kind of kingdom that Jesus Jesus really had talked about. He preached about it. He did it. He showed it. But there wasn't any comprehension of that for the most part. It was the same crowd, as you know, that just a short time later was going to also shout, crucify him. So they could be ignited by somebody who is waving a palm branch saying, yay, yay, yay, and just a short time later be ignited by somebody that simply said, crucify. And so the crowd moved this way and they moved that way. Floats them, as it were, in the sea. And then there were the disciples, verse 16. Look at verse 16. His disciples didn't understand these things at first. When Jesus was glorified, then they remembered these things. So they were there too. And they also didn't really understand. They were confused. So is Jesus, are you a political messiah? Are you a spiritual messiah? What is this? They too were confused And there was Mary. Mary had been confused if you have your Bibles open. If you look back to chapter 11. And uh verse thirty two, you'd you would look right at the heart of Mary. Let me read it here. Um When Mary came to where Jesus was and saw him, she fell at his feet, saying to him, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have been here. died. She thought, surely, Jesus could have saved him. And he didn't. She waited. Jesus waited. That's the incredible thing when you read back in chapter 11. Jesus waited until he knew. It wasn't just a matter of showing up and nobody's gonna think, oh, he was just sick. He just had his eyes closed. No Mary and Martha come and say, Lord, his body stinks. He's dead dead. Jesus could have done it. And Mary looks at him. Lord, you didn't. You didn't fulfill my expectations. She was You probably know people that are confused about Christianity. The confusion About God. You've probably had conversations, maybe with yourself. If God's really powerful, then why doesn't He change and then you fill in the event? Why didn't God stop the death of small children this week? If God's able. Why didn't he? We have these expectations that somehow God is going to take the pain of our lives, remove the pain of our lives, and simply give us the happiness that we think we need. Deserve. That's our Jesus. That's our God. And so we too tend to be confused with the message of Scripture, the message of the gospel. I would suggest to you that Jesus did not leave Mary and Martha or Lazarus alone. Alone. He was there. And Jesus did not leave Covenant School alone. This week. He was there. And he was there gathered with many of his people who continue. in prayer. And that's but one event. One event. I read this week how many mass you There have been just this year. Every twenty-six hours, someplace in the US, another mass shooting And we ask the question, where's God? Where is He? Why doesn't He stop it? Why doesn't He bring order to the chaos? That was the confusion of the people as they waved their palms. Finally, we have a king that's going to put it all to rest. No. Not that way, a different way. And so out of the confusion, we also see this boiling, bubbling confidence. That grows up. And I want you to look at that confidence with me. There was the assembly of the crowds, and they were assembled because of the sign of Lazarus. They knew Jesus could. They had seen the evidence. Yes, we know Jesus can even make the dead alive. We know that. That's why we're here as a crowd Actually the Pharisees were also very confident, but in the wrong way, the bad way. They were confident that all bad things were gonna happen. Look at look at their confidence. The chief priests made plans to put Lazarus to death as well. Because, on account of him, many of the Jews were going away and believing in Jesus. Let's end this, they said. We have confidence. This is going nowhere but down. Let's end the trajectory. Let's finish it off. Let's finish Lazarus off. Let's finish Jesus off, and we'll be done with it. They were very confident. Both that they could end it, and that if they didn't end it, it was going to be unendable, unstoppable. They weren't There's another group of people that are gathered here, and that's verse 20. Among those who went up to worship at the feast were some Greeks. People that sort of didn't really belong there. But they were early converts. And they too had a confidence in Jesus. Who was He? Their confidence was in the good outcome. They had seen the healing, they had heard the healing, they had heard about Jesus. that heard about his teaching. And so they too are there and they come to Philip, who was from Bethsaid in Galilee, verse 21. one says, and asked him, Sir, we want to see Jesus. We recognize that you are one of his disciples. Would you take us to Jesus It's a bit remarkable, isn't it? In a crowd like that, imagine imagine if somebody should come up to you and say, um Please, would you would you take me to see Jesus? I know that you've been with him. It's a remarkable testimony to the disciples. Philip. We don't read a whole whole whole lot about Philip. But here he is. He's recognized as a follower. And the Greeks come to him and say, There's something about this. We're confident and we're confident not only in this man Jesus, but we're confident confident that you can get us there. Take us, please, to see Jesus. So Philip, a little timid, verse 22 says, goes and tells Andrew Andrew, these guys are asking to see Jesus. And we seem to be the pathway. And so Andrew and Philip go to Jesus. And what's the answer that Jesus gives to them? Verse 23. Jesus answered them: the hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. What kind of king? A kind of king that belongs to the world? A kind of king that belongs To eternity? What kind of king is this? What kind of glorification is this? But they were confident that the Jesus that they had followed would lead them and would lead even the Greeks, those outside. So the disciples were amazed. The sense of confidence was Jesus is amazing. The sense of confidence the Greeks had was: this this man is great. He's good. He does wonderful things. We want to see him. We want to meet him. The Pharisees? Yeah, we're confident this thing's going down. Everybody had confidence. But of all of the players in this extent It was Mary. We don't know a lot about Mary, but we read here the depth of the confession of her heart. Mary was self-reflective. She was Martha's sister. Jesus would come. Martha, you remember, was busy getting Getting the meal together was appropriate. Mary was fascinated. She just wanted to hear more from Jesus. So she put her hearing device on her head and sat at Jesus' feet and listened. Martha was upset with her, of course. But didn't bother her. She needed to hear from Jesus. But you know, as mu as many times as we look at that story and we we're thankful for Martha and we're often sort of challenge. Martha did a wonderful thing. Mary did a better thing. Um I've even preached that sermon um be before. I'm not going to preach that today. Because what I want you to do is to look more deeply into Mary's life. She had been listening to Jesus. She had listened to Jesus many, many times But when the difficult moment came, she rushes out to Jesus and she says, Lord, you weren't here. You let me down. My brother's dead. Why? And she had a crisis of faith Jesus would come and eat again. And she sees the crowds. The crowds disperse. Jesus goes off with his disciples to the upper room. To eat the last supper with them. And she knew her unbelief. She knew what she struggled with. She knew that although she had heard his voice, she couldn't believe it. She couldn't trust him. And she knew her need. And her need was for redemption. And so she brings the precious gift. So it wasn't just that she was pre anointing him. It was way too expensive. It actually was a perfume that came from India. Now you just in those days put together how long it would have taken to have brought perfume from India all the way down to where Mary was. It's not like you know they had Alibaba Express and uh they could just sort of Google it and find it on Amazon and Amazon was gonna bring it. It didn't happen that way. So here she brings a specially traded commodity worth an entire year. And offers it to Jesus. It was her desire to worship. with sacrifice. To worship with sacrifice. You know This nard was mentioned in the Song of Solomon. It doesn't occur many places in Scripture. It was mentioned in the Song of Solomon as the extreme value of a bride to give the extreme sacrifice. That's what she gives. Her gift to the Redeemer was the gift of a listening heart. Finally she could say, I know you are my Redeemer. You might have showed up late for Lazarus, but I saw it. I saw it I have spoken with him again. He ate with us again. I know at the last day. I. Will be raised up again with my redeemer. And she worshipped at Jesus' feet So there it was, it was a confusion. It was a confidence. Yeah, all that. But it was the confession. The confession of Mary. Mary turns From her struggle. She turns from her failures. And instead of those failures, She confesses. We come to the table this morning, and as we come,