Well, good morning. We are continuing on in our Christmas series in the early chapters of Matthew's Gospel. And on Christmas Eve, Pastor Stan will bring us one more uh Christmas themed sermon and then we'll be jumping back into our study of First Timothy next Sunday. But for today, we are in Matthew chapter 2, verses 1 through 12. So if you have a Bible, I'd encourage you to open up so that you can follow along as we Read God's Word together. And once you find it, I invite you to stand as we honor the reading of God's Word together this morning. Hear now God's word from Matthew chapter 2, starting in verse 1. Now, after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days of Herod the king. Behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he who has been born, king of the Jews? For we saw his star when it rose, and have come to worship him When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. And assembling all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born They told him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for so it is written by the prophet. And you, O Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are by no means least among the rulers of Judah. For from you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel. Then Herod summoned the wise men secretly and ascertained from them what time the star had appeared And he sent them to Bethlehem, saying, Go and search diligently for the child, and when you have found him, bring me word that I too may come and worship him. After listening to the king they went on their way. And behold, the star that they had seen when it rose before them, until it came to rest over the place where the child was When they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy. And going into the house they saw the child with Mary his mother, and they fell down and worshipped him Then, opening their treasures, they offered him gifts, gold, and frankincense, and myrrh, and being warned in a dream not to return to Herod, they departed to their own country by another way This is the word of the Lord this morning. Let's pray together. Father, we have gathered together at your calling into your presence now that we might worship you. Lord, you you know how weak and frail we are. You know that our days are but a a breath and the span of our life is but a vapor. You know how weak and needy we are and how how desperately we need so many things. And yet by gathering together this morning we we are confessing that the greatest thing we need, Lord, is you. We need to see you. We need to have you feed us from your word to strengthen us and sustain us, to to fill us with a greater knowledge of you and greater love for you. Lord, above all, we are like those Greeks who came to the disciples saying, Sir, we would see Jesus. We pray, Lord, that in this time that it's not merely that I would preach your word, Lord Jesus, but that you would preach yourself to your people. We ask that you would speak, Lord, for your servants are listening. Amen. Please be seated. Well the this story of the wise men or as a called in the the text the the magi. Th these men have become Christmas icons in in so many ways. They they are manger scene is incomplete without these three wise men standing next to the manger. We we sing songs about them. We three kings of Orient are traveling afar to come and see the Lord. Uh legend has given them names through through tradition, Balthazar, Melchior, and Kaspar. We have come to uh think of them as kings coming from different eastern nations and Many uh traditionally have seen significance in the gifts, gold being a picture of kingly authority. Uh frankincense, which is a a gum or a resin that was used in perfumes, really sweet smelling, uh signifying deity. Myrrh, which is also a sap-like substance that was used in perfume signifying um the fact that it was also used during the embalming process at times, signifying passion and death. There there's so many things that we've come to absorb about these wise men, and it's it's interesting to see that Matthew is the only gospel that mentions the wise men. And frankly, it's surprising to see how little of the wise men tradition actually shows up in the scriptures. First of all, nowhere in the scripture are we told that there were three wise men. That's something we've assumed from the number of gifts that are given. In fact, there may have been three, but there could have been two or as many as fourteen or fifteen, as some some have suggested. They're never called kings. There's there's no symbolic significance mentioned to their gifts in the text. In fact, it might not be too much of a stretch to say that of all the biblical Christmas stories, the story of the wise men in Matthew 2 is simultaneously the one that is most embellished and least understood. Because in all of our curiosity about the the number of the wise men, the the significance of the gifts, the nature of the star, if we're not careful, friends, we can miss the point that Matthew wants us to see from this text. Which is that the wise men are wise precisely because they respond appropriately to Jesus. In spite of all that stood in their way, they came to worship Christ. And this passage is really set up as a contrast between a wicked king and the wise men. So that's really what we're going to look at. We'll look first at the wicked king, and then we'll look at the wise men, and then we'll draw some applications for our lives today The wicked king. Who was Herod? There are a few different Herods that show up in the Gospels. This Herod that was ruling at the time when Jesus was born is the one that is known as Herod the Great. Most of all the information we have about him comes from the Jewish historian Josephus, who wrote in his antiquities a history of the Jewish people. And he tells us that Herod was not Jewish. He was uh Edumian, uh coming from the the nation to the south of Judea and Jerusalem, the same area geographically that at one time was inhabited by uh the nation of Edom. If you read through the Old Testament, you'll know that's the descendants of Esau. So these these are cousins of the Jews, but they are not the Jewish people. Herod came from a political family, maybe much like we think of with the Kennedys or some other political dynasty in in our own nation. He was well connected and he was influential with Rome. And so in around 37 B. C. he would have been appointed king of Judea there to rule as the king. Herod is maybe most famous for some of his building projects that he oversaw, not the least of which was the temple that features so prominently in the Gospels. He had the temple rebuilt. And it's this this second temple that Herod had built that is um well known and uh is uh the one that features in in Jesus' ministry whenever he comes to the temple in in Jerusalem. Aside from those accomplishments, though, Herod comes to us through history as one who is paranoid and egotistical. He is worried about losing his position, so he built many fortresses. In fact, and we we are told that at some point in his reign he had his favorite wife executed. And in addition to that, two of his sons executed because of rumors that they wanted to take the throne from him. In fact, in his will, he left instructions. The Lexum Bible Dictionary gives us some of these instructions that number one that at the at his death to execute the recently imprisoned Jewish elders so that the people would be mourning during his death, and two, to execute his son Antipater. Here's the point of all this. Herod, we see, is not the legitimate Davidic king. He is not in the line of David. He's not the legitimate one who rules on David's throne, as Matthew has been making the case. throughout chapter one that Jesus is the rightful king. But on top of that, Herod was a wicked king. And we see that the way he acts in Matthew chapter 2 is consistent with this picture that we have of him. And so it's no surprise that Herod is troubled when he hears of the news of Christ's birth. And in verses two and three, we're told there that he had appointed Herod had appointed was appointed the king over the Jews. But the wise men come asking about Jesus, who was born king of the Jews. And notice it doesn't say born to become king of the Jews. No, he was born king. And at Christ's birth, it is an immediate threat to Herod's reign. And so it's no surprise that he gathers the priests and the scribes, all the theological experts, to ask the question: where is the Christ to be born? Now I don't I don't know if you caught that, but Herod is pretty astute and knowledgeable of the Old Testament scriptures at this point in the fact that he recognizes that this king of the Jews, this son of David, was also the promised Messiah, the Christ. He connects those two together and immediately knows that this king and this messiah are the same person. And yet it doesn't lead him to worship, but as we'll see, it leads him to plot in order to protect his his own power and position. Well he asked the scribes where he was to be born, and they say, in Bethlehem. And they cite a passage from Micah 5, verse 2, which states that the Christ, the Messiah, is to be born in Bethlehem, just as David was. The passage in Micah 5, chapter 2, is this, but you, O Bethlehem Ephratha, who are too little to be among the clans of Judah From you shall come forth for me one who is to be ruler in Israel, whose coming forth is from of old, from ancient days. It's interesting to see the difference in the way that Matthew quotes that passage compared to the way it's written there in Micah 5. 2. We've seen already in Matthew's gospel that when he quotes Old Testament prophets, he's doing so under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is quoting himself, right? And so Matthew's not doing anything illegitimate with the text here. And in fact we see that the point he's making is actually the same, even though he uses slightly different words. Micah says, you who are too little to be among the clans of Judah, and Matthew says of Bethlehem, you are by no means least among the rulers of Judah. That's not a conflict. It's actually consistent because the point that Matthew is making is that while Bethlehem is a small city, right? We just sang oh little town of Bethlehem, the significance is found in being the place where Messiah is born. Bethlehem is small and insignificant, yet has honor bestowed on it William Henderson in his commentary uh retranslates it this way to bring out the sense. It's as if Matthew said, Though you Bethlehem are but little, yet you are by no means least, for Israel's ruler shall come forth from you. So Herod hears all this news and finds out where the Messiah is to be born, and so he immediately begins to devise a plan. And we only find out what that plan is if we read on to the rest of chapter two, because in verses thirteen and following we're told that Herod's plan is to destroy the Christ. And in order to do that, he has all the male children in Bethlehem, two years old or under, put to death in an effort to destroy Christ. He's just revealing the wickedness that's in his heart. But though this is his plan, he can't let on to the wise men what he's thinking. And so he pretends To want to worship Christ. And he sends them ahead of him to find Christ and report back to him, saying, Let me know when you find him so that I can come and worship him as well. He at this point the wise men have no reason not to believe him. So Herod doesn't feel the need to send any of his men along with them. He thinks he's deceived them sufficiently that they're going to go find the Messiah and report back. and then he can go and carry out his wicked plan. But this is the wicked king who is scheming and plotting all in order to preserve his own power and his position. It's interesting to see how he contrasts and compares with others in the story. The scribes and the priests, they understand the prophecy that the Christ will be born in Bethlehem, and yet there's no indication that any of them make the travels to visit. Herod knows the wise men are searching for Christ, and yet he wickedly determines to protect his position. In contrast to all of them, The wise men alone respond appropriately, and they travel far and wide in order to honor Jesus. There's all kinds of questions that we can ask when we find out who these wise men are. They're called magi. There's no evidence from the text that they were kings. In fact, the translation of wise men is probably pretty accurately captures the sense of who they were. Men who were interested in religion, in the stars, maybe in dreams. We think of Different points in other passages of scripture where where people are called in to interpret dreams, whether when Pharaoh has a dream in Genesis or when Nebuchadnezzar has a dream in Daniel. And among them are wise men who are brought in to interpret some of these dreams. And so that kind of captures the sense of who these men were and what their interests may have been. And we don't know where they came from. We're just told they came from the east. Possibly from Persia or Babylon, but we can't really be much more specific than that. But it is important to remember as we think about these wise men the influence that the exile would have had. on them. Remember that towards the end of Old Testament times, the the Jews, through their unfaithfulness, were exiled into the land of Babylon for 70 years. And eventually many of them were brought back to Jerusalem. But not all of them. There would have been pockets of Jewish communities all throughout the the region because of this exile. In fact, we see that play prominently in Paul's ministry in the book of Acts, right? Because no matter where he goes on his missionary journey We're told that the first thing he does is go to a synagogue. The only reason a synagogue was there is because there were Jewish people there who had come to be scattered through the exile. And so there would have been pockets of Jewish communities, and these wise men may very well have had access to the Jewish scriptures. And could have been very familiar with the prophecies concerning the Messiah. And that helps to explain why they would be so interested in in Jesus and his birth. And it also helps to explain why why they knew to follow a star and why they recognized in the star the significance that a king was born. They could have recognized passages such as Numbers 2417. A prophecy of the Messiah. I see him, but not now. I behold him, but not near, a star shall come out of Jacob, and a scepter shall arise out of Israel. It shall crush the forehead of Moab and break down all the sons of Seth There's a few passages in Isaiah that may have been on their minds. Isaiah 9. The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light. Those who dwell in a land of deep darkness, on them has light shone. For to us a child is born, to us a son is given, the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. of the increase of his government, and of peace there will be no end. On the throne of David, and over his kingdom to establish it and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness, from this time forth and for evermore, the zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this. Another passage that may well have been in their minds is from Isaiah 60. Arise, shine, for your light has come, and the glory of the Lord has risen upon you. For behold, darkness shall cover the earth, and thick darkness the peoples, but the Lord will arise upon you, and his glory will be seen upon you, and nations shall come to your light, and kings to the brightness of your rising That passage may explain why some people throughout church history have thought that these were kings in fulfillment of that passage And j just as a side note, we we really don't know any details about the star. There's all kinds of uh suggestions of what it could have been. Some have thought it was a comet. Others have thought it was an alignment of planets similar to what we're told is happening tomorrow for the first time in in many, many years. Others have thought it was a a supernatural star. At the end of the day There's not enough details given to know the nature of the star. All we know is that there was a star, that the wise men connected the dots and in some sense followed the star to find Christ. We know that what the text says is true. But we don't know any details beyond what the text tells us. So in some way the star led them to Jerusalem, and they began to ask around when they come into the city, where is he who has been born king of the Jews? And the whole city is stirred up and troubled. Eventually Herod hears, and we saw that he was troubled. Likely the city was troubled because Herod was troubled, because when Herod panicked, bad things happened. Herod told them to go to Bethlehem. They followed the star again and eventually found the house where Jesus was. Notice he's he's not at the stable anymore. So the wise man at the manger, that that's kind of mixing two things together that that we don't know how long it was. Maybe it was a few days, maybe a few months. Uh less than two years in light of Herod's decision to to have two years old and younger be the cutoff age for the children that he was going to to have killed. Uh but beyond that time frame, we don't really know how to narrow it down much more precisely. But again, the whole point to see here is that these are details that Matthew isn't concerned to record. And the reason for that is found in verse 11. And going into the house they saw the child with Mary, his mother, and they fell down and worshipped him. You see, Matthew doesn't want the focus of this story to be on the wise men. He wants it to be on the one they came to see. Because these men traveled long distances, far and wide, miles of desert, in order to come and worship this child who they recognized as the king of the Jews. They laid costly gifts down at his feet. It is an interesting question, isn't it? How much did they really understand about who this child was? Did they know that Jesus was God in the flesh? Did they understand why he came, as we saw last week, to save his people from their sins? I'd like to know, but the text just doesn't tell us, does it? All we're told is they knew that he was a king, and they humbly approach him as their superior. Bringing gifts, and they fall down and worship him. And notice, friends, they weren't told to stop Jesus receives their worship even though he's a young child. And they did this because they responded rightly. Gentiles from a foreign land coming, traveling far and wide to worship the King of Kings. You see, that's what makes these men wise men. They're like the woman who anointed Christ Christ with the precious ointment and all those who saw it said, What a waste. Why why are you wasting this precious gift that could have been sold and used uh a year's wages to give to the poor? And yet Jesus says, she's responded rightly, anointing me for burial. Wherever this gospel is told, her story will be remembered. Because she responded rightly to Christ. You see, these wise men stand as the opposite of the rich young ruler Instead of holding back their wealth, they freely give it to Christ, knowing that he is more precious than anything else. We saw the wicked king, see the wise man. Let's take a few moments and just think of how this relates to us. It really is a tale of two responses, isn't it? The foolish and wicked king hears the news of Christ's birth and begins plotting to destroy him. And the wise men stop everything they're doing, joyfully go to him to worship. I think the whole point of this passage is for us to turn the question to ourselves and ask: what about you? How will you respond to Jesus? Will you humble yourself before him and worship him? Giving him the most precious things that you have to give, right? Your gifts, your time, your reputation, your hopes, your dreams. The list can go on and on. Will you come to him in this way? Or will you end up despising him because at the end of it all you want to be in control of your life? Will your love of power, money, comfort, status, security, or whatever else it is, will it at the end of the day make you opposed to Christ? Remember, friends, Herod acted like he wanted to worship God, like he wanted to worship Christ. And the Israelites understood the prophecy, and yet none of them came. Maybe they were too busy. Maybe they had other things that were more important. I was struck by the parable that Jesus tells in Luke 14. When he tells the story, a man once gave a great banquet, and invited many. And at the time for the banquet he sent his servant to say to those who had been invited, Come, for everything is now ready. But they all alike began to make excuses. The first said to him, I I bought a field, and I must go out and see it. Please have me excused. And another said, I bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to examine them. Please have me excused. And another said, I've married a wife, and therefore I cannot come. So the servant came and reported these things to his master. Then the master of the house became angry and said to his servant, Go out quickly to the streets and the lanes of the city. And bring in the poor and the crippled and the blind and the lame. And the servant said, Sir, what you commanded has been done, and still there is room And the master said to the servant, Go out to the highways and the hedges and compel people to come in that my house may be filled, for I tell you none of those men who were invited shall taste my banquet Friends, what what is it that threatens to keep you from coming to Jesus in worship? Is it your work? Is it your kids' schedules? Is it your hobbies, your friends? What what are the things that that fight for your affection so that you've hold them so precious that Jesus just happens to get whatever's left over? I know for so many of us that that this pandemic has been a really difficult time, and some of you are busier than ever with certain things, but what if for some of us God gave us this pandemic in part? to take away all our excuses for being too busy for him. It's a painful thing to be faced with the fact that if we're not growing spiritually now, it might just be because we're not as concerned about him, not because we have all the distractions vying for our attention. Friends, this passage holds out before us the reality that you cannot be neutral towards Christ. You cannot have two masters. You will either love the one and hate the other, or hate the one and serve the other. You either love him or you hate him. You either serve him or you are opposed to him. Because this king demands your entire allegiance. He doesn't want what's left over. You'll either gladly submit and hold nothing back, or you will end up hating him because you want to be the center of your life. But friends, make no mistake, regardless of how you respond, the truth remains he is the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. And friends, this king is altogether lovely. Oh church, a day in his courts is better than a thousand elsewhere. His throne is forever and ever. Won't you come and worship him? Bow before him and kiss the Son, because one day, Paul tells us every knee will bow, and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Everyone either willingly or unwillingly will bow and fall before him like these wise men. And friends, if you are in Christ, you know that this is a daily call, isn't it? Yes, we come to him decisively in our conversion at the start of the Christian life, where we're decisively saved and enter into his kingdom. If you have walked with Christ for more than a few minutes, you know that the entire Christian life is a life of learning to trust Him, to follow Him, to delight in Him. A life of learning to deny ourselves and pray, Not my will but yours be done To love, adore, and glorify Him. Friends, in other words, the call of the Christian life is a call to be a worshiper. This is the core of who we are. This is why God made us to glorify him and to enjoy him forever. You ever thought about how the Bible tells us there's one thing that the Father seeks? The infinite, eternal, unchangeable God, the blessed God who is fully satisfied in himself, who lacks nothing, who wants for nothing, who needs nothing? He seeks one thing. The Father is seeking worshipers who will worship him in spirit and in truth. Friends, that's why this time on the Lord's Day morning, this is the most important thing that you and I do in our lives because this is what we were created for. This is practice for eternity, friends. And friends, this is why we preach the gospel to the lost. Because as John Piper has so famously said, missions exist because worship doesn't. See, we want to see people transferred into Christ's kingdom and transformed into Christ's likeness so that they can join us in proclaiming Christ's excellencies. And friends, he is indeed excellent, is he not? Because this king is a tender shepherd, one who makes you lie down in green pastures. One who leads you beside still waters. This king is compassionate and patient. He's a king who promised that he won't break a bruised reed. He won't snuff out a smoldering wick. He is gentle and lowly in heart. Friends, this king, when things get hard, he is with you. Just like David, as a shepherd boy, protected his sheep by fighting off bears and lions, he fights and defeats every single enemy that seeks to carry you off away from him, and he promises that no one can snatch you out of his hand. He will never lose track of one of his sheep. Because you are precious to him. Oh friends, this king, he is the God beyond all praising. And our glorious hope as his people is that one day you and I will spend eternity in his presence gazing upon his beauty. Have you ever thought about the fact that for all eternity we will be forever plumbing the depths of who He is, of His infinite goodness and glory and that there will always be more to him than we can grasp. We will never exhaust all that he is until we simply can't take it anymore. And like these wise men, we'll fall down and cast ourselves on the ground before him and say, holy, holy, holy. He's the God who was and is and is to come. Worthy is the Lamb who was slain to receive power and wealth and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing. Our friends, may your life be a life lived of pouring out all your treasures before Him in worship. There's so much we don't know about the magi. So many details that we wish we had that would satisfy our curiosity. And yet those details would distract us from what's most important, seeing how these men responded to Christ in worship and showing us that they truly were wise men. Friends, my prayer for you this Christmas is that you too would be wise. That you would follow in the path of these wise men and worship the King. Let's pray together. Oh God, you are all glorious and lovely, altogether beautiful and holy, Lord. We praise you and we worship you. We thank you that you have made us for yourself. And we know that our hearts are restless until we find our rest in you. Oh Lord, would you help us to grow in our faith and our love for you? May we grow in our ability to worship you more faithfully, week after week, month after month, year after year, that we might more and more behold your glory and long To spend eternity in your presence. We pray all this in Christ's name. Amen.