This is a day we have looked forward to and prayed for for a long time. Thank you. Thank you, first of all, for allowing me to journey with you. in these months uh that uh God has given me to be with you. It's just been a real joy. Um it's been fun to engage in your lives. It's been fun to see what God has done in And I look forward to that not ending um but continuing, and that's why today is a special day. That Doug can begin his uh labors uh even early. He doesn't officially start until tomorrow, but I think he started today. And it is a joy. Indeed. We've been looking over the last few weeks uh that I've been preaching at uh the account of uh two men walking And I want you to turn your Bibles to Luke chapter 24. But um like last week I'm gonna start early. So uh uh if you've got it on your Bibles you can uh look earlier than uh chapter than verse eighteen. Uh and uh if you don't look at it in your Bibles, just listen. But I'm gonna ask you to stand while I read the word of the Lord. This is the account of the two men on the road to Emmaus. And uh you remember that Jesus walked along and he came upon these two men. He appeared to them as they were walking And he asked them about what they were talking about. And they asked him the strange question Well, are you the only one that doesn't know what's been happening? And uh and so I want to begin with verse twenty. And they went on and they said, And how our chief priests and rulers delivered him up to be condemned to death and crucified. But we had hoped that he was the one to redeem Israel. Yes? And beside all this, it's now the third day since those Moreover, some of our women, the women of our company, they amazed us. They were at the tomb early in the morning, and when they didn't find his body, they came back saying that they didn't even seen a vision of angels who said he was alive. Some of those who were there went with us and they went to the tomb and they found it, just as the women had said. But him they didn't see. And he said to them, O foolish ones, and small of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken, wasn't it necessary that the Christ should suffer these things and enter into his glory? So beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. So they drew near to the village to which they were going, and he acted as if he was going to go further. But they urged him strongly, saying, Stay with us, for it's toward the evening, and the day is now far spent. So he went in to stay with them. And when he was at table with them, he took the bread, blessed it, and broke it, and gave it to them. And their eyes were opened, and they recognized it. And then he vanished from their sight. And they said to each other, Didn't our hearts burn within us while he talked to us on the road? While he opened to us the scriptures? And they rose that same hour and returned to Jerusalem. And they found the eleven and those who were with them gathered together, saying, The Lord has risen indeed. And he appeared to Simon. And then they told what happened on the road, and how he was known to them in the breaking of the bread. As they were talking about these things, Jesus himself stood among them. And said to them, Peace be to you. But they were startled and frightened and thought they'd seen a spirit And he said to them, Why are you troubled? Why do doubts rise in your heart? See my hands, my feet? It's I, myself, touch me and see, for a spirit doesn't have flesh and bones as you see that I have. And when he said this, he showed them his hands, his feet And while they still disbelieved for joy and were marveling, he said to them, Have you anything here to eat? And they gave him a piece Piece of boiled fish, and he took it and ate it before them. It's the word of the Lord. Let's pray. Father, allow us this morning to journey with you. And we can't do that unless you come to us Us. Father, would you cause our hearts to burn while we journey with Jesus? Move us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. I want to ask you to think back in your memory When um you were maybe with somebody that was so special that it made you feel like you could somehow tackle the world. Can you think of that person? Think of that occasion, think of that time. Uh maybe it was a a moment when you actually realize that You were in love with them. Um many of us are married, and you I hope can remember that time. I can remember that moment And I I didn't ask this is a confession. I didn't I never asked Debbie to marry me. And ch yet I That's true. I didn't. I just asked her to grow old with me. She has. I I mean I've grown old with her It's that moment. It's that moment when our hearts burn within us. And for most of us, it's not a single moment, it's not just one person, but it's more than one occasion. There's something that comes to us, and we think, yes, I can do this. My heart burns within me. If you've never had that moment, you have missed something big And if you can't look back and realize that it's not just a moment, but multiple moments, multiple people, multiple occasions, when your heart burned within you for the next thing. For the fulfillment of that moment. That's what we're looking at in this text. These two men Why is it I'm preaching about two men on Mother's Day? I I I heard that question in your head. There's something sort of amazing in this particular text. These two men, as they walk along. They reflect on what it is that God had done in Jerusalem. Jesus comes along and they they reveal The w what you and I know and feel and shouldn't be surprised at, but we actually tend to pass over it even when we read the text. They rehearse what had happened. And they say, well, with hope that he was the one to redeem Israel. And besides all this, it's the third day. Moreover, they kept going. Some of the women of our company amazed us. It's like, all right guys, just listen to the women once Or twice? No. They were amazed. But clearly women were wrong. And so Jesus Sat down with them, blessed the bread, and broke it. And their eyes were opened. And then they said, didn't our hearts burn within us? We had a presbytery meeting this last uh week on Tuesday Tuesday. And um there was a uh a new member of the presbytery that was taken in. He was taken actually under care. He's a a fairly new Muslim convert Comes from Afghanistan. And as is our custom in Presbytery, when somebody's taken under care, they are asked to share their testimony. Uh and uh so his testimony of coming he he's from a Muslim family, uh was a a a pretty dynamic testimony Uh his father, his parents had opposed him. In fact, he didn't let them know, he didn't tell them that he he was investigating Christianity, that he was having anything to do with a Christian. Because he knew what would happen once he found out And as he was struggling with the question of is God real? He particularly prayed that God would, if he was real, would somehow make it clear. that he was real. He said he got up one morning, somehow nothing seemed to be quite the same n or quite different. It was just one more Day. If you're real. Then he described what he went out the door. He said it was almost like he couldn't see anything Everything was brilliant and bright. Every place he looked, there was a new hope, there was a new something that he saw. Everything in life, people that he began to meet He had something new to tell them. There was something that had charged his soul. I thought, yeah. Your heart was burning. It was on fire. Maybe you remember that day in your own life Where you were discouraged, depressed maybe, uncertain And God made a revelation to you personally where you could understand, I need Jesus. And there's this Awareness that you could describe as a blinding light, but a sudden awareness, I need that. And I could live with that forever. That's the story. That's the story. As he spoke, the men said, Didn't our hearts burn? within us. So here's the thing. Burning hearts require listening hearts. They their hearts would have never burned had they not been listening. Now that seems like a straightforward proposition, doesn't it? But when we go on in our Christian lives, we sometimes feel like it's fine. Still beating, but it's not burning. It's not even warm Where'd he go? Where did Jesus go? Maybe it's because we stopped listening. We're no longer ready to hear his word. In the same way. The two men were actively walking with Christ. That's true. He had sought them out. They weren't walking on the road to Emmaus thinking, wouldn't it be nice if Jesus showed up? I uh, you know, they were talking all about Jesus. But there's no indication that they ever prayed, Jesus, show up for us. They were just lost. Disappointed, discouraged. And Jesus did show up. And then he begins to open scripture. So burning hearts require God's voice. Even in my life in my inviting Debbie to grow old with me, it was about the purpose that got had for us. That's what I saw. There was something that I couldn't do unless I had her next to me. Me. I couldn't do what God was calling me to do. I needed somebody else. I think it was that same awareness that probably hit Adam when he woke up. And saw the eve that God had made for him. So when Jesus opened Scripture, it was the hearing of God's voice. It was the recognition there was something new that these two men needed to do. It was a purpose, it was a new vision. So there's no book, there's no conversation, there's no blog, there's no wise counselor that's going to do this for you. It can't replace Scripture. It cannot replace God's voice in your heart and soul. Only the words of God. Sometimes we do feel cold. Sometimes we do feel like God is a million miles away and he cannot be imminent. He has to be so transcendent that even the web telescope is not going to discover anything God did. Our hearts are that cold. And we think, no. Whatever I used to feel, I don't feel it anymore. But he's there. He is there. He does walk with us. He is not silent. But our ears are sometimes Deaf. I've got two deaf ears. I know very well what I don't hear when the both of my hearing devices are out We often attempt our walk with God without our hearing devices in our ears. W has to shake me awake. She can't talk to me awake. Doesn't do any good. I don't hear an alarm clock anymore. It's pretty neat Except when you want to wake up. And they not only have a burning heart with a new something, but the text tells us as soon as they thought about that burning heart, what happened? Well, they got up, verse thirty three says. That very hour You remember they had gone as they were ready to go on past Emmaus. They begged Jesus, come stay with us. The day is far spent. Eat with us. I don't know how long it took to prepare a meal. But the day was far spent. When they realized who Jesus was, and when they felt that burning of their heart. At that very hour, they left and went back to Jerusalem. And they spoke about the assurance that they had. They found the eleven, those that were there, gathered together, saying, yes, well the Lord even has appeared to Simon. They say, hey, listen. Me too. Us two. Let us tell you what happened. And the two men told what had happened on the road And how they'd recognize Jesus in the breaking of the bread. Verse 35. So there was this deep sense, yes He is risen indeed. He has risen. There's no question about it. There was this full assurance from the accomplished fact that Jesus had risen. Once they doubted. Once they struggled with the events. They struggled with their own lives. But now they could say, indeed, it's true. We saw him. He was with us. Our hearts have burned with his presence. So I want you to think of the times you've doubted Think of the times you've doubted somebody else, somebody else, and think of the times you've doubted God They're not warm times when we think of doubt. But even as we have declared doubt in our hearts So also we can with the disciples declare certainty Yes, indeed. He has risen. He has risen for me. He has walked with me Yes, indeed, I've had deaf ears. I've had a dumb heart. But indeed, he has stirred my heart. And that's what keeps me moving. That's what takes me to the next day. So what am I asking you to do? To do the same thing that these two men did, agree with the women. Just pretty basic, isn't it? Just agree with him. Why why was it that we didn't believe the women? They said they went down to the tomb, they found it empty, And we made up a story that said they made up a story that they saw a vision of some gardener. We didn't believe it. We doubted. We all doubt. We all doubt. And all God wants us to do is declare, not just doubt, but declare, it is true. He is risen for me. declare it with women. So assurance doesn't come just by affirming the strong. Some phones, it comes by affirming the weak The women were considered weak. What could they know? They couldn't interpret things well. And these two men Needed to affirm who they were. So here's the thing. How do you know you're loved? How do you know you're loved in life Well, I get special gifts. If all you got was uh and and I'll ask you mothers for a moment here, if all you got was a special gift gift on Mother's Day. And the other three hundred and sixty-four days a year you got a hassle Uh do you feel loved? It's a great special gift, right? And we try to purge, we men and sons, try to purge our failures with a single gift. It doesn't work. So the proof actually comes in the living. It's in the daily journey with each other. And it's in the daily journey with Jesus. That's what assures our hearts. It's that daily journey. That we can say he is risen indeed. I've walked with him. I've heard his voice And at one time it has deeply set me on fire. I need that fire again. And that's what we read happened. There was this empowered living that happened that very hour, that very hour, when they left and they returned to Jerusalem. Jerusalem, where they found the eleven. And when they listened to their experience, and when they shared their experience, the sharing of the experience They realized God had taken them from doubt, uncertainty, deafness to certainty. Sure. And burning hearts. And the burning hearts cause them to go. And that's where we often fail. Oh. Isn't it nice to have this wonderful experience with Jesus? We have a large section of our so-called greater Christian population that likes to live their Christian lives as if their relationship to God was all personal. It's all about me, Jesus. You and me can have this great relationship. You speak to me, I'll speak to you, you show me special things. Isn't it nice. Well that's not where I read in the text. What I read in the text is my heart burned and I got to go tell somebody I'm not alone. I don't live alone. And Jesus doesn't cause my heart to burn to be alone. He puts me with his people. Imagine um I think all of us have been at one time or another beholden to a salesman Who wanted to sell us something. It doesn't matter what they're trying to sell. But most salesmen, this is why I can't do sales, they press the moment You know, they sort of look at you, and um if you've ever uh gone to look for a car, you know that they want you to sign on the line right then and there. Don't go home and think about it That's bad. Just sign. You like it? You deserve it. Just sign on the line. Don't think. That's good salesman. But it's not Bible. It's not scripture. But there is that sense of immediacy that comes when our hearts burn We do something about it. We don't wait. We do something. The text tells us that as they were talking about these things, Jesus appeared again. And that appearance left them shocked. Well, why should they have been shocked? Hadn't they been wondering where Jesus was? Hadn't they just been sharing that yes, Jesus appeared to Simon, Jesus appeared to us on the road? Why should they have been shocked? But they were. The text says they were frightened. They thought they'd seen a spirit. They were all dumb. They were dumber than the women. The women confessed that they saw things. This is a vision, some sort of a dream. We don't know what it was But there was Jesus was. And in that shock, Jesus spoke to their broken hearts, and he said, peace. Peace be to you. Be at rest. And his words brought healing to those Hearts. As a congregation, we have walked through a long season. We have walked through a season Of difficulty, of pain. Why should it surprise us that when God shows up and brings somebody that has a vision But this congregation, like, well it's not your turn yet. He shows up. Why are we surprised? He says, peace be with you. Though your hearts have been troubled, receive my peace. He did to his disciples. He's done it with you Yes, there were doubts and fears. Verse 38 talks about that. Why are you troubled? Jesus asked. Why do doubts arise in your hearts? There he was in their midst. Surely there could be no more doubt, no more uncertainty. But there still was It's not all over. That is our journey with Jesus. The doubts do arise, the uncertainties do arise, and they will arise in your heart. As they do in my heart. And Jesus still shows up. And he asks us, So why are these things in your heart. Look at me. Look at what I've done. Look at my hands, look at my feet I suffered for you. The disciples were sort of taken up with their own suffering, just like we Do. We focus on our suffering, not on the suffering of Christ. Jesus said, just look. Look at my hands, look at my feet. It was for you. Peace needs to penetrate your doubt and your fear. Even when you're gathered in the presence of each other, when you're gathered in Jesus' presence, when you worship here. Recognize those doubts. Recognize those fears. And say Jesus again. And so he invites you, he invites me, to touch, to look, to experience his presence. Looking at your life. Looking at Jesus in your life. And sharing that with each other. Pastor Doug's going to guide you in that. You heard his story. You'll hear other stories. You'll hear your own stories It's Jesus working among us, taking our cold hearts, taking our deaf ears. Speaking to us, making our hearts burn within us again, and say, Yes, Jesus, I see what you've done. And I want to invite you if it's been a long time since your heart burned, and if your heart is never burned with the presence and the power of Christ. Let today be the day where there's something in you that says, I don't have what he's talking about. I've never seen Jesus. He's not worked in my life. What's there to be excited about? But today Be the day of your burning heart. Don't just look back and remember your doubts. and your fears. Our doubts and our fears will always be with us. Jesus calls us to tell him our troubles and to experience his presence. Walk with him. Be blessed. And be a blessing. Let's pray. Father, thank you. That in the coldness and the hardness, sometimes Sometimes just the indifference in our lives. You remind us of all the Our amazing God has done in history. Of all that our amazing God has done in our lives, in our families. And we confess to you the pain, the pain that we've experienced, and the doubts, the doubts that we can pa even in any way possible get And we confess to you our fears. Our fears that none of this is really real. In our confession, would you draw near to us again For we walk on our own roads. And we have walked without you. Now, Lord Jesus, make our hearts burn within us. That we might have a new vision for our own lives. And that we might have a renewed vision for what you would do. In us as a congregation, and through us to the world around us. So move we pray In Jesus name. Amen.