A reading from Isaiah forty this morning. Comfort, comfort my people, says your God. Speak tenderly to Jerusalem and cry to her that her warfare is ended, that her iniquity is pardoned. that she has received from the Lord's hand double for all her sins. A voice cries, In the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord. Make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be lifted up, and every mountain and hill be made low. The uneven ground shall become level in the rough places a plain And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. A voice says, Cry, and I said, What shall I cry? All flesh is grass, and all its beauty is like the flower of the field. The grass withers, the flower fades when the breath of the Lord blows on it. Surely the people are grass The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God shall stand forever. Go on up to a high mountain, O Zion, herald of good news. Lift up your voice with strength. O Jerusalem, herald of good news, lift it up, fear not. Say to the cities of Judah, Behold your God, behold, the Lord God comes with might. And his arm rules for him. Behold, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him. He will tend his flock like a shepherd. And gently lead those that are young, are with young. Man, enclosed the dust of the earth in a measure, and weighed the mountains in scales and the hills in a balance? Who has measured the spirit of the Lord, or sh what man shows him his counsel? Whom did he consult, and who made him understand? Who taught him the path of justice and taught him knowledge and showed him the way of understanding? Behold, the nations are like a drop from a buckle To whom then will you liken God, or what likeness compare with him him. An idol? A craftsman casts it, and the goldsmith overlays it with gold and casts for it silver chains. He who is too impoverished for an offering chooses wood that will rot will not rot. He seeks out a skillful craftsman to set up an idol that will not move. Do you not know? Do you not hear? Has it not been told you from the beginning? Have you not understood from the foundations of the earth Scarcely are they planted, scarcely, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing, and the other thing. To whom then will you compare me that I should be like Like him, says the Holy One. Lift up your eyes on high and see who created these? He who brings out their host by number, calling them all by name, by the greatness of his might Why do you say, O Jacob, and speak, O Israel, My way is hidden from the Lord, and my right is disregarded by my God God, have you not known? Have you not heard? The Lord is the everlasting God, the creator of the ends of the earth. He does not grow faint or grow weary. His understanding is unsearchable He gives power to the faint, and to him who has no might, he increases strength. Even youth shall faint and be wary, and young men shall fall exhausted But they who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings like eagles. They shall run and not be wary. They shall walk and not faint. Amen. Please be seated. Thanks, Bethany. We don't normally read that much, but Isaiah 40 is awesome. We are looking in this series about being in the presence of greatness. Before we begin, Julie and I went to RUF at UMBC on Monday, and that was awesome. We uh made a meal for them or uh a snack and so hopefully you can some of you can sign up and do that. I would really love for our church to like super be connected with them. So this was right down the side Street. Also, when Chris decided to leave RUF at Maryland, I called Russ Whitfield and said I'd be happy to fill in as long as you need. I can drive down there a couple days a week and I didn't get to. That would be fun. I s I l I love RUF so much. Um I ended up doing like fifteen years of campus minister And um I was thinking well I'll tell you why, uh this is on my mind, but freshman Bible study Every year we did Sermon on the Mount, in the dorms, in this like a community room, and one year one of the freshmen, her name was Emily. And she uh already was taken by this guy named Levi, who wasn't at OU. And so she was just sort of waiting until she graduated, and then she married Levi They became members of our church. They had three kids. They were married 16 years Levi. Beat stomach cancer. So we prayed for Levi so many, many times. It was amazing, a miracle that he survived. But yesterday at noon I got a text that Levi died in a mountain climbing accident. Uh it was one of the things he was doing a lot of. He was a firefighter, his normal job, and they were flipping houses, but He and these other guys would go ice climbing and mountain climbing and all this stuff. And so just suddenly, instantly, he's gone. And so I spent a lot of yesterday crying for Emily and the kids and thinking about Levi and uh what a great, great man And so like the text today is personal I really worked mostly on Friday on this on the sermon, so I didn't know this was gonna happen obviously. He died on Friday, but I got the text on Saturday So I don't know what you're going to be thinking about when we talk about this stuff, but I'm thinking about Levi. You think about your thing Okay. I'm surprised I'm not crying actually. All must be well. All must be well. Thanks for picking that one. So we're talking about greatness, and today I want to ask you, what did you used to think was great? And now you've changed your mind. Remember how awesome your palm pilot was? Remember how much you liked the Backstreet Boys? Remember how great 90s Christian music was? You remember when you got your freshman year in college, if you went to college and you thought 9 a. m. classes were awesome because it wasn't like high school, and then you realized, no, 1 p. m. classes are awesome. Forget 9 a. m. I'm not getting up anymore Remember how you used to like funions and Garfield and Olive Garden? Maybe you still do, it's okay. Fine. But one good thing is like go back and I'll put this in the Wednesday email. Watch the 1984 Steve Jobs when he introduced the first Macintosh computer. And how everyone thought it was awesome. We're a little past that, right? So a lot of things fade Go out of style, get replaced, wear out, we move on, we don't have 1G iPhones anymore So we're we're not singing it's Friday anymore, right? So things get reset, things get a part two. Maybe what we thought was great wasn't great after all. Isaiah 40 is the change, the transition in the book. It's sort of the the beginning of the rest. We talked last week about the beginning of the book. We ended with the Lord sending an angel and destroying the armies, the Assyrian armies that were camped outside of Jerusalem. We talked about Hezekiah. So now we're moving to the to the next piece where Isaiah is looking forward ahead to what's going to happen. Isaiah at this point now is sixty-nine years old. He is going to die. A little bit later. Hezekiah, remember he had fifteen more years. This is now the end. He only has three more years. He's gonna die when Isaiah is 72. And when Isaiah dies, the tradition says that he died at the hands of Manasseh Who took over from Hezekiah? Hezekiah's son, Manasseh, did not like Hezekiah, did not like Isaiah, and had him sawn in two. That's pretty much Much not like him. So Isaiah is preaching ahead to the Babylonian captivity This is around, you know, 700 B. C. The Babylonian captivity is going to take place in 586. So ahead, and this is the reason why a lot of people think Isaiah didn't write the book of Isaiah is because how can you write about something Hundred and thirty years ahead of time. Well, if God is God then you can. If God's not God, then you can't So if if we don't believe this, we're certainly not going to believe that Jesus Christ came as God Himself, man. This is a teeny tiny miracle compared to that, isn't it? You'll also hear because people don't believe in supernatural things that it's most likely true that this book was put together by a bunch of different people. There's this theory called the J-E-P-D thing. It means that some of the Bible was written by Jehovahists and some of the Bible was written by Elohimists. Because they use different names for God, right? And some of the Bible is written by the priests, and some of the Bible is written by the Deuteronomists, the law people, right? And so people will sort through even the book of Isaiah and try to figure out who wrote what. I'll I'll put another article that's funny because it uh uses that same theory about Winnie the Pooh. And the per the author is like, well sometimes you It's called Winnie the Pooh, and sometimes it's called Pooh, and sometimes it's called the Bear. And so obviously different people wrote this. It can't be the same person. Poking fun at this little theory So, yeah, you know, it's okay if somebody comes back and edits Isaiah. That's fine. It doesn't really bother us. But we're going to take it as a whole that Isaiah wrote this. So I have three questions today as our points. The first question is: who is able to save us? Who is able? So, God's people are going to be exiled in Babylon. That's hard for us to imagine, isn't it? Being completely banished from your homeland, carded off, even, taken away Everything you know is devastated, everything is all gone, and God's people are chastened, defeated, and they're wondering, is this This the end has God given up on us. Okay, we are not in that place as of people right now, thankfully. I mean Canada might zoom down eventually one day. But we may feel exiled, out of place. Um maybe you feel like you're not in the spot you should be in professionally or relationally In some ways I feel like people that are going through uh some some sort of gender dysphoria feel exiled in the exile in their own body. I'm not in the right spot with myself is how they feel. So this could speak to that. But but wherever Where do you need saving? Where do you need help? What trap do you feel like you're in? And is there anyone able to save us? Now, the person to save you is not you. It's always amazing like when you give advice, like, you know, yeah, if I could do that, I'd do it. Right? Stop eating at snacks at night? Okay, yeah, I'm not able to do that. Start exercising. I would if I could. I don't know why I can't. Our willpower hits a wall at some point. There's a famous Bob Newhart episode, right, where he's a counselor, remember? And he a woman is in front of him and she tells her whole thing and he's he finally like, okay, stop. W just stop. Don't do that anymore. Stop. Stop. And like, that doesn't work. That's not great advice, Bob. Just stop. Okay. I came in, paid you 200 bucks for you to tell me to stop We need an intervention, and the Bible says only God is able to save us. That is the point of Isaiah 42. And he talks about how great God is who can save us, right? 12 through 31 is about how God is so freaking awesome. Unbelievable. Okay, so I got some slides to rem to remind you. Okay, the first one is who measured the waters in the hollow of his hand? How much do you think you can hold? What we want to try, not not a bottle, certainly not this. So I did some looking. There's three hundred and twenty-six million cubic miles of water. A cubic mile is exactly what it sounds like. A cube that's a mile long on all sides. One cubic mile is one trillion gallons, so the math says. What's the next slide? Whoa. I don't even know how to say that. That's a lot of gallons of water, right? Okay, next one is, next slide, Earth. Okay, this is a simple formula to figure out how heavy the earth is. F equals GM1 times M2 divided by R2 times F Right? Okay, wait, G that's gravity. G is gravity. Uh and whatever that is, I don't know. And so the so the re how you measure the earth is pretty hard on a scale. So you have to figure out the what's being displaced by another planet, right? Okay, so what's the how heavy is the earth? Whoa! Don't know how to say that either. That's a lot of pounds of heaviness, right? In addition, if you has anyone been skydiving? Hard has. I've been three times, three times. It is breathtaking. Uh you go up around ten thousand feet maybe, and normally it lasts like forty seconds, which sounds crazy, but it's a You don't have another 40 seconds of your life like this. But if you took off, you know, imagine this thought experience. Experiment. If you left the crust of the earth and you skydive to the center of the earth, how long would it take? 38 minutes. It's a lot farther than you would think, really. It's a bigger planet than you realize. Okay, but what about space? We have a whole nother space. The sun is ninety-three million miles away. The the closest star that's not the sun is that one. 4. 2 light ye 4. What? Two, four light years away. A light year is five point eight eight trillion miles. The Milky Way is a hundred thousand light years. Oh a mistake. Oops. Across. Okay, what's the next one? Oh, so this is how far across the Milky Way is. Okay, and then I think I have one more Oh yeah. This is how many stars are in the Milky Way, 400 billion. If you were to count each one, it would take 3,000 years. So let's not do it. There are an estimated two trillion galaxies. Okay, so then Oh, there's more. There's a whole nother line of zeros underneath this. So it's all those zeros plus a whole nother line of the exact same zeros. 800 bazillion. That's a big universe, right? And what does God say? I can mark it off with my span in my hand. I don't know if it's this way or this way. Doesn't matter. He can hold the waters He can measure the mountains and the hills. He marks off the heavens with the span of his hand. That is who we are talking about. Is he able to save? You bet. You bet. You know when you go on a plane and you can see the stuff and sometimes you're close enough you can see the car. You can't see the people in the cars, can you? So you'd have to be pretty close. But we are like grasshoppers. He says we're like nothing. It's m m so minuscule We're like grass and flowers that fade away. Think of the great world figures. The pharaohs and the kings and the dictators and the presidents, the generals, the philosophers, the writers, the pop stars, the sports heroes, the Nobel Prize winners Think of the nations, Assyria, Babylon, the Greeks, the Romans, the empires, drops in the bucket to him. Zip up. God is outside of time and space completely He encompasses all. He sees all. And so, okay, maybe you think this whole world was made by a big bang. Fine. How did that happen? Science has no answer for that question. We got all of this from nothing. I mean it's a miracle And how big it is. Wow. And so then what Isaiah does is he looks at All of that, and look at verse 18, to whom then will you liken God? If that's who we're talking about? What likeness compares with him? The Babylonians were super into astronomy. I mean they worshipped the heavens. They worship the stars and the planets. And God says, What do you what do you you think is like me? An idol A craftsman casts it, a goldsmith overlays it with gold, and casts it out for silver chains. He who is too impartial for an offering chooses wood that will not rot. He seeks out a skillful craftsman to set up an idol that will not move. Idols? Come on, people. That's what Isaiah is like, come on. No. And we have idols Who is able to save? Somebody who can do all that is able. So now we get to the next question Who is willing to save? Ability and willingness are not the same thing, right? It's a different question. Because Remember back ten, twelve years ago, Sufion? We have any Sufion fans? I listened to Sufion Steven so much that it got banned in our house. It was like, stop, please, okay. And he's got this one song about Chicago, going to Chicago. And a big part of that song i is the end it he talks over and over again, I made a lot of mistakes. I made a lot of mistakes. I made a lot of mistakes. And we could all say that. We've all made a lot of mistakes. And the Bible calls that sin, or in this passage, iniquity. Now remember, sin is doing wrong things, which we do a lot of wrong things. Sin is also not doing right things. Now that's a whole bigger category. You start looking at what you did wrong this week and then you're like what you could have done that you didn't do blows that way past that So we can all say that. And Isaiah's been talking about that through these chapters. He's been talking about it with Babylon and Assyria and even Judah. And we are all sinners at the hands of a holy, just righteous God who is angry about sin, not angry about us, angry about sin. Because we have blown it. And today, if you cannot say, I have made a lot of mistakes, I honestly gotta tell you the rest of Isaiah is not for you It's gonna fall on deaf ears. But even when we recognize our sin, hope often becomes Hard to find. We get disillusioned, don't we? We in our disappointment Often become convinced that hope won't come. It can happen. I was feeling that way yesterday. Here's just a little thing that when you feel that way, what do you do? Now this is a a non-Christian example, but it's fine. There's a song it's called um I Could Use a Love Song. And she says, I wish I didn't know so much. I peeked behind the curtain. Now that magic rush feels like a trick that isn't working. But I haven't lost all hope yet, and yeah, it's hurting but it ain't dead. I could use a love song. It takes me back. When it comes on, the a time when I wouldn't roll my eyes at a guy and a girl who make it work in a world. That for me so far just seems to go so wrong. Yeah. I could use a love song. Sometimes you need something, right? When you're feeling a little hopeless and you're like This is never gonna work. Something needs to happen. And and like she wants a love song, okay. She's not really feeling like relationships are working, so she needs a love song. We need hope. In the midst of when we're feeling this way, if we are, we're disappointed in our ideals, our careers, the people we trust, even in ourselves, what is going to change? How are we going to get salvation and rescue if we're in exile? If we're in the midst of mistakes, are we disqualified? And God, that God of the universe, says this, Isaiah 40, verses 1 and 2. Comfort, comfort my people, says your God. Speak tenderly to Jerusalem and cry to her that her warfare is ended, that her iniquity is pardoned, that she has received from the Lord's hand double for all her sins. Comfort. We need someone who knows us and listens to us and loves us and is honest with us. Even bringing judgment and assessment to us. We don't need someone who's like, all good, all good But we also need in that assessment a comfort, right? In the deepest places. And he says, comfort, comfort my people. God's trustworthiness and love does not end at our disobedience. Comfort has a content though, and that is pardoning iniquity, forgiveness And it says she has received double. Double forgiveness. Not double punishment. Double forgiveness. It's like, um, okay, if you get pardon, let's say you went to jail and you got pardoned, that's still on your record, isn't it? That makes life hard for you. And getting jobs or even getting an apartment or whatever. So okay, not pardon that way. It'd be like more like expunged It's off your record. No, it's not even like that. It's like you get somebody else's record. Like you became awesome Because that person gave you the awesomeness. You got that person's resume that you get to submit as your resume That's way past pardoning from jail or even expunging. It is set free by the utterly unmerited grace of God. Amen? He's not required. They've been warned, haven't they? He's not under any obligation to do any of this except himself, his character, his love for his people. He knows they will forsake him again. But he promises to redeem and to pardon. And why is he able to do that? Because he is. Is the king. Kings can pardon. Verses six through eight. A voice says, Cry, and I said, What shall I cry? All flesh is grass, and all the beauty is like a flower of the field, the grass withers. The flower fades, but the when the breath of the Lord blows on it, surely the people are grass. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God stands forever. Go up on the mountain. O Zion, herald of good news, lift up your voice with strength, O Jerusalem. Herald of good news, lift up, fear not To the cities of Judah, behold your God. Behold, the Lord comes with might, and his arm rules for him. Behold, he reward is with him, and his recompense before him. God is the king. Make way. Make way, Riley, the king is coming. To your apartment complex, to your cul-de-sac, all over the place. The topography is changing. We need new roads. And his word that he speaks is going to last forever. So when you know your sin, and when you know your need, and you know God's comfort, and you know his double pardoning forgiveness, what do you do? You worship. You tell everyone. Do you hide it under a bushel? No, we know the answer to that question. We herald it. We lift our voices to everyone we meet that we serve this saving God. The God who saves his people, not with programs from afar, not with theological concepts, not with social programs, not with moral improvements. He saves his people because the king comes. To town. All right. So a very good journalism question is so what? It's also a good sermon question. So what Our awesome Creator King, the God of all the universe, gives comfort, forgiveness, and life for his people. He comes as a king and a shepherd. Which is a little unusual. Forty verse eleven says that. Okay Well, Matthew 3, Matthew writes this. In those days, John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Judea. Repent for the kingdom of God is at hand. For this is he who is spoken of by the prophet Isaiah when he said, the voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make his path straight. Matthew says, John the Baptist is doing that for Jesus. Mark says, in the beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God As it is written in Isaiah the prophet, Behold, I send my messenger before your face who will prepare your way. The voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make his path straight Luke writes, as is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet, the voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make his path straight. Do you think John also wrote it? He did. In John 1, he said, John the Baptist is making the path straight. For Jesus Christ. So all the gospel writers have this text in their heads about Jesus: that Jesus is the creator, warrior, shepherd, king. Jesus is the one who saves and brings life and comfort. And he has come all the way down. He did not stay up. He came all the way down to Mary. in poverty, to walk, to eat with us, to save sinners, the king and the shepherd, the good shepherd, and the suffering servant, that is a weird mix That's who we're talking about. So the so what is will you give today To Jesus. I mean your life, yeah, but also give to him your sin and your worries and your hopelessness, your ceaseless strivings. Someone said that the hardest thing to give is in. To give in to being your own God or Savior or idol. Because so often at the end of this, right, he gives power to the faint And to him who has no might he increases strength. Even youth shall faint and be weary, and the young men shall fall exhausted. I don't know where today you feel Faint, no strength, weary, or exhausted? Probably somewhere. with your family, with your job, with your debt, with your car, child care, self control. I was thinking As we sort of hit now of fall weather back in Oklahoma in my house, I would be prepping my yard for the next summer Which is sort of weird to do. And like I worked on our grass for a long time and there was always stuff to do to make it look nice And and then the last time I was in Oklahoma, someone the person that bought our house let it all go. I wanted to knock on the door. But there's always stuff to do, always stuff to do. So many things with yards and grass and trees and organizations and our plans. Church, volunteering, ministry, and we can feel faint. And we can feel like God is hidden from us at times, and we can doubt. And there's two ways to doubt. The one way is to struggle to believe. Now, that doubting is open to belief. If you're struggling to believe, you're struggling. But another way to doubt is resisting belief. That's your arms are crossed and you cannot hear God if you're resisting. That's active. So today, are you willing to hear? Are you struggling at least? Or are you resisting blaming God, blaming the church, blaming your If you wait on the Lord, which ain't easy, is it, but if you wait on the Lord, you will have renewed strength. You will experience somehow soaring and running And even walking. Maybe not today, but yes, the king is coming. The king is coming, and he will settle all of this someday. And so when we wait, we're not just killing time. It's a steady longing, rugged progress toward the cross sustained by the conviction The display of God's glory came and comes and will come in Jesus Christ, and that is for us. So we can walk. Crawl. I mean, come on, move. On this pilgrimage of faith, hoping in God's promises Waiting and obeying and expecting on his terms, not ours. I've made a lot of mistakes. We can say that, right? But God saves people that make mistakes. That's the good news of the gospel for us today. He even says That he well listen, Matthew eleven, right? Come to me all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my rope yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle And lonely in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. You can find rest in Jesus. That is good news for all of us today, isn't it? Amen. Amen. We have several ways we can respond when we hear God's Word