Good morning. We're gonna continue this morning with our brief study in the Psalms of Ascent. Which as Pastor Josiah mentioned a couple weeks ago, these are the psalms that God's people would sing and recite as they made their trek to Jerusalem for worship. If you were paying attention during our our offering, the song you'll notice is based on Psalm 130, which is the Psalm we're going to be going over today. And those words were actually written by Martin Luther. uh several hundred years ago. And if you know anything about Martin Luther and how he struggled and wrestled with uh seeking for assurance of salvation before he uh was truly converted. Um You'll notice, I think, why he loves this psalm so much. And so if you find yourself this morning in the the depths of woe, I think this is a good song for you. So why don't we stand as we read God's word. Hear now God's word from Psalm 130. Out of the depths I cry to you, O Lord, O Lord, hear my voice. Let your ears be attentive to the voice of my pleas for mercy. If you, O Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? But with you there is forgiveness that you may be feared. I wait for the Lord. My soul waits, and in his word I hope My soul waits for the Lord more than watchmen for the morning, more than watchmen for the morning. Oh Israel, hope in the Lord, for with the Lord there is steadfast love. And with him is plentiful redemption. And he will redeem Israel from all his iniquities. This is God's word. Let's pray. Our Father, we come before you now and we are so thankful for your word, your word which is truth. Lord, we know that That your word is living and active, sharper than any double-edged sword and able to pierce to the to the division of soul and spirit. piercing us to the core and is able to change our lives, Lord. And so as we we come to your word now we ask, O Lord, that you would speak. Would you open our eyes to understand wonderful things from your law? Speak, O Lord, your servants are listening. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. You can be seated. Well, Judas Iscariot has gone down in history, and especially in the minds of most Christians, as the most notorious villain who has ever lived. He not only betrayed one of his closest friends for money, but his betrayal, he actually delivered the Son of God himself over to death. But when we think about Judas, one of the things we overlook frequently is how terrible he felt about what he did. I mean he regretted it almost immediately. And he he actually tried to return the money and to make it right. He was consumed with guilt. And eventually his profound guilt led to such loneliness and despair that eventually he took his own life. At the end of the day, though, I think we can actually all relate to Judas. You see, we all feel guilt at times We feel guilt because we are guilty. We have sinned against the holy God. We offend him. We hurt others. The question that we must face in this life is not, will I feel guilty for something I've done? You most certainly will. The question you have to face is, what will I do when I am consumed with guilt? Well, Psalm 130 gives us a picture of the right way to respond to our guilt, through repentance. You see, there's a difference between remorse and repentance. Most people feel remorse when they sin and when they harm others, to the extent that we're actually shocked and appalled when someone doesn't feel remorse. But remorse by itself is not repentance. Remorse leads to isolation and to despair. But Psalm 130 shows us that repentance leads to relationship and hope. Remorse drives us away from God, but in verses 1 through 4 we see that repentance leads us to draw near to God. This psalm begins on a note of desperation. The psalmist says that it's out of the depths that he cries to the Lord. You know, this is a picture of someone who is at rock bottom. Psalm 69 gives us a really helpful picture of what it looks like to be in the depths. The psalmist begins by saying, Save me, O God, for the waters have come up to my neck. I sink in deep mire, where there is no foothold. I have come into deep waters, and the flood sweeps over me. This is where the psalmist finds himself at the beginning of this psalm. There is nothing else he can do. He is crying out to the Lord, and he's begging God to hear and to answer him. Have you ever been in the depths? It's like you're drowning. You you can't keep your head above water. At any moment, you're gonna slip below the surface. There is nothing that you can do. You can't help yourself. Your only hope is to cry out to God and to hope that He hears you. And he will hear you. No matter how low you feel or how desperate and miserable you may be, you can never sink so low that God will stop listening. Never forget that. If you are a child of God, though you walk through the valley of the shadow of death, the Lord is still with you. As most of you know, Lee and I are expecting our first child in about a month. And as we've been studying and reading and preparing, as best we can. One of the things that we've frequently heard is that sometimes when you're trying to teach your children to sleep, it's necessary to let them cry for a little while so that they learn to put themselves to bed. I'm sure that it's really difficult to listen to your child cry and to to delay in responding to them. But I think that's a good picture of how sometimes God works with us. He He hears and He cares. He hears our cries. Sometimes He'll answer right away and deliver us, but other times He waits It's not because he doesn't hear, it's not because he doesn't care, but it's because he knows what's best for us. The psalmist, in this case, does the only thing he's able to do. He cries to the Lord. There are so many things that overwhelm us and that lead us to desperately cry out to God. Uncertainty about the future? The well-being of your friends and family, sickness, pain, persecution. In fact, many of the Psalms record David's prayers as he is crying out to God while he's being Well he's suffering and enduring persecution at the hands of Saul. But here in Psalm 130, the psalmist cries out for a very specific reason: guilt for sin. The psalmist is not crying out for just anything. He's crying out for mercy. This is his deepest need. And church, it's our deepest need as well. He knows he has sinned against a holy God. And he knows the impact that this has on his relationship with God. Isaiah 59 gives us a good picture when the Lord tells his rebellious people, he says, Behold, the Lord's hand is not shortened that it cannot save, or his ear dull that it cannot hear But your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God. And your sins have hidden his face from you so that he does not hear. You see, to come to God for relief from life's trials and not acknowledge our sin and seek forgiveness is like going to the doctor for relief from a symptom while ignoring the disease that causes it. You know, sometimes we think that because we place our trust in Christ and have been forgiven of our sins, that the way we live has no impact on our relationship with God. But that's too simple of an understanding of our salvation. Certainly it's true that that those who have truly come to faith in Christ and have truly been saved, that God promises to preserve us in our faith. Jesus says that no one who comes to him will ever be cast out, and that he will raise them up on the last day. But it's also true that Paul is clear in 1 Corinthians chapter 3 when he says that when our works are judged at the last day. Those Christians who have lived faithfully will receive a reward, while those believers who have lived unfaithfully will still be saved, but in Paul's words, only as through fire. David speaks of his guilt harming his relationship with God and causing him great distress in Psalm 32. He says that when he refused to repent. He says, My bones wasted away through my groaning all day long. For day and night your hand was heavy upon me. My strength was dried up as by the heat of summer. The one crying out of the depths in Psalm 130 is a believer whose relationship with God has been severely impacted by his sin. And there are many ways that this happens in our own lives. If we live lives of unrepentant sin, making it the habit of our lives, we find that often it undermines our assurance of our salvation. You might find yourself wondering if you really are a child of God, because deep down you know you're not living like one. Our times our sin begins to desensitize us. The things that used to grieve us no longer faze us. We read that we're to love the Lord with all our heart, with all our soul, with all our mind, and with all our strength, and we just feel nothing. Sometimes sin has hard and painful consequences. People get hurt, relationships are broken, and lives are ruined You know, the depths might not always look the same for every one of us, but you know when you're there. The important thing is how you respond. We should feel genuine sorrow for our sins, but as we said, sorrow or remorse in and of itself is not repentance. A heart that is truly repentant does not recoil from God, but it cries out to God. The guilt that leads us to cry out to the Lord for mercy is a blessed gift from God. And when we cry out, we must face the reality of our own sin. That's what the psalmist does. The guilt that he feels leads him to honestly acknowledge his sin to the Lord. He says in verse 3, If you, O Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? You know, if God were truly to count our sins against us, there is not a single one of us who could stand before him. All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. We all, like sheep, have gone astray. There is no one who does good, not even one. The psalmist cries out for mercy from God, not for justice, because he knows that he's guilty Friend, the repentant heart understands that we do not deserve anything from God. We have no right to lay any claims upon Him. He is not obligated to show us mercy. But he does. With him there is forgiveness, that he may be feared. This, as I see it, is the hinge on which the whole psalm turns. That's the verse where we see that repentance is about a relationship with God. Scripture tells us that the punishment for sin is death, and that there is no forgiveness apart from the shedding of blood. Christ is the only one who could ever stand before God if God should choose to mark our iniquities, because he's the only one who never sinned, and yet he shed his own blood for us, for our forgiveness of our sins. And this was so that we could serve him. Fear, that word fear in verse 4, it doesn't refer to us being frightened by God or to being afraid of God, but it refers to us having a reverence for God. and serving him as our Lord. One commentator says this. He says, fear means reverence and implies relationship Christ bore our sins in his body on the tree so that we would die to sins and live to righteousness. He forgives us so that we would serve him. That's why he purchased us at the cross and made us the people of his own possession. This is such an important truth because, as John Calvin says, men never serve God aright unless they know him to be a gracious and merciful being. We are saved in order to have a relationship with our God. And that's what true repentance leads to. We see this even in human relationships. Have you ever experienced the closeness that comes after you confess your sin to another person and receive forgiveness? Before we confess, often we're consumed with shame because we wonder if if they would still love us if they truly knew us, or if they would just reject us. But when we confess and when we receive that forgiveness, we're drawn into a deeper relationship with them. We experience closeness because we know them, and more importantly, we're truly known by them. It's so much more true with Christ. He knows us better than we even know ourselves. You know how dark and wicked your heart can be. And I know the evil that lies within my own heart. Imagine for a moment that you had to walk around all day with one of those thought bubbles over your head that displayed every thought you had to the world around you. I think if that was the case you would probably lock yourself in your room all day alone out of fear for what people would think when they knew the real you. One one pastor has kind of made this point. He he told a congregation he was preaching to, he says, if you knew me the way that I knew me. You wouldn't want to listen to me preach. And then he adds, he says, and if I knew you the way you know you, I wouldn't want to come and preach to you. You see, though we were created to live naked and unashamed, our sin makes us terrified to let anyone know the real us. But how sweet it is to know that Christ knows us better than we even know ourselves. He knows the sins that we tremble to name, but he also knows the sins that we are blissfully unaware of. And yet, in spite of all of that, he still loves us. He still came and lived amongst us in this fallen world. Putting up with our sinning against him, even as he worked to save us from our sins. And he took that sin upon himself and died in our place. God freely forgives, but don't for a second think that that forgiveness is free. It comes at a great cost to Christ, who had to bear our guilt and to receive God's wrath in our place. The good news is that God didn't spare his own son, but gave him up for us all. You see, the cross stands as a reminder. That no matter how ugly your sin is, no matter how deep in the depths you are, when you come to Christ in repentance and faith, you will be forgiven and be saved. Don't let your sins drive you away from God. God gives us his laws to show us our need for Christ and to drive us to him. When you feel the weight of guilt and the hopelessness of your inability to save yourself, cry out to God and find forgiveness. You see, remorse without repentance leads to isolation. But true repentance draws us into a deeper relationship with God. And true repentance also leads us to hope in God's promise to redeem his people. That's what we see in verses five through eight. It's such a comfort that the Lord promises to hear us when we cry to Him, isn't it? And that he promises to forgive our sins when we repent. But if we're honest, we want more, don't we? I mean as Christians we hate our sin. Sure, at times we're drawn to it and we find it desirable, but at the end of the day, we hate the fact that we're tempted to sin and that we have these disordered desires. More than that, sometimes our sin leads to those devastating consequences. We hurt ourselves and those whom we love. We wreck relationships. We break trust. The pleasures of sin are fleeting, and they often leave us empty, hurting, and miserable. I don't know about you, but when I cry out to God, I want more than just forgiveness. I want more than just merely to know I won't suffer the penalty for my sins. I want relief. I want freedom. I am sick of feeling like Paul doing what I don't want to do, of fighting a battle every second of every day. And so, church, our hope is not merely in forgiveness. Our hope is in a plentiful redemption. Our hope is that we would be freed from the power and the presence of sin in our lives. And that we would be able to love and serve our Lord the way we were made to. Isn't that beautiful? We get a glimpse of that now in our lives. But the reality is we still struggle with sin every day. We live in a time of tension that theologians call the already and the not yet. You see, Christ has already come, and his kingdom has already broken into this world. He has already begun to make his blessings flow as far as the curse is found. But he's not yet finished his work. As a result, you and I have already experienced salvation and the renewing work of the Holy Spirit in our lives, but we're not yet fully free from our sin. And so we wait, just like the psalmist in verse 5. And like the psalmist, we hope in God's Word. You know, there are so many things in life that we hope for. But with so many of our hopes and our dreams, we wait with uncertainty because they're not things that God has promised to give us I mean, that doesn't mean he won't. He's a loving father who loves to give good gifts to his children, and he never withholds anything out of spite, but only because he knows what's best for us. But for so many things we just don't know. Will I get that job that I want so badly? Will he let me get married? Will I have children? Will they be healthy? The future always brings uncertainty. But as Christians, we need not have any doubt about God's promise to forgive us and save us completely from our sins. He has promised to do this in his word, and he has kept that promise by sending Christ to us. Christ has reconciled us to God through the cross. And because of his resurrection, we can know for sure that we can have peace with God. He has given us his spirit as a guarantee of our final salvation. Paul states this beautifully in Ephesians 1, 13 and 14. He says, In Christ, you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation. and believed in him, we're sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory. So we wait, but we wait with a confidence that God will keep his promise. That's the picture that the psalmist draws when he says he waits more than watchmen for the morning. You know the watchmen were the people that would go out at night to patrol the walls of the city and and keep an eye in case anyone would come and and harm the people as they slept. It was a stressful and tiring job. Had to be up all night, had to be ready for anything. Imagine how much of a relief it would be when morning finally came. And imagine how much comfort you would have knowing with certainty every day that morning would eventually come, that you could depend on the fact that every day the sun would rise and give you rest and relief from your labors. That's the same confidence we have when we trust in Christ for our salvation. Weeping and the deaths may last for the night, but joy comes with the mourning. And church, mourning will come. This is how the Lord so often works, isn't it? By putting us in a position where we are completely unable to help ourselves and teaching us to trust and to depend and wait on him. Because he knows that unless he puts us in a situation where we have no hope for trusting in ourself, that we'll never truly learn to trust in him. John Newton wrote a wonderful hymn called I Ask the Lord, and it captures this idea of how God uses the depths to teach us to wait on him. He writes, I asked the Lord that I might grow in faith and love and every grace, might more of his salvation know, and seek more earnestly his face. It was he who taught me thus to pray, and he, I trust, has answered prayer. But it has been in such a way as almost drove me to despair I hoped that in some favored hour at once he'd answer my request, and by his love's constraining power subdue my sins and give me rest. Instead of this, he made me feel the hidden evils of my heart, and let the angry powers of hell assault my soul in every part Yea, more with his own hand, He seemed intent to aggravate my woe, crossed all the fair designs I schemed, cast out my feelings, laid me low Lord, why is this? I trembling cried. Wilt thou pursue thy worm to death? 'Tis in this way, the Lord replied, I answer prayers for grace and faith These inward trials I employ from self and pride to set thee free, and break thy schemes of earthly joy, that thou may seek thy all in me God uses the depth to teach us to wait and to depend on Him. And so repentance leads us to God for a relationship that brings us great hope and assurance. And ultimately, true repentance leads us to give hope to others who are in the depths. You can see how the psalmist makes that shift in verse 7, how he goes from focusing on his own hope to the hope of the people. He has placed his own hope in the Lord, and he has begun to be raised up out of the depths, and now he's able to call others to put their hope in God. Another way we might say this is to say that true repentance ought to result in evangelism. Every one of us here knows someone who is still lost in their sins. They may not feel like they're in the depths, but they are alienated from Christ without hope of ever standing before Him on their own. But our God is a God of steadfast love. And we have the privilege of telling others how beautiful of a truth that is. He is faithful when we are unfaithful. He is determined to love us, and he loves us with a love that will not let us go. Though we are prone to wander, he seeks us like a lost sheep. And carries us back to safety. Friends, this is a God you can trust This is a God you can rest in. He calls all who are weary and heavy laden to come to Him and to find rest for your souls. His yoke is easy, and his burden is light. The song we opened with this morning captures this. It says, Let not conscience make you linger. All the fitness he requires is to feel your need of him And this he gives you. So hope in the Lord. Trust in his promise that if you will turn from your sin and recognize your need for Christ, that you will be forgiven, and you will be fully and finally saved. With him is a plentiful redemption. You can never sin beyond what God is willing to forgive. And any thought to the contrary is a lie from the devil. He has promised to save us and to save us completely from all our sins. You know The story of Judas is a painful reminder of what guilt can do to us. But you may not have thought about the fact that Judas was not the only person to betray Christ that night. Peter was adamant that he would never fall away, regardless of the consequences. And all it took was a curious little servant girl, and he denied that he had ever known his Lord. Peter also felt remorse for his sins. We're told that when he realized what he had done, he went out and he wept bitterly. The story of Peter and Judas is a story of the difference between remorse and repentance. Peter repented of his sins and was restored. Judas, though he was remorseful, ultimately died in his sins. It is so easy to feel sorry for our sin, to feel remorse for the ways that we offend God and we hurt others. But remorse by itself is not repentance. Repentance begins when you would understand that you are drowning in your sin without any hope of saving yourself. So cry out to the Lord, and I promise it will not fall on deaf ears That's what Psalm 30, Psalm 130 is all about. What is your hope when you are desperate? And the answer that Psalm 130 gives us is that the only hope of desperate sinners Is that the Lord will redeem his people? When you're in the depths of despair and there is no hope There is only one way out. Jesus Christ is the way and the truth and the life. And no one can ever hope to come to the Father or to stand before Him except through Christ. But if you come to Christ, though you are broken, weary, hurting, and guilty He has promised that he will forgive you. He will raise you up on the last day, and you will be saved. With him is steadfast love and a plentiful redemption. So hope in him. Trust in him. Wait on him. Hope in his word and know that he will give you forgiveness. Let's pray. Our Father, we are guilty of sin. We break all of your commandments every day, Lord, and we acknowledge that if you were to mark our iniquities, there is no hope for us. No one could stand before you. And so, Lord, what a comfort it is that with you there is forgiveness, that you may be feared, and that you have promised to redeem us, fully redeem us, plentifully redeem us. We thank you so much for your steadfast love, that you love us to the end. We pray that you would encourage us as we go from here to trust in you, to come to you in forgiveness, in repentance for forgiveness. We pray all this in Christ's name. Amen.