Well good morning everyone. Good to see you this morning. Glad for everyone that can join us for the live stream. Glad that we can be together, even though we're not physically in the same room, just to worship our our Lord together in one spirit. If you have a Bible, I'll invite you to open to the Song of Solomon, chapter one. The plan is for Pastor Stan to be back next week to preach, and he'll start us off in a series on the book of Habakkuk. And I think that's going to be a really timely timely word for us. But in in the gap between when John ended last week and Pastor Stan starting the next series, we we decided it would be good for me just to pick one one standalone sermon to preach. Truth be told, I picked this passage just because it's been on my mind and I've been thinking about it a lot, but uh as I studied it and Pastor Stan reminded me as well, this really ties in a lot with the themes that we ended on last week. of love to Christ that that were brought out in Jesus' conversation with Peter there in the end of John's Gospel. So with all that in mind, if you will stand, we will honor the reading of God's word this morning. We'll read from the Song of Solomon, chapter 1, the first four verses. Hear now the Word of God. The Song of Songs, which is Solomon's. Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth, for your love is better than wine. Your anointing oils are fragrant. Your name is oil poured out. Therefore, virgins love you Draw me after you, let us run. The king has brought me into his chambers. The word of the Lord this morning. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that you have spoken to us, and most supremely, we thank you that you have spoken to us in your Son. And that in your word it's your Son who we read of. Who saves us, who reveals you to us, Father. And we pray, Holy Spirit, that you would draw near to us in this time. Open our eyes that we might behold the glory of the Son, of Christ Himself, as we study your word this morning. We pray, O Lord, that you would speak. For your servants are listening, and we ask this in Christ's name, Amen. You can be seated. Well, I would imagine that if I were to take a survey and ask you to list your favorite books in the Bible, maybe even if I were to ask you to list your top ten favorite books in the Bible, that probably Not many of you would come back saying the Song of Solomon is the book you most most spend time reading or the most you the book you most think of when you think of books that you love in Scripture. And I would say that's really a shame. Because as we turn to this book, this book starts off by telling us that this is not just any song, it's the song of songs. It is the greatest song of all time. It's using superlative language there to tell us that in the same way that the innermost part of the temple, the most holy place, is the holy of holies. In the same way that the Lord Jesus Himself is the greatest king, and the greatest Lord is the King of Kings, and the Lord of Lords, that this here is the song of songs. It is the greatest song that's ever been written, better than any of the other thousand-plus songs that Solomon wrote, better than any song that you'll find written By the pens of anyone who wrote wonderful songs throughout history, whether popular music or hymns or anything, better even than any other song in the Bible. Better than the hundred and fifty songs. Psalms. Better than Mary's magnificate when she finds out she's going to give birth to the Lord Jesus Christ. Better than the song of Moses expressing the deliverance of God's people, bringing them through the Red Sea. Better than the hymns that the glorified saints and angels sing as they're gathered around the throne in the book of Revelation. This is the Song of Songs. You will never in your life sing another song as excellent, as beautiful, as wonderful as this song. That's what this first verse is telling us as we come to orient ourselves to this song. This is how the song of Solomon has been understood by God's people, not just in the church, in the history of the church and New Testament saints, but even throughout the Old Testament, the people of Israel receiving this song. A well-known rabbi in the first and second century, Rabbi Akiva, has said it this way. He says, In the entire world, there is nothing equal to the day on which the Song of Solomon was given to Israel. All the writings are holy, but the song of songs is the most holy. And see, the reason this is the greatest song is because it has the greatest theme. This song is an allegory about Christ and his church clothed in the imagery of marital love. But make no mistake, it is primarily about Christ and his church Sadly, I think that's a s a theme that's often been missed on modern readers. And that's probably the reason that you and I don't read this book very often. Within the last 200 years, there's been somewhat of a novel approach that's arisen that sees this song as either primarily or exclusively even of marital love. Simply put, it's a story of two lovers delighting in one another and and nothing more. Or at least that's the main point. I I think there's several problems with that approach. I think first of all if that's the case, this really ceases to be a a Christian book. in in a meaningful way. But the Bible is about God, about who he is, and about how he saves. And most supremely, it's centered on Christ as the one in whom we know God and the one through whom God saves us. And sure, the Bible teaches us about marriage, but even when it does, what does Paul say? The most important thing about marriage is that it's a picture of Christ's relationship with his church. It's a picture of the gospel. And so a song simply about marital love and nothing more not only can't meet the standards of greatest song ever written, but I think also we see that it's going to alienate so many among God's people. Single people aren't going to want to read this song and be made to feel that they're missing out on some uh important experience in life. And even as as married people None of our marriages actually live up to this perfect picture laid out in this song, and so we don't want to read it either and be feel like we're missing out. But this song is about Christ and His church. And that means, friends, that it's relevant for every single one of us, no matter who you are, whether you're young or old, male or female, single, married, divorced, widowed, this is a song for you and you need to sing it. Because you and I need to know and love Christ more deeply, and that's what this song is intended to do for us. Matthew Henry says of this song, he says, Where there is a fire of true love to Christ in the heart. This song will be of use to blow it up into a flame. As we come to this particular section of the song, I I think the lesson we see is that we are called to delight in Christ as the supreme desire of our souls. And I just want to move through this passage looking at three different sections. We'll see first the bride's desire. Second, we'll see the groom's beauty. And then finally, we'll see the longing being satisfied. So let's look at first at the beginning of verse 2. We'll see the bride's desire. It's interesting to see that this song actually begins rather abruptly as the bride expresses her desire there. She desires her beloved. She wants him to display his love and affection for her. And so she says, let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth. Notice just a couple things here. First, it it presupposes that she already has a relationship with this beloved. She's been thinking on him. He's been on her thoughts, on her mind, she's been meditating on him, and and all of a sudden just the words burst out of her mouth. Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth. But she doesn't actually take the time to introduce us to this one, because he's been so deeply ingrained in her thoughts that he's the only him that she could be thinking of. Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth. And we see there as we go on in the next phrase that she already has a love relationship with him. She knows and has experiences love because she can say, your love is better than mine. She already knows him and has a relationship with him, so she can be so forward and say, let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth. We're kind of jumping into the middle of her thoughts here But as she starts off, we we also see that there's somewhat of a problem. That the reason she's so longing for him to draw near and kiss her is because she doesn't feel as close to him as she wants. These kisses are expressions of his love And she wants him to express his love for her because she feels distant from him in some way. You see it's one thing, friends, to know that Christ loves you. But it's another thing to feel his love and to live in a deep self-experience of closeness with him. In the same way that a lover shows his affection with a kiss, she longs for Christ to show her love, his love for her in a way that she can feel and experience. Do you ever feel this way? To know in your head that Christ loved you and yet that you don't always feel his love for you. You believe in Christ, but too often you feel distant from him. You can't see him, and that makes it hard to love him. And to feel his love for you. That's where the bride begins in this song, longing for Christ to show his love, precisely because she doesn't feel as close to him as she wishes she did. Like the psalm that she's crying out saying, My soul thirsts for you is in a dry and weary land where there is no water. She wants to taste and see that the Lord is good, but she can't seem to get there. And so she asks him to come close, close enough to kiss her. I hope you see that as a comfort for a few reasons, right? Not only because this means that you're not the only one who feels this way from time to time. that that very longing and that very struggle is recorded for us in Holy Scripture because that's a struggle common to the people of God. And what amazing thing that this love song describing this amazing delight that these lovers have in one another starts with the bride saying I don't feel as close to you as I wish I did. I wish you would draw near and show me, remind me how much you love me. Show me your love for me, because I miss you. You see, in Psalm 2, we're told that our responsibility is as God's people. We're called to love Christ in such a way that we kiss the Son. The Song of Solomon tells us that the greatest blessing and the greatest joy is that when he kisses us back. As Christians, friends, this is our greatest desire for a close sense of communion and intimacy with Christ. He is the one whom our soul loves. He is the one thing that we seek after. As the psalmist says in Psalm 27, one thing I have asked of the Lord that I will seek after That I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. You have said to me, Seek my face. My heart says to you, Your face, Lord, do I seek. I believe that I shall look upon the Lord, the goodness of the Lord, in the land of the living. Longing for Christ is our one thing. He is our first love. He is the one in whom we delight. But if you're like me, often you you're not overwhelmed by a sense of overwhelming closeness to Christ. Maybe more often you're overwhelmed by a sense of apathy in your faith or distance from Christ. Instead of Christ being your first love, you more often find yourself feeling lukewarm towards him. You don't love him the way you should, or maybe even the way that you wish you did. He's not the one that's constantly on your mind as the lovely source of true delight. And instead, we're so tempted to find greater delight in lesser things. We find delight in our work and our hobbies, we find delight in food and sex and other relationships more than we find in in him. Make no mistake, those things are all delightful and we should find delight in them, but not the level of delight we find in Christ Himself. In the busyness of life, we don't make time to contemplate him and his works. In our suffering and our difficulty, he seems distant, and we we find ourselves beginning to wonder if he even cares. This is how the bride feels, friends. And when you feel the same, make this your prayer. Ask Christ, draw near to me, show me your love for me, express your affection for me in a way that I can sense, in a way that I can feel and understand. Help me to long for you and to see you as precious so that I can understand and share this bride's desire. And as soon as she expresses her desire, she then turns and focuses all her attention directly on Christ and his surpassing excellence. She says there in the second half of verse two and in verse three. She says, Your love is better than wine. Your anointing oils are fragrant. Your name is oil poured out. Therefore, virgins love you. The virgins there are those who are spiritually pure and devoted to God, as opposed to those who go off and commit spiritual adultery through idolatry. These virgins have kept themselves faithful to God. She's focusing all her attention on Christ. She says, when you feel distant from Christ, the most important step is to begin meditating and focusing on who This is the best way to grow in your love and closeness for him is by contemplating him as he's revealed in his word. Meditating on the excellence of Christ is like a fan for the flame of our love, or like an exercise that strengthens the muscles of our faith. And so this is what the bride does when she says, Your love is better than wine. She's saying Christ's love is sweeter and better than all the other pleasures in this life. Wine may gladden the heart, but Christ brings all surpassing joy. This is the truth that's so well attested throughout the scriptures. Just to name a few passages. Psalms chapter 4 says, You have put more joy in my heart than they have when their grain and wine abound. Psalm 16, you have made known to me the path of life. In your presence there is fullness of joy. At your right hand are pleasures forevermore. Paul in Philippians 3 says, indeed I count everything as lost because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish in order that I may gain Christ. You see, Paul's saying Christ is so superior and so much better than all the other pleasures of this life that as good as they are, They're nothing more than garbage by comparison with the surpassing worth of Christ. The bride elaborates on the excellence of Christ's love by pointing to the excellence of Christ himself. Your anointing oils are fragrant. Your name is as oil poured forth. These anointing oils were were perfumes in the ancient world that were used to help one smell good. And often wealthy people would use them as the the king talked about in in Psalm forty five, your your robes are fragrant with myrrh and aloes and cassia. It's similar to the type of expensive perfume that Mary would have used when she broke the flask and anointed Christ as he ate the meal. More important than being anointed with oil is the fact that Christ has been anointed with the Holy Spirit without measure. He is so excellent. Right? His name is not merely the personal name Jesus, but the name in Scripture refers to one's character or attributes, right? Think of Nabal in in 1 Samuel, the rich man who refused to feed David, uh even though David had protected his shepherds and cared for them and watched over them, providing for them. Nabal is a word that means fool, and we see that Nabal acts as a fool. His wife comes to David and says, Let not my lord regard this worthless fellow Nabal. For as his name is, so is he. Nabal is his name, and folly is with him. His name reveals his character. Even in the New Testament, Matthew chapter 1, the angel tells Joseph, The woman will conceive and bear a son, you shall call his name Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins. Jesus is just the Greek word for Joshua. Which means Yahweh saves. You shall call his name Yahweh saves because he will save his people from their sins. A very clear reference to the very divine character of God and who he is. We also see this in a way that God reveals his glory to Moses. Right? When Moses asks to see his glory, how does God reveal his glory? By proclaiming his name. The Lord, the Lord, a God merciful and gracious, abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. By proclaiming his name, he reveals his character. So the name here refers to all of God's attributes, his works, his word, all the ways by which he makes himself known. And this, friends, is how we must stir up our affections for Christ by contemplating and considering and meditating upon Him, considering all that He is and all that He has done for you and for your salvation. But think of the work of Christ, think of his incarnation and how he he took on flesh, entered into this broken and sinful world that he might save us. And not just entering in as a full-grown man, but entering in as a baby, an infant needing to be changed and fed, and how that displays both his majesty and his utter humility in the way that he relates to us. That doesn't even include his life, that which was characterized by poverty and suffering and sacrifice. But also a life of perfect obedience to the law in our place, fulfilling the covenant of works for us and then suffering the penalty the penalty that we due. We were due. He was perfectly righteous in his life. And then he gave up his life to die on the cross for our sins. Not just physical pain, but he suffered the most grievous torment in his soul, as our confession of faith tells us He became sin for us, bearing the wrath of God in our place. He died and was buried, and then the third day he rose again, defeating sin, death, and Satan. Showing that death has no power over him, that one day we too will rise from the dead, those who have faith in him, rising again for our justification, proving that his sacrifice was accepted. And then he is ascended into heaven and is seated at the right hand of God, where he now rules and reigns over all things, subduing his enemies under his feet as a footstool, protecting, preserving, caring for his church. Upholding the universe by the word of his power. And he's promised friends that one day he's coming back. And when he does, he will set all things right. No more tears, no more pain, no more COVID, no more cancer. Friends, our faith will become sight and we will behold the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. And when we see him, we'll become like him. Because we'll see him as he is, perfect in holiness, able to delight in him and love him the way we were created to do forever. He's done amazing things for us, but don't forget that all his wonderful works flow from his person. He does good because he is good. So consider for a moment the person of Christ. He is the infinite, eternal, unchangeable God in his being, in his wisdom, in his power, and his holiness, in his justice, in his goodness, and his truth. He is this God who took on flesh, became a man, one person in two natures forever, united in such a way that they're not confused, they're not mingled, they're not uh turning into one hybrid nature. No, that God and man together One person forever. He became a man, taking on all of our weaknesses. except for sin. He knows what it's like to be tempted. He knows what it's like to get hurt. He knows what it's like to be hungry. He knows what it's like to walk in your sho And yet he's truly God. He didn't give up or change any of the divine attributes as he became a man. We can't even wrap our minds around this. The church has never tried to fully explain how this is true. They've simply stated it. As an article of faith, something that we just step back and worship God because of. Because from the God that you can wrap your mind around is not a God who's worthy of our worship. Think about the way that Christ reveals God to us. Our God is exalted, transcendent. He is the holy, righteous, glorious God, the one who dwells in unapproachable light. He's so pure and holy and righteous that that for sinful creatures like us to even approach him is like being in a space shuttle flying towards the sun. You can only get so close before you're burned up That's why when Moses asks, Show me your glory, God says, You can't see my face and live. I'll hide you in the rock and pass by and let you see only my back. That's why when Isaiah is there in his vision before the throne room, seeing God seated on his throne, he says, Woe is me, for I am undone. I am a man of unclean lips, and I live among a people of unclean lips, and my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. That's why Ezekiel can't even find the words to describe God's glory when he's called. He sees this great vision of of this throne on wheels kind of moving around and he tries to describe it. He's just grasping at words, trying to tell you what he's seeing. He says, above the expanse over their heads there was the likeness of a throne, in appearance like sapphire. Seated above the likeness of the throne was a likeness with a human appearance. And upward from what had the appearance of his waist, I saw, as it were, gleaming metal, like the appearance of fire, enclosed all around. And downward would have the appearance of his waist. I saw, as it were, the appearance of fire, and there was a brightness around him, like the appearance of the bow that is in the cloud on the day of rain. So was the appearance of the brightness all around Such was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the Lord. And when I saw it, I fell on my face, and I heard the voice of one speaking. He he describes not the glory of the Lord, he describes the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the Lord. He's several degrees of separation away from actually gazing upon the glory of the Lord, and he still can't find words to tell you what he's singing. This exalted, transcendent, majestic God, he's the same exalted God we draw the near in the person of his son. Christ is the word who was with God and who was God. The one who was never created but existed for all eternity and through him all things were created. Nothing was made that was made without him He is the light of the world who gives light to all men. Think about that for a moment. This one who dwells in unapproachable light became flesh and dwelt among us. And we have seen his glory. Not the appearance of the likeness of his glory. We have seen his glory as this only son from the Father, full of grace and truth. He was anointed with the Holy Spirit without measure like a cup that overflows, and from his fullness we receive not just the same Spirit, but grace upon grace. He is the one who makes God known in such a way that he can say to Philip, If you have seen me, you have seen the Father. Because he is the high point and the climax of God's revelation. He may have spoken in the past, in many times and in many ways, by the prophets, but in these last days he has spoken by his son. He is the radiance of God's glory, the exact imprint of his nature. And as he makes God known, he does so in a way that reveals his heart Think just, for example, of how the heart of Christ is revealed in the Gospels as compassionate, gentle, lowly, merciful, gracious, humble He's a God who, on one hand, hates sin and yet loves sinners. That the heart of Christ for his people is not one that is repulsed by us in our sin, but it's our very sin that draws him most near. It's in our sin that instead of keeping us at arm's length, that he takes on flesh and comes to save us, enters in and draws closest in order to bring healing and grace. We're like the leper, living like an outcast, repulsive to others. Everyone every day when you're going out in public required to go shout, unclean, unclean, just so that people know to stay away from you. Can you imagine what must have been going through his head when he saw Christ off in the distance? He knew the stories of Jesus healing. He knew the power that was there. Every step closer he took, I wonder if he's going to heal me or if he's going to be so disgusted by me that he says, get away. Imagine the courage it must have taken to even approach Christ and say, if you will, you can make me clean. He's simply hoping that Jesus wouldn't turn him away, and then imagine his shock and disbelief when the Lord of glory took a step towards him. And then put out his hand and touched him. Said, I will be clean. Christ isn't afraid of being contaminated by our sin. He became sin that we might become his righteousness. We took advantage during the quarantine to work on potty training. And uh as as is the case when when you're potty training a a a toddler, there's always going to be accidents and Uh I I I think all of us when we think about potty training, for those who have had the experience of doing it, we we want to, and I think often we are, we want to be gentle and tender with our children who are learning. And yet that's not always how we feel in the moment, right? But the example we strive for is the parent who's patient and gentle, the one who doesn't shame his children. When they have an accident he draws near and says, Honey, it's okay. Gets down on his hands and knees and cleans up the mess, then picks up your child, takes them to the tub and washes them away. Off to become clean. Friends, that's how Christ enters into our sin. When we sin and make a mess of our lives, he draws near. He gets down on his hands and knees and he cleans up the mess and then he washes us by water and the word to make us blameless and spotless, to sanctify us, all the while saying, don't worry. I'm with you. I've already cleaned up this mess and I'm going to make you clean. Hence this is the kind of tender, gentle love that Christ has for his people. When you come to him in repentance of faith and lay down your burdens at his feet, He does not deal harshly with you. And he isn't afraid of being contaminated by your sin. But as we said, he draws an ear in all the mess and he makes us clean by taking our sin upon himself and nailing it to the cross. Friends, when your heart grows cold towards Christ, ponder these things. Think about the exalted transcendence Majesty of the Son of God. Think about his saving work that he accomplished for you. Think about the ways that he's worked in your life to reveal his tender, patient, compassionate heart towards you. And then sing with this bride that truly his love is better than wine. And his name is like oil poured out. We saw the bride's desire. We look at Christ's beauty, and now we see the way that the bride's longing is satisfied. After contemplating Christ, she wants even more to be close to him. But she knows her sinful, sluggish heart, right? She knows that while her spirit is willing, her flesh is weak. She understands that she can't come to him on her own. She needs him to be at work in her life to draw him. Draw her to himself. And so she prays, draw me after you. Let us run. It echoes that truth of John 6. 44. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And I will raise him up on the last day. You see, by nature, friends, you and I don't have the ability to come to Christ on our own. Our will is bound in sin. We are dead in sin and unrighteousness, and we need God by his Holy Spirit to bring us to life. To renew our wills, to draw us to Christ and give us faith in Him. But even in the Christian life, friends, we can grow cold and distant towards Christ. And we need the Holy Spirit to continue to fill us with affection for Christ. To keep us close to Him, to restore to us the joy of our salvation, and to bring us into ever closer communion with our risen Lord. And that's what she prays for. Knowing that if he draws her, then she can run after him, laying aside every weight and sin that clings so closely, looking to Jesus, the author and perfecter of her faith, following him and pursuing him all her days with all that she is. And here's maybe the the best part of this passage. As she prays, her prayer is answered. Christ draws her by his Spirit into close, intimate fellowship with himself, such close fellowship that it can only be described as the King bringing her into his chambers But that means exactly what you might think it means. She's saying he has brought me into the honeymoon suite. Of course, we don't understand that literally, but the point is that marriage is a picture of the gospel. and Christ's relationship with his church. And if that's true, then the consummation of marriage is a picture of the intimacy, the joy, the delight, and the pleasures that we have in Christ. He is the only one who can fully satisfy the longings of the human heart because we were created to long for him. It's the same thing Augustine says: you have made us for yourself, and our hearts are restless. until they find their rest in you. But don't miss the promise here. Notice the flow of the passage, right? She she starts off feeling far from Christ. And she doesn't enjoy the feeling and the presence of his love in her life, her closeness with him, so she prays that he might draw near to her. And as she prays, she meditates On his excellency and his beauty. And Christ answers her prayer. He does what she asks. Friends, when you feel distant and cold like the bride, cling to promises like this in God's word. If you seek me, you will find me. If you seek me with all your heart, draw near to God and He will draw near to you. Come to Him and He will give you rest. Come to Him and He will never cast you out. He has sworn in his word that this is the kind of God he is, who draws near to those who seek after him. Plead God's promises back to him in prayer. Lord, draw near to me. Help me to love you and know that I'm loved by you. You promise that you will be found by those who seek you. So for the sake of your name and for your glory, grant me what I ask. That's a prayer that Christ loves to hear. God never makes an empty promise, and he will always be faithful to answer. We're united to Christ by his spirit. That's an unshakable bond that can never be torn asunder. We have this union with Him, and yet our communion with Christ is something that can ebb and flow. Throughout the course of our life, we have periods of time where we're closer to Christ and when we're more distant with Christ. Never separated from him, never cut off from him, and yet we don't feel his closeness the same way the bride is. Because this communion with Christ can ebb and flow throughout life, we must continually seek after him in this way. And friends, as we do so, we hold on to our greatest hope that one day we will see him. One day we will be presented before him pure and spotless, and we will feast with him at the marriage supper of the Lamb. In that day, we will be made perfect in holiness. Made like him and able to perfectly glorify and enjoy him forever. And that day, friends, you will finally love him the way you desire. And you will feel his love more perfectly and more fully than you can even dream of. And friends, it's never going to end. And until then, this is the song that makes us say, Come, Lord Jesus, come quickly. I hope by now you've seen that this truly is the greatest song there is. It's the greatest song. It's the song of songs because it holds out the beauty of the King of Kings. Friends, make this your song. Let it stoke the fires of your love and affection for Christ and allow it to tune your heart to sing his praises. Let's pray together. Lord Jesus, how beautiful and lovely you are, how sweet your name sounds in our ears. Where we know that we do not love you as we ought to, we do not love you as we we wish that we did. We know that sin so often hinders us. Finding ourselves doing that which we didn't want to do, and not doing that which we wish we could do. Lord, we pray, O Lord, that you by your spirit would draw near to us. Take up your home in our heart and never leave. Keep us close to you. Fill us with the joy of your salvation. Make us a people who long desperately for your return so that we might behold the glory of God in your face. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen.