Today we're looking at Psalm 119, the longest chapter in the Bible. It has but only one sliver of it. Um it has twenty-two sections, each of them eight verses long, and they follow the acrostic of one letter. I'm going to be looking at no Last week, Derek Pulliam, a friend of mine, addressed you about Psalm 42 as the deer pants after I pray that you will see in the author of Psalm 119, will show us the way to that water and help us. Help us to to um uh sip generously. Those of you who are able, please rise as I read the word of um the Lord. This is none starting at 105. Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path I have sworn an oath and confirmed it, to keep your righteous rules. I am severely afflicted. Give me life. O Lord, according to your word. Accept my free will offerings of praise, O Lord, and teach me your rules. I hold my life in your hand. Continually, but I do not forget your law. The wicked have laid a snare for me, but I do not stray from your precepts Your testimonies are my heritage forever, for they are the joy of my heart. End. Lord, I just pray that we would open our hearts to your word, to your law, that we would learn to love and meditate and Lord use them to inform um our lives as we walk the path that you have laid before each of us in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Okay, you may be seated. Now before I go on, if we could go to the next slide Uh I wanted to just briefly so parallelism, I talked about that the last time I talked to you, about how you often have similar constructions and that echo. proceeding. Um well in this, please notice that there's a call and an answer to each of these. not gonna really focus on that as we dive into the but notice there's a call or something that we do as humans And then there's an answer. Something that the law does or that God does. So notice the word is a lamp to my feet, that's a me thing, and a light to my path, the path God gives us. I have sworn an oath and confirm it. That's us, to keep your righteous rules I am severely afflicted. Give me life. That's ours. O Lord, according to your word. Accept my free will offerings of praise, O Lord, and teach me. Teach me your rules. I hold my life in your hand continually, but I do not forget your law, that's God's The wicked have laid a snare for me, that is our predicament, but I do not stray from your precepts, that is the answer. Your testimonies are my heritage forever. For they are the joy of my heart. Now notice that s switch, but it's still the call and an answer. And finally I incline my heart to perform your stead statutes forever to the end. Okay, so I just wanted to as you read, keep those harmonics in mind. will help the um uh the psalm to come to life. Hey, some just some context to this. Um older writers, um back to uh Um Augustine thought that this was a psalm of David. However, David, a psalm of David, is often noted in forty percent. Of the Psalms. It's not in this one. Newer researchers tend to think that this came out of the post exam. Period. That is, Nehemiah and Ezra, because there's a zealousness for reformation that echoes what was going on in that period. Psalm 119, the entire of it, there's 176 verses, are not episodic. So in other words, you have Oliph And then Beth and then Dalith, you don't have a connection between them. What Spurgeon said, and I love his description, is in each one of these Psalms. They're named after letters in the alphabet. He said, in the kaleidoscope you look once and there is a strangely beautiful form You shift the glass of very little, and another shape equally delicate and beautiful is before your eyes So you have much repetition in the topics, in the words, in the subject of the law, but very little repetition In the actual thoughts. The role of this psalm in the history of the church For example, an end to slavery in England. Henry Martin, a nineteenth century one of the giants that went to India in missionary work, and David Livingston, of course. Who went to Africa? They memorized this entire psalm from beginning to end. So that's 176 verses. That is a prodigious commitment. to the Word of God. In addition, and I was really uh I found this very curious, Matthew Henry, who's probably the foremost common Commentator of Scripture. When he was young, his father Philip had him meditate for an entire year on one psalm and one psalm. That way, by the end of the year, he would have gone through the entire psalm twice. So you wonder how he got that passion for the word of God. It was given to him by his father. Okay, this is a one-point sermon. Love the Lost. And 176 is uh verse 97 says, Oh how I love your law, it is my meditation all day Okay, so but there's a rub, isn't there? Um we according um I went back to school and read some of what he had had to say about it. And he said that the according to Gallup, there's very little difference between what Christian behaviors that Christians have And in the wide world. And we also might say, but gee, weren't all the laws thrown out when Christ came? So what's the big deal? Well let's ask Jesus. In Matthew five, seventeen and eighteen, he says, Do not think that I have come to a body Abolish the law or the prophets. I have not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them. Truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass Pass away, not iota, not a dot will pass away from the law until all has been accomplished Even more than that, there's in John 14 verse 15, if you love me, obey my commandments. In reform circles, Martin Luther had two functions of the law, and Calvin added a third. The first was that the law is a mirror. When we look at the law, we see our own inadequacies To meet the law. And that knowing that and seeing that, it drives us to the gospel. Because if we don't see the gravity of sin in our own lives, then we're not going to see the need for faith. If we don't see the gravity of sin, we're not going to see the importance of a savior if we and therefore there's not going to be a atonement and salvation will be beyond us. So the first is a mirror. The second is that the law tends to mitigate, to reduce our pre pr tendency to sin. So while they both recognize that just because there is a law, some people are bound and determine to walk in a different direction. However, most of us, just because we don't want to call attention to ourselves, use the law as a guide and we stay within the requirements of the law. But then Calvin came along and he came up with a third function of the law. And that is, the law shows us how to please God. How we can take how God wants us to act in a way that comports with his desire for us. And um so once again going back to Spruel, he said, um we no longer hold ourselves accountable to the curse of the law Law. And while we don't need to obey the dietary or ceremonial uh aspects of the law Nevertheless, we throw that out the back door, but as we come around to the front door, we need to please God. And that again And the key for that is in the law. One final word before I jump into the actual psalm. Um and it's really important, uh it's important for me to constantly remember this. There's a paradox of the law. And he said as you look at Christian history During Reformation we embrace the law and we really zealously try and um be obedient to it. But what does that lead to? It leads to legalism. Um and as legalism is rigid and And self-calibrating, as I talked about the last time I talked to you in Psalm 91. And so what happens is many people look at this environment and say, no. Uh and then that leads to antimonianism, which is the belief that I can choose for myself. I don't need God's word. I can do whatever I want I think Psalm 119 is going to show us a view of the law that is neither legalistic nor anti So let's jump in here. Verse one oh five. So this is no Nun and every word of this, every verse starts with the letter nun or n. Um And the first verse is, your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. So there's some really interesting metaphors fours here. The word the bar. It's not word lowercase W that we think of in English. It's word capital W meaning a proclamation of God or the prophets where they bring us God's utterances Now, this word is a light. It's a light to our feet and a lamp to our our path. So let me ask you, um, how many of you You in your house know exactly where the flashlight is. How many? Everyone I think I see just about every hand. Why? Because if the light goes Okay, well maybe our cell phones. But uh the point is we have to project back to five hundred BC to think about what it was like when the only way we got light was with a stone of Linton lots of Kindling. But that is literal light. Now let's think about the metaphor of light. In Genesis 1, 3, and 4 God said, Let there be light, and there was light. And God saw that the light was good, and God separated the light from the darkness. You remember that light, uh God gave us the gave the Hebrews the pillar to Moses to guide the uh Hebrews when they were escaping from Egypt. Let's go forward. And what we want to do is get an idea of exactly what the psalmist here means by the term light. Matthew five, fourteen through sixteen, you are the light of the world A city set on the hill cannot be hidden, nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, but they put it on a stand so that it gives light to the entire In the same way, let your light shine before others so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven. Or later in John 8, verse 12, again Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world, whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of light. So when they talk about that light or that lamp, that is what the psalmist is talking about Um and now what does the psalmist mean about my feet and my path. Well he's talking about walking. What do we do when we walk? Literally What don't we do? What doesn't require some sort of mobility from here to there, even if we're in a wheelchair? Whether we scroll, saunter, stride, step One way or another, everything we do involves walking, whether it's making food, going shopping. what we do at work, uh cleaning up around the house, kids going to school, all of that is walking. But now let us also be aware of what God is talking about when he He's talking about this path. So in Psalm twenty three three reads He leads me on paths of righteousness for His name So this path is not something that is just out there that we find ourselves at, but it's something that God places us to Psalm 25, verse 4. All the paths of the Lord are steadfast love and faithfulness. So, this is the theme for the entire Psalm of Nun that we want to play. Path, we want to walk on it, it's a path given to us by God, and we use the revelation of His Word in order to be able to do that Each verse that follows, what we're going to do is find a different aspect of what we need to be able to do in order to walk according to that light. The next verse, 106, I have sworn an oath and confirm to keep it, to keep your righteous rules. So what do we do if we want this flight? Well first we choose it and then we comp confirm that choice again. Um the psalmist is basically saying yes, there is justification that moment in the Time when we first felt the Lord whispering into our hearts, but following that every day of our lives We have our sanctification, and we need to re-choose and recommit and refocus our love of God. So commitment. Uh there was a um priest in Brazil, Rio de Janeiro, his name was Helder Camara. And Camara, despised shanty town outside side of Rio de Janeiro, these squalid huts that were built out of cardboard going up the sides of hills he hated. them. He really cared for the poor. So he was able to get housing built in Rio de Janeiro and the bulldozers just tore down the Hill. Well, it didn't work the way he wanted. It turned out that not having any idea what living was like, uh people were ripping out parts of the the uh apartment and selling them for money. Other people would leave them and would rent the um apartments to others because they're Real need was for food. So Camara was undeterred. He started food programs and programs for education. and employment. He was chosen to be a bishop of the poorest section of Brazil. And he went down and he had this palatial uh residence and he totally eschewed it. And all of the fancy garb that a bishop would wear, he wore a plain And he would go to the poor people and he'd be with them and he'd uh Uh and he made he was beloved, but he was also hated. So remember he lived from nineteen hundred to nineteen ninety nine, meaning that the m media was full bore on stuff. Well, the government forbade the media from enter from ever interviewing him Um uh but he still continued to preach. He made friends, he made enemies. One day he walked into this hut And a man had a gun and he was aiming at him and he said, I'm going to kill you. Chimera said, Well, you're going to take me straight to the Lord. Go ahead. And the man broke down into tears and he said, I can't kill you. You're a man of God. Now, did Chimera completely eradicate poverty in Brazil? No, of course he didn't. Did he completely eradicate um I I went back to Rio subsequent to um his ministry And the shanties are still there. But nevertheless, he persevered. He was uh continued in his faith. Um So one oh seven. So we go from commitment, and now the next in one oh seven. The psalmist leads us to con to contemplate our own afflictions. None of us um It reads, I am severely afflicted. Give me life, O Lord, according to your word. Afflicted means defiled, depressed, oppressed, humbled, and brought down. Does that sound familiar to anybody? For any of your friends, what are we to do? So, according to your word, same dabar, same meaning. a pronouncement of God according to also means as, so it's God who who's involved with this affliction that will give us a path of life out of it So we have commitment, we have affliction. Once we've been delivered from our affliction, the normal response is to praise God. And so in uh verse one oh eight accept my free will offerings of praise O Lord and teach me your rules Now I like the term judgments better than rules because rules kind of has this uh what a bureaucracy hands you when you walk on to the job and you've got to memorize them and walk the path. Uh but when I think of judgments, I think of God speaking and I want to listen to him. Here I think the psalmist is giving us a path out of the legalism The legalism ditch that you can fall into. And that is praise. Free will offering is not mandatory. It's not something that you do every week. It's not something it's something that God's bounty generates in your heart and you just turn to Him him in praise. The point is, I believe that devotion and not fortitude is what helps us to love the law. and to walk in a godly way. So if we want to get to that, oh how I love the law And to follow the commands of Jesus. We want that because we know that Jesus and the Lord love us. and know us better than we know ourselves. And so we just want to follow him. So following the f the um Following the praise of the free will offerings, we are now in front of another aspect of life Life that all of us have in some way, and that is frailty. Verse 108 reads, I will hold my life in my hand Continually, but I do not forget your law. So I hold my life. That word life is often translated as soul And when you think of holding your soul in your hand um continually, that means, well, let me give you a story I think it'll um uh that typifies this. I was talking to a friend just this last week and we were talking about someone else who we know who started an open marriage. And my friend said, and I think very very uh wisely, you know, that's kind of a a cowardly way to go about divorce, you know, because you don't want to go through the tedium of you know, separating uh where you're gonna live and who who's paying the rent, uh but psychologically. Um And one of the reasons why I was very wise is I looked and found that ninety-two percent of open marriages end up been divorced. But then he said something, and I think this points to our scripture. He said, but you know this troubles me because we're all two weeks away from disease. Disaster. So what was he saying? One stupid choice can totally change our lives Can put us on a path of destruction, can destroy everything we know and love, and leave us sundered And so every minute of the day matters. We cannot forget, overlook, ignore that there is a right and there is a wrong. And we need the law to inform us one from the other. So now following frailty of ourself. We need to recognize that there is malfeasance out there in the wide world that wants to attack us. Verse 110 says, The wicked have laid a snare for me, but I do not stray from your precepts. Okay, so let's go back to the period of the post-exilic period. So Nehemiah, you remember, he left, he went back to Jerusalem What did he find? The walls they were tumbled. The um uh temple was in tatters. Uh some of the wealthy folk were actually selling off poor people into slavery. And Nehemiah thought that was atrocious So what he did, it turned out that at just that time, uh Ezra found the law. And you remember they took a morning and they spent it reading the um law and Nehemiah said, Be quiet, for this day is holy. Do not be grieved. And so in the midst of, you'll remember there was uh Sanbalat and Tobiah and the Arabs And they were attacking him one relentlessly, but nevertheless, he stayed true. He stayed um Rooted in the truth of God and in His calling. Also, I need to mention here, I feel compelled to mention That in addition to specific people that may want to hurt us, there is also Satan. If he whispered into Peter's Judas ear as Scripture says he did. If he whispered into Judas ear, as Scriptures say Satan did, he can also whisper into our ears. So what's our defense? Our defense is let our thoughts and actions conform to the word of God. So looking at you can see that we have kind of the dimensions of man. We have a walk. It's defined by commitment. It is despite afflictions. It is embellished by praise. It is through our frailty and our enemies. In Psalm eleven, we look at the temporal dimension of our lives. Verse 111. Your testimonies are my heritage, however, for they are the joy of my heart. So, the testimonies. 2 Timothy 3. 16, I'm sure you all know it. All scripture is breathed out of God and is profitable for teaching. for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness. That is what the word of God is. However, it turns into a heritage So um Martin Heidegger was a philosopher in the twentieth century Uh and he wrote something that uh has always stuck with me. He said we take our history and we push it ahead of us into our future. So this history is once again replicated and brought into the future. What this what this verse is saying is the greatest indicator of joy, because you'll remember it says um Your testimonies are my heritage forever, for they are the joy of my heart, the greatest indicator. Of joy in your heart, of resilience in the face of affliction, in the face of frailty, is devotion to the word. And now this brings us to the very last stanza, uh the very last verse in the poem 112, I incline my heart to perform your statutes forever to the end. Now this is the first one just by Coincidence that we don't have um I incline my heart. That's something that I do. So what he's saying by I incline my heart, every Hebrew would know By the word heart, he's talking about the mind, the soul, the affections, our desires, our emotions emotions, the entire package of consciousness that we as human beings project is being inclined to perform the statutes, to see the value and the duty and the beauty of law forever So we are in front of the Alpha and the Omega. We have the God breathed Sun Drenched, spirit swept word of God. I told you this was going to be a one point sermon that we might love the law. That the law cannot be a rule book, it cannot be do's and don'ts, it cannot be an exhaustive list of um regulations and rules. It is about the portrait that God gives to us to show what is pleasing to Him. Jesus came to light in a period where Pharisees and Sadducees knew a hundred and sixty sixty three of the six hundred and thirteen sorry commandments of the Old Testament. But they didn't know God So if you want to know what this psalm means, what you need is to think about the path that God has put on you. To shine the light of the Lord on it and then walk boldly. If you want to know how to find the light, you confirm you. Choose it, and then you reconfirm daily that that's what you're going to do. If you are depressed, bewildered, burdened, and afflicted You look for the light that Christ has offered us and salvation through Him. As odd as it sounds, the best way that we can do this. is by praise and worship and instruction in holy living. Though we are frail, Jesus And God are not. We will be attacked, demeaned, will be belittled But the word of the Lord will prevail. It is our future, the future of our families, and of the kingdom. Jesus, call for us. The law is a beautiful thing. It will protect and encourage just as long as We hold fast to the law. Let me pray. Father God, I thank you for this opportunity for us to open your word. I pray, Lord That you will open the eyes of our hearts, that you will allow us, Father God, to come before your word, your law. And not to divorce it, but to realize that you're showing us what you want from each of us in So, Lord, as we read through the Psalms this week, Lord, open for us, open our hearts, open our souls, that we may look upon this with new Love and care in the name of Jesus