We continue this morning our reflections on the prophets and uh their anticipation of the the coming of Christ. And this morning we're going to look at the prophet Micah. Micah probably has more to say as he looked forward to the coming of the Christ than perhaps many Many other prophets did. Uh and uh and yet it's a it's a small book. It's not as small as some of the ones that we've been looking at, but it's uh only So let me give you just a little bit of background before I read the text uh on Micah, uh, because uh it I think it's helpful to see what he was writing. into. Micah was uh writing earlier uh than the other prophets we've looked at uh so far. So he was uh probably six or seven hundred Years before Christ. And yet the situation that he was writing into was an Israel, Judah especially. Uh and he personally had experienced the raids, the invasion of Sennacherib, and uh and all the failure that had happened in the land And they had been taken, uh the people of God have been taken captive. So seven hundred years before Christ, uh, he reflects on the failures of God's people that have brought about God's judgment. Seven hundred years. And one wonders, um you know, none of us have had to explain But if we went back in hit in our history seven hundred years. Takes us to the um To the Reformation, basically. You know, the the period of time in which all of uh all of the world was very different So it'd be very difficult to anticipate uh exactly what the coming of Christ was going to do or to be. And so in this passage in Micah, Micah chapter five that we're going to read this morning. Recognize that there is a Micah the prophet is looking out of two eyes. He's looking at the world around him with one eye, but the other eye is gazing On something more distant, something farther away that has yet to come. And it's that prophetic view that keeps both things in mind. But especially I think we see it this morning uh in Micah, Micah chapter five. Let me ask if you'd stand as we as I read read Mike Micah chapter five and I'm also going to read the reference in Matthew uh from which um that looks back to this. So Micah chapter five. I I want to start with verse two. But you, O Bethlehem Ephrata, who are too little to be among the clans of Judah Judah. From you shall come forth for me, one who is to be ruler in Israel. Whose coming forth is from of old? From ancient days. Therefore he shall give them up until the time when she who is in labor has given birth. And the rest of his brothers shall remain And he shall stand and shepherd his flock in the strength of the Lord, in the majesty of the name of the Lord. Lord his God. And they shall dwell secure, for now he shall be great to the ends of the earth, and he shall be And this portion of scripture is referenced in the book of Matthew, chapter 2, when the author, Matthew, reflects And he says, And you, Bethlehem, land of Judah, are by no means least among the leaders of Judah, for out of you shall come forth a ruler whom will Shepherd, my people, Israel. Let's pray. Lord God, this morning, would you turn our heads? If you need to put the crook of your staff around our heads so that our heads are turned to you, do so. Because Father Father, if you don't turn our hearts, if you don't turn our eyes, if you don't turn our heads, we would not see you. We would not know you. So we pray this morning that you would turn us, turn us to you, that we might walk in your way, that we might understand And feel your love. So, Father, walk before us now. Open your word to us that we might hear the voice of our shepherd. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. And you make you seated. It was a um a result that uh came any time a shepherd would use that crook. Um That staff, whatever you might want to call it. And there's a result that happens any time I put my dog's leash on his nose when he was a a puppy and I put it on him, he resisted He just didn't like it. Um because it it sort of made his mouth not able to open very much. That's sort of one of the purposes of it. Um and and yet now when I get to the back door uh and uh and hold that in my hand I he comes forward and he puts it puts his nose forward right into my hands because he knows what's coming afterwards. He knows it's not the shutting down, it's that he's gonna go for a walk. There's a result. The result of having to have that thing around his nose, he will take the thing around his nose for the result of the walk. Many years ago when we were in Ethiopia, I remember, and we still have a picture of it, that Fresh in my mind every time I think of the hospital steps. It was a little shepherd boy who was probably not more than four or five. And he did not have a staff like that. He had a little stick that was about this long. And in much of Africa a stick is actually the shepherd's um tool. It's not a long one, it's usually a little short one. But they don't beat the cheap with well, I shouldn't say that. I've seen that happen too. But usually it will tap. You know, get get moving. And this little shepherd boy was sitting on the on the step. ups of the hospital with his sheepstick uh sleeping. Uh he probably had been up much of the night uh or at least had been walking And his little body wasn't quite ready for it, so he was there sleeping. The question is, you know, what results from a shepherd? from a shepherd boy or a grown shepherd. What results? Well hopefully you actually have a flock that survives. Uh again, some years ago when we found ourselves back in Africa uh in Kenya this time, we came to uh to love and to uh be a part of serving in the kingdom with a family. And the family was about to have uh uh um a child. Actually it wasn't her first. Uh it was uh about their last. But we had developed a relationship with this family for a while, and so uh they informed us that they were going to name their son Carl. And I thought, oh dear. That's probably not a good thing, because in in that language they couldn't say say an L and they couldn't say an R. And so how do you say coral? It just doesn't come out. Uh it actually comes out Cow. So they were about to name their son Cal in my honor. And I was deeply moved. I'm sorry, that was We wanted to honor Carl, and so we decided to give him a birthday present. And on his birthday, or soon after, we gave him a goat. Now you may wonder why in the world would we give him a goat? Well what think about the result of a goat. If you have a goat, hopefully after a while you have more than a goat. And um after a longer while you may have not just some goats, but you may have some extra goats that you can either sell or you can eat depending on what it is you need to do. And we anticipated that this little baby Carl, cow, would eventually need to go to school. And uh their school fees would be growing as he grew. Uh they would be goats. Now it happened to be that that's What happened? The goat joined a few others, and after a few years there were a good number more. And those that little herd of goats became, in a sense, the resource, the resource for that family And uh that family eventually grew up, and I had three boys. The um this second born Is now a PhD. He's a PhD nurse. Carl is now an engineer. He's an aeronautification. Engineer. I worked for Boeing. The uh the firstborn uh was called Josiah. You may have recognized That name. Josiah also had the opportunity to not only learn, but to serve. And he said So that's the story of the Katumu family. We gave them a goat. was a result. And the result was over time. Now believe me, we weren't the only ones that contributed. And uh they contributed an enormous amount of of of time and energy to make that goat be something. And each of those children in time had to contribute an enormous amount in order to develop And to produce the results that they produce. Simon, who is now a PhD, worked as a Parking attendant, as did Carl, to pay for their school bills once they got to university. The work that we put in Often is way more than a gift that we receive. But what I want you to recognize is that there are results to these things. that we get. And there is a shepherd who knows his business. So when I talk about a shepherd boy, And I translate that into a shepherding flock. And I translate that into real people that you have seen that have shepherded you. You. I want you to see the continuum. What God does. And that's why it's important to come to this text. And so I want you to think with me, what are the results that this text talks about? And um I'll step Into it. Verse 2. But you, O Bethlehem, Ephrata, who are too little to be among the clans of Judah. Do you know The king that came from Bethlehem? It was David, right? So how can the prophet say, wait a minute? There's going to be a king, something, but it's going to come from this little place, too little to be known among the clans of you. Judah. The reality is something bad had happened. Although David had come from that little town, it was long forgotten. It was long overwhelmed. The people of God had forgotten their case. They had forgotten the importance of their king. And so life went on. And as life went on, Jerusalem grew, all of the other towns grew, and now the prophet is looking at it and he's saying Well, actually, Bethlehem, Ephraim, you're too little to even be among the clans of Judah. You don't even have a clan, just a little a little hot, a little place. But from you, he says, will come forth for me one who is to be ruler in Israel. So yes, there had been a ruler, but there was going to be a much greater ruler. Yes, there was a David, but there was a greater than David. And during that time, those hundreds of years of time God's people had been disobedient. They lost the sense of the significance. Of their God. The glory of the king was hidden. And as we come to this text, and as you come into this week Remember that God's people, you and I, often do the same thing. We lose the sense of who God is. God is. We ignore His call on our lives. We tend to go our own way, just like sheep do. So when God calls us back, when he pulls us back, when he sometimes has to tap us, it ought not be a surprise. Because he loves us, we have gone astray. And the glory of the king is often hidden in our daily walk. In history, we have often seen the diminishing of God's people. Today we tend to look at Christianity and say, well it's a it's a it's a Western religion. But it hasn't always been in history. The reality is that Asia was the place where Christianity began. And it had its greatest growth. I remember a few years ago going to Turkey, and as we went along the road, you could the the mosque spires were just like blades of grass. They were everywhere. And this is the place where the church first flourished? Yes. It was a place where the fur where the church first flourished. And and we came into one great area where some of the history started to come back to me as Well, this is the place where there were modern prophets, so called at that time, priests, so called at that time, godly people, so They felt. And they would sometimes, as monks or as priests, they thought it was somehow better to be away from people and say they would climb up steep rocks. And they would live in little caves where you couldn't even get there unless you climbed up with a rope. They were complete hermits. Somehow. Thinking that they were going to serve God. Well, what happened instead was that the church collapsed. So if we think We can be in isolation. That we can love God without loving people. We have only to look at history and recognize that the candle is taken away. The flame of the candle is put out. Again I remember uh in our travels having the privilege to go to an ancient part of this of the country of Yemen in the mountains high over the city, uh were actually worshipped with a small gathering Of believers in the open. But in that city, in the fortressed part of the place that we We were walking there in the hills. There was a gateway, a stone gateway, and there was the sign of an early Christian church carved into that Capital into that area of the stone. There had been a church there. There had been a living big church there. But it wasn't there anymore. Time we were there. It was actually a military garrison. So when we stopped being the church When we stop seeing and worshiping our king, we diminish. And yet, and this is the problem With Mike. Our king will emerge from the darkness, from the distance of our hearts. Our king will still emerge in the middle of our discouragement, in the middle of our depression, and he will be king. He will pull us. He will tap us. He will speak to us and he will remind us that he is the King of Kings. And if He's doing that in your life now, heed it. Listen to what he says. Secondly, the Text before us goes and gives us not just the result of disobedience, but it gives us the result of an eternal promise. And uh and that eternal promise uh emerges out of verse 3, or 2 and then 3. 2, the end of 2 says. From you shall come forth for me, one who is to be the ruler in Israel, whose coming forth is from of old, from ancient Days. From ancient days. It's an old and an ancient promise. A promise that was older than David. A promise that had gone all the way back to the creation. The Genesis, the Garden, the original disobedience. God says, I will find a place in which I will come again. And I will I will enter into history. I will enter into time. And the seed of evil will be destroyed. And he entered in, and the promise was given again to David. And when he said, Your seed will always be on the throne. The throne is forever. But it disappeared. And so the prophet might be here. is reflecting on the fact that that old, that ancient promise was not done. It was not over. It was still to come The Savior and the promise of the Savior was in the garden. The promise of the Savior was to David, but the promise of the Savior was still to come. And the prophet Micah could look ahead and say, I don't know when. And seven hundred years later, the angel said, It's now. It's now. And we look back and we think, Whoo! Three times that. Twenty one hundred years ago. And we're still waiting for the full redemption. We're between these times. But we don't despair. Because it's an old and it's an ancient promise that hasn't ended. God's ancient Promises did not fail. Verse 3 goes on. Therefore he shall give them up until the time when she who is in labor has given birth. Shall give them up? For me, give them up. It's God's judgment for sin. Yes, we are given over. Sin encases us. We do see, we do feel the result of our sin. Wouldn't it be wonderful if we didn't feel it? No, it wouldn't be wonderful. If we didn't feel the result of our sin, we would just continue. We sin more. So God in His grace puts that staff around our neck and pulls us back. It's danger, and we feel it. And we don't like it. But the shepherd loves us. And so the text speaks to us. Given up. God's judgment for sin, for the failure of our sin. Verse three goes on. He talks about about the return or the rest of his brothers. Return. God's here and the prophet here is is reflecting on the fact that it's not just one or two. It wasn't just the people of Israel at that time. But the kingdom of God was to be far greater. What about God's people who climbed up into trees and climbed up into the rocks and became hermits? What happened to the church then? Is it just gone? No. God's doing a new thing across the world. We may find the deterioration of the church in our Our country, in our world. But God hasn't abandoned His world. God continues Across the world to draw men and women unto himself. The brothers, the sisters. They are returning to the king. They are turning to the king And we see the whole earth begin to reflect God's great glory. The true people of Israel do return. The brothers, the sisters, those that are in Christ. God's voice will reach them and they will hear. So the eternal plan is not just old. But it's unchanged actually from the start. That was God's purpose. That He would turn the hearts of each of us back. There's a third result. It's not just the result of disobedience or the result of the eternal promise, but there's a third result I want to see which to see in this small short text. And that is the Prince of Peace. That we will dwell securely. And he shall stand, verse four reads, and shepherd his flock in the strength of the Lord, in the majesty of the name of the Lord his God. In the majesty He will stand. So we do dwell secure. That's why the staff, that's why the shepherd, who walks with us, who pulls us, who speaks to us. Us, who pokes us if we need to be poked because we're going too slow, because we haven't moved. So that we move in his safety. Place, and we will dine, we will eat in his pastures. Verse 4 speaks of standing, he shall stand. Like a king. Like a shepherd alongside. A king over us. A shepherd alongside of us. Uh it's that feeding, it's that leading, it's that secur security that God promises to you and He promises to me and He promises to all His people from before the time of Micah, long after the time of Micah, that we walk securely, and that was the Thomas for the Jeffrey. was not the Christian symbol. And not that it wasn't, but the primary symbol of the early church was that staff. The shepherd. Yes, the shepherd that gave his life on the cross, that died for his sheep. But the shepherd fundamentally that walked alongside of his sheep and kept them and loved them and made them secure and fed them. That's the picture that we have as we come to the scripture. The season keep that picture in your mind because that is the picture that God would give to us. Have spent many of our days watching what in East Africa at least is known as a Boma. A Boma is no more than a fence Made out of thorn bushes. And if you shepherded your flock all day long, they've got to go someplace at night. And the shepherd, unlike the little boy who's was asleep, sound asleep, on our um hospital steps. The shepherd would also have to sleep. But he would also have to be awake. Well you can't do both. Uh e even if you're like my wife and you wake up really quickly, uh you still can't do both. You're either asleep or you're awake So their solution was to create a fence out of thorn bushes. And in the entrance of that Boma, that fence, that perimeter of thorn bushes Bushes that sheep couldn't get through, wolves couldn't get through, hyena couldn't get through. They had to go through the entrance. It was in the entrance that the shepherds slept. You got in there, you got over his body. You took him out first. In that hospital where that Shepherd was. We actually treated a child whose entire skull had been ripped off. The skin at least. Because a hyena had at him. He was sleeping near his father. He survived. But the trauma, just incredible. But in my mind, it was that's what the shepherd does. The shepherd was willing to lay down his life for a sheep. The greatness of our shepherd is not worth Who has only a stick. The greatness of our shepherd is not one who only has a voice to yell. The greatness of our shepherd is that he has the ultimate ability to turn our hearts, not just our heads, He has the ability to redirect the horrors and the difficulties around us. And the only question is, can I trust him for it? Can I trust my shepherd to know that his outcome, his result, is better than the result that I can see? When I only see what I can Can see. My shepherd sees what I cannot see. He does what I cannot do. He changes what I cannot change. He protects in ways that I cannot protect. That's your shepherd. That's my shepherd. He stands He stands in front of us, he stands above us, he stands next to us. That's our shepherd and our king. It's our true security. It's not a political Statement. It's not a political party. It's not a political leader. It's a divine shepherd and ruler. And it's our own life, security, and hope in life. So what do we Do about it? What's the result? What's the result of walking with that kind of a kid? The result is in you. The result is in me. Just like there was a result in the little goat, the little baby goat that we took. To the Katum household. The result is seen years later in what those boys took Into men do. The result of your walking with a shepherd is what you do and what you say. And you can't I can't with your words, I can't with my words, make the king king. The king is king. But we demonstrate to the world around us that he is our king King by what we do, by how we appear in a broken world, by the confidence that we have in the That we share by the sense of urgency of the message that God gives to us. So proclaim it, walk with it, follow him. Make him King of Kings. Not because you can make him, not because I can make him, but because We simply reflect. He is King. Let's pray. Father, we want to follow you. We want to hear your voice We confess again that so often our ears are overwhelmed With the cries, the calls of the world around us. And our heart breaks because of the consequences of failures, of sin. sins our own sins, other sins against us. But Father, this week, would you want Walk with us. Remind us. Help us to hear your words. Help us to be reminded by the tug of the circumstance. That you place us in. That the circumstances are yours to guide us. And so give to us a Response that as your church we might walk in the sureness, in the security, and the hope That we have in Jesus Christ. In His name we pray. Amen. Let's stand and sing our