Well, I want to tell you how delighted I am to be here. Thank you for the invitation. Today we are going to start a series on uh First Peter, uh which is a book that's generally on suffering. I've titled the message, Our New Life Sheds New Light on Suffering. Um in 1 Peter we are going to see a very rich and nuanced view of how Jesus Christ encourages us to respond to suffering. Any who were able, please stand up. I'm going to read the scripture. I'll pray and then you may be seated again. So this comes 1 Peter 1 through 9. 1 1 through 9. Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ. to those who are elect exiles of the dispersion in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia. According to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in the sanctification of the Spirit, for obedience to Jesus Christ, and for sprinkling with his word. May grace and peace be multiplied to you. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, unfading, and kept in heaven for you Who by God's power are being guarded through a faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you rejoice, though now for a little while. If necessary, you have been grieved by various trials. So that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold that perishes, though it is tested by fire may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of rev uh revelation of Jesus Christ. Though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you do not now see him, you believe in him, and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible. and filled with glory, obtaining the outcome of your faith and the salvation of your souls. This is the word of the Lord. Father God, we come before you. We ask that you would open our eyes, open our hearts, open our minds, Lord, change our attitudes. Help us to realize that That what you have given us this rebirth, this new generation, is one that we can use not only in times of encouragement, but in times of suffering. We pray this in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Okay, may be seated. Okay, word about 1st and 2 Peter. 1 Peter. There's little controversy that the Apostle Peter uh wrote this uh letter. It is considered to be one of the most elegantly written uh documents uh in the New Testament. It is absolutely Gorgeous in terms of its use of English. Second, Peter, I'll just mention parenthetically, not so much. Um it is a document that focuses on false teaching. Um you'd have to go back to the prophets, especially in chapter two. to see um verbiage that's this hard hitting. So some people have a problem with that. However, here's the reason. Peter credits at the end of 1 Peter, Sylvanus. Now Sylvanus was a manumentus or a scribe. And so 1 Peter comes to us through the agency of the Spirit through both Peter and Sylvania. Terminology are all the love for the body, the themes are all consistent with um Peter. Now before I get started, I wan just have a word on s on uh suffering. There's suffering and there's Suffering. So on the one hand, we have the suffering from sin. An alcoholic who abuses his body will have issues later in life. There is also social suffering, and there's not one family that has not been through that But in addition to that, there's betrayal, there's uh criticism, um, there's divorce and cruelty. Then there's the suffering of disease, of bodily um harm, personality disorder, um, and accidents. And finally, kind of a fourth area we call the horrendous, 9-11. Just takes out, takes its toll. on a massive scale. Uh school shootings is another example. Uh the Bible has the richest and the most nuanced way Of looking at suffering. And it encourages us to look, to face, to grieve, and to To lean into the Lord. And if I have a theme to today's message, that is it. Okay, so let's get started with the um Um the verse verse number one reads Peter an apostle of Jesus Christ to those who are elect, exiles of the dispersion in Pontius Galatia Captain. Now, Peter, the apostle, and he was an apostle even when this was written. And he mentioned it is those who are elect. I want to stop for a second. Um election In reformed circles, we have what we call an ordis salutis, an order of salvation. That God, on his own, elects us to be his. He then calls us, and in response to that call, he generates in and of himself a new heart, which then allows us to repeat We are going to visit most of these in this selection, so I just wanted to stop on that word election that I think you're going to see this. concept of our salvation is building in his thoughts. Then he mentions it to the exiles of the dispersion. If you know a little bit about church history, 70 A. D. there was a great dispersion. So what that is not this. So that refers to a number of Jewish people at that time decided to revolt against. They were encouraged two centuries before by the Maccabees, which are Apocrypha in the uh Roman Catholic Bible, but not ours. And they revolted, they kicked the Greeks out, and for a century until the Roman took over, uh, they were self-ruling. So they tried that again. However, Rome was not pleased. And so the entire city was wasted and there was a massive Um that was seventy AD. We can assume we we're very sure that this was written before then. And so in the dispersion, what Peter is talking about Is the situation that we find in Acts, where Paul goes in and he finds believers having harsh treatment from Orthodox Jews, from um other religious cults and just distrust of a new religion. And so he wants to fortify them. Final note about the place. It's um in northern Turkey. So from Jerusalem, we know we go over to the Mediterranean, when we follow the Mediterranean. At the point where it rounds out is southern Turkey. Northern Turkey at the Black Sea is where we find Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, and Bithynia. And so that apparently is where Peter went to do outreach and evangelism. In verse 2, he gives us a greeting, and I want to take note of how theologically rich this is. It goes according to the foreknowledge of God the Father in the sanctification of the Spirit. For obedience to Jesus Christ and for sprinkling with his blood, may grace and peace be multiplied To you. So first off, notice that we've got the foreknowledge of God the Father. Foreknowledge is building upon the concept of a So there's a bridge there. Second, notice that we have a rich Trinitarian statement, the foreknowledge of the Father, sanctification of the Son, and obedience to Jesus Christ. Christ. So we have a wonderful and then just not to leave out the gospel, he adds in and a sprinkling with his blood. May grace When I was starting this, I got uh Tim Timothy Kelly Book of Walking with God Through Pain and Suffering. Any of you who are going through phases where you're in the Valley of the Shadow, highly recommend this book. In this, he brings up the point that every culture needs to have some explanation For suffering. One example is moralistic. An example of moralistic suffering as an explanation. is karma, right? What goes around comes around. Whatever you do, expect a rebound. The Bible does not agree with that. Then there's the self-transcended. So Buddhists and Hindus say if you meditate, you can avoid the problems with uh suffering. Third And this was predominant in the time of the Greeks and it continues today, and that is Stoicism. That if you Grit your teeth and and bear it, uh you'll get through it. And Keller makes the point that probably the least satisfying explanation that a culture is given is what secular materialism tries to foist on us. And that is that Suffering, just avoid it, run away from it, take a pill, whatever, don't worry, be happy. Uh just go with the flow and don't pay attention to it The Bible, on the other hand, finds that there's purpose in suffering, even when we don't know what that purpose is. We become More patient through suffering, we become more forgiving. That's not to say suffering is good. That's not to say we want to attract it. It just means That suffering is inevitable. Moving on to verse three Blessed be God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again. To a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. So notice Notice here that we have God the Father, but we also have according to his mercy. Why is his mercy necessary? Well, the primary reason is sin. You and I, none of us are sinless people. And yet God has offered us this rebirth. So notice again And the order of Salutus, we're elected, we're called, and the very next step is this rebirth is It is regeneration. And in this we are given the new wineskin to hold the spirit of Christ. Remember Nicodemus back in John 3. He went to see Jesus and asked him about some of his beliefs. And Nicodemus said about the most crass thing you can imagine He said, Oh, is it true that he must enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? Totally missing the point. of this teaching. And Jesus as always doesn't flinch. He says, Verily, verily, Amen, Amen. I say to you, unless one is Born of water and the spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. So, water and spirit. What it we're we're we're looking at this rebirth. What does the water mean? Some say that it's baptism, but R. C. Sproul says, no, I a better explanation is to go back into the old Testament, especially Ezekiel, where he's reaching out to an impure people and he first wants them purified And they're purified through the water. That they are cleansed, and from the cleansing they are forgiven. And once they're forgiven, They're able to access the spirit within them. And another dimension of this rebirth is talked about in Ephesians two, three through five. Paul reminds us, quote, we are all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of our body. and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind. But God being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which He loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses. Made us alive together with Christ, by grace you have been saved. So, those who are elected Are called, are regenerated, and now we're able to repent and have faith, which is the first place, really where you and I have a choice in the matter. Everything up to this point is God's work. In four and five, he now goes on to the blessing or the ramification or what follows this new heart. It reads, to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading kept in heaven for you who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. So now we move to adoption, which is another of the order of salvation. I think this is just masterful the way that it ties everything in that God does for us. Um so notice that it's something that can't be broken, lost, stained. It won't fade or be tarnished. It can't be crushed or cracked or lost because it is guarded through faith. And that's the first step. Faith. that we can actually bring ourselves to the work that God is already doing in our hearts. So therefore, regeneration is nothing that we grab, nothing that we take, but something that is ushered to us. Now, I just have to throw out there that when we're talking about an inheritance, realize that in the narrative of the wide world, inheritance is a suspect thing, though it be equated with exploitation and greed and um that is just what the wide World response. But in fact, an inheritance is the best that a family has to pass on to the next generation. generation. So when I found this woman Kim and she said yes to my propos proposal. My mother was so delighted to have a solid, strong female that she took off the she took the ring from her mother. and gave it to Kim that she could have it. This was an inheritance. And so for three decades and well counting past that That has been a symbol of our marriage. So notice that this regeneration, this new birth, this uh uh is the Holy Spirit places it within us Therefore, it becomes com it becomes an aspect of our identity. But the choices are not They are filtered through God's will for us and God's will through us. They're It is meant to inform our behavior, to light our way. It is meant to create new character within us to bless and to challenge. So now we have this regenerated heart. that is not ours within us, but we're still subjected in a world, in a fallen world that is filled With suffering. So verse 6 reads: In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved. By various trials. Trials. Two thousand four there was a tsunami killed two hundred and thirty thousand people in fourteen nations within two days. However, we don't have to be so macro when we're looking At the texture of salvation. A stillborn child, a diagnosis of cancer, um, a couple that we dearly love. admitting that they're getting divorced and the ramification. Suffering abounds. In seventeen hundred, one out of ten children were dead. One half of all children died before they were age ten. And yet Keller points out that when we read letters from the 1700s, we find that they have a far more robust response to suffering Though their suffering must have been indeed great. But the one thing the Bible is very clear about is that it's not. Moralistic, meaning uh quid pro quo, that you do this and you're gonna get suffering Note that Jesus in Luke 13, 4, was talking to the disciples. Um of those eighteen whom the Tower of Siloam fell and killed, do you think they were worse offenders than all the others in Jerusalem by implication? No. Or John 9, 3. John 9 is where he heals the blind man. And the the disciples asked him, was it he or his parents? And he said, it was not that this man sinned or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed through him. Let me hearken back very briefly to the book of Job. Job suffered greatness Misery. It is a mystery, according to Keller. We don't know why God allowed Satan to direct such trauma on Job. He never tells him. But Invariably, he came down very hard on all the friends of Job. Because the friends of Job were moralistic. They said, where there's great suffering, there must be great Sin, you need to repent, Job. You need to own your own evil and get on with life. God was Very blunt in requiring, in rebuking them, and in calling for them to repent and to sacrifice. But nevertheless, Job suffered. He had the death in his family, he lost his flocks, he lost his wealth, he encountered physical Pain Job was not a perfect man. But What Job did right was to stay connected with God. When he complained, he complained To God. When he prayed, he prayed to God. When he moaned and mourned, he mourned to God. He leaned into God the Father, and ultimately he was reconciled. So now Peter moves us from the aspect of suffering to the quality that he calls So in verse 7 he says, so that the tested genuineness of your faith more precious than gold that perishes, though it is tested by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Keller finds four ways by pressing into suffering That we are improved. The first is that it transforms our attitudes about ourselves, that we are humbled, that we are. brought to re-evaluate everything that we've taken for granted and as a result we are made new. Secondly, it profoundly changes our relationships. So, someone who's maybe over empath who's a workaholic suffering at home may jar that person to say, you know what, I have my um I I I just have my priorities incorrect. I need to change. The most important aspect of suffering, according to Keller, is that it strengthens our relationship to God. Because through our mourning and our discomfort and our pain, we are brought face to face with God. And I'm adding on a fourth that he mentions, but not as part of this list, but just because I think it's generic to us as a body. Almost prerequisite suffering is requiring us to Be sensitive w uh will give us a sensitivity with others who are suffering. We are better listeners and more So God is actually asking us not to run away from suffering, but to grieve and to mourn and to moan. But to lean into God. Now, let me go back to this concept of the test. I'm going to go to Malachi 3, verses 1 and 2. Uh I'm including verse one just because it prefigures Christ and it's so obvious. Um and so once we get to two where it talks about So it starts off, Behold, I send my messenger, and he will prepare the way before me, and the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple. And the messenger of the covenant, in whom you delight, behold he is coming, says the Lord of So this is who is being called, but in two, he continues. But who can endure the day of his coming And who can stand when he appears? For he is like a refiner's fire and a fuller's soap He will sit as a refiner and purifier of silver, and he will purify the sons of Levi and refine them like gold and silver, and they will bring offerings and righteousness So notice we once have the purification, the fuller soul And the refiners fire the indwelling of the Spirit. Now in verse 8, we are brought face to face with the presence of God. Though you have not seen him, you love him. And though you do not now see him, you believe in him, and rejoice with joy. That is inexpressible and filled with glory. In those first two phrases, notice how he has a wonderful parallelism. So he says, though you do not now see him, you love him, though you do not see him, you believe in him. I was a math teacher and there is the transitive property of equality. So if A equals B and B equals C then and A equals C. So we have two statements that are identical here. Not see him and not now see him But now we can equate the other two, which is to love God and to believe in Him. My friends, aren't we standing right in front of Hebrews eleven, verse one? Fa is being sure of what we hope for and certain of what we cannot see. That we are given this faith and it has substance in our hearts The conclusion, the very last statement in this uh wonderful section is verse nine. Obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls. Now notice that my title was A New Life. Sheds new light on suffering. How did we Come by this suffering. Well, there was the fall, but more than that. The answer is itself suffering, but it's not your suffering And it's not my suffering. It is Jesus Christ. God so loved the world that he brought his only son. That would live a perfect life would be subjected to the worst and most hideous executions And he would endure absolute abandonment of the Father. Why? So that you and I might know God That we might experience this salvation that He has promised us, and even in the midst Of our aches and our pains and our woes and our moaning and our trauma We still can reach out with inexpressible joy because it is not ours, it is the Father's. In a fallen world we suffer. Do not be surprised, Peter will later tell us. In that very same. We are part of good people doing good people's work and none of us is exempt But even in the near term, we are better off leaning into God, grieving before God, hoping the new hope through Christ. And rejoicing in the Spirit, because, my friends, God will never abandon us. Let me pray. Father God, I just thank you for your word and I thank you for bringing it to me And I pray, Lord, that you will help us to look on the miracle of what you have accomplished. through our regeneration that we might seek that in the next week with greater purity and trust. In the name of Jesus, amen.