Well good morning. We're continuing on in our Advent series that we've entitled Emmanuel, the God Who is Present. With his people, the God who dwells with us. We saw a couple weeks ago from Genesis chapter three, starting all the way back in the very beginning of the Bible, seeing the story of how uh our fall into sin through our first parents. disrupted our ability to dwell in God's presence. That instead of running to God, we ran from Him. And that there was this wonderful promise that God gave that there would be one who would come to set things right. and to make his blessings flow as far as the curse is found. And Pastor Stan last week came and preached to us from Isaiah the the promise that the Virgin would conceive and bear a son and call his name Emmanuel, God with us. This whole promise is centered around Christ. So this morning we're going to jump all the way to the other end, to the book of Revelation, chapter 21. and see how we can tie this together in focusing on God's dwelling in our midst. So if you would, would you please, if you have a Bible open to Revelation 21, verses 1 through 4. And I invite you to stand as we read God's Word together. Hear now God's Word. Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them. And they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes And death shall be no more. Neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain any more, for the former things have passed away. The word of the Lord this morning. Let's pray together. Our Father, how we long for that day that we've just read about. We Know how desperately we need you, that we need you every hour, and we come now hungry, knowing that it is not by bread alone that we live, but by every word that comes from your mouth. mouth. And so we pray, O Lord, would you feed us from your word? Strengthen us. Holy Spirit, help us to understand what we've read, to know how it applies to our lives, and give us the desire and the strength to change our lives in response to your word. We pray, O Lord, that you would speak, for your servants are listening. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. Well every year at Christmas I just kind of always have the opportunity to to reflect on Christmas growing up and just the various memories that that come with that. And one of my my clearest memories From growing up at Christmas time, presents would go under the tree a little bit early. They would be all wrapped, and the rule was you could look at them, but you couldn't touch them. And I would just spend felt like hours. It was probably just a couple minutes here and there, but I would spend all kinds of time just sitting there staring at these boxes, trying to figure out, I know what I asked for. Does it fit in that box? Could it be trying to figure out which box was had which thing in it and it was at the time when I would just long for the day when I could finally open these presents and then have them forever. Time when I would just be filled with hope and longing Well the same idea is going on in this passage. Here we have the picture of the end of what will happen at Christ's return and the hope that we have in him. See, at Christmas we remember that Christ has come once, but our hope is also that he's going to come again. And this picture gives us a picture of that hope that we have at Christ's return. And then the lesson we learn from this passage is that we must live each day in light of our hope for Christ's return. We must live each day in light of our hope for Christ's return. So I just want to look at this passage under two headings this morning. I want to look first at what John saw, and then we'll see what John heard, and then I just want us to make a few different applications about how the hope that we have in Christ should change and shape our daily lives. So let's look in verses 1 and 2 at what John saw. And the context is the book of Revelation, which we've been Going through in Sunday School at a very slow pace because it's so difficult and confusing. It's a book that is a series of visions that happen over and over again, and they're showing the entire time between Christ's first coming and his second coming from a a slightly different angle each time. Like one of those movies where you watch the same scene over and over again from a a different perspective. And as we come towards the end of the book, the last series of visions is Revelation 20 through 22. And we see this picture in Revelation 20 of Satan being defeated and destroyed, being cast into the lake of fire. Ending with the final judgment, where uh those who reject Christ are also share the same fate as the devil himself, cast into the lake of fire. It's a sober reminder for us of the reality of judgment. That we must always keep in mind. But this passage, as we come to chapter 21, shifts. And it shows us the focus is on the future that believers have. The focus is on the future hope that we have in Christ. So John sees he says a new heaven and a new earth. He says the first heaven and the first earth had passed away Now I think the meaning that we should see there is probably not that the first earth was completely annihilated and ceased to exist, and that then there was a completely new creation out of nothing. I think more likely that the scripture does speak of the drastic change that happens as you go from old to new, so that it can it can be true when it says that the first earth perished and passed away. But I think maybe the more helpful way to consider it is is one of being transformed and of renewed. Peter brings out this idea in 2 Peter 3. He says, the heavens existed long ago, and the earth was formed out of water and through the water by the Word of God. That by means of these the world that then existed was deluged with water and perished. But by this same word, the heavens and the earth that now exist are stored up for fire, being kept until the day of judgment and the destruction of the godly uh of the ungodly. You see, Peter says the the earth that we live in now was already destroyed once back in the flood But the time at the flood, it wasn't that the old earth ceased to exist and was annihilated and God did an entirely new work of creation. No, it was a a transformation that took place. Drastic, but a transformation. And that in the future it's going to be the same kind of thing. So it's it's not uh a complete change in that sense, but it's it's more like one theologian said it, it's like when a caterpillar becomes a butterfly. Drastic change. It's when a seed grows into a plant. It's when an unbeliever becomes a new person and is born again to be a new creation. So there's this drastic change, this amazing transformation that occurs. So what's actually different? It's interesting that the way John describes it is he says, the sea. was no more. Now I'm not sure if you're a beach person or a mountain person, but I don't think he's saying that there's not going to be any more bodies of water. I think we have to understand the way that this language of the sea is used, especially in the book of Revelation. It's a picture of disorder and chaos. It's the realm of evil and death where representing the trials and afflictions that face God's people in the world We can get a sense for what he means by the sea being no more when we see the parallel that he created between verse 1 and verse 4. You see, in verse 1 he says, the first heaven and the first earth pass away, and the sea was no more. And jump down to verse 4, he says, death is no more. There's no more tears or pain or suffering. Why? Because the former things have passed away. The difference between the old and the new is that sin and suffering are completely gone. The world will be completely purified. It will be an eternal, unending world. Picture the background for this passage comes from Isaiah 65. Where God tells Isaiah, Behold, I create new heavens and a new earth, and the former things shall not be remembered or come into mind. But be glad and rejoice forever in that which I create, for behold, I create Jerusalem to be a joy, and her people to be a gladness. I will rejoice in Jerusalem and be glad in my people. No more shall be heard in it the sound of weeping and the cry of distress He goes on later and says, The wolf and the lamb shall graze together, the lion shall eat straw like the ox, and dust shall be the serpent's food. They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountains, says the Lord. I'll set everything right, and that crafty serpent who came into the garden and ruined everything, he will still be kept low, never to hurt you again. John sees this beautiful vision of a new heaven and a new earth. No evil, no sin, no brokenness, only harmony and peace and joy. But it gets even better as he goes on, because even better than that is what he sees in verse 2. He sees the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down from heaven from God as a bride adorned for her husband. Right? He doesn't see a a literal city, but he but he sees the people of God. It's not a temple, it's the church. It's the people of God coming down. We see that from the the picture that this is a bride adorned for her husband and the church is the bride of Christ. All the language that speaks of Old Testament Israel and of of Zion and Jerusalem as in the Old Testament is transitioned to refer to the church as we come into the New Testament. Maybe one of the most striking examples of this is from Exodus 19. where God brings his people out of Egypt, brings them to the foot of Mount Sinai, and is about to enter into a covenant with them. And he says, you are a holy nation. A kingdom of priests, a people for my own possession, and goes on to make a covenant with them about how they are to live in response to being his people. Peter in 1 Peter 2 picks up on that exact language and applies it to the church. He says, You, church, are a chosen nation A holy priesthood, a people for his own possession, and you, as you come to Christ, are being built up into a spiritual house to offer spiritual sacrifices to God. That's kind of the whole point of the book of Hebrews, isn't it? Don't go back to the temple, because Jesus is better. Jesus is better than Abraham, than Moses, Melchizedek, than Joshua, and he's better than the whole system of sacrifices in the temple. We don't need a temple because we've had the once-for-all perfect sacrifice of Christ. Abraham's hope, Hebrews 11 tells us, was never set on earthly Canaan, physical land in Palestine. No, he was looking forward to the city that has foundations, whose designer and builder is God, the heavenly Jerusalem, as Hebrews goes on to describe the church in chapter 12. The church is pictured as the bride coming down, the people of God being presented to Christ as a husband is presented Or as a wife is presented to her husband. The relationship between God and his people throughout the Old Testament is frequently described as a husband-and-wife relationship. It highlights the intimacy of our relationship with God, his faithfulness towards us, and the faithfulness he demands of us. It highlights the exclusiveness. We cannot go worship another God because we have one God, one husband. This is the whole imagery that plays out in the Song of Songs. A picture of the king and his wife finding its full In the relationship between Christ and the church. It's the picture we have in Psalm 45 as the psalmist writes a hymn to the king on his wedding day. Describing the beauty of his princess that's going to be presented to him. There in verse thirteen it says, All glorious is the princess in her chamber, with robes interwoven with gold. In many colored robes she is led to the king with her virgin companions following behind her. With joy and gladness they are led along as they enter the palace of the king. Maybe the most striking echo that we have from this passage comes in Ephesians 5, where Paul is writing to husbands and to wives and says, husbands Love your wives as Christ loved the Church, and gave himself up for her. Why? That He might sanctify her having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle, or any such thing, that she might be holy. And without blemish. The old hymn captures this. From heaven he came and sought her to be his holy bride, and with his own blood he bought her. And for her life he died. You see, Revelation 21, 2 is the realization of God's plan of redemption, to present his people to Christ in perfect, spotless holiness with no sin. And starting in Genesis 3 and coming now to Revelation, we've gone from seeing God's people naked and ashamed to now clothed with the righteousness of Christ, adorned as a bride, to be presented for her husband. That's what the Lord has done for us. This is the end that's in view when Christ died on the cross. Scripture describes God as the blessed God. It's a doctrine that's not really written a whole lot about, but essentially it just says God's not needy. God is happy and satisfied in himself. There's nothing that we can give him or do for him that that fulfills some need that he has. Because he dwells in perfect communion with himself, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit from all eternity. He didn't create because he needed us, but simply because he chose to. And what a beautiful thing it is that the scripture presents this God who doesn't need us and yet desires us and loves us. And chooses to send his own son to die in order to secure us. This is what John saw. He saw this beautiful vision, but what he heard is even more amazing. He hears this loud voice coming from the throne. Maybe an angel or a cherub, but most likely it's God Himself. And he says in verse 3, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people. And God himself will be with them as their God. That language of dwelling place, it's the Greek word for tabernacle or tent. It's the same word we read in John 1. 14 when we're told that the word became flesh and dwelt among us. And we have seen his glory, the only of of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. See the picture is of us being permanently with God, the the beatific vision that we're told to look forward, seeing God in his beautiful face, when our faith becomes sight. That's so often Peter tells us that that we love God even though we can't see him. And our hope is that one day we will see him face to face. We will see the one whom our soul loves. Beholding the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. And we're told they will be his people, and he will be their God. That is the heart of the covenant promise that runs throughout Scripture. I will be your God, you will be my people. It shows up when God speaks to Abraham, when he speaks to Noah, when he speaks to Moses and to David, even in Jeremiah, the promise of the new covenant. It's the thing that ties the Bible together. I will be your God, you will be my people. It's often called the Emmanuel principle. To highlight the point that we were created to dwell with God. The result of Genesis 3 is that our sin makes us hide from God and be expelled from his presence. And so God comes to seek us out, to die in our place, so that he might dwell with us in a place where there is no more sin. We will be with him forever to glorify and to enjoy him. It's important to see here that the Bible presents dwelling with God as the greatest blessing that we have to look forward to. It's the the supreme joy that we have in our hope in Christ. But that doesn't mean it's the only thing we have to look forward to. There are all kinds of blessings that come from being in God's presence simply because of who He is and because of the fact that He has defeated and destroyed sin, death, and the devil. That's what we read about in verse four. No more suffering, no more sadness, no more pain. Think about that. Not just that there won't be any tears, but God will wipe away the tears from the Think about the tenderness that's pictured there in God's relationship with you. He's pictured as as a father who stoops down to wipe the tears away from his young child's face, saying Honey, don't worry. Everything's fine now. That's the picture that we have to look forward to The psalmist brings this out. I love the way the New Living Translation translates Psalm 56. 8. You keep track of all my sorrows. You have collected all my tears in your bottle. You have recorded each one in your book. Do you know how many tears you've cried in the course of your life? God does. Not a single tear that you've shed has fallen to the ground unnoticed by your Creator. And one day, he's coming to set everything right. Even death itself will be gone. No more, swallowed up in victory. It's always interesting when we read through this end of Revelation, thinking about what what will heaven be like? I always find it interesting that God really doesn't give us a lot of details about the specifics. But what he does say and what he does tell us is more than enough to show us that we will be greater than we can even imagine. I had the privilege of sharing these verses with Mary Ann on Sunday, just the day before she passed away, and comforting her with the promise that Marianne, I don't know what the future holds, but we know that when the time comes that the Lord calls you home, we know where you're going and we know the hope that you have in Christ. Sin and suffering will be no more, and you will be with your God forever. Friends, if you are in Christ, this is your hope. It's not wishful thinking. It's a confident promise from a faithful God that one day everything wrong in this world will come untrue. Injustice will be set right, tears will be wiped away, and friends, your battle with sin will be ended. In some mysterious way. I think this passage gives us the promise that everything will somehow be more wonderful for having once been so bad. Beyond that, we will be with God forever in his presence, glorifying and enjoying him as we are created to do. If you're here this morning and you're not in Christ, that you're not a Christian, let me just encourage you with these words. You do not want to miss this. The same God who sent his son has given the promise that all who call on him will be saved. That if you come to Christ in repentance and faith, seeing your sin for what it is and your need for a Savior, and you turn away from a life of living for yourself and come and put all your hope in Christ and what He has done for you, that you can share in this hope. So come to him. Because his spirit will not just bring a new heaven and a new earth, but he'll make you into a new creation. The whole purpose of this passage is to give us the hope that we have in Christ at His return. But what difference does this hope make for us in our daily lives? I just want us really briefly to consider four things. I think the first is that it should it should lead us to be heavenly-minded. To live with an eternal perspective, to live every day with heaven in view. Just think for a moment about the kinds of things that keep you up at night. And then think, how many of those things will you be worrying about 10,000 years from now It's not at all to suggest that the things of this life don't matter. It's not at all to suggest that the things that we stress and worry about are insignificant. That's that's they are, they matter. But I think eternity has a way of putting things in perspective for us So that we don't get too consumed by things that shouldn't consume us. I think the other side of living in a heavenly-minded way is that we ought to live with what I might call a holy discontentment. If you're anything like me, your tendency is to just get a little too comfortable, a little too at home in this world. But we were not created for this world alone, were we? We were created for a new heaven and a new earth, an eternal home that will never wear out, never fade away, a perfect place. And so this there should be this discontentment, this longing for Christ to come back and set things right in our daily lives. Be heavenly-minded. Second, take time now to cultivate your relationship with God. Let me put it to you this way. Does verse 3 excite you? Do you like the thought of being with God forever? In some ways, eternity is just kind of terrifying for us to think about, isn't it? It's hard for us as finite people to wrap our minds around it. But the point is we can't long for communion with one who we don't know very well. And so I think this passage should call us to reflect on how we spend our time. Do we in our daily lives invest in our relationship with God, giving attention to His Word and to prayer and to fellowship? What does the Lord's day look like for you? Do you prioritize your schedule to be here on Sunday morning, but beyond that, to use the day as you're able to focus on your relationship with God and private worship and prayer? We must deepen our relationship with God because if the thought of spending extended time with God doesn't excite us, we might not find that much that we enjoy in heaven. Be heavenly-minded. Cultivate our relationship with God. Third, pursue holiness. The book of Hebrews tells us there's a holiness without which we will not see the Lord. We're called each day to put sin to death in our lives, to turn from our sin and turn to Christ. The picture that we're given in places like Ephesians and Colossians is that of putting off and putting on. Put off the old, put on the new. It's a picture of constant repentance for the Christian life. Heaven is a place for holy people. It's described here as the holy city. It's the bride that is adorned. And perfect holiness and spotlessness. One of the best things about the new heaven and the new earth is that there will be no more sin. My son has a new saying: things are at the worst. He doesn't want to eat dinner. Ah, dinner's the worst. He doesn't want to go to bed. Bed is the worst. Well friends, if you're in Christ, isn't it true that sin is the worst? Don't you hate it? Don't you long to be free from it? Just the things that come into your mind and you think about that consume you all day, the things you say when you know you shouldn't, the things you do when you know you shouldn't. Sin is the worst. We will never be perfect in this life. We are not saved by our obedience. But we must still pursue holiness and practice for heaven. Pursue holiness. Finally, suffer and grieve in hope. The reality of life is that life is hard and painful. Things are not the way they should be. The Bible doesn't call us to some unfeeling stoicism, as if the things that hit us in this life don't really phase us. No, we're not told in Scripture to minimize our pain. The reality is suffering hurts. It's painful. And grief is okay. But we're called to suffer and grieve in hope because though things are not as they should be, they will not always be so. Christ has come and he will come again And the promise of this passage will one day be realized. So as you go home and look at your Christmas tree and try to figure out what's in those boxes. The joy and the longing and hope, maybe you're like me and you just can't wait to figure out what's behind that wrapping paper. I hope you remember that while God gives us so many wonderful gifts in this world, The greatest gift that He gives us is Himself. He gave His Son, who took on flesh and who dwelt among us, and then who didn't leave us as orphans but sent His Spirit. Promising that if anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him. We already have him. But the best is yet to come. Because friends, Christ will come again. This Christmas, I hope that's the hope that you remember. Let's pray together Our Father, we rejoice in the hope that we have in Christ. The fact that you have not left us alone, but that you have sent your Son once. That with your Son have poured out your spirit and that one day your Son is coming back to set all things right. Lord, may we be filled with this holy discontentment, this longing for Christ's return. And we pray, O Lord. Jesus, would you come and come quickly? Amen