Good morning. This is the third time I've been here and it has been a pleasure each time. Uh just to clarify a few things, because I think I did not communicate as clearly as I could uh when Jim was asking me to share some information. I joined a small church named Believers Chapel in 2000. I was drawn to it because the Lord drew me to uh the pastor at that time who became my friend, um who would check on me and uh when I was going through something of a difficult time in nineteen ninety nine and he would just call me to pray for me or call me to invite me out to go to the uh Christian bookstore and and share with me um all these authors and all these books that I should have been buying and reading and and stacking up a huge bill for me. So incidentally I ended up joining his church in 2000, partnering with with him in ministry ministry, uh having a hand in the preaching and teaching of God's Word there, uh doing work in Sunday school and acting as a superintendent Um in nineteen n I'm sorry, in twenty nineteen the Lord um opted to transition me into a more um robust role there at the assembly uh because my father in law started to take ill in November of twenty nineteen. So from November of twenty nineteen on to now it's been uh me full time uh preaching there. So in uh 2000 uh 2000 um I opted to replant the church church. So the name was formerly Believers Chapel, it now goes by the name of Christ Our Hope. Christ our Hope. One of the key things that I left out is my friend who was The pastor there became more than just my friend and mentor and pastor. He became my father-in-law. Derek Chairman Junior, Sky, and Ryan. So that's my backstory. This time I invite you to open your Bibles to uh Psalm forty two. Psalm forty two Psalm forty two is Oh you you can stand, I'm sorry. Psalm forty-two is one of those psalms that has been a dear friend and confidant to me. It's not a psalm you can blow through, it just it's a psalm that you kind of sit in and remember. So let us give our attention to it. As a deer pants for flowing streams, so pants my soul for you, O God. My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? My tears have been my food, day and night, while they say to me all the day long, Where is your God? These things I remember as I pour out my soul, how I would go with the throng and lead them in procession to the house of God with glad shouts. And songs of praise, a multitude keeping festival. Why are you cast down, O my soul? Why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God. For I shall again praise him, my salvation and my God. My soul is cast down within me. Therefore, I remember you. From the land of Jordan and of Hermon and from Mount Mizar. Deep calls to deep at the roar of your waterfalls All your breakers and your waves have gone over me. By day the Lord commands his steadfast love. And at night his song is with me. A prayer to the God of my life. I say to God, my rock, why have you forgotten me? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? As with a deadly wound in my bones My adversaries taunt me while they say to me all the day long, where is your God? Why are you cast down, O my soul? And why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God, for I shall again praise Him. My salvation and my God. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Gracious God and most wise Heavenly Father As we come and seek to enter into an interaction with you in your word, we pray, Father, that we would be able to With whole soul focus. Give attention to your word. Help us, Lord God. To read it, to mark it, and to inwardly digest it. And all for the praise of your glory. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. You may be seated. Psalm forty-two. This is a message that I've entitled Out of Desiccation and in Into the depths, out of desiccation, and into the depths. That's my attempt at a Puritan title. The Psalms know nothing of the pretense of church culture. They do not mute. Muzzle or even muffle the emotions that percolate beneath the surface. Engaging in the psalms up close is not like Stepping into a community of folks that are always saying everything is fine and unbothered or detached and unstirred There's no veiled joy in the Psalms. There's no concealed pain in the Psalms. I suppose you could say that the Psalms do not do as Paul Lawrence Dunbar's famous poem says. They do not wear the mass. As Paul Lawrence Dunbar's poem says, we wear the mask that grins and lies, it hides our cheeks And shades our eyes, this debt we pay to human guile with torn and bleeding hearts we smile, and mouths with myrid subtleties. We find nothing of that in the Psalm. There are no mass. There's no guile. There's no subtleties. What we find in the Psalms in general And in Psalm 42, in particular, is deep visceral honesty, gut honesty. The psalmist is troubled. He doesn't say it's fine. He's troubled and he wears it on his sleeve. You could say the psalmist doesn't have a poker face He doesn't come in faking you. He feels a sense of alienation. He feels uprooted. He feels dislodged from all that is familiar, comfortable, and comforting There is in this psalm a languishing longing for the sanctuary, for the temple It offers us a glimpse at someone who is cut off, who has no access to corporate worship. We find this in the Psalmist's Lament. The psalmist speaks of Or says, When shall I appear before God? What he's using is language that we find multiple times in the book of Exodus. For instance, Exodus 23, verses 10. 16 and 17, you shall keep the feast of harvest, of the first fruits of your labor, of what you sow in the field, you shall keep the feast Peace up in gathering at the end of the year when you gather in from the field the first fruit of your labor Listen to this. Three times in the year you sh three times in the year shall all your males do what? Appear before God Exodus 34, 22 and 23. You shall observe the feast of weeks, the first fruits Of wheat harvest and the feast of ingathering at the year's end, three times in the year Here shall all your males appear before the Lord God, the God of Israel. Each time those that language is used, it's used within the context Of keeping festival, feasts, worship. It's pointing to the provision that God gave them It forces them to look back at a time when they were in the wilderness and brought from the wilderness into the promised land and celebrated the bounty that God had given them. So when the psalmist speaks of when shall I come and appear before God, he feels this sense of longing. Been cut off. You could say that as you look at Psalm 42, you see what we would term not only a psalm of lament, but an exilic psalm. This is a time in the history of Israel where they are off in bondage yet again. Whether it's under Assyria or Babylon. And so the psalmist is yearning for those times of festive gatherings Those times of corporate worship, those times of entering into the presence of God's people And seeing the faces, and having the interactions, and having the laughter, and feeling the mutual sharpening and encouragement. But he has none of that That instead he has scoffing, instead, he has alienation. I can imagine him in Babylon or Assyria and having someone mock him and saying something along the lines of sing us one of those little Hebrew ditties that you guys like to sing. Come on, and he feels that. He feels the torment. He feels the dryness, the desiccation, the drought state He's not being replenished by those festive times of worship. As though if he wanted to give us a word picture, So that we could see what he was saying. He says, I'm likening my my situation, my my feeling to a deer that's desperately panting And longing for fresh flowing streams. He's desiring a replenishing. And we hear that and this is all the introductions, so you're like, well, how long is this thing going to be? We hear that and then we wonder from what you're describing there. It sounds like you have someone who's going through Someone who's absolutely under the circumstances oppressed and depressed. Why is this here? We're supposed to be coming in to worship to festive gatherings and celebrations. Why do we have a psalm like this here? Why do we have a psalm like Psalm 8820, where it says, My only companion is darkness? Because we We can identify with that. We can identify with the darkness. We can identify with the dryness and the struggle. And so as the psalmist brings us in, he brings us into very familiar territory. Territory that we can give our attention to under the following two headings. In verses one through six A, we can say that this is speaking of Speaking to us in the following way. In our dry seasons we must hope in God. In our dry seasons we must hope in God And in verses 6b to verse 11, we can say, when we are overwhelmed beneath the depths. We must hope in God. We must hope in God. That opening verse as he speaks about the deer panting for the float He gives us this picture of desiccation, dryness, being cut off in a place of isolation. And as he's looking to make clear what he's feeling, he gives us this wonderful word picture that goes beyond some of the the beautiful Songs that people pin as they are inspired by Psalm 42. Some of those songs sound absolutely beautiful. Beautiful because they speak to us of this wonderful intimacy with God. And this psalm speaks about that. But it speaks of boots on the ground in Intimacy. It speaks of the collide between faith and circumstances. When we can't say that everything's fine When we don't want to come to small groups, when we don't feel like gathering together. This psalm is there with us saying, I know how you feel. Come and drink from the waters of Psalm 42. It wants us to have a sense of urgency concerning those moments. As the psalmist is processing that whole sense of isolation, a sense of dryness. And as he turns it and frames it the way that he does, he says, look, nothing else is going to satisfy. He doesn't say if if I just can have these material things, everything's going to be alright. He doesn't say, if Lord, if you can give me this or help me get here, everything's going to be alright. What does he say? He says, I need God. I thirst for what? What are you thirsting for? For God. Oh God, I thirst for God. And then he says, look, just in case you may listen and think in this pluralistic society that anything that I identify as being God will do. He says, no, I thirst for the living God. I'm not looking for a placebo It's not going to do this is in a place where Where it's not just one thing that he's dealing with. And it's not just a short-time issue. It seems like one of those one thing after Another situation. And it's just not going away or getting better. Am I reading that into the text? Look down at your Bibles, and he says, My tears have been my food. How long? Day and night. It's a shorthand way of saying this is continuous, this is ongoing, there's a duration to this, it's stretched out. And as I find, as my sustenance tears Mind you, that's not what he wanted. He was thirsting for water brooks. He's thirsting for God, and his sustenance has been his morning. Tears corresponding to that weeping is his very real and present suffering The markers. The voices. The ones that said that, hey, you're supposed to be a Christian. Why aren't you happy, happy, happy Be happy all the time, time time. You're supposed to have joy in Jesus Why are you under the circumstances? You were just told, telling me, well, well, if you're between a rock and a hard place, you need to get behind a rock. What happened to that? And so they're mocking him all the day long. The psalmist at least has a sense of anticipation. When shall I come and be and appear before God? I know it's gonna happen. I'm expecting it. I'm anticipating it. They add to his question: where is your God? He's nowhere to be found. You can't trust him. You can't rest on him. You can't rely on him. But as they send him to wondering he looks and he says, look, there are things that I remember as I pour out my soul. He remembers those better times when he would gather with the throng for worship. Mind you, as he says, I remember these better times when I would just kind of be among the people of God. He says, No, I was initiating things. I was leading the procession. I was engaged in the worship Happier times. Times of glad shouts, songs of praise, keeping festival. Again, this causes him to think about the goodness Of God. As he mentions festival, keeping festival, when shall I come and appear before God? He's emphasizing The saving works of God. In each of those festivals, whether it was Passover Or the festival of weeks or booths. The festival of booths or tabernacles was speaking of how God preserved them in the wilderness. He was there For me. Passover reminded them of how the Lord brought them out of bondage. He was there. Weeks or Pentecost reminded them of how God provided for them. He was there. And so it sets his heart to thinking about the works of God. In the midst of all of the mocking. And so he picks us up and takes us into what actually becomes the refrain or the hook. You know you sing a part of the song and you come back to the hook. Sing another part of the song and come back to the hook. So that what's in the hook sticks in your mind. And the psalmist wants us to do that. The Holy Spirit moved on the heart of the psalmist to have us do that. He took Psalm 42 and 4 Psalm forty-three, and they I would argue that they're a singular song. When you look down at uh uh verse five and six A, you find, why are you cast down, oh my soul? Why are you Then you flip over to verse eleven. You see the same thing And then you flip over to Psalm 43, verse 5, and you see the same thing. It seems like a singular song with a repeating hook to help us through these dark and dry and overwhelmed seasons. And so that's where the psalmist is taken. Taking us. Why are you cast down, O my soul? Why are you disquieted within me? Hope in God. They don't deter him from pouring into and leaning into hoping in God The psalmist doesn't step away from probably what would have been his favorite hymn, I Need Thee, O I Need Thee. When is that? Every hour I need thee. What you need them to do. Bless me now, my Savior. What are you doing? I come. thee. I need thee. That's where the psalmist is. And we can chuckle because we're like, yeah, I kind of like that song. I'm feeling that I need the kind of thing going on. And so, like the psalmist, I will not be deterred. In my dryness, I will not be deterred. In my sense of alienation, I won't be deterred. As I wait on the Lord I'm reminded that he'll renew my strength. I'm reminded that I'll I'll mount up on wings like eagles. Sounds kinda familiar, huh? And so I can turn to him and hope in him even when I'm crying out. When shall I come? and appear before God. And I thought about the mocking that they were doing. It sort of reminded me of the mocking that we signed around the cross. The mocking that we find even as it is depicted in Psalm 22 speaking uh prophetically of what's happening to the Lord Jesus Christ. Or Jesus Christ. Or this this passage speaking of um what's happening around the cross says, uh, but I am a worm, not a p Man, scorned by mankind, despised by the people. All who see me mock me. They make mouths at me. They wag their heads. He trusts in the Lord. Let him deliver him. Let him rescue him. For he delights in him. What wonderful company to be in. Think about that in the midst of alienation and mocking, in the midst of all the taunts and jeers In all of that where you appear to be a spectacle, someone to be made a fun of, you look more like Jesus. When you see when it seems like you're all alone, you find yourself walking the same road or rather a similar road of suffering that our Lord. When you think that no one can identify with your suffering, you look at the cross and then you remember: wait a minute, Jesus was referred to as a man of sorrows. Quainted with grief. And so he doesn't merely identify with our suffering from a distance He doesn't merely empathize with our suffering thing. I feel what you feel in my heart. But he comes. And he stands in our room and in our stead to absorb and take to himself the very worst suffering of all. The suffering of the cross, so that in Christ we'll have the hope of glory. The hope of glory. He's our great priest who sympathizes with our weakness and brings us to us himself. And so this psalmist as he speaks about being cast down, the word there actually describes his emotional state as one where well the It depicts his emotional state as melting away, sinking down, being bowed down. That is to say, it depicts Picts him as being depressed. Where he says that he's in turmoil, as the King James Version says, disquieted. The Hebrew word means to moan. To lament. It speaks of one who's in a state of anxiety and distress. Depressed and anxious, he is And yet, still, in the midst of it, it doesn't cause him to run in the opposite direction from God. It sets him to ruminate. on the works of God, the provision of God. Presenting for us a picture that, again, when we're dry, When we're isolated, when we're taunted, we ought to do what? Hope in God. Verses 6B to 11, when we are overwhelmed, Beneath the depths we must hope in God. Looking a little bit at that. It says, My soul is cast down within me. Therefore I remember you from the land of Jordan of Hermon from Mount Mizar, deep calls to deep the roar of your waterfalls, all your breakers and waves have gone over me. There's one Bible teacher that says that as as we see the the the d the terrain or the scenery depicted here, the the scenery is again supposed to give us a picture of what the psalmist is going through. That that actually could be it. Jordan, the land Of Jordan on on either sides of the Jordan River was overgrown with lush vegetation. It was a land that was filled with wild animals and In fact, Jeremiah 49, 19, and uh chapter 50, verse 44 describes roaming lions in that area. The area of Hermon, an area of steep and multiple mounts, Mount Mizar. is sort of like a small mountain. I don't know how you depict or describe his emotional state from the geographical area, perhaps. I d I don't know, I'm not even gonna begin to even drive. I think what he's describing for us is the route that he was going when he was a character carried away into exile, where the taunts are being raised against him and the others. And he says it is from there, from that place, I remember you. As I am currently being carried There's a progression of thought here. I don't know if you meet Get what I'm saying there, but verse 4, he says, What? I remember these things. These things I remember. When you come down to verse 6, he says, No, no, no. Not things, but I remember you I am shifting away from the focus of things, though they might be wonderful, and I'm setting my focus on you. Verse seven as he speaks about deep calling to deep It's a beautiful picture. It's the idea of foaming waves crashing into one another. But the way that it's depicted here is almost As if the waves are doing some sort of antithenal action. A call and response. One wave crashes in, and the other wave crashes in. And where's the psalmist? Under the waves. And so you can almost em uh it's It brings to mind a chorus of singers, one side crying holy, another side crying holy in response, but it's waves And it's not worship, it's crushing him. And this almost amazes me. Because he doesn't begin to complain about what's going on. He starts to frame things correctly. Again, he said, My focus is on you. I remember you. Where are these waves and waterfalls coming from? Where are these breakers? Coming from? Is it happened stands? He says, no, these are your waterfalls. Your breakers. Your waves, and they've gone over me. He's describing himself in a place of depression. And again, I'm mythological. meant to say this earlier, but as we speak about depression, depression does a couple of things. Sort of going through it a little quickly. Depression deadens It gives you the sense of an inability to feel pleasure or get excited about the things that you would otherwise enjoy. Depression breeds defection. It's when your mind turns in on you and fills you with negative and intrusive thoughts. I've missed Sunday after Sunday. One day, no one's called me, they probably don't want me there anyway. Why bother Depression creates a disconnect. It causes you to feel consumed with your symptoms, with your feelings. And depression relegates us to a place of isolation, unbearable loneliness, feeling all alone and totally alone. Have we not seen the psalmist communicate that? Whether it's verse five or eleven describing For us, uh the deadening effects of depression as he talks about being cast down and in turmoil. Or whether it's depression breeding defection, finding your mind Filling with intrusive thoughts. Because again, look, he set he begins to set his focus on the Lord, understanding that the Lord is a In control of it all, but then we come down to verse 9, and he's again turning to the Lord, but says, Why have you forgotten me? It doesn't finish It doesn't fit. Why do I go mourning? Wait a minute. You just said it was God's waves, God's billows. God is the one that you need. God is the one that will give you. Your help. God is the one that you've been remembering, His person and His works. But these intrusives Psalmist has talked about I'm going somewhere with this. He talked about the continual day and night tears that he's been satiated with He talked about the the all day long taunting that he's been receiving. But he tells us something else that's been continuous and ongoing and all day long. And that's the presence of God. Verse 8. By day and by night. You see that? By day and at night. Again, it's corresponding to the day and night that we see in verse 3. It's corresponding to uh the all day long. It's a shorthand way of speaking of a continuous action or a continuous theme or continuous He said, by day the Lord commands his steadfast love. And at night his song is with me. What is he saying? In the midst of all of my tears, in the midst of all of the taunts, who's there? God. It's like, yeah, I get that. He's omnipresent. Yeah, yeah, I got I got that. No, but he's there actively. He says the Lord commands his loving kindness in a directive fashion. Toward you. And you. And me. Toward all of us. Then he says, look, the Lord gives me a song. at night. The theme of that song, of course, is his steadfast love. His loving kindness. This becomes something of a not just a song, but a prayer to the psalmist. Seeing things rightly, he not only sees The Lord as the one who is providentially in control of all the ins and outs and ups and downs and the frowning providences of life. But he expounds on that by saying this is a prayer to the God of my life. That could be life span that could be all of the circumstances of life. He's saying in total, this is the God of my life. The one who sustains me. The one who keeps me. The one who who controls my my going out and my coming in. This is the God of my life. Without him I have nothing else. If I leave, he's got to come with me because that's all I got. The preacher that said, My wife, if she leaves me, I'm going with her. That's what the psalmist is saying here. He's the God of my Life. If I don't have the festive shouts, if I don't have the gathering in the temple and in the sanctuary, if I am in the midst of being overwhelmed. The God of my life is with me all the time. Despite the the tone Thoughts despite my own intrusive thoughts. Like the psalmist says in Psalm thirty-one five. My times are in his hands. That's his way of saying he's the God of my life. He's in control of it all. Psalmist is calling us back. We come down to the end. He's calling us back. To this familiar refrain. Stop me if you heard it before. Just kidding. Why are you cast down for my soul So why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God, for I shall again praise him, my salvation. And my God. I submit to you there's a way that we go about processing these dark and frowning seasons. We lean into God. We set our souls to not just wondering, but remembering. He's not just God, he's our God. Make that for that The psalmist says he's he's not just our God, he's the living God, the one that actually exists. The God of my life, my rock, the embodiment of my salvation. And so he sets us to hope. As he speaks of hope, it's not like how the word hope is used in a contemporary fashion. It's not just some ephemeral, ethereal, weak, kinda wishy washy. Ooh. I didn't study for the test But I hope I do okay. Oh man, I'm flying down the street, I just see sirens behind me. I hope that's for somebody else. It's not that kind But it's a confident expectation in a cre in a concrete reality That is yet future. That's a Christian's hope. Our hope is a concrete reality, an expectation in a concrete reality. Let me say it so expectation in a concrete reality that is yet future. Hope looks forward Yes, all around my soul might give way, but I've got hope, confident expectation. The language that we find in such Psalms is Psalm 33, verses 18 through 22, provide us with a very full picture of What hope looks like. It reminds us that waiting on the Lord is profitable because He will help. And he's always there. It reminds us that waiting on the Lord means that we're sitting under his watchful knowing eye. It reminds us that waiting on the Lord is not like waiting on someone who has contingency plans. Or knows how to act quickly on their feet. We're talking about Almighty God, who has all creation shown up We're talking about the one who has a completed plan that was completed in eternity past before time even began. That's the one you hope in. And so as we struggle, and as we have our dark times. We follow in the footsteps of the psalmist and we remember that the Lord is in control of the whole ordeal, even the painful moments. We remember Remember that the Lord exercises his th authority by lovingly tasking. His loving kindness is a set. To be active in our lives when we need it. We're led to remember that the Lord equips his people. With a song of comfort in dark seasons. And as the psalmist described God as his rock, the reminder that the Lord is after. Shelter in the time of storm. Why are you cast down on my soul? And why are you within turmoil within me? Me, hope in God, for I shall again praise Him, my salvation and my God. Heavenly Father, we thank you, Lord. for this word. We thank you, Father, for putting this in the Bible so that in those seasons when we need a word like this, we can draw from it. Come alongside your people here as graceful. And give Give them a sense of your abiding presence. Lord, I ask, Lord, that you would take this word that we've been receiving. to the dead and feel it to our hearts in Jesus' name I pray amen