Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who are elect exiles of the dispersion in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia May grace and peace be multiplied to you. First Peter one, one and two. Be subject, for the Lord's sake, to every human institution, whether it be to the Emperor as Supreme, or to governors as sent by him to punish those who are For this is the will of God that by doing good you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish Live as people who are free, not using your freedom as a cover-up for evil, but living as servants of God. Honor everyone. Love the Brotherhood, fear God, honor the Emperor. Post period 2, 13 to 17, please turn your page. Finally, all of you have unity of mind, sympathy, brotherly love, a tender heart, and a humble mind. Do not repay evil for evil or reviling for reviling, but on the contrary, bless for to this you were called, that you may obtain a blessing. For whoever desires to love life and see good days, let him keep his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking deceit. Let him turn away from evil and do good. For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and his ears are open to their prayer, but the face of the Lord is against those who do evil. Now now who is there of to harm you if you are zealous for what is good? But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you will be blessed Have no fear of them nor be troubled, but in your hearts honor Christ the Lord as holy, always being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you. for the reason, for the hope that is in you, yet do it with gentleness and respect, having a good conscience, so that when you are slandered, those who revile your good behavior in Christ may be put to shame For it is better to suffer for doing good, if that should be God's will, than for doing evil. For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteousness for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but may alive in the spirit. in which he went and proclaimed to the spirits in prison, because the they formerly did not obey when God's patience waited in the days of Noah. The ark was being prepared in which a few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through water. Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you not as a removal of dirt from the body, but as an appeal to God. for good conscience to the resurrection of Jesus Christ, who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God, with angels, authorities, and powers having been subjected to him. First Peter three, eight to twenty-two. Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you, as though something strange were happening to you, but rejoice insofar as you share Christ's suffering That you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed because the Spirit of God, the Spirit of Glory and of God rests upon you. But let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or as an evildoer or as a meddler. Yet if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God in that name. For it is time for judgment to begin at the household of God. And if it begins with us, what will be the outcome for those who do not obey the gospel of God? And if the righteous is scarcely saved, what will become of the ungodly and the sinner Therefore, let those who suffer according to God's will entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good. First Peter four, twelve-19. Amen. Thank you. We finished some weeks talking about the church. Now we have two weeks in 1st and 2 Peter, and then uh my friend Patrick Allen will be here Since Julie and I will be away for uh the wedding and Jeannie will be away. Welcome back, Jeannie. Hey, what's up? And um and then we'll start first and second Thessalonians over the summer. Uh Passover 2026 starts this Wednesday, April first. And it goes through Thursday, April 9th. And um most of the Jewish people in the world don't live in Jerusalem. And they remember their exile. That's been true for a long time. Um that started really when they w God's people were delivered from Egypt back in Exodus and they were exiled and they were uh Sojourning, right? And the truth is that we are sojourners. And at the end of Passover When people gather together, they usually say, Next year in Jerusalem. So plan to get back, hope, a longing. to get back. And and so um 1 Peter has a strong sense of exile and transience um Exile is this longing, it's a different type of suffering, it's estrangement, it's unsettledness because you can't go home, but you can't entirely settle where you are, necessarily And that separation didn't start in Exodus. It started in the Garden of Eden, right? We were separated from God because of Adam and Eve's sin. And so there's a sense where we're still all trying to be back home and be made whole. Peter knows that Christians will suffer. Peter The apostle starts his first book off this way. Peter and Apostle of Jesus Christ, so those who are the elect exiles of the dispersion in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, Athynia, according to the foreknowledge of God the Father. And the sanctification of the Spirit for obedience to Christ, Jesus Christ, and for sprinkling with his blood. May grace and peace be multiplied to you. To those who are elect exiles. Right? Peter knows that people are going to suffer. And he offers advice and he offers hope Verse 4, or chapter 4, verse 7. The end of all things is at hand. Therefore be self-controlled and sober-minded for the sake of your prayers. Above all, keep loving one another earnestly, since love covers a multitude of sins. The end of all things is at hand. That might be worth taping somewhere, right? To remind ourselves. We started thinking about that on Ash Wednesday, on Ash Wednesday, when we said people said across the world, From dust you have come until dust you shall return. We're reminded that all things will come to an end. Just yesterday I went to a a wake for my friend's mother out in um Um locust Point. And of course they were reflecting on this mother's life. Um a wife, a sister, an aunt, a mom. A friend that's over. And thankfully they said she was with the Lord. We will all lose our lives. We will all eventually not have our job. Most of us will probably lose our hair. The only thing worse than losing your hair is pretending like you haven't lost your hair, right? That's the only worse thing than losing your hair. But but not only those things, you know, uh head of hair is no big deal, but you know what else will end is tyranny Abortion, cancer, and rebellion, and suffering, and sin and evil will all end. And we will return fully with the Lord, right? And in and The Bible tells us that's at hand. The end of all things is near. So what shall we do? What shall we do? Um we need to hear in our country country in our time right now, take note of what we have, our our wealth, our privileges, our freedoms. We're coming up on the two hundred and fifty anniversary of our nation for all all practical purposes. And so we can be thankful for our our rights. What's happened in our country. Um that we're living i in uh fabulous times according to the people in the world. Right? They wouldn't believe what we get to do It's truly amazing, right? But and so then Peter is in n is not living in that time, right? And Peter says something to a completely different type of people than us. He says, be subject to the Lord's for the Lord's sake to every human institution, whether it be an emperor, a supreme Or to governors as sent by him to punish those who do evil and to praise those who do good. For this is the will of God, that by doing good you shall put to silence the ignorance of foolish people Live as people who are free, not using your freedom as cover-up for people, but living as servants of God. Honor everyone. Love the Brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the Emperor It's truly remarkable. Be subject for the Lord's sake to every inst human institution, whether it be to the Emperor as Supreme or the Governor as sent by Him To punish those who do evil and to praise those who do good. Honor everyone. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the Emperor. Oh, that's not easy, is it? Thinking this week about COVID again. I'm always reluctant to think about COVID, but Um the rules that got sent down, the rules that we were supposed to live by, abide by I of course the rules um changed around a lot. They changed even from state to state, county to county, city to city Um, I don't know what you thought when Dr. Fauci came on and gave new rules. Right? We weren't all happy. Um Different people had different thoughts on how to follow those rules. So I'm thinking about how do we honor the emperor? How do we live peacefully? And so how do we use wisdom? I think Peter is calling us to use wisdom because The Bible is a book of wisdom, right? After all, Rahab didn't turn in the spies. We were just talking uh earlier about uh the Hebrew midwives didn't kill the Hebrew boys They disobeyed orders, right? And so there is something about obeying orders, and there is something about conscientious objections to orders, right? And it is true Um that it is illegal to obey illegal orders. You are supposed to in the in the government in in the Armed services to disobey manifestly unlawful orders. Now the big question is, what is that? How do you know and how do you decide? Um in other words, what's the difference between a tattletale, a snitch, and a rat and a whistleblower? Depends on who's who's doing the thing, right? Um rules. We have rules. Um And then we have emperors and and people governors that that enforce these rules. I was reading this week about um Stalin in the 50s These uh they hadn't had a census in the Soviet Union for a long time. And so um he wanted one and he had told people that there was about a hundred and seventy million in the Soviet Union Union, 170 million people. But when the census came back, they came back with 161 million Soviet citizens. And so guess what happened? He had him killed. And they did a new census and they came up with 170 million right on the nose. How do we obey orders? How do we obey rules? Even in 1 Peter 3, likewise, wives be subject to your husbands, so that even Even if some do not obey the word, they may be one without a word by the conduct of their wives, when they see your respectful and pure conduct. Likewise, husbands live with your wives in an understanding way, showing honor to the woman as the weaker vessel, since they are heirs with you in the grace of life, so that your li prayers may not be hindered. How do we follow that rule? How do we discern with wisdom how to follow, honor the Sabbath, and keep it holy? How do we decide and use wisdom to honor our fathers? And our mothers, some of whom we don't respect very much. How do we use our our freedom? What shall we do? Because after all, Paul starts with, you know, be subject to the emperor, but then he finally goes to honor everyone Honor everyone, fear God, love the Brotherhood, honor the Emperor. That is a a big tall order, I think. Paul also says, look at chapter 3, verses 8. This is the beginning of that one. Finally, all of you have unity of mind, sympathy, brotherly love, a tender heart, and a humble mind. Do not repay evil for evil or reviling for revivaling, but on the contrary, bless, for to this you recall that you may obtain above. Blessing. How do we use our power of the blessings that we have, the freedoms that we have, the positions that we have, as husbands, as wives, as single people, as parents, as child children, as citizens? Bosses, workers, right? Do we use our freedoms and our power to intimidate, hoard, belittle, exclude, extract? Or can we admit our weaknesses and our biases and our proclivities and walk with him? And the Lord, um it's it's hard to figure out, I think, honestly. Two thirteen uh is a is a tough verse. Be subject to the Lord's sake to every human institution. And and again, it's on my mind as we're coming up to the two hundred and fiftieth anniversary of America. And it's something that we should consider is, you know, was the Boston Tea Party Fulfilling this verse. And they wrestled with this, didn't they? How do we obey the king when we feel like we're under tyranny? Who gets to define what tyranny is? How do we support and uh submit to the government? Now Whatever your position on who the president is or who it should be, how do we fulfill First Peter? I think that is certainly on his mind as he talks about these things. And I think what Peter's also saying is God can use all of this suffering, even pandemics Emperors, presidents that maybe you don't like in the past or current or in the future to tenderize our hearts. To bring us closer to him, to soften us, so that we can, instead of being tougher and tougher, we can be humble and Do justice and love mercy, right? So that we can stop repaying evil with evil, that we can stop not having sympathy with our brothers and our sisters. That we can honor each other with our service, and we can admit that we mess up. Over and over again. And I think it's true as Paul Peter knows that the Lord often sends suffering and tribulation because of sin We talked about Adam and Eve already. He he he pushed them out of the garden, forbade them from being in the garden. He sent Abraham, not because of sin, but he sent Abraham into the wilderness, right? To wander, to wander, to wander. We talked about Israel in the wilderness for forty years and and Jesus in the wilderness for forty days. Of course. not for sin, but suffering, trials. And Peter is certainly telling us that that's normal with Jesus. Suffering is normal when we walk with Jesus. We experience suffering when we walk with Jesus and we even create suffering sadly. But God uses them if we let them, and it's still painful. And God works through these sufferings and through this pain. Yeah and his working through it doesn't erase the pain. It transforms it changes And that we can also, I think Peter is telling us that we can move toward suffering and even experience suffering in a little bit. Even though we're not probably most likely going to experience what Peter did, and people in the world do, we we put ourselves into a little bit of a touching it with um like what like restricting ourselves for a little bit. Um I went to a grief walk on Friday and the the leader Said, I want you to try to do something and that's for just five minutes. It's gonna be painful. I want you to try to stand here or sit here and do nothing for five minutes. And she said it's sort of like um if you can hold a an ice cube in your hand for a while. Eventually it's gonna hurt, but you can sort of tolerate the pain, you can learn to take it a little longer. And and there is something to that maybe a mention When I go to Charlottesville, my buddies into this thing called Fire and Ice. And the way Fire and Ice works is you there's a small sauna, about eight people can fit in it. And it is hot. It is a hotter sauna than you're used to. And so you're supposed to sit in the sauna for I don't know, five or ten minutes until you're just sweating like crazy. And then you go out and they have filled these um cattle troughs with water and ice, and it's mostly ice. And you're supposed to submerge yourselves all the way into your chin for three minutes in the ice bath. How's that Well, I'll tell you what, it's really terrible the first minute. It's marginally terrible the second minute. But if you can go two minutes, you can go three minutes because your body is numb. You can't feel a thing. It's just not getting out in the first minute. That's really the hard part. But but you're you're training yourself a little bit. in a tiny way for a hardship. Now this actually has a a lot of medical uh um benefit, so they say it's a vasodilation, so your blood vessels um get big, right big in the sauna and then there's basso restriction constriction in the um ice path and And they say it it helps with recovery, circulation, and fortitude. It gives you a natural high and also I can guarantee this you sleep like a baby that night. For some reason Reason you can sleep sound. Suffering can lead to transformation. and change. Peter says in chapter four, verse twelve, Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you. As though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings. That you also may rejoice and be glad when For if you are insulted for the name of Christ you are blessed. Because the spirit of glory and the God and of God rests on you There will be trials. Paul says this again in the very beginning of the book in chapter 1, verses 6 and 7 In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various tribes. So that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold that perishes it through the test by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. There are way worse trials and code. So this is I think what Peter's getting at in this book. This is the context of um being exiles, of participating with Christ in his suffering. And um and Peter says Um that these trials will come. And he says, as I just read, insofar as you re share in Christ's sufferings, you may rejoice and be glad when the glory is revealed. Now, Peter most likely wrote this these two books around sixty-two. 64 A. D. And that's mostly, we know, because he most likely died. And this is all church history stuff. He most likely died at the hands of Nero. in 64 A. D. And he had probably spent eight or nine months in a Roman prison up to that point, suffering. He was probably beaten over a dozen times. And he was pulled out after all that time, according to Christian history, crucified upside down. Because he didn't want to be crucified the way his Lord and Savior Jesus Um this is m years, months before that happened to him. Now, I want to remind you that Andrew, the apostle, was crucified in Greece. James was beheaded, son of Zeb. James the son of Alpheus was stoned. Philip crucified. Bartholomew Nathaniel was flayed and then de Matthew was stabbed in Ethiopia. Jude was axed to death. Simon was either crucified or sawed in half Matthias was stoned and then beheaded. Paul was beheaded, and only John died of old age. And Peter says, Rejoice in suffering. There will be fiery trials. That's not all Peter says. Peter also says something a little more interesting Exciting than that? He says in 1 Peter 3, 15. But in your hearts honor Christ the Lord as always, as holy, always being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that you have that is in you. And do it with gentleness and respect, having it conscious, so that when you are slandered, those who revile your good behavior in Christ may be put to shame, for it is better to suffer for doing good, if that should be God's will than for doing evil We talked about this in Scout Sunday, right? Always be prepared. That's in the Bible Maybe doesn't mean always have a pocket knife on you, you know, so you're ready. But it might mean that, right? Always be prepared to give an answer To give a defense for anyone who asks you for the reason for the hope that you had. Now. Okay, so we're finally getting a little bit to Palm Sunday. Paul Peter has had quite a ride, hasn't he? From the beginning when Peter was called as a fisherman to leave the nets behind and to become a fisher of men and follow Jesus. And he does it. And of course there are other people that didn't do it. Peter and Andrew and James and John. And and of course we've talked over and over again that Peter has seen amazing things, hasn't he? Recently talked about the feeding of the five thousand and the feeding of the four thousand. Peter has seen uh demons come out of people He's seen people raise from the dead. He's seen nature been calmed. He has walked on water. Amazing. And here they are, then on Palm Sunday, right? Coming into Jerusalem. Palm Sunday This is like the culmination of these years of discipleship. This is the thing that we've been waiting for. Oh my goodness, it's happening. Hosanna, Hosanna. We have been praying, Hosanna, Lord save us, deliver us for hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of years We have been in exile so long. And of course, um in this time, they're not everyone's not in exile, but a lot of people have come to Jerusalem, right, for the Passover But Jerusalem itself is an occupied city. It's not fully theirs. This is not exactly what they want. It's about to get a lot worse. In 70. It's never gotten better since then. But in this moment, it feels so close, doesn't it? That we're about to have David on the throne again. We're about to be restored to all that we have. And and Peter was there, and just think about Peter that week and the things that happened and the things he saw, even that week, and then the Last Supper. And then how Jesus knocked over all those soldiers, and then how everything went all so wrong. With the crucifixion. But then there's a resurrection. And an ascension. And now it's been thirty years since then that Peter's been thinking about this and talking about this, right? And I just imagine Peter's in this prison and people figure out who he is. I mean he's not bashful, right? He's not shy. He's a talker. So eventually I figure like they gotta be coming up to Peter, like, hell Peter, tell us more stories, man You knew Mary. What happened to Joseph? Peter, you knew James. You knew Jesus' siblings. Dude, you gotta have some stories, man. Right? You saw all this stuff. And most likely um Um scholars will tell you that the book of Mark comes from John Mark, who we find out in Acts, who most likely got his sources from Peter. So Peter did give a ton of stuff. This is how John Mark wasn't around for any of these things. And and you just gotta figure that, you know, Peter is eventually saying, oh, you know what, I've never told this one story before. And he remembers. There's so many of them, right? You walk around for three years, you got a lot of stories. You've got a lot of stories for camping for one week. Much less these stories of Jesus. And so he's telling them, and eventually John Mark was like, I've got to send this to the publisher, man. We can't just keep going. There's so many stories. John tells us that at the end of his book, right? But what's amazing, I think, about this book, this letter And the next letter is he doesn't tell those stories, does he? He's already given them to Mark somehow. And he doesn't need his own gospel Right? But he instead writes two epistles. And one of them, he says, always be prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you. And don't you figure there had to be some people like Peter, why should we listen to you? Peter, did you give it offense for the hope that you had? You know, Peter, you were there and you shouted Hosanna. That was a crowning moment. Uh and you know, Peter, remember, we can look back and in Matthew. Um I think These were written by then. And Peter, you said you are the Christ, the Son of God, the living one. You are the rock, man. But man, that one night when you betrayed, denied Jesus those three times. It's rough when you write this. It's rough when you write this. And so I think Peter Doesn't only write that, does he? Because he goes on after saying this, why should we listen to you, Peter? Verse 18: For Christ also suffered once the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God being put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit. Christ suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit. Peter starts his book in chapter 1 with Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope, through the resurrection of Jesus from the dead. Amen. To the inheritance that is imperishable. Undefiled, unfaving, kept in heaven for you, who by God's power are being guarded through faith for salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary you have been grieved by various trials, so the testing the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold, that perishes Though it is tested by fire may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus. Jesus Christ. Though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you do not now see him, you believe in him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory. obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation over your souls. In other words, don't listen to me Peter knows he has authority. Peter was an apostle. Peter wrote this inspired book, right? Peter has something to say, but I think Peter, even when he's calling us, you know, to supper, when he's calling us to good, when he's calling us to honor the emperor, when he's calling us to honor ever Fine, it's fine To do all these things, how to live in the household of God, how to live in the household of the world, he knows it's not because of what I've done. He knows that. He knows that Palm Sunday was not the end of the story By any means. And if Palm Sunday would have ended up the way they thought the week was going to go, we wouldn't have a safe No, because he had to come to suffer to die That was why he came. And Peter is reminding all of us that. That's his answer. Why should we listen to you, Peter? He answers it in He answers it in First Peter three eighteen. For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he may bring us to God, be put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit. that he could um make the exile gap unspiritual. He would spiritually fix it. Even though we're physically not there yet. That's the good news, that's our hope today. So we're all passing through, and I was you know, thinking about this and sojourning and and Sojourner Truth came up. Sojourner Truth, right? Um that's a good name. Good name for what Peter's writing about. So General Truth was born Isabella Bohmfree in 1797 in New York. Her first language was Dutch, interestingly. Enough. She was born in slavery and she escaped. She escaped. She rebelled against Her captives, captors. Um with her infant daughter in 1826, her name was Sophia And she went to court to recover her son in 1828 and won, and his name was Peter. She was the first black woman to win a case against a white man eighteen twenty eight. Um and in eighteen twenty seven, right before that, she became a Christian. She hadn't been one. So she became a believer. And that's when she decided to name herself Sojourner Truth. And she felt called to leave the city and go to the countryside, and she put all of her possessions in a pillowcase And she said she wanted to do that to testify to the hope that was within her. That God's people could be free. That there's freedom in Christ, but there's also freedom in this world too. Um that those issues are not synonymous, but They're connected. That longing is true and right for all of us, but it's not fully realized for so many people. But we who have so much freedom are to use our freedom. for the good, to be evangelists, to give every defense, reason for the hope that we have Now I was this morning, um Tyson has been an evangelist for his new phone gizmo. Right? Uh he's got a new phone, but it's a it's a it's like a old phone. It's a new phone that has no like uh Facebook or nothing like that. It's just a phone with a calculator, right Tyson? a clock, an alarm. It's it's super awesome and he's been excited about it. I'm not I'm not saying this. But he's gonna tell you about it, which he should, and you should ask him about it. Tyson, give me the reason for the hook that you have. Well the hope that I have is I'm not going to be on my phone for twelve hours a day. Because I can't. Well that needs to see that said to me this morning, I feel like more restful even in a week. And I'm thinking to myself, well, maybe Julie should get one of those, right? You know how would we play crossword puzzles with each other? I don't know. Oh, they you can make you print crossword puzzles, right? They actually could do it that way. So that's just a silly example, but to be ready to give a defense for the hope that we have, it's natural for him to do that. It's instinctive. Look at this thing that I have found. Look at this thing that I have experienced. Look at what has happened to me. And that's what I think Peter is saying. He's not saying, look to me. You know, it's always remarkable that the betrayal is in there. It could easily be just like, no, cut that out. That's embarrassing. It's embarrassing. How are you going to have people follow us if I look like a complete dummy? That's why people follow you. It's the hope that you have. It's not the hope. You're not the hope, Peter, right? Jesus is our hope. He came, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God. Away from spiritual exile. So good news for us today, and that's why we can sing Hosanna, Hosanna. Hosanna the highest. Because that moment was not the moment. It was the beginning of the whole week that became the moment. Which is why we're here. Amen? Amen. We have a few ways to respond. The first is some silence as we consider what the Lord has been saying to us. Let's do that now.