Help them. Right. So I I I reassure them when I'm coming, I'm not coming to get you in trouble. Uh you don't need to be nervous that we're gonna we're gonna go through this, we're gonna talk about it We're going to evaluate how you do, and then we're I'm going to encourage you. Like that's that's the goal to make them better, right? Um and so Thursday evening, Noah Larson was leading. And Noah and our staff person Ruth are um Ruth chose Lamentations, which is, you know, kind of a heavy book for college students, but it was it's a good one. And uh And so they're in the second half of Lamentations 2. And I'll tell you what, Noah just crushed it. Like my my my evaluation my critiques of him are minimal. My encouragement's of them are maximal. And and I'll give you a couple of I'll give you a couple of uh of illustrations to this point. So I find I find poetry the hardest to talk about in the scriptures. Because I don't necessarily necessarily relate. Some people, it's other stuff. They get poetry and they don't get Paul's Paul's logic. That's great, right? I understand that. Uh poetry is hard for me. And so we read the second half of Lamentation. Well, first of all, Noah started with a great game. where everybody got to add a word to to make a story. And so the first person chooses a word. You could do a word or a period. We did get into par parentheticals there for a little bit, which was weird. But, you know, the the more we went around the s the table, the more absurd it got. And so we're all giggling a but and then and then at the end he read it out loud and then we laughed even more. But the brilliance of it, the brilliance of that is that everybody says something and it primes them to say something during the study. This is this is great. And then we get into the study and we read the poetry, and he says, okay, who are the people in this poem? So God's in the poem. And and the writer inserts himself into the poetry and God's people are in the poem. And then he starts like, well, what's God saying in the poem? What are God's people doing in the poem? What's the writer thinking about in the poem? And it just it helped me understand the passage. I think it helped everybody understand the passage. He did such a good job. And here's what I want you to hear. Because this is this is a big part of who we are. We want to reach students for Christ and equip them to serve, right? And and I think a lot of people when they think about campus ministry Think about the reaching part. I know I do, right? I I mean I'd love to have a hundred people at large group and you know have it be big and and and numbers. And and we're working on it. We're growing. But the equipping part is a big deal too Not just because they can reach their campus and listen, they can reach their campus a lot better than th this fifty-one-year-old old guy, right? Like they can do a better job than I can. But but because they're gonna leave their church, they're they're gonna leave our campuses and move into the church and then and and And you all are receiving, you the church, are receiving students who are equipped to lead a brilliant Bible study. You all are receiving students who are going to be equipped to do all sorts of types of ministry. And so we're just so grateful for your report for your support, for your prayers, for all the things that you do to encourage our ministry. We are grateful. And so it's a joy for me to be with you all this morning and hopefully be able to encourage you some. I'm excited about this passage. It's a passage where nothing happens. Um, which is really cool. Uh it's fun to be able to talk about something that doesn't that where nothing's happening. Um I I I I just have a question for you. What what What did you do the last time you got good news? Let's think about it for a second. Like um new job or news of engagement, birth of a baby, new house. Uh we actually we we my family were at a wedding last weekend and it was the son of a dear friend got married And uh the day that he got engaged or maybe the day after he got engaged, I got a text and it's just a picture of of of this guy and his his fiancee, right? Just after they had been engaged, Ring prominently displayed And I look at the picture, and it was just a picture. And I look at the picture and I smile. And I turn the phone to Kaya, who's my daughter, who's sitting across from me. And she smiles, and then I take the phone back and I copy the picture, I download the picture, and then send it to my daughter who's in Kansas. And she gets all excited. Because that's what you do with good news. When you hear good news, you share good news. Now I want you to imagine Jesus' followers in our passage. In the weeks and years before this text, Jesus' friends and followers have been on a roller coaster ride of emotion and change. All their expectations, it always seemed like they had this expectation and and then this happened. And they were expecting this and then this happened. And their expectations never really seemed to be met. It was always ended up better for the most part. But think about it. They followed Jesus for three years. They saw miracles and heard great teaching, had some great conversations, saw some amazing things. Jesus talks about establishing his kingdom. And at the end of those years, he's betrayed, arrested, tried, crucified, and died. So you're expecting establishment of the kingdom looks like something else. And you're burying Jesus. It's absolutely devastating. Their friend was gone. Death had harshly disrupted their hopes. They must have thought that everything they had hoped for and desired was destroyed. But three days later, Jesus' tomb was empty. He rose from the dead. Think about it for a second. You are expecting this, you're expecting the kingdom in a different way. Jesus dies, then he's alive. I mean, uh it's whiplash, right? It's a pretty dramatic change in direction. And nobody really expected it. And for 40 days, Jesus talks with people, eats with people, changes his people changes people's minds about who he is. And at the end of 40 days, Jesus says, Meet me on the top of the mountain. So all his followers or his 11 closest disciples go up on the top of the mountain. And Jesus tells his guys that they should go back to Jerusalem, wait for a gift, and then he literally floats into the sky. He didn't run the Romans out of power like maybe people thought they might, that he might. He didn't give them explicit things to do right now. He just said Wait. What would you have done if you were one of the eleven disciples on that mountain? How wouldn't you have interpreted the word wait? I'll tell you what I would have done. I would have run into town and told everyone who had listened to me that Jesus had just ascended into the sky. Oh and by the way, I was there. But that's what you do with big news, right? With good news, you share it. You tell it, you don't hear someone got engaged and be like, cool, I won't say anything. I mean unless they ask you to keep it a secret, but you know what I'm saying. You share good news. You see, Jesus calls his people to do many things. He calls them to love their neighbor and worship and serve the poor, the widow, and the orphan. But we often get so caught up in the doing that we forget to be. And in this passage, Jesus calls his people to pray and fellowship, to be, before they go out to Jerusalem and Judea and Samaria and the very ends of the earth to do. In the end, their doing is literally going to transform history. But in this passage, Jesus is teaching us about waiting and using the tools of prayer and fellowship. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, I think we we can have um some whiplash in following you sometimes. What we expect is not always what you do. And what we want is not always what we see. And it's in these moments of waiting, of prayer and fellowship that we align our hearts with who you are and what you're doing.