Presbytery uh who are on vacation and asked me to preach a couple of the different churches. But uh it's good to be back in the pulpit. Uh we're gonna look at Ephesians Chapter 3, verse 7 to 13. As we continue our series on richly blessed in Christ, as you find that, stand up and listen to it as we hear it. God's word. Of this gospel I was made a minister according to the gift of God's grace, which was given me by the working of his power. To me, though I'm the very least of all the saints, this grace was given to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ. And to bring to light for everyone what is the plan of the mystery, hidden for ages in God, who created all things, so that through the church the manifold wisdom of God might now be be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly places. This was according to the eternal purpose that he has realized in Christ Jesus our Lord, in whom we have boldness and access with confidence through our faith in Him. So that I ask you not to lose heart over what I'm suffering for you, which is your glory. God's word. Let's pray. I pray you would bless us as we interact around these words. Thank you for the word of God that you have given us, giving us your mind and your heart, your will for us. We pray That we would have ears to hear what you have to say to us today, and we would uh have hearts and of obedience uh to joyfully go and serve you in the days ahead. Give you thanks for all that you accomplished in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Let me be seated, please. Paul of Tarsus. Paul, the city of Tarsus, known as a man who became an apostle who took the message of Jesus around the the first century Mediterranean world, Mediterranean Sea Paul was not raised. He was Saul of Tarsis. He wasn't raised in a Christian family. He wasn't very religious. He was rabbinically tr educated and trained. He was an Orthodox Jewish man. He was proud, courageous, zealous. He was so zealous, you know, that he hunted down and imprisoned followers of Jesus Christ. Those who dared claim that God had become a man in Jesus and that this God man had actually conquered death in the grave. But eventually God got a hold of Saul. God got a hold of him And God dramatically saved him and called him to be the major messenger to the non-Jewish world of his day. Paul, super Jew, called to be the messenger, the main messenger to the non-Jewish world. Think about it It's Paul's calling to be the apostle to the Gentiles that we want to talk about this morning. You see, you you can draw a direct line from Father God to Jesus, to Paul, to the churches of his day, to the many churches throughout this this Christian era, all the way down to you and me Here in Grace Reformed. You can draw a direct line. Look at this phrase. I want to focus really on this phrase in verse 10 It says, so that through the church, the manifold wisdom of God might now be made known. Through the church, the manifold wisdom of God might be made known The Church of Jesus Christ is called to reflect the manifold wisdom of God. The church is those who are called out, the body of believers who are called out from the world. The church is the physical manifestation of the invisible God on earth. We're the physical man. People of God. People see us. They don't see God. They see they see His representatives, the Church. It's through the Church that the wisdom, the manifold wisdom of God is to be made known. The wisdom of God is simply well it's Jesus. It's Jesus. First Corinthians 1, 23 and 24, Paul says this. We preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to Jews And foolishness to Gentiles, but to those who are called both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God. of God. What do you say? Christ, the power of God, the wisdom of God. We preach Christ. We preach the wisdom of God. But I want to focus more, not just on that word wisdom. I want to focus on this word manifold, the manifold wisdom of God. Dictionary. com, manifold, of many kinds, numerous, varied. It has to do with multifaceted wisdom. Wisdom that has with it lots of variety, a diversity of types and styles So this wisdom of God that's found only in Jesus has a multiplicity of expressions. The manifold wisdom Wisdom of God. Where where have we been in the book of Ephesians? Here we're in chapter three. In chapter one, Paul talked about God's eternal plan, the wise plan of a wise God to save people. before the foundations of the world. We talked about things like uh be we were chosen and we were destined and he lavished his love upon us and we were elected. We're in Jesus Christ. All these all these great truths showing the wisdom of God's eternal plan before the foundation And then in chapter two two, Paul Paul looked in the first ten verses at how this plan works out in our lives individually. How how in b how how Vertically, we have a relationship with God. By grace are we saved, though we were dead in our sins. By grace are we saved through faith in Jesus Christ Christ and we're his workmanship created in Christ to do good works. And then in 11 he he he he he pivots Verse 211 to 22. He talks about this reconciliation not with God, but between people who are reconciled to God. Did you notice that As we've been looking through this. So we're reviewing here. He says some were far off, they were uncircumcised, they were Gentiles, and they were reconciled to God. You have some who were near. They were circumcised. They were Jews. They were reconciled to God. And they were brought together in Christ Jesus. And then he says four words in chapter two: He is our peace. Jesus Christ is our peace. Jesus Christ is a reconciler who reconciles us to God, gives us peace with God, and peace with each other. Because of Christ's cross, we have peace with God and peace with each other. So Chakatu ends with this united, this new united Jew-Gentile Expression of Jesus becoming a temple where the Spirit of God dwells. Look at the end of chapter 2 The spirit, that's an ongoing process as we become more and more a place where God manifests His presence. That's what the church is to be. The temple of God. The temple's not a building anymore. The temple is the people of God who are his presence by sp by by the Holy Spirit. And then chapter three. Now if you have a Bible, turn it turn to chapter three. And I I'm not uh I listened kind of to Eric's message last week. I want to make sure you see this. Chapter 3 is an interesting chapter. Verse 1, he says, For this reason I Okay? And then look at verse fourteen. For this reason I. What's going on there? Verses 2 to 13 are parenthetical. They're parenthetical. Paul was about to enter into his prayer. Okay? But he pauses. And why does he pause? Because he's just said some things, and as he's writing, he's saying, I'm not sure they really got it. So he pauses before he prays. He's gonna pray, but he's supposed to say some things to go deeper about the things he's been saying in chapter 2. In these verses. And so last week, uh Eric began to open that up for us as he talked about this work, the mystery, the mystery that Paul calls. So things once hidden, now revealed The wonderful idea that Gentile sinners would be included in God's covenant as equal partners with the Jews, with the Jewish saints who believed. Paul called it a mystery. Today we want to talk about the mystery. The mystery. And I'm going to call Paul the mystery man. Pause our mystery, man. So take us on an understanding of this idea that the manifold wisdom of God, the mystery of God, is expressed through the church of God. We want to go deeper in the understanding of the mystery. We want to go deeper in our understanding of Paul as messenger of the mystery. And I want to understand for us the radical implications of this for our world today and for the church today. Because they're very radical. Always have been. More Christians today are like the first century Jewish believers. In other words, we understand that the gospel is for all people, yes. But we really don't understand the radical nature of that claim. And how it should force us to adjust things in our lives. Paul talked about, look at 1 Corinthians chapter 9. He talks about I became all things to all men that I may win some. So we talk about this ministry to the Gentiles, that Paul, the mystery man. Let's look at the passage first. Verses 1 to 6, this mystery, again, it's the inclusion of the Gentiles And Paul Paul has to wants to talk about the what God has done and how God is doing it. It's what he's done. Yes, he's including Gentiles, but how has he done that? That's part of the mystery, you see. Paul goes deeper in looking at the who. It's God who does it, and he does it through him. He's the one, he's the messenger And so he begins there. Verses 7 and 8. Which was given to me by the working of his power. To me, though I'm the very least of all the saints, this grace was given to preach to the Gentiles. Again, the riches of Christ. That's a f the riches of Christ is a phrase from chapter one. The unsearchable riches of Christ. The riches of Christ to to know he talks about that to know that which is unknowable. The riches of Christ. The deep riches Paul says, though I'm the very least of all the saints, we saw in the Corinthians He's the least of the apostles. Here he says, I'm the least of the saints. You know, I was thinking about that phrase. He says, you know, now think of Apostle Paul about his life, how he persecuted the church Think about how he was the last of the twelve of the apostles, the twelve were apostles, and he came to Christ after the resurrection. So he was the last of the apostles and probably the most wicked. I don't think any of the other apostles actually murdered people involved in murder. So I don't think he's I don't think it's false humility. I think Paul really feels he knows the depth of his sin. He knows what he has done. I am the least of all the saints. And yet, he's amazed at the grace of God that God called him the least to be the messenger, the messenger of the mystery. Verses 9 to 10. The the he he focuses on here the church as guardians of of this message. The church, guardians of Paul's message. Let's pray, so that through the church the manifold wisdom of God might be made known. It's through God's church. John Stark always has great content on on New Testament passages. Here's what John Stark said. This about this new phenomenon phenomenon. This new multiracial humanity, the wisdom of God was being displayed. Indeed The coming into existence of the church as a community of a public demonstr excuse, a community of a saved and reconciled people is at one and the same time a public demonstration of God's power, grace, and wisdom. First, of God's mighty resurrection power, next of his immeasurable grace and kindness, and now thirdly of his manifold wisdom. The word manifold, here's this word manifold And in the Greek word he gives it, it means many colored, and was used to describe flowers, crowns, embroidered cloth, woven carpets That's the word that's used there. A simpler word in the in the Old Testament, the Septuagint of the Old Testament Greek The the phrase the coat of many colors, remember in Genesis? That's the word that's used. A richly ornamented robe, which Jacob Jacob gave to his youngest son Joseph. So This idea of manifold has the idea of many colored. Okay? John Scott said that. The church is a, he says, is a multiracial, multicultural community It's like a beautiful tapestry. Its members come from a wide range of colorful backgrounds. No other human community resembles it. Its diversity and harmony are unique. It is God's New society. That's the name of his commentary. And the many-colored fellowship of the church is a reflection of the many-colored wisdom of God. Unquote. John Studd. Verses 11 to 13. God's plan has always been, you see, to bless the entire world through Christ. That has been his plan. This was the eternal purpose, he says, that he has realized in Christ Jesus our Lord. God's eternal purpose. See, the plan to bless the world through Jesus Christ was not plan B It was always his intention. Jesus was his eternal Savior. It was realized at Calvary, but the plan was there. The plan was real. The Old Testament strongly hinted At God's plan to bless the world. Think of the Old Testament. Think of the Exodus. As the children of Israel they left Egypt. And if you remember the authorized version says, they had a mixed multitude. Remember that? That phrase They went as the as the the the the children of Israel that they left as a mixed multitude. They were all followers of Yahweh, but a diverse group Think uh in the Old Testament of uh of Solomon, the splendor of Solomon, and think about um how the expansion of the kingdom and how the queen of Sheba from south down in uh uh in Chiba in Africa, how how how the the the truth about God spread throughout the world. It wasn't just Jewish people. Think about Daniel, the book of Daniel, later in Old Testament. in history. How even though the the witness of God seemed like it was destroyed as the people of God were taken to Babylon No problem with God. I'll just save Babylon's king. And he'll announce the gospel. God has a way of getting the witness to the world. And the Old Testament had these hints, these hints that God had not just Jews on his mind, but Gentiles on His mind all along. Now I want to talk I want to look at some of the New Testament evidences. I want to do a skim through a couple things in the New Testament so we can see that this isn't just in the Old Testament hinted at. Now many have talked and seen seen the nature of inclusion, the inclusive nature of Jesus in the Gospels. But few have really traced the hesitancy of believers to model that inclusiveness. And I want to trace for a few minutes what I call apostolic hesitancy. The hesitancy of the apostles. And just a few things. It's a sad fact that followers of Jesus usually reflect what I call the spirit of Jonah and not the spirit of Jesus. We've talked about Jonah before. Jonah, he otherized Gentile people. Remember? Those other people. God, you may love them. I don't love them. I don't want to take the gospel to them. He otherized them. In his mind he knew that God wanted them to be reached. Jonah and many, for many believers Our cultural instincts are stronger than our spiritual instincts. Let me say that again. Our cultural instincts Trump, if I can use that word, our spiritual instincts. And it's the same true with us, you see, it's not just Jonah, it's not just the twelve apostles, that's the church. As followers of Jesus today. It is this ungodly instinct towards cultural superiority that has people in the name of Jesus storming a Capitol building months ago And doing that both in the name of Jesus because cultural instincts trump spiritual instincts. This is tough stuff Why in the name of Jesus do we see people on both sides of the political spectrum doing such crazy things? Because unless we are very intentional in our walk with God, culture always speaks theology. We'll say that again. Unless we're very, very intentional about our walk with God and our understanding of His Word, culture will beat theology every time. Let's look at some gospel passages. John chapter 4. We've preached on this. John Jesus goes to Samaria, the woman of the at the well, you know this you probably know that story. The woman is dramatically saved. But as I said that message years ago, a year. So that John who writes that that that that that that that uh passage is talking about himself as one who was an a hesitant apostle Jesus did not send the apostles into the city of Sychar to just get sandwiches. He sent them there to get souls. But they were Samaritan souls. Apostolic Hesden see. Later, on the way to Jerusalem in Luke chapter 9 The apostles here, the people of Samaria, again, they they were resistant to Jesus in the traveling train. And so do you remember what what uh uh I think it was Peter and John said, Lord, they didn't welcome us. Do you want us to call down fire from heaven and burn them up? Remember that Oh the love of Jesus coming through the apostles, right? Well, apostolic hesitancy. In Luke chapter 14, I'm going to preach this as another church in a couple weeks. The parable of the the great banquet. Where where where Jesus tells a story, he has a banquet and he says, um you want The invitations went out, everybody had excuses. I can't go because of this, can't go because of that. And so Jesus is the the the the um the the person who holds the banquet The master says, Go find all those that are poor, crippled, blind, and lame, and tell them, come on into the banquet. What is he talking about? He's talking about the Gentiles. The Gentiles, those others, the others who wouldn't get normally invited to the party, let them come to the party. The unlikely. others. Look, next time you read through the Gospels or a Gospel, I dare you to look for this for evidence of Gentile inclusion. It's all over the place. If you do, you'll be astounded. It was indeed a mystery to those guys until after the resurrection, until after Paul's ministry, and then they began to write and they tried to unfold it to us. The twelve failed to grasp it while they walked with Jesus and talked with Jesus. Even though it was right there in the Old Testament, and even though Jesus tried and tried and tried again and again to tell them Look at the Gentiles, look at the other people, it's not just the Jews, it's not just people like us. You don't totally understand the gospels fully if you don't understand And the mystery. And then we have X. Axe is not only destroyed, the expansion of the church. It is. It's the story of the expansion of the church. But it is more than that, folks. It's about the unfolding of the mystery. Despite God's appointed leaders and the church's lack of understanding the mystery That's what the book of Acts is about. In Acts 1 8, Jesus before his descendant ascension, he says, I want you to go and And the God the Holy Spirit will come and you'll be my disciples in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and the ends of the earth. Remember that? Acts 1. 8. And the apostles will do it there. And and others were there and and the women were there. And Jesus left, and they waited in Jerusalem, and the Spirit of God fell. And and Luke's very clear to show us that in Acts chapter two, with the day of Pentecost People from all over the world seemed to be in Jerusalem for Pentecost for that ceremony. Okay? And so the gospel went forth. People from all over the nations came and they heard the gospel, and that some of them took the gospel probably to different parts of the world. That's true. But for the next six, seven chapters, did the apostles take the gospel to Judea and Samaria and the rest of the world? No. They stayed in Jerusalem. They stayed in Jerusalem. In Jerusalem. That that was because well why not? Things are going pretty good. The church is growing. We're having success. Let's just continue ministry here in Jerusalem, right? And then what happened? Remember what happened in chapter 7? If you don't know the Bible, glance at it. Chapter 7 of Acts. Well, in chapter 6 of Acts, there was a problem. And we find there that in the Church of Jerusalem, there were some people from various churches. different cultural groups. There was a Hellenistic Jewish crowd that got saved. And and there was a conflict with the widows of that culture. The Jerusalem church. They solved it by appointing and anointing some of the Hellenistic Jewish leaders to positions of leadership. One of them's name was Stephen. Remember this? Stephen, who was one of the seven. Stephen has to give a defense of what he's been saying. Stephen was saying some different things that Peter and John were saying. His message was not kind of different Have you thought about that? Have you looked at look at that message carefully? Why, here's the question for you. Why did the Jewish leaders, when they heard Peter and John preach, say, you guys need to stop? You need to stop. Okay, I'll put you in prison. We'll whip you a few times. Now stop it. Over and over again. Stephen, one message. You're out of here. And who was overseeing that? The mystery man. Saul. Saul's right there. Saul understood the message of Stephen From the Old Testament that Saul thought he knew was radical. It was not just a Jewish message. It was a message for all people. He saw it and he said, that message is a dangerous message to Judaism. You with me? And so So Stephen is martyr. Look at Stephen's message. See, Judaism was very much tied to the law of Moses and the temple. And and and Stephen's message is saying, let's talk about Moses. Moses got saved before he gave the law. Moses was a man that got before In fact, Moses was rejected by his own people, and Moses met God out in a cow pasture with manure all over it. So much for your holy place. And and and and and and then he David, the great David, Stephen hardly mentions David in his defense. Oh yeah, David. Stephen, a Hellenistic Jew, is giving uh what I would call a mystery perspective on the Old Testament Seeing all that God was doing apart from Judaism among the nations, among the non-Jewish people, and he exposes it Saul season says that message has got to go. But God had to get the last word because what happens in chapter 9? Saul gets saved. Oh, but I missed something. Watch this. In chapter 8 of Acts, the persecution after Satan, okay? There's a little phrase there that the believers were scattered except for the apostles. Apostles did running part of person, they didn't even lead in the persecu i in the scattering of of of proclaiming the message for for a couple of interesting reasons But they didn't do it. In chapter 9, Paul gets saved. Saul becomes Paul. And there he's given the responsibility to be the apostle to the Gentile people. How how deep does culture impact people? After three years with Jesus After receiving the Spirit of God, after several years of spectacular ministry in Jerusalem, Jesus couldn't count on the 12th to take the gospel to the world. Think about it. So then it's after Paul gets saved in chapters 10 and 11, there's a story about Peter. You remember the story? Peter's on the man on the top of the of the roof And God tells him to open his heart to the Gentile people, and Peter says, Peter says, but Lord, but Lord. God has to give him a mighty vision And it's so it's so incredible that Luke takes the space to tell the story twice because it's radical That the gospel isn't just for Jewish people, and that anyone can come to Christ without becoming Jewish Culturally Jewish, religiously Jewish. That's the good news. That's the mystery. Did the cultural captivity of the twelve apostles stop God no. Acts thirteen. The missionary journey is launched from Antioch, the great multicultural um laboratory for the church and the early church In Acts 15 conflict because these Gentiles out there, they're not doing what the Bible says they should be doing, quote unquote, as it was understood So there's conflict because Jewish cultural customs are clashing with Old Testament ritual and understandings and expectations I mean, so again, look at that. Acts is about not just the expansion of the church, it's about the church coming to grips with the mystery of Gentile inclusion. And Paul is the mystery man. Who understood it before the others did. What about the New Testament letters? Well, we could look at the New Testament letters. There's just a couple of examples. So in Romans chapter 15, where he ends his argument. He's ending his argument. And Paul just pulls out of the Old Testament from Deuteronomy and Isaiah and Psalms Uh verses and all the verses deal with one thing, Gentiles. That God always had Gentiles on his heart. He always had the nations, the others, the people who were not Jews. They were always on God's heart, Paul said And his ministry is to reach them now with the gospel of Christ. Galatians chapter two, wonderful chapter in Galatians, where Paul and Peter and and the apostles have a a major conflict over some of the practical applications of what it means to be a gentile believer who doesn't have to keep kosher rules anymore. When you have a banquet and everybody's there And and and the Jews want to keep kosher, but the Gentiles say we don't care about kosher. So what happens? You got conflict, and there's a conflict in Paul he confronts him To their faith, because the gospel said the Gentiles have freedom to express their faith in a certain way that the Gentiles may not have to express it He he he clashed with the other apostles over this because Paul is our mystery. He understood God gave this to him Him in a unique way. Galatians 2. 20. I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live. Christ lives in me. It's chapter 2. Read that passage. And how he links it with justification in the inclusion of Christ in me, Christ in you, no matter what culture you are, that's a gospel issue. That's a gospel issue, folks. One other New Testament verse is um Second Peter 3, which I which kinda again, i I I like this because it shows the humility of Peter And the end of 2 Peter, the last paragraph, he talks about Paul's writings. Remember? He says about that he said that Paul, the God, that Paul had some things that were wise. He said the wisdom of Paul. That God gave him. And he talks about, he's encouraging his readers to listen to what Paul said in his letters. Because they are scripture, just like Old Testament scripture. Now, why is that passage there? I don't think Paul's doctrine of justification was what was confusing. I don't think it was his doctrine his doctrine of atonement or predestination or I don't think those were the things that Peter was talking about. I think what Peter's talking about is this thing here, this mystery. That Peter didn't completely understand himself, but he knew that Paul understood it with the depth that needed to be understood, and they need to listen to what Paul said, because Paul was an expert in understanding The relationship between the God of the heavens, who had a people in the Old Testament, and now has a has opened up the gospel for all people, the Jews and the Gentiles. Paul understood it like Peter didn't. Well we can say more about that in terms of a scope, but I hope you feel what I'm saying here. Paul is uniquely, and he knows it. He knows that even the other apostles don't understand this like he does And so he has this parenthesis here in chapter three, as we talked about. Now look at how look at what he says here in verse seven and eight. He says, um, of this gospel I want you to look at at how many times he uses the pronoun the the personal pronoun. I was made a minister according to the gift of God's grace, which was given me by the power of his by the working of his power. To me, though I I am the very least of all the saints, this grace was given. There's kind of a dual thing I see there. One is his humility Because he's saying he he's saying, wow, it was me. God God shared this with me. He he unfolded the secret wisdom to me to explain and he he's humbled by that. Us real. Because he knows that he's the one who persecuted the church. He didn't deserve that. But also, his usage of eye reminds us that he was certain that he knew the message of God. He had heard from God, and it was clear to him He was uniquely gifted with that message, and he knew the church needed to hear it. And the church still needs to hear it. I want to talk about some of the implications for us Gentile inclusion was not hidden. That's my point. It wasn't hidden. It was always God's intention. And what was misunderstood was that Gentile inclusion meant Gentile equality. Gentiles, yes. See the Jews did the the idea that Jews the Gentile people could get saved that wasn't too radical It was the argument that they could get saved without having to fulfill the Jewish practices. That's what was radical But many see these things and they say, My. Didn't weren't those Jews blind? Weren't they maybe racist to the Gentile people? And isn't it nice that the church eventually came to see Gentiles as worthy of the gospel and didn't try to change them all? However, I would say the same thing has been sure Of the church throughout the ages, particularly in American history. The majority culture has seen the gospel of Jesus as for all people, yes, but still saw other folk as second. class. Jonathan Edwards, maybe you know Jonathan Edwards was. He's a great theologian of uh first great awakening in the seventeen hundreds. Um great writer, great preacher. Mission he had a mission to the Indians who were near him. That was wonderful. He also owned slaves. How can he do that? Creature of his times, yes. He didn't understand it all. The second great awakening in the 1800s. Many slaves on the frontier came to Christ and got saved Yeah, they went back to slavery, many of them. It took decades, in fact, after the Civil War, before they were freed by very reluctant masters. Those are gospel issues And of course there then there was Jim the Jim Crow experience of our country and the emergence of separate churches for people of color. The days of legal segregation are over for sure. Thank God for that But attitudes don't change overnight, and we know that there's still work to be done for many who are in the majority culture. But the church will never get beyond accusations of being racist until this history is recognized well. Right now in in this decade here in the twenty-first century, believers in in America believers in Christian believing Christians in America Who love God and love and love people as well are very concerned about the state of our nation. We should be. We see lawlessness and violence A lack of respect for authority. You see immorality? Incivility? Because I'm an African-American man, it may surprise you to hear me say this. Racial inequality is not the biggest problem that our nation faces. In fact, I don't even think it's the biggest social problem among African-American people. But Don't mistakenly think that I'm saying the problem has been solved. It has not. Yes, there's been progress, but there needs to be more progress. In the first decade of this century, many whites had an awakening of sorts, began to repent and opened their hearts To churches. To people of color. That's great. It's good. But They were becoming awakened to the mystery. But now, over the last four or five years, something's happening. Statistics and anecdotes are showing us this. Many non whites are saying, We tried, but no thank you You say you want a church that's multi-ethnic? Well, your church leadership still looks and sounds and feels culturally Like like the Jerusalem church, not like the Antioch Church. See, the Bible-believing church is still very guilty of doing what Judaizing Christian Jews say did in the first century. Yes, we believe the gospel is for those other people. You wouldn't dare discriminate. Preach to them, sure. Open our churches to them? Of course. However, view them as totally equal. Understand them, not see them as inferior. Oh, that's going too far We don't say that. But by our policies, sometimes our attitudes, sometimes our behaviors, we reflect that. And that's what is felt And uh I let me say this as is a as a uh call a card-carrying five-point Calvinist Reform preacher. We need to keep our theology, but let many aspects of reformed culture die. We will never be the force for good, for evangelism, for outreach and for blessing that we want to be, and that the world needs. Couple issues. We fail to parse out the difference between that which is a universal principle and that which is a cultural principle. Reference. A couple examples. Let me just just so you understand what I'm saying here. Um worshiping God in temple service On Saturday is a cultural, Jewish cultural application of a principle, of a universal principle in the Bible, that God is to be worshipped one day a week The Sabbath principle. Now the New Testament we don't worship on the Sabbath day, we worship on Sunday. But the principle is the people of God worship one day a week. There's a cultural application to a universal principle, right? Okay, now this is far out. A causal application. The Amish people, you know, don't have automobiles. That is a causal application of the universal principle that believers are not to love the world. That's the way they apply that principle. Application, cultural application, universal principle. Okay, here's one that's look that's going to get a little closer to home We in the Reformed faith we believe that the only way to worship is through the Trinity Hymnal. And I like the Trinity Hymnal well. But the only way to worship God is using the Trinity Hymnal That's a cultural application of the universal principle of sing to the Lord and New Song. You can worship God without a dream of him. Believe it or not. What am I saying? I hope you're with me. What I'm saying is that we need to think about what it means for the gospel to be taken to nations, to the ethnics, ethnos in the Greek To people who may not be like us and feel like us and understand the world like we understand, and that there's space in this room at the cross for all people who trust God Christ. Now one of the many other implications of this, as I wind down, is that many people, many young people who do have instincts for justice. They automatically reject our churches because they don't think we do. They automatically reject the churches. They don't only reject Jesus. They try to figure out a Jesus who is just Who has justice? But they don't use the word of God. This is to our shame. This is to our shame. Well, let's remember that that They may have a very, very distorted view about things like diversity and inclusion. They may include some things that we say, no, no, no, God is not for those kind of things. But let's not think that our God is not a God who's inclusive. So until until you understand that this mystery of the inclusion of the Gentiles was always on God's Heart, you simply don't understand the gospel completely. You don't understand the role of the church and the purpose of the church. We need to correct the world's distorted view of diversity Rather than demonize the world's view of diversity, which has elements that should be demonized. Let's commit ourselves to embracing as equals all who love Christ. And follow him in his word. Let's reach out to all people without preconceived prejudices in regards to race, class, gender, ethnicity. Genesis 12, 1-3, Old Testament. The Lord said to Abraham, Go from your country, your kindred, your father's house, to the land I will show you, and I will make of you a great I will bless you and make your name great so that you will be a blessing. I will bless those that who bless you and him who dishonors you. I will curse, and you in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. It wasn't just for Abraham, and it's it was for all the families of the earth First book of the Bible. Last book of the Bible, Revelation. John says saw this. I looked and behold a great multitude that no one could number, from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages. Standing before the throne, before the Lamb, clothed in white robe with palm branches in their hands, crying out with a loud voice, Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. There is diversity in heaven. But the focus of diversity in heaven is not on diversity. The focus of diversity in heaven is on the lamb. He is our peace. And this movement towards inclusion begins right there. Have you embraced the grace and peace of Jesus, the Lamb of God? Repent, believe. Follow him. Follow him so that you can be part of that mass of people committed to depicting to the world I want us to see A world that denies the truth, a world that is dead in trespasses and sins, that you can display God's manifold wisdom. A wisdom that's only found in Jesus Christ. The Son of God. Let's pray. Well, I th th there's so much more we could say, and I probably said too much, but I pray you would use these words Lord to to help. us to reflect on what it means to to to believe the gospel, to to share the gospel, to reflect the gospel in our lives and our relationships. What it means to live in a world that struggles over some of these things. Help us as a church, as a grace church, to understand what it means for us as we look forward to these the months and days ahead what it means for us to be the people of God here in Relay. Sanctify us in your word in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.