Having no hope and without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, you who once were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. For he himself is our peace, who has made us both one and has broken down in the in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility by abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances That he might create in himself one new man in place of the two, so making peace, and might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility. And he came and preached peace to you who were far off, and peace to those who were here. For through him we both have access in one spirit to the Father. So then, you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints, the house of God, built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets. Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone, in whom the whole structure, being joined together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord. In him you also are being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit. Ephesians two eleven through twenty-two. Amen. Thank you. Please eat speech. We are nearing the end of our Fruit of the Spirit series. This is the second to last week. Next Next week we'll finish with love. We've been going backwards mostly accurately, although this one should be joy. But oh well. So I'm gonna start with a peace joke. I don't I haven't had a lot of jokes lately, so here you go. Rest in peace, boiling water. You will be missed. Takes a second, it takes a second, it takes a second, it takes a second, right? Okay, most people their uh policy on how to be at peace. Peace often boils down to three simple words. Boils down to three simple words. Not my problem. Not my problem, not my circus, not my monkeys. Leave me out of it. That's the Zen approach. Does that approach work sometimes? It does. We sometimes think we should just let problems run off our backs, but we're talking about supernatural holy spirit-given peace. Not just the absence of conflict, not just being unbothered or unencumbered or unhindered, but biblical peace is flourishing in all ways. Complete flourishing. I don't you know use Bible words that often all the time, but the Greek word for peace is Irene, where we get the word Irene or the name Irene. And then the Hebrew word for peace is shalom. And shalom is far more than a greeting, which is a wonderful greeting. We might want to try that. Instead of high, we can say shalom. Peace. I come in peace. But this is the word for flourishing, right? Everything flourishing exactly as God intends it to be. Peace is the opposite of chaos, which we see in our nation, in our world, in our country, in our state, in our city, in our homes, in our own person. personal lives, our own hearts. There's chaos. So the question we should be thinking today is where do I need Where do I need shalom? Where do I need peace? Where do I need flourishing in my own life? Paul, though, has a different approach, and he says, He himself is our peace. Paul is teaching us that peace is way more than a concept or an attitude. It's a person. Peace is the person of Jesus Christ. Right? God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit made a beautiful world and called it good. We've been coming back to the Garden of Eden. And he he put people in it, created in his image, to image. God Himself. It's hard to imagine what it would have been like then to be in perfect flourishing those few days. those few weeks. We don't really know how long it lasted to be in a place where everything was good, set up perfectly We were all doing what it is we should be doing. But what happened? Sin entered the world. The Lord allowed sin to enter the world, right? This sin became it becomes rebellion. And it brings death and destruction and war. And that's true personally in our own lives, but also collectively, in groups, in people groups. In societies. It can happen consciously and unconsciously. And with sin and destruction and wrath comes judgment. Right? There's penalties that need to be paid when things go off the rails. A payment must be rendered. And when we break covenant with God, we are not at peace with Him, are we? Now we come out of the womb mad at God, rebellious, completely not at peace, unsure what to do with our rebellion and our guilt and our shame, and they're Many different ways to rebel against God. This comes back to the older brother and the younger brother, right? There's the younger brother way, you leave. And then there's the older brother way, you stay. You're compliant. It's still rebellion. It's still rebellion. Paul says this way, right? We're familiar with this passage, Romans 3. Yeah, but we can get to the Paul writes this none is righteous, no not one, no one understands, no one seeks God, all have turned aside. Together they have all become worthless. No one does good, not even one, their throat is an open grave. They use their tongues to deceive. Feet are swift to shed blood, in their paths are ruin and misery, and the way of peace they have not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes. That's us. That's us, even if we've been raised in church all our whole lives. Even if we've been raised in Christian homes and listened to Agape Land records. Still not at peace with God. And it looks different depending on what ecosystem you were raised in Who influenced you? Your own personality? It looks different even depending on birth order, right? Circumstances, your outlook, who your siblings are, who your parents are, what your body type are, if you're male or female can look different, where you were born, when you were born. It could all look different, but we all have it in common, don't we? We all have it in common. Simple places, sinful people. But God pursues sinners, doesn't he? God breaks in. God is a God of war and wrath and peace and forgiveness and love. He breaks in and he shows us often in the Old Testament with these prophets, priests, and kings the way things should be. He speaks into the situation. He makes a way for reconciliation. One big way in the Old Testament especially is the tabernacle and the temple. The tabernacle and the temple are places that picture God's presence, right? Where God dwells. God dwells everywhere, but he dwells in some places in a little bit of a different way. The architecture for these buildings or edifices showed the heavens and the earth. Showed God's relationship with his people. And remember, like that at the beginning of the tabernacle, God is taking his people out of slavery and into the promised land. And he's saying, You are my people, you are my precious children. I love you. I brought you out of wickedness and oppression, and I have set you in this place. But there is still wickedness. And oppression in you. And I have to still deal with it. Getting you out of slavery is not the same thing as you are enslaving yourselves And every year I will deal with your rebellion. I will rede I will deal with how you have broken the covenants. I will make peace with you yet again, my people. I will spill precious blood on an innocent victim. It should be you. It should be you But I will place your sin and your shame on a substitute, on a lamb. My holiness depends on this. So you can continue in relationship with me. Now two interesting things about the Passover it is it it was never fully worked. Right? It has to be redone every year So it's a temporary year yearly payment. And the other interesting is performed by a high priest. One person does this on behalf of the people. So not everyone has to do all their own So the high priest goes into the Holy of Holies behind a thick curtain, right? Not a curtain like this, but a thick like movie curtain. Really thick, high. And back behind that curtain is the Ark of the Covenant. And what's in the Ark of the Covenant? The Ten Commandments Now think about this, that were not very long ago made And so the high priest, the representative of the people, offers the sacrifice on behalf of the people, and it's a dangerous job. Remember, they've tied a rope to this guy. Because they didn't know what was going to happen in there. He's dealing with precious stuff. The holiness of God completely there. Could do it wrong, so they had to be able to pull him out. And then they said we'll meet to do it again next year. Until when? Galatians fourteen Tells us until the fullness of time, just at the exact right moment, the exact right moment, Jesus came and tabernacled among us. That's what John says, right? He himself is our peace, but now in Christ Jesus, you once were far off, have been brought near by the blood of Christ. For he himself is our peace, who has made us both one, and has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility. By abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two, so making peace And he might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility. And he came and preached peace to those who are far off, and peace to those who are near. For through him we have access to in one spirit to the Father. He is our peace. This is substitution language, isn't it? This is definitely temple language, bringing us together. The God man came. Jesus came and he absorbed the violence, the wrath, the suffering for us. Jesus said, I will be the payment. I will die for your disobedience. My people. And so Jesus becomes both the high priest and the sacrificial lamb. Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. And both Matthew and Mark write about the the The curtain ripping from the top. Because God accepted the sacrifice And the high priest did die. The Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world The question is, do we believe this? If we are, then we are unified with Christ. We are at peace with God through faith. Amen. That's so good. God says, You're good with me. I have poured all this out. All my wrath got onto my son. Jesus Christ. So then we we have joy. We receive this peace. We're right with God, right? We celebrate it because God's not out to get us. He loves us. He forgives us. And that makes us a peaceful people. Should make us a peaceful People. Last week I talked about uh seeking out joy, like going looking for joy, but we also have to seek out peace Don't we? We have to seek out all of this through the Spirit. It doesn't just come naturally. We're not talking about the natural, calm people. We're talking about supernatural peace. So we need to be on the look for it. Celebrating it when we see it. When we hear stories of people being reconciled to each other, rejoicing. And that's really what the church should be. fishermen can all be together. That's not the way society normally works. We're not just in our natural affinity groups in the church. The truth, the church itself is a fruit of the Spirit. Pentecost. All throughout the Bible. And Paul talks about this too, right? In verse eleven. Therefore remember that one time you Gentiles in the flesh called the uncircumcision by what is called the circumcision. Which is made in the by the flesh of the hands, remember that you were at that time separated from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers to the covenants of the promise, having no hope and without God in the world But he himself is our peace. So he's talking about our divisions, right? Circumcision, uncircumcision Divided, marked, we would say our religious differences, religious or irreligious, or within religious Blue collar, white collar, skin color, of course we've divided over that so many times. Educational levels Where we live, men versus women, old versus young, my traditions and my theology versus yours, my rank, my place, my position, my standing. And some of them aren't superior. And some of them are inferior. But Jesus says, I am your peace. It's not just when we're together with people that we like or who agree with us. Jesus is our peace. Our peace is a person, and he is calling us to be brought together, right? In the church. And what happens when we are come together in the church? We now are the temple. Of the Holy Spirit. We become that in the world. We picture all these things that we're talking about through the work of the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit. We picture God's peace and hope and love and joy all over the world. That's why we need each other. That's why we we are different. We're not all the same. Hallelujah. We need each other's experiences and viewpoints, not just one. We need each other's circumstances, relationships, bodies, talents, gifts. And we can offer peace to the world because we know the Prince of Peace. You know, there's this thing that we we're not doing, the passing of the peace. This is the inter Introverts worst nightmare during church? Like, can we please not do it today? I would tell my introverts is like, listen, you only have to do it for four minutes. Then you're done. Right? So you it's just plan time. Curge your loins, go for it. But it uh w our sister church in Oklahoma City, North East Missionary Baptist Church, man, their passing of the peace was awesome. Every single person got up and everyone moved around and hugged each other and said hi to each other, and it was like a fury of activity and joy. Passing of the peace was not a drudgery. Oh, we gotta pass the piece again. Oh get me out of here. I gotta go say hi to people Bummer. Paul writes if it all possible live at peace with each other, with one another. another. So back to my point that I keep on making is peace also does take wisdom. Right? This is the supernatural part. It takes wisdom to know how to go about the peace part. I also think uh it takes wisdom to know when to break peace so you can get a further peace later. This is the the sort of point where uh tent tempered tantrums do work. You just need to decide, do I need to have a temper tantrum to get this to work or not? Um am I going for something bigger or do I just want to have the tantrum? I I personally think this is why they're a riot. Because the thing isn't working. Remember we talked about trust the system is what people say who don't want to change the system Right? Something has to change. And sometimes we we break peace for a time to get something else done. This is why I'm saying it takes Holy Spirit wisdom to know how to do to what I should do to what I should say. Maybe I shouldn't send this email. Maybe I shouldn't make this comment or say this thing, or maybe I should. Sometimes we've wanted so much peace we we clammed up. And we didn't say the thing that needed to be said. And God had us there for that reason. The Holy Spirit empowers us to say hard things, too. So we're telling the story of creation, fall, redemption, restoration with our own lives. And we sing, Whate my God ordains is right. It's similar to Be Still My Soul, which we sang already. This can be a tough song to sing whenever things are not going the way you want. Whenever you are not at peace with peace. Whatever my God ordains is right, his holy will abideth, I will be still whatever he doth, and follow where he guideth. Though dark my road, he holds me that I would not fall. Where there my God ordains is right, he never will deceive me. He leads me by the proper path. Tent what he hath sent, his hand can turn my griefs away, impatiently I wait his day. Some sense this is also the definition of blessed are the meek who will inherit the earth. I think the meek a good definition Definition of the meek are people who accept who God is and who I am. Accepting of who God is and who I am. My place in His Economy. Psalm thirty-seven eleven puts it this way. But the meek shall inherit the land and delight themselves in abundant peace. Surely Jesus knew that verse, right? This is when we say to ourselves and to others, I wish I had different story. But I'm in this one. And I accept that. I bring to my God still my Disappointments, still my pain, my suffering, but I am at peace with him and his ways. The meek shall inherit the earth. I bring to God my lack of peace. I repent of where I'm not at peace. Isaiah 26, 3 says, He who he is in perfect peace whose ways are steadfast. I need the Holy Spirit to be steadfast. I need the Holy Spirit to be resolved. To be resolute. I need to have the Holy Spirit You know it's statistically true that at least 20% of all people don't like you. Thirty-seven percent of statistics are made up on the spot. But not everybody likes you. It's that's shocking to some of us, isn't it? Uh how could people not like me? I'm funny. Lots of people don't like me, I promise. And people don't like you. Well we all have enemies. Maybe they're small ones. We have family fights, don't we? We have fights at work. And forgiving someone always takes for A price. You never ever just get to say, forget it. That's not forgiveness, that's forgetting it. If someone steals your bike, you don't have a bike. Right? So if they want to give the bike back, that's not forgiveness. That's getting your bike back. Forgiveness is like, I gotta get myself a new bike. I'm paying for what you stole. Now that's easier to understand with a bike. It's harder to do with words. How do I forgive someone who said these words? And I guarantee you you can remember those words. You can put yourself exactly in that situation, exactly in the reason that you heard them, and it may be 25, 30 years ago. You remember words that got told to you when you were six? Right? How do I forgive that? That is something really important to figure out. It's gonna pay. A cost. Right? You've got to pay the cost to forgive others. And there are people who need to forgive you. For something you said twenty years ago. It can feel very risky to forgive Now it's interesting that Carl and Debbie are here. It's good to see you both because I was going to talk about Rwanda. Because I had lunch with Carl on uh Tuesday. And um if you guys read the uh little MTW deal that was awesome. But you know they left a whole bunch out. Which We had so much time. But one of the things that sort of mostly got left out is Carl's PhD work, where um he was trying to figure out how reconciliation really happens. Instead of just talking about it or praying about it, what do we do about it? Now you remember Rwanda, nineteen ninety four, right? I might get this a little off but um five hundred thousand to six hundred thousand people were murdered in a week, ten days And you know it wasn't by armies. Like 300 to 400,000 people killed people with axes Someone has to pay that price. Right? You don't just get people back But you there's no manpower in the world enough to try three to four hundred thousand cases that all happened in the same week. So what do we do? So Carl did something weird. Uh he decided to make movies. Which I think is awesome. So Carl made these eight movies showing what people had done, and then they had them viewed so other people could learn. How to reconcile with each other. Carl, thank you for doing that. Debbie, thank you for doing that. What a work. to be peacemakers. So people had to come together and have meetings and talk about it and forgive. To be peacemakers. Blessed are the peacemakers. Who do you need to forgive? to be at peace with. Who needs to forgive you? You should go and ask them for forgiveness. Psalm twenty nine, eleven. May the Lord give strength to his people. May the Lord bless his people with peace. Psalm thirty-four, fourteen Turn away from evil and do good, seek peace and pursue it. Psalm seventy two seven In his days may the righteous flourish and peace abound to the moon be no more. Psalm 85, 8 and 10. Let me hear what God the Lord will speak, for He will speak peace To his people, to his saints. Steadfast love and faithfulness meet. Righteousness and peace kiss each other. Where do righteousness and peace kiss each other? On the cross. Justice and mercy are paid on the cross, and they come together right there because we follow the Prince of Peace Amen. Now, this Prince of Peace also comes on a horse. He doesn't just say, okay, no worries. To make things right, to make everything shalom and complete flourishing, which will happen someday. Which will happen someday, right? Jesus is coming back to make everything right. All of our messes, all of our problems, all of the places where we are in conflict will be gone. And we will be in perfect peace. With Jesus flourishing in all ways. That's always been the plan for the world. And our response is to walk with him there as a people of peace. It's going to take holy spirits Spirit wisdom to know. But we have a Holy Spirit