Well good morning, thanks. Good morning. As we uh today we're finishing up our message series from the book of Ephesians, the great book, the Apostle Paul, letter to that to the church of the of Ephesus. And um if you have your Bibles, uh you can stand as we and listen To God's word as we read just verses twenty-one to twenty four of the sixth chapter. Verse twenty one says, so that you may also you also may know how I am and what I am doing Tychicus, the beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord, will tell you everything. I've sent him to you for this very purpose, that you may know how we are, and that he may encourage your heart Peace be to the brothers and love with faith from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace be with all who love our Lord Jesus Christ with love and faith Well thank you for this small portion of your word, four verses. Help us to understand what you have to say to us As we finish up this book as a church. May the words of my mouth, the meditation of all of our hearts, please you, be acceptable to you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Good writers are those who communicate clearly and with with what they want you to get from what they write. Um there's nothing more frustrating to me than than to read something and not have a clue about what I just read. Does that ever happen to you? What was that to Yeah. You know, there's theological journals and commentaries that pastors read and and often they use technical language that's beyond the layman and beyond someone who went to seminary thirty years ago too, by the way One of my roles as as a as husband is to proofread Terry's paper. She's in a doctoral program, as many of you know. And And um she quotes experts and uses words sometimes and sometimes I pause and say, what does that mean? And I have to realize that technical language is part of all professionals, right? You have technical language. Which it's insight language. But Paul's letters are not for theologians, they're for the common people, right? And he wrote for the church. He wrote for people like you and like me who don't live in the world of theological precision. He doesn't use words such as supralapsarianism or hypostatic union or kenosis theory or synoptic gospels, words that most of you don't understand, but I better understand because I'm Ordained minister. Technical words right? Paul doesn't talk like that in his letters. He just uses common language. Like any good communicator, he breaks things down Um some of you probably remember an old the late uh uh radio minister, James Vernon McGee. How many of you remember James Vernon McGee McGee. He always said preachers need to put the cookies on the table so the kitties can grab them. That's James Vernon McGee. God bless him. The Apostle Paul uses three simple words in our text today In the book of Ephesians. As we close out, I want to review the book using looking at these three simple words that we see in this in this um passage And uh and this is my title today: Peace, Love, and Grace. Peace, love, and grace. Three simple words I mentioned on Thursday uh evening that um Wednesday evening, right? It was Wednesday evening we were here that that uh the Colossians was an occasional book. There was a certain occasion A certain situation that he was addressing in Colossians, but it which is very similar to Ephesians, but Ephesians is more of a general book because he's not speaking to a specific uh congregation And uh but some of the verses, as we said the other day, are very similar. And uh I want to look at verses twenty-three and twenty-four as a window into the entire book. But look at these four verses. In verses twenty-one to twenty-two, we Paul wants the churches to know how he's doing. Okay? In the entire book, he's taught the churches how they are, and who they are, and whose they are. More specifically, he reminds them of what they are And they are richly blessed in Christ. In fact, that's the title of our series: Being Richly Blessed in Christ. That's what we are. And if we have uh repented and turned to Christ by faith for forgiveness and for hope, we are richly blessed. And Paul has six chapters trying to to make sure We understand that. The first part of this chapter um he's addressed prayer, uh, the the spiritual warfare. We looked at that last week Well, Brother Eric. John MacArthur says, The prayer is the very spiritual air that the soldier of Christ breathes. It's the all-pervasive strategy in which warfare is sought Lloyd Jones says our ultimate position as Christians is tested by the character of our prayer life. It's very convicting. That's convicting to me. I don't know about you. I'll be the first to say that. One commentator arms Arnold says um um that this book is is we we we're gonna read a man named named Tychicus and And Tychus is the only person that's really listed in this last part of the book. And if you've read any of Paul's letters, you know often there are other, there are many people listed that he talks to. But Ticeka seems to be, as we'll see in a second, the one who who was the courier for this letter. Okay? All right, first, versus verses twenty-one and twenty-two. What they need to know about Paul himself. Here's some things they need to know about Paul himself. He there's a he Paul's concerned that they're concerned because this is a one is this is one of the prison letters. He's in prison Okay. He wrote he writes several New Testament letters from his prison experience. And people had a lot of various opinions about why Paul was in prison, maybe he was out of the will of God, those kind of things. And he wants them to know how he's doing. Philippians chapter one, he very clearly talks about his imprisonment and there. Um he probably wants to quiet them down, the many churches that he has has helped uh disciple uh some some second second hand but he's helped these churches. Um Tychicus is is the man that he notes in in verse um twenty one. Who is this man? Well he shows up A couple times in the New Testament. Here's some of the times here's the here or the times in the New Testament. He's only referred to five times. Here they are. In Acts chapter 20, verse 4 Listen to this list of men. This is uh Paul's third missionary journey. It's about is almost over. And there's a list of the men who are traveling with him. Sopitar, the Berean, he's from Berea, son of Pyrrhus Accompanied him, Paul. And of the Thessalonians, Aristarchus and Segundus, they're from Thessalonia, Gaius of Zerp of Derby, and Timothy, and the Asians, Tychicus, there's our man. And Trophamous. Okay, there's seven people listed. Seven's an interesting number, by the way. I'm not going to go into that. But there's seven people. Seven Gentiles. This is the fruit of Paul's ministry, by the way That's Acts 20, verse 4. Paul's seven men. And then in Titus chapter 3 Verse 12. When I send Artemis or Tychicus, there's our guy, to you, do your best to come to me at Nicob Nicol Nicop Nicopol For I've decided to spend the winter there. So he wants to send someone to Titus, the island of Crete. Titus, the leader of the island of the church at Crete. He says, I'm not sure if I'm going to send Artemis or Tychus. I'm going to send one of my guys there to you guys, is what he's saying Ticacus is one of them, okay? Colossians chapter 4, verse 7. Ticacus will tell you all about my activities. He's a beloved brother, a faithful minister, and a fellow servant in the Lord. So Colossians 4 7, that's almost that's part of the passage. That's the next part of the passage that we did the other day. But there's Ticus, okay? He will tell you about my activities. So He is probably the one who was the courier, the messenger, who who had the letter to um Colossians and Ephesians and physeman. He's the one who carried those letters. Again, this isn't it again, this is in the days before email. This is the days when you had a a hard copy of a letter that had to be carried to someone And so Ticchus is the trusted servant of Paul who does that, the minister of the gospel. And then finally, in the last letter of Paul, 2 Timothy, Tychicus, I have sent to Ephesus. I've seen him to Ephesus, okay? That's it. And then our our text today, this which is uh the fifth one. What do we learn? First, he's one of the Asians. He's one of those uh One of the Asians that were along Paul's missionary journey, some of the some of the mature young leaders were actually began to go with Paul. One was to be trained by Paul. The other was to carry the offering that Paul gathered from the different churches as he went to Jerusalem. So there's a twofold purpose. But Paul's strategy was I want to take the best man from all the cities. And train them. That's what's going on. Acts 20, verse 4. Tychicus is one of them. Okay? But he's called a beloved brother He loves the Lord, and he's a faithful minister, a fellow servant. He's a partner with Paul. So he's a courier. Now you might recall that in the book of Revelation, there's seven letters to churches, right? Right. One of those letters is the church at Ephesus. There was a there was a a a route, a circuit, uh uh in that area, the the in the valley there. And Ephesus is one of the cities. This letter may have been part of each of those seven cities receiving this letter. We have the Ephesian draft of the letter So, Tychicus is a courier. A couple implications for us on this point before we move on. Acts 20 is a very important passage that's giving us insights into Paul's ministry. This Acts 20 passage where we see these seven men. Leaders work better in teams. Let me say that again. So often we have We we think that the church will once we get a pastor all will be well. No, you have a pastor and you have ruling elders. Leaders work in teams. Don't forget that. If you're leading a ministry, it's better to work with a team. Don't forget that. Paul was never a Lone Ranger. When Paul got his ministry started, remember? He wasn't the leader. Remember who encouraged Paul? It was Barnaby. Back in Acts chapter 11 or 10 or 11 is where Barnabas says, I want to get Paul. Paul never worked alone. Never. Read the book of Acts carefully The second second uh application. There's some things that are communicated best face to face. We've learned that over the last couple years, haven't we? Some things you can make a telephone call, some things sometimes Zoom works, some communications you need to look the person in the eye and see the body language and all that kind of stuff. And so Paul understands that. Yeah. Some uh n there's a time for a nice encouraging letter and time to write something sometimes more general and sometimes something specific and personal but but but he but he knows that something's I don't want to say in a letter to these people. I want Tychicus to go and relay personally what needs to be said. He would face to face give the personal communications that Paul wanted to give to him All the the different churches that Paul was aware of. Probably we'll we'll see it we'll look at Acts in a few minutes and you'll see that that that Ephesus is the main congregation in that region, and the other churches were probably planted by people who came But the point is, Paul understands that ministry is about people, and sometimes you have to have face-to-face Communications. Some of you who are probably uh online right now listening to this, it's great that you're online, but at some point let's get face to face as the Lord encourages you and gives you uh freedom and and uh uh in in in safe to do that. But the pandemic has reminded us that screen's not good enough. We need to see each other. You just see each other smile Know. Anyway, leaders, this is another thing. Paul is is is saying, here's how I'm doing because he knows they're praying for him. Leaders need prayer. Leaders need prayer. Paul wants them to know his needs so they can pray for him. And he's more specific as we saw in the Book of Colossians the other night about but pray that I would have an open door, that I'd that my words would be seasoned with salt, those kind of things. Okay, so Now w the second thing in the is is what Paul wanted the churches to know about themselves. Verses about him. Now this is about him s about themselves. And and this is in the benedictions. These two this verses twenty-three and twenty-four are essentially benediction verses. Look at Peace be to brothers, love with faith from God the Father, Lord Jesus Christ. Grace be with all who love our Lord Jesus Christ with love incorruptible. There we see grace and we see peace. We saw them in the salutation, those two words. Common words Grace, the typical greeting of Gentile people, peace, uh translation of Shalom, the typical greeting of Hebrew people. Grace and peace to this congregation. And Gentiles were coming together, one in Christ. And so in the benediction, he again says, peace and grace. And he adds another one, love with faith. Let's talk about those four words. Words. Grace. Verse 24. What's Paul said about grace? He's told us in the Fians that we are loved by God before The foundations of the world. Remember chapter 1? We are richly blessed by God. This is what he says: He says in verse 1, chapter 1, verse 6, the praise of his glorious grace. Verses 7 and 8. The riches of his grace that he has lavished upon us. That's a word of He's poured, He's lavished grace upon us. In chapter 2, verses 7 Verse 5. He says it twice. By grace you are saved. What is grace? Grace is the undeserved initiative of God towards people His salvation initiative, his blessing initiative, his provision initiative, it's all undeserved, folks. Grace is what God has done for us In chapter 3, he says, the stewardship of God's grace, the gift of God's grace. It's gift. In chapter 3, verse 8, grace, he gave him grace to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ. Grace. So the first couple chapters of Ephesians, he wants them to understand it's about grace. It's not about us, it's about grace. God didn't save us because of us, but despite us. Have you learned that yet? It's a gift. It is undeserved, it is unmerited, it is unsought. Despite us, not because of us. Yet we are we're adopted into God's family. We're not orphans, we're beloved sons and daughters with full inheritance rights That's the joy of the gospel. It's the power of the gospel. God grace be with you all. Then the the second word is peace, up in verse twenty-three Three. Peace. We are equal citizens with others in the body of Christ. Look, the word in the New Testament, the word peace is used in several ways. There's peace with others God we're saved, we're reconciled with God, we have peace with God, Romans chapter five. There's peace in our hearts, let the peace of Christ rule your hearts. And then there's peace between people. Listen to how Paul uses the word peace in Ephesians. Ephesians 2. 17. He gave peace to those who were far off, and peace to those who were near. He made peace through the cross. Again, talking about those far off and fall near those who were near, the middle wall of partition being divided Being abolished. He himself is our peace. Chapter 2, verse 14. Chapter 4, verse 3. Maintain unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. What's he talking about? He's talking about this horizontal peace. That Christ gives us. He talks about other kinds of peace elsewhere. Also, chapter 6, verse 13. Feet that are ready with the gospel of peace, the gospel of peace. I believe in Ephesians in this letter he is which is primarily about the church, the the idea the concept of peace that Paul wants us to grab hold of is the fact that that that So the Jew and Gentile are have become one body together. Years ago, I was at a university conference. This was when I first joined University San Francisco So this was many, many, many years ago. And uh the expositor of that conference was a man named Pete Hammond. He's passed away now. But um Pete Hammond talked about he was exposing the whole book of uh of Ephesians in that uh conference. And he and he and his he talked about the types of gospel encounters That made up the book, the people at Ephesus. And so he looked at the book of Acts, and I will never forget how he looked at the book of Acts at six types of gospel innovation. Encounters that comprise the church at Ephesus. Let me walk you through that. And his point was that some people they encounter the gospel through their head, some encounter the gospel through their heart, some encounter the gospel through their body, some encounter the gospel thro Spirits Paul spent three years at Ephesus. Now if you look at Acts chapter 19, the first part of that chapter Um we we we run into some people who had a incredible uh experience of of of of getting of be receiving the Holy Spirit and speaking in foreign languages. These were we and then they got baptized in the name of Jesus. Jesus and and um which is interesting you uh in in the context of the book of Acts. But we would they they're we would call them these are charismatics, right? These people have a charismatic Charismatic experience with God. Um I would more specifically call them apostolics because of some of the things in there, but that's a A nuance. Not epistolic in a theological sense, but in the experiential sense is what I'm talking about So the they have encountered Jesus Christ, the gospel, through Paul's ministry in that way. The this the the next passage he there's some synagogue-based Jews and that's the next crew that joins that that have an encounter with Christ. These are just simple folks, there are probably a lot of people in families And they they have a distinct community. They live kind of orderly sociable lives, acceptable, and they encounter Christ Th these uh if I were to contextualize that for today, I must say this must be the Presbyterians. Kind of simple folks, they live in community Maybe that's the Presbyterians. And but it goes on. The next group is uh they're intellectuals. They go they hear the gospel in the hall of tyranny Which was like a lecture hall where the great philosophers of the day would come and proclaim the truth, proclaim the Epicureans and the Stoics and all the great isms of Greek society. And they would come, and Paul was given the permission to give lectures every day at the hall of Tyrannus. And as he gave lectures, he gave the gospel, right? And people came to Christ. Who are these people? Well, I think, you know, if I were contextualized, I would say this is university Christian fellowship. But it goes on. There are folk folk who are physically sick and they're healed, their bodies, and they have encountered Jesus through the healing of their bodies. And then you have people, and I would they they're I would call them the word of faith crowd. That's what I would call them. Then you have people who are delivered from evil spirits, from satire Spirits, power encounter. Maybe these are the Pentecostal holiness people. I don't know because I don't know a lot about that movement. But here are people who have who have very serious spiritual issues Demons control of their lives and they encounter the gospel. And they come to Jesus. And then the last group, the sixth group, are people who have been dabbling in the dark world and they come to Christ and they burn all their occult stuff. Maybe they're the assembly of God. I don't know. Point is simply this. In the church of Ephesus, there are all kinds of people who have had all kinds of experiences with Jesus And and Paul is saying to you, be at peace with each other. That's hard, isn't it? It's hard. It's hard when you are A Presbyterian and a Semites of God and a inner varsity kind of person and you're in one body trying to live out what it means to be faithful to Christ in your community Of course, as you know, what we do now, unfortunately, is we all start our own denominations, right? That's the way it works nowadays, unfortunately. But that wasn't going on here. This is the church at Ephesus Be at peace. Peace. But the application is for us. We're all we're not all the same, are we? Be at peace. Be at peace with one another But be at peace. Christ, if you if we've encountered Christ together, let's grow Well, the last of the three words is this word love, verses twenty-three and twenty-four. You see that. Actually, the word the word love is interesting. The word love is all over the book of Ephesians. Here's some of the verses. It's all over the six chapters. The first half of the book is about God's love for us. And the second half is our responsibility to love others, to have be people of genuine love. That's really the book of Ephesians. God's love for us is saving grace in us. Chapter 1 verse 15. He he has heard of their love toward the saints. what he says. Chapter 2, verse 4. But God, who is rich in mercy because of the great love which he loved us, Paul says. Chapter 3, verse 1419 I'm not going to read it because he talks about being rooted and grounded in love, comprehending the breadth, length, height, depth, and to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge. I love that phrase. To know the love of Christ, which surpasses knowledge. That's the love of God, the love of Christ. Then in chapter four, the second half of the book, talking about our responsibility, he says, chapter Chapter 4 verse 2, bearing with one another in love. I like the word put up. Bearing with one another in love Chapter 4, verse 15 to 16. Speaking the truth in love, that we grow up. And then verse 16, the body builds itself up in love. Chapter 5, verses 1 to 2. Walk in love as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us. An offering Sweet offering up to God. And then in chapter five later, he talks about husbands loving their wives as Christ loved the church. The love of Christ. Grace. And love. Simple virtues, simple concepts, tough to pull off. We never get beyond these simple things Brian Chappell has said in his parting words, Paul again uses the grace and love of God to stimulate love, hope, zeal for his purposes in our baptism. The message is clear. Love is power, and those who grasp the grace of God are those who are most willing or made most willing and able to fight for Him. Serve God to fight in His world. See, it takes faith to love as we're called to love. It takes faith. To love with death, with patience, with long sorrow. With commitment. But despite differences of personality or of gender, of age, of an ethnicity, of experience, we're called to love. Love is easy when you like people, isn't it? What did Jesus say? Love your enemies That's when it gets difficult. That's when it that's when you find if you've shown up, got the Holy Ghost. I know it's bad English, but you get the point We are richly blessed in Christ. MacArthur says this: Ephesians begins by lifting us up to the heavenlies and ends by pulling us down to our knees. That's what does. Starts in heavily, it ends on our knees. But in one sense, we're we're on our knees throughout the book. There's a lot of prayer in this book, a lot of call to prayer, and Paul praising. a lot in this book. I be I I I mentioned in the uh I think in the opening message about uh um the the famous um commentator Watchman me his his outline of the book it uh he calls this name of his out his commentary is called sit, walk stand. And um let me just close because I believe that that uh what God wants us to do is sit, walk, stand while we kneel. That w that's how I would written the book. Now he's dead now, so I can't tell him But it it should be sit, walk, stand while we kneel. Sit. We rest in God's sovereign grace. Sit. We are seated in heavenly places. We are saved by grace. There's nothing we did to be saved. And marvel at the grace of God. That's the gospel. That's the first three chapters. And then we walk. We walk with each other. We walk as Christ has called us to walk In a cruel world, in a dark world, we walk. You know, we don't just get saved and go to heaven. We get saved and then he keeps us in this world to walk in this world, this dirty world. And then we stand. Chapter 6. We face off against the evil one, our enemy, Christ's enemy, the prince of this world. He's called the ruler of this world in chapter 2 In the name of Jesus, through the power of Jesus, we stand against him. He is powerful, but Jesus is more powerful. And in him, your victory, victorious over him. Greater is he that's in you than he is in you That's in the world. We stand against him. But as we do, as we sit, walk, stand, we kneel. In chapter 3, he says, I kneel before the Father. We praise him for his grace. We request that the power of his grace strengthen us and empower us to do the sitting and the walking and standing each day. Because that's what He's called us to do. We are richly blessed in Christ. If we keep our focus on Him, if we if we talk to Him, if we pray to Him, He'll empower us to live like we're richly blessed in Christ. And others will see. And maybe, maybe, others will believe. Let's pray. Lord Howard, thank you for the book of Ephesians Lord, it's so rich, it's so so much that is here. Thank you for the the the simple message that that we are the body of Christ. We are a people who have been born Lord, I pray that that would give us joy, yet give us a sense of a calling to re But don't understand that it's by grace that we are saved through faith in Jesus Christ, not of works that we might not bow I pray that message would be so clear to them that they would rejoice as they leave, knowing that they can have eternal life. May they talk to you. Talk to someone who who who understands the gospel if they're if it's not That Jesus would be their Savior and their Lord. They would follow Him and know that their sins are washed away and they're redeemed. We thank you that we can now rejoice in through singing of your of of this great gospel. In Jesus' name. Amen. The closing song is It is well with my soul. When peace I tell my way. Let's like see Why my life does all meet you things? It is well, it is why He disco It is well, it is well with my soul. No train, no job Should all get all right. Control that we call it I have the way. It dwell with night I think all the risk of this story song I think not in price but He came to the wrong and I no more praise He didn't