Father in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our debts as we also have forgiven our debtors, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil Amen. Thank you. Please be seated. We have heard this many times. We've been uh learning this. I mean I'm not looking at no it but listen to this for uh this version. Hello daddy oh let's see, let's see go back on this guy. Um Do you know that God is always listening to you? Do you know that God can hear the quietest whisper deep inside your heart even before you Because God knows exactly what you need even before you ask him, Jesus told them. You see, God just can't wait to give you all So you don't need to use long words or special words, you don't have to use a special voice. You just have to talk. So when you pray, pray in your normal voice. Just like when you're Talking to someone you love very much like this. Hello, Daddy. We want to know you and be close to you. Please show us how. Make everything in the world right again, and in our hearts, too. Do what is best, like you do in heaven. And please do it down here too. Please give us everything we need today. Forgive us for what for doing wrong or hurting you. Forgive us as we forgive other people when they hurt us. Rescue us. We need We don't want to keep running away and hiding from you. Keep us safe from our enemies. You're strong, God. You can do whatever you want. You're in charge, now and forever and for always. We think you're great. Amen. Yes, we do. You see, Jesus was showing people that God would always love them with a never-stopping, never giving up. Unbreaking, always and forever love. So they didn't need to hide anymore, be afraid or be ashamed. They could stop running away from God, they could run to Him instead, as a little child runs to her daddy's arms. That could be the sermon right there. I'll go a little further, right? I was uh meeting with Lavender months ago, maybe in October, and we were having I think column Cauliflower cauliflower crust pizza in Catonsville. And I was telling her about my favorite book about asking. It's by this woman named Amanda Palmer, she's not a Christian. She's a singer, performer, and and she had a band and every night sh her band would go play and they were doing lousy. And so she decided to get a daytime job and so every day she would go and she would buy things fifty to a hundred daisies for like a quarter apiece. And she did the thing where she put the milk creating up, right? And she had sort of a shawl and she held a flower, a daisy, and And she would stand exactly still. She had a bucket. And if somebody put a dollar or a five or twenty or a nickel, she would look at the person and give The daisy. And then start over. That was her daytime job. How does that sound? So she was asking for money. I'm not begging, this is called busking, right? uh uh something that you're doing. And and she she said it was amazing to do this every day to feel all the feelings. Like loneliness, shame, but also connection People would come up to her and cuss her out. People would come up to her and cry. And she could see people in a different way? Than they were used to being seen. And she learned a lot about asking. She eventually, you know, started asking for couches to sleep on and people to perform with and she would say she received a thousand times back. But most of us hate asking, don't we? Um, like all of you, I've been working on the car situation and the ice situation. And about a month ago I put a new battery in the car. And No, that was great. And so it got cold and then the battery wasn't working anymore, which When do you know the battery's not working? When it's cold and it needs to work. But I had already taken care of this problem. And so I was meeting uh Jonna Mark at this iHop somewhere in the universe. Uh and the reason I don't know is because I got up at seven fifteen to meet them at eight and I was thinking to myself, I don't know about the car, and you know, like digging it out on the whole thing had already happened. It was ready to go and it wouldn't start. And so at least I had enough time to call an Uber and I made it again, I didn't know where I was going. Um but afterwards Mar I was telling Mark and John about the the battery and all these things. And so we were getting done and one of the things that in our conversation we were talking about sort of spending more time together would be a good idea. Great. Loved it So then we're done, and Mark says, Well, I'll drive you back to your car, and I'm like, No, dude, now what? I don't need your help, man. I can just Uber back. And you know, like it's a it's sort of occurring to me, well, we would spend time together in the car. The context of the actual conversation I'm completely negating within the hour of the conversation, right? No, I don't want to spend time with you in the car, Mark. So um so I proved to myself that I am not good at asking for help. And I am glad that I got to go to Mark and we got to talk, and then Mark suggested that I go get a new battery. I don't know where that came from. And so I did, and I was grateful for the time and then also that I took Mark's help. I was gracious for him to do that. We don't want to be the beholder that people do it. We don't we don't want to have to pay people back. We want to do it on our own. You know the kids are mostly pretty good about asking for help, but every once in a while it's like I can do it myself. Um but generally kids are okay with asking for help. And I think that's a little bit of Jesus' point in sparrow is like we need to be a little more like kids and and talk to God that way and ask for help that way. So we're talking about things in the church We've talked about how we we should long to worship together. Being together is is really valuable for us. We've talked about how we tell stories of rescue, we talked about the the prodigal sons. We talked about looking for Jesus. in scripture, like the walk to Emmaus, and then thinking about how Jesus is all over the scripture. He didn't just show up once. He actually was around in the Old Testament a lot. We talked about lamenting And celebrating. We're lamenting where uh there's brokenness and celement s celebrating where God is at work and praying big prayers. And last week on Zoom we talked about Nehemiah's prayers. I just want to run Remind us there's a lot of prayers obviously in the Bible, and we talked about one last week and and we talked about how when Nehemiah heard that the walls were in Jerusalem were broken down, he wept and he mourned and he fasted and he prayed. And he prayed this awesome prayer. And one of the things about this prayer is he's even praying for things he didn't do. Sometimes you will hear people say you don't need to pray for things you didn't do. Um That makes a logical sense, but if we're a covenantal people, that means we did it. I didn't maybe do it, but I was a part of the fabric of the society that did it. And so even though I may not really know what to do, I can pray about it. The sins of our fathers do come upon us, even if those are generational. They're still in the waters, at least. And so Nehemiah does pray, just a little bit, O Lord God of heaven, the God, the great and awesome God who gives keeps covenant and setpass Let your ear be attentive and your eyes open and hear the prayer of your servant. That I now pray before you night and day for the people of He goes on. praise to the God Father. So I just want to take to talk about two different types of prayers today, sustenance prayers and um what did I wrote Preposterous prayers. Many of us have grown up praying. We didn't know maybe you grew up with Princess Time at night. Maybe you did. Uh maybe you grew up with rosaries. A way to pray, a tactile way. Um has pluses and minuses for sure, can be pretty ritualistic. Um Maybe you've done that. We we're praying the Lord's Prayer every week. I was looking at our bulletin, I think in the first two pages there are four or five prayers, different types. I prayed one, John. prayed one. We all prayed one. I prayed for the kids. We prayed, so we pray all the time. Um off prayers, off-preyed prayers might be help. Off prayed prayer might be, where are you? Off prayed prayer might be, are you listening? Can you see And when we talked about the road to Emmaus and how Jesus would show up, we we did talk about back in Genesis several times when Jesus did show up. Show up. The Lord of hosts right would come. And then it like one of them was Hagar. Hagar had been cast out, and she's crying and she's she's saying Will God see me? Will God hear me? And then she prays, You are the God who sees. You are the God who sees me. hears, right? So we're praying uh in our home life and our work and our play and our stress with our worry. And what Jesus teaches us to pray is give us our daily bread. Right? Help me make it today. I looked it up. There are about 650 prayers in the Bible. There's a whole book of prayers, the Psalms, right? A whole book of prayers. The first reference to prayer goes all the way back in Genesis four It says at the very end of chapter four Tiseth also a son was born, and he called his name Enosh. At that time people began to call E Upon the name of the Lord. The first mention of prayer all the way back in Genesis 4. Um it's interesting to think Adam and Eve, they weren't they were talking to God, right? I don't know if they call their prayers like convo time, right? Um Jesus specifically praised twenty-five times. Paul mentions prayers and requests and reports of prayers and And this thing about the daily bread. The daily bread, you know, uh this isn't a prayer for daily caviar or daily truffles or avocado toast, even, you know, it's just Just sourdough. Provision. Thinking about it like this morning on Sunday mornings I wind my clocks and These are passed down for my father and and he would wind them on Sunday morning, so I wind them on Sunday morning. I I wind them at about eight o'clock and of course the ultimate is when they're they're chiming I like it when they they go in succession. Not all at the same time, but like I hear the one that most on the left I hear the one in the middle, and then I hear the one on the right. And I even have more that I could hear, but they're in rooms where not everybody wants to hear them all the time Right. But every week at eight o'clock, uh I try to get them right and I go upstairs. Julie has one upstairs, and um and you know there are clocks that you don't have to want. You know that, right? Uh one of 'em's not this one because we had to change this one today. Um but for generally you don't have to fuss with these clocks. They're all fine. Every once in a while they need a bat new battery. I've got it little one that I'm going to replace the mechanism for. So that's on the other edges from you don't have to worry about this clock anymore. That's not this prayer. Is it? Give us the one time bought cock. Jesus said, like there are there are clocks that are mostly annoying But they would they would tend to be like at a work an office. Like you would go every day and you would wind your clock every day. And we used to have watches like this, right? Everyday wind I don't think we use many of those anymore, right? Um and of course we're we used to say don't forget to set your clocks back. Don't have to say that anymore. anymore do we? Um but daily winding you have to attend to it daily it's connected to the daily bread like daily forgiveness I'm not just praying for all the forgiveness ever. Daily bread. Maybe more like daily coffee. I have my coffee today. Um our debts, our trespasses. You know, forgive us our Debts that would that sounds nice. We'd like to have some debt forgiveness. But forgive our debts as we forgive are debtors. So it's connected to our forgiveness, receiving forgiveness, giving forgiveness, our Connected, not one to one, but they're connected, right? Or else a lot of us maybe learned, remember this way, forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us. And I bet if we walk out here, I mean how soon would we go to we found a note Trespassing sign. Probably some around, right? I don't know. I would imagine in the woods you go too far and you're going to come up to a barbed wire fence and a no-trespassing sign. And what do we often do? Oh. They won't care. I don't even know how old this sign is. That guy's an old coot. No one knows. Until you get arrested for trespassing, right? Um and I think most of us would probably say it's no b Big deep. But it probably depends on where you're trespassing and what's going on where you're trespassing, right? And the Lord has a big no trespassing sign. It's like no trespassing do. I'm serious about this I'm the king. I make the rules. No trespass. So when we when we realize that we have made debts, we have trespass. We come to the Lord. This is this prayer, right? Forgive us for doing wrong, for hurting you. Forgive us as We forgive other people when they hurt us. Rescue us. We need you. I need grace. I need mercy. Help me to give grace. Help me to give mercy. Lead me not into temptation. Guide my steps. Maybe I shouldn't go there. Maybe I shouldn't look at that. Maybe I shouldn't eat that. Maybe I shouldn't dismiss that. Maybe I shouldn't judge that, right? And so these prayers can be simple. They're Profoundly simple, right? Lord, I need you. Lord, I need you. Every hour I need you. That's a dependence prayer, right? Um help my unbelief. That was a pretty simple prayer. Um in Luke eighteen How about this prayer? God, I thank you that I am not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even tax collectors I fast twice a week, I give tithes to all that I get. There's a prayer. But the tax collector standing far up would not even lift his eyes to heaven but be his breast saying, God be merciful to me, a sinner. prayers um substance prayers, some persistent substance prayers. Right? I need that bread Um our son-in-law says get that bread. No one's ever heard get that bread. Tyson has, right? Uh what does it mean, Tyson? It's like hustle. You gotta hustle. Like what do uh pigeons do and ducks do? They get bread all the time. They never stop getting bread. So you gotta get that bread. Maybe it's not the best illustration. Get that bread. Help me get that bread! I need bread. God can answer. right? God can answer, He can say, um, God, I need to be content. God, I need to rest in you. I need to have hope. I need to be free. And and and again God can answer, Yeah, let's do it. Or he can say, Let's wait. Say not yet Or he can also say Not down you. Keep praying. Sustenance prayers. Preposterous prayers. So there's more than sustenance, right? That's a big part of it. I think it's a a big part that That uh Jesus is talking about here. Give us our daily bread, uh, forgive us our trespasses, forgive us our debts. But no end to those. But but there are prayers Like fertility prayers, or marital prayers, or prayers for children. I've I've mentioned my Doctorate of Ministry project. I call it a D Min, D Min project, Doctorate of Ministry Project. And that's um talking to and um listening to adult children of PCA pastors and elders who have left the faith or left the church or both. And um one of the things that I've been asking is for the fathers of these children to also communicate with me and and so I've been getting some prayers From these fathers. There's just one. Dear Jesus, I've spent the better part of my adult life learning and practicing the art of preaching. In my remaining years, teach me the art of how to better love my adult children, that they may love you and your church for your glory. And they're good. That's profound prayer, right? Father, help me to pray with diligence and hope like the watchman eager for the morning. Pray for miracles like That right, um for the blessing of children or marriages, or reconciliation, or repentance, so Salvation. And so we we've seen it. You know, God still can answer no. He can still answer not yet. He can still I'm not telling you he can answer. Yes, though, because we've seen yes. I've seen yes. I've seen engagements. I've seen marriages restored. I've seen miracle adoptions I've seen miracle pregnancies that look like they would never happen. I've seen miracle heart transplants. Like my father was on the bottom of the list. Not my uncle. And we prayed, and he got one. A miracle. And so we do see these things time and time again. But God is not the big vending machine. Santa in the sky. Right? Um I think I maybe mentioned I had a a friend who was asking me how to help our ministry in our UF. He said, but I can't just give you money for whatever reason. I can't you know uh put money in your fundraising account. So I said, Well, you know No, one thing you could do is you could you could help me lower expenses and I buy a lot of books for our students because I don't I hate for them to have to buy Books and if I want him to read a book, I want to give it to him. So he said, Okay, well I'll put a thousand dollars a month into your Amazon account Yeah perfect that was so awesome when that finally had to end I was so sad Because that's how I think the Lord should do it, right? Just put money in my account. And I'll just get to decide how to spend it. We don't need to look at the details. It's okay. Yes, I needed Rubik's cubes. I can't tell you why. I just needed them, right? Um But so we pray these prayers where God's not uh not the bending machine. We so we pray, God, give us eyes to see But that could be a miracle, right? God, give me a heart to forgive. That could be a miracle. Lord, give me stamina to persevere. Could be a miracle. Give me freedom. Freedom from resentment. Oh give me break free. Save me from my self-righteousness. Save me from my prideful morality. Save me from my cynicism. Fill our church up, Lord. Bring our lost children home to you. We plead with you. But God isn't dumping money into our spiritual Amazon account per se. And when we read the prayer, which we know when we said, hallowed be your name, that's that's a part of the reason why he doesn't know he did. This gets back to the no trespassing thing. It's like This is hollow ground. Taking my order, putting my name on the cup, cool. Getting it wrong, maybe, I don't know. No. God says I'm I'm holy and I'm hallowed, I'm high, I'm revered, I'm honored, I'm sacred, I'm the king. This is my kingdom. My kingdom come, my will be done, is what the Lord says. So we say, your kingdom come, your will be done. It and that's a bit of a governor on what I want. But sometimes I gotta think of myself, okay wait. His kingdom comes, his will be done. Now you can ask me my opinion, Lord, you know, like how I'm happy to be a consultant on this. But ultimately, if you want my advice, I'll give it to you. You know, your approval ratings are a little down around here. Uh your constituents aren't all happy. And you know, Lord, I didn't vote for this. But now when we our instinct in America for sure is well, if I didn't vote for it, come on now I'm sort of okay with representative government. Sort of, but I as long as I can vote the people out, right? And and I I'm not saying this politically whatever, but you know, we now there's a no king's protest. No crowns, no kings, no thrones. Why? Because in our DNA as Americans We love that part in Hamilton when George Washington says, I'm not going to run again. I'm not going to be the king. Let the people figure it out. You're going to be okay. You don't need a king. And they're like, hoo Well, I know we said that, but dude, George, you're so awesome. Scary to not have a king. And George Washington said, I'm gonna go chill out at Mount Vernon for a while. I looked it up. There are nineteen kings. Uh right now most of them are constitutional monarchs like King Charles is one, you know, or King Frederick of Denmark, or King Gustav of Sweden, or King Felipe of Spain. And then there are absolute monarchs, like in Jordan or Bahrain. Or Oman or Tonga or Malaysia. And we are definitely told in the Bible that God is our king. Not a constitutional monarch king. Absolute monarch king. But so then what's amazing? What's amazing with all that Not a vending machine. Hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come. You're the king. No trespassing signs. Holy, holy, holy. Jesus says this prayer, our Father. Now this is uh, you know This was very unexpected to come out of his mouth. This is not the way rabbis would talk, this is not the way Pharisees would talk, this is not the way holy people would talk This is the way somebody who would talk to knows something different. Who has a different relationship. And it's like, you know, y the king is my dad. Like we're talking about the king, yeah, but the king is my dad. Like I can go into his office anytime. Uh You know, there's pictures of like the kids underneath the the Oval Office desk 'cause 'cause that's their dad. This is like his office. The hallowed king is close and caring and kind. Right? And of course some people only know God as king, only king. If you only know God as king, then then often uh the Lord is aloof. right or um scary there are some people that know him only as father only as father separate him the other way right and if that's true then you know that's Like God is buddy, granddad, how But Jesus is saying it's both, right? Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be your name. You're my hallowed Father in heaven who has a kingdom. But but yeah, I mean you've Hello Daddy, it almost feels weird. Say it, right? This Abba Father thing, like uh Um hello daddy, we want to know you would be close to you. Please show us how. Make everything in the world right again. in our hearts too. Do do what's best just like you do in heaven. And please do it down here too. Um so our prayers then we've mentioned this with for they can be all across different ways. It's probably good to have them all across different ways. They can be liturgical like Inter Bulletin, they can be conversational. Ancient Prayers, modern prayers. So silent prayers, out loud prayers, uh led prayers by leaders, prayers of the people. Coming this way, long ones, short ones, planned ones, spontaneous ones, subsistence ones, preposterous ones. And those unite us together because they unite us to the great high priest, the intercessor. Who goes before us? The reason we're able to pray to the Father at all, because the Father sent his Son to make a way for us, to make the intercession for us. The Son makes a way for us. It in the it and just as weird it is to say Abba Father, I do think it's also weird when we consider uh the the metaphors we've talked about before, that um we are becoming priests We're becoming temple stones, we're becoming soldiers for the Lord, like all these metaphors, but that sons and daughters, and and Um Jesus also says he's our brother. Do you think this one is a little weird? 'Cause I don't know that we think of Jesus as our brother. But in Hebrews 2 ver chapter 2 verse 10. We read a little bit here. For it was fitting that he, from whom all from whom and by whom all things exist in bringing many sons the glory should make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering. For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have one source. That is why he is not ashamed to call them. Brothers For surely it is not angels that he helps, but he helps the offspring of Abraham. Therefore he had to be made like his brothers in every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful husband. High priests and the service service of God to make propitiation for his people. Verse 18 Because he himself has suffered. When tempted, he is able to Able to help those who are being tempted. I I just think this brotherhood of Jesus part is a little bit missed on us sometimes. Um I feel like Jesus is pressing into that a little bit. Like he's talking to God as a dad to other people who need to do this. same thing. No, it's different. I'm not trying to say it's the same thing. But Jesus is our Savior, yes, and he is our brother. And and when we when we ask for things we learn we learn some things about about other people and about ourselves. We may not all raise all the money we want when we put it on our socials or whatever. Um but The Lord may answer our prayers, bring us our deepest desires. May He do so, right? That's it. We need to be a praying That we'd better know the Father and what he wants for us. He is our After all the ancient of days, and he's making all things new. Have a lot to pray for about. We don't know the result, but we can ask our Father who loves us, right? We don't want to keep running away and hiding from you. Keep us safe from our enemies. You're strong, God. You can do whatever you want. You're in charge now and forever and for always. We think you're great. Amen. Amen. Amen. Let's take a few moments in prayer, silent prayer, and then we'll continue and raise our voices together corporately.