They seized one, Simon of Cyrenian, who was coming in from the country, and laid on him the cross to carry it behind Jesus. Jesus. And there followed him a great multitude of people and of women who were mourning and lam lamenting, thank you, for him. But turning to them, Jesus said, Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children. For behold, the days are coming when they will say, Blessed are the barren. and the wounds that never bore, and the breasts that never nursed. Then they will begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us, and to the hills, cover us. For if they do these things When the wood is green, what will happen when it is dry? Two others who were criminals were led away to be put to death with him. And when they came to the place that is called Skull, they were there they were crucified. There they crucified him and the criminals, one on the right and one on the left. And Jesus said, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. And they cast lots to divide his garments, and the people stood by watching. But the rulers scoffed at him, saying, He saved others, let him save himself, if he is the Christ of God, his chosen one. The soldiers also mocked him, coming up and offering him sour wine, and saying, If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself. There was also an inscription over him, This is the King of the Jews. One of the criminals who were hanged railed at him, saying, Are you not the Christ? Save yourself and us. But the other rebuked him, saying, Do you not fear God since you are under the same sentence of condemnation? And we indeed justly Indeed, justly are for we are receiving the due reward of our deeds. But this man has done nothing wrong. And he said, Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom And he says to him, Truly I say to you, today you will be with me in paradise. Well good morning. Great to see you all. It's a privilege and an honor to be with you here, to preach God's word to you today. Uh my name is John Song, as it was mentioned. I currently serve as a senior pastor at City of Hope Presbyterian Church in Columbia, Maryland. Especially want to thank Doug for this pulpit swap. Many of you might be aware that Doug served as the interim pastor at City of Hope. for about nine months before my arrival. Um and uh I'll tell you the way that he led that congregation through that transition uh was just such a grace to myself and my wife and also just the church. And so you are blessed to have him here. For all of Doug's quirkiness, we love him for it, right? And we're so blessed by him. So let's dive into the text today. When we look at this text I want us to consider this phrase that we all heard growing up. Especially if you've worked in media or marketing, you've heard this phrase before. It's called perception is reality. And this phrase touches on the idea of how you view someone in the public sphere is the reality of who that person is, irrespective of whether that is true, your perception is true. Perception is reality, is the term that we hear. And more often than not, it's a false virtue, isn't it? That dictates real value onto a person whether or not it's fair. This is why first impressions matter so much when you meet someone new for the first time, when they go up to the pulpit when they're not supposed to, and uh and now suddenly you think, oh, this is gonna go pretty bad. How they talk, how they dress, the color of their shoes. And here's the problem with perceptions. They're always a moving target. Based upon the information that you have. For example, what if I told you that I am the son of an immigrant first generation Korean family? But I can't speak any Korean. Or that I grew up my entire life in Columbia, Maryland. But actually I was born in California. That I'm a pastor's kid, or for better or worse, a senior pastor's kid. Those kids are the worst, right? I am a University of Maryland hairpin. I am a Baltimore Oreo. I am a Phoenix son. I am very hopeful but cautiously optimistic Washington commander Football team, whatever you call them these days, right? I was a semi-professional video game player sponsored by a burger company at one point. I'm a meat and potatoes guy. I'm thirty-nine. I'm an introvert. I'm an INFJ. And if we want to be more specific, I'm a two on the Enneagram. I was a Howard County public school teacher. uh in the school system teaching instrumental music and if you're connecting the dots together, yes I was Mr. Song teaching band. So now after all of that, how does that change your perception? Or has it created more categories or more perceptions? And does your opinion really determine the reality of who I am? And do those labels and perceptions define the reality of who you are For many of us, uh when we say the word Christianity, perhaps that strokes up many perceptions for you in this room here today. Uh we welcome you to think about that. question. Probably won't take you too long to realize that often the perception of Christianity rarely meets the reality of what we know Christians are to be. Whether positive or negative, and suddenly questions begin to form around those perceptions. How can Christianity be true? It's so often Christians around the world act in horrific un Christ-like manners. How can Christ be perceived uh to be in a world and be good in a world filled with murder, polarization, hatred, greed Pandemics, natural disasters, malice. How can Christianity be the one true religion? If in fact the kingdom of God that we always talk about seems to be in decline? How can Christianity see the world truly if churches these days are more about political control than they are about pursuing Christ? Now, I I recognize these are very complex and difficult questions for any of us here to answer, whether you're a Christian here in this room or not. So perhaps it might be better to reduce the big question of Christianity to simpler questions. As one of my mentors would often say, the Bible is complicated, but perhaps all situations in the Bible and in human life can be reduced to two questions. What is your perception of Jesus, and how does this shape the reality of your life? What is your perception of Jesus? And how does this shape the reality of your life? In our Bible passage today, our focus is going to be on these two criminals that are crucified with Jesus and who they think Jesus is, and how this shapes the reality that they live in. And what you'll see here is that a proper perception of Jesus leads for us to understand what salvation I should start by saying that this story in Luke 23 is really covering a theme of Luke's gospel that he has been trying to tell over and over again. You see, Luke, the historian Is concerned about answering one important question that he was commissioned to study and write on. He was commissioned by this man Theophilus to answer the question: who is Jesus? And Luke spends most of his time answering this question by focusing on how people perceive Jesus. As a child, Jesus was a boy whose wisdom marbled the teachers. As a hometown carpenter, Jesus was rejected by his own people. As a rabbi, Jesus is followed by the most unlikely of disciples. A centurion, a tax collector, zealots, fishermen who affirm his teachings, meanwhile, the Pharisees, the ones who had the most qualifications to perceive Jesus correctly, are standing in direct opposition. Against him and his message. And here we are at the end of Luke's gospel, and Luke is coming to the stirring conclusion of answering the question of who Jesus is with these two thieves. Verses 32 to 38 give us a very grim perception of Jesus and how his story is going to end, after all. Imagine being one of the thieves in the story. There you are. Hanging on a cross, standing next to two other guys that were tried as guilty by the courts, the punishment is death by crucifixion, one of the most severe capital punishments reserved for the truly heinous. The place that you are literally standing in is called the skull. And as you arrive there, you and the other two people with you have nails driven into your hands and feet. Presented before the crowds be there to watch you die. And as you sit there, or stand there, I should say, in immense pain, watching the crowds jeer at you, You start hearing from this guy named Jesus say things right next to you, and he says things like, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. How could he say that? If you had nails driven through your hands and feet, how could they not know what they were doing to you? More importantly, how could you just simply forgive anyone who did that to you? Meanwhile, the most respected, most holy, most pious officials in town are mocking this Jesus. Soldiers crying out, if you are who you really say that you are, then you are going to save yourself. You need to fit our perception of what the King of the Jews should be. How dare the small town rabbi from Nazareth come into our communities and our homes and spread his lies. He deserves to die. He deserves our mockery. So that's the setup here. You're one of the thieves. What is your perception of Jesus? You know, sometimes we read the Bible and we have the advantage of being on this side of history, but honestly ask yourself, what would be your viewpoint of Jesus? us in that situation. Luke draws out in these two thieves two responses worth looking at. Look at verse 39 of our text here today. One of the criminals who were hanged railed in him saying, Are you not the Christ? Save yourself and us. Now we have to see and pause and see the tragic beauty of irony that's being presented here. The criminal is railing at Jesus, a word in the original language that has the force of hurling abuse. This is verbal abuse being thrown at Jesus. But the grammar is being set up in such a way that the railing is more than just abuse of speech. It's to challenge the very divinity of Christ. You see, for the thief, when the circumstances of his life Become too much to bear, he would rather curse God and die, rather than to examine who Christ is And yet despite the way that he is speaking to Jesus, he gets something right about Jesus, doesn't he? He calls Jesus the Christ. Now, some of us who have grown up in church think that Christ is Jesus' last name, but it's actually a title. The title. Christ means chosen one, anointed one. The promised one who would come and save the world. So given all that the thief is saying towards Jesus, railing at Jesus, why would this thief call him the anointed one? Maybe, like many of us, maybe if we're being honest, the thief was hedging his bets. He holds out the opportunity to prove that God is God by calling him the anointed person. But see that's the problem with the first thief. His understanding of what it means to be saved when he's asking God to save him, his understanding of salvation is too small. His idea of salvation is to be removed from his temporary circumstances and his temporary struggles. What is missing from this thief is this understanding is that once those circumstances go away, let's imagine that he was removed from the cross. Guess what? Five more circumstances take his place. And in his vision of salvation, he doesn't realize one key thing, that he would still face death. That he would still face eternal separation, that he would still face life without knowing true salvation. See, by now, you should realize what Luke is doing here. He's saying, we are this thief. He is like many of us in this room We curse God when we are overwhelmed. We hedge our bets on the belief in God. We try to provoke Him to do what we think He should do. We give God our prayers and ask for salvation outside of the salvation that we already have in the gospel and continue to live not realizing the path that we're leading to, even if we were to be relieved from our temporary circumstances with You see, for this first thief and us, Jesus isn't a person, he's a divine That we can use to gain what we want from it. This thief, just like us, cannot see the future glory that is there in what Christ is doing. You see, all the thief sees are the disasters of the moment How imperfect life is. How imperfect the church community is. How imperfect our own hearts are. What life could have been. The angry crowd, the pain in his body, the jeers of those around him. But if Jesus could remove this temporary pain, oh then Christ would be his Savior. Then you could worship him. Jesus' response to this criminal is amazing. Did you catch it? Look at the verses again. What does Jesus do? What we don't see here is Jesus talking back to this guy and saying, Do you know who you're dealing with? Does Jesus play the power posture game here? No, actually, Jesus responds by saying nothing. Why? This is the greatest irony of the text of all. When the criminal rails at Jesus, he says these words: Save yourself and us. And Jesus in his silence is responding, can't you see that I am trying to save you? Jesus is saying in his silence, can't you see what I am doing on the cross? I am trying to save you. Not from this temporary struggle, but I am redeeming you. Can't you see in my wounds that you are healed In my death, the wrath of God will be satisfied, and you will be a recipient of the boundless grace and mercy By being brought into the family of God. Can't you see that I am saving you? Perception is not always reality. But if we perceive what Jesus is doing correctly Then we can live in the reality of his salvation. In the same way that Jesus refused Satan's advantage at both of both comfort and self-worship by the testing of in the desert. In the same way that Jesus denies the request in his silence towards this criminal, continues to endure the pain and suffering, Jesus knows. The circumstances around us don't find the reality of the world that we live in. This is something that we church must be careful in seeing and realizing when it comes to the grim reality of worshiping Jesus based on circumstances. Circumstances. Too often, what we long for in this life, what we dream to be the salvation of our souls, is nothing more than that which seeks to replace the salvation that Jesus offers to this criminal. This is something that our culture preaches to us. Life will be complete if you just get this one more thing That you need in your life. And we get swept up into this, even in when we think of the life of the church. So can I ask today, what reality of worship are you living in? What reality defines you? What salvation are you hoping for? You know, prior to me becoming a senior pastor, I actually served as a youth uh minister and intern for uh 17 years. Uh and every year I would love to go and take our youth students to some form of hiking or camping. Now You have to understand growing up in Columbia, Maryland, and doing youth ministry in c in in in the Howard County region, uh this was the only real pleasure I got taking these kids hiking. You see, in Howard County, as you all know Time Money Magazine ranked Columbia, the number one best place to live in America at one point, number one safest place to live in America. All right, top public schools in the nation according to to the U. News Report and so on and so forth. And so the kids that I would minister to are completely surrounded in a world where the perception of comfort, wealth, and status means that they rarely ever have to live 30 feet away from an iPhone charger. So taking them hiking and camping perhaps provided one of the great joys of me as a youth minister because you get to see a fish out of water. And it's fun watching them flop around. around and to try and understand what is this world that I am living in. So I take them to this place called Elfneck State Park, which some of you might be familiar with with, right? And there's this trail on Elkneck called the Turkey Point Trail that I love hiking through. It's this two mile long trail. And I remember hiking with this crew of middle schoolers, there's this middle school Girl. And she made it her mission to uh let me know right by my side to tell me what a terrible idea this hiking business was. I'm tired. I'm thirsty. My uggs are getting dirty. And finally, she goes in all of her exasperation and says with the confidence of every individual. Entitled Howard County Kid in America. Just you wait. I'm going to get hurt and my parents are going to sue you. And despite all this opposition, I just laugh it off. I tell her, just you wait and see. Why? Because I know what's waiting at the end of this trip Trail. You see, what I didn't tell her is that the end of this two mile-long hike is this gorgeous and beautiful overlook at the height of the Elk River. And at the height of that, there's this beautiful lighthouse that gives you This stunning view. And now sure enough, when we reach to the top of this overlook, after two straight miles of her complaining, all of a sudden, there's this This complete and utter silence from her, followed by this joyous exclamation Why didn't you tell me this place was so cool? And then she had this amazing time on top of the overlook. She was laughing, playing, rejoicing, and suddenly she realized this whole perception thing of hiking was totally wrong. She was living in the new reality of the joy and presence of God's tapestry. And when it was time to leave, parents, you will understand this. She gives one last complaint, the showing that her heart has been changed. What? It's time to go? Do we have to leave now? You know, sometimes I think when we ask the Lord to redeem us from our current circumstances, it's because those current circumstances have taken the place and value and worth of glory and honor in our lives that only God should have Imagine for a moment if Jesus answered this thief's request. What would that say about Christ Himself and what would that say about us? We would still stand in our sins without a perfect sacrifice. We would still stand before God without an advocate. We would not have God truly relate in our miseries, and we would still be left wondering who is the one. Who will fill that God-shaped hole in our hearts? Now, this silence by Christ would go on not unnoticed. Because there's the second There's this repentant criminal who now steps in to speak against the words of this mocker. You know, unique to Luke's gospel is the account of the second criminal's repentance. Whereas the other gospel narratives only see the pictures of the criminal in mockery of Jesus, Luke the historian, catches this moment, who now perceives Jesus in the final moments of his life for who Jesus is Jesus really is. And this leads to the great irony of right perceptions. The second thief no longer sees just A Jewish carpenter from Nazareth. He doesn't see a beaten and bloodied man. He doesn't notice the horrific circumstances of what's happening around him. The people shouting and cheering for him to die quicker. The Roman soldiers around waiting for him to breathe his last breath. No. The Spirit of God has broken the second thief's heart. To his last breath. And now he wants to use his last breath to say: this is the Son of God. This is the perfect This is the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. All he can see now Is that his Savior is being insulted. And so he rises to Christ's defense. And his response demonstrates his worship to this man who now he sees as his savior. Because the criminal's perception of Jesus has led to the reality of Jesus' innocence, he can no longer remain silent against the other criminals and soul. His rebuke of the mocker is emphatic. Do you not fear God? In verse 20, verse 40. Since you are under the same sentence of condemnation, and we indeed justly, for we are receiving the due reward for our deeds, but this man has done nothing wrong. Do you see the contrast? One criminal perceives God as a tool, and the other perceives God and realizes that he needs him. One demands salvation as he sees it, the other doesn't have any expectation of it. One wants relief from temporary pain, the other sees the reality of Jesus and asks Jesus, just remember me. When I enter into your kingdom. Not because he has any worth or value. He's already admitted his wrongdoings, but because he knows that Jesus truly is the one that can give him everlasting belief. What would it look like for you to see Jesus in this way today? What does it mean for you to say that all of your time, effort, energy, hope in this life is that you would like to see Jesus know you truly and fully and remember you in his kingdom? What would it like for the kingdom of God to be the only perception of this world? Would it be greater than relational stability, financial security The removal of the family struggle. What kingdom do you want to see in the world today? And what would you do to defend it What would you be willing to sacrifice? Because once you live with the right perception of Jesus You will find yourself in the glorious reality of worshiping Jesus based on his calling and not your circumstances. The criminal recognizes that Jesus is ushering in the kingdom and wants to be a part of it. And we get to the climax of Luke's gospel as a whole. You see, for the first and only time in the entire Gospel of Luke, and Luke is the longest gospel, a person addresses Jesus with no accompanying title. You see, every other time someone in Luke's gospel addresses Jesus, they throw a qualifying title on top of him. They call him Christ, teacher, lord, master, prophet, Joseph's son, Jesus of Nazareth, rabbi. And even the devil calls him the Son of God, they're all functional titles that are true, the person of Jesus, but carry no relational intimacy. These are titles of Jesus that perform functionary roles, but for the very first time in Luke's gospel, a convicted felon with no religious or moral credentials to his own name relates to Jesus in the most intimate and personal sense than anyone before him. He calls him simply Jesus. Jesus. Title of a friend. Jesus, remember me when you come in He realizes that this temporary circumstance and life isn't the only one he's got. He believes that Jesus will bring him into his kingdom. And he wants to be a part of it. He believes that salvation means for him that he gets to participate in God's kingdom. And in spite of all the mess around him, he's sure that a compassionate Lord and Savior is calling him to worship. You know, one of the most powerful and intimate things we can do is remember those who are closest to us. to us. We remember their face. We remember who they are. We remember what they've said about us and what they've done for us. And this gentleman Just wants Jesus to remember him. The thief just merely wants to be remembered, but Jesus does one better, doesn't he? Does Jesus Always does. He's far more generous than what we could ever ask or imagine. Jesus sees this man wants true salvation, and so he says, Today you will be with me in paradise. Luke loves this theme throughout his Gospels. Time and time again, Luke drives home the point You know, the well-educated, the disciples, the elites, those who have perceived Jesus most that should perceive most Jesus clear clearly in the gospel cannot perceive him clearly. And yet, I say Sinners, the tax collectors, the thieves, the quote unquote dredges of society, the marginalized, the persecuted, the poor. You and I We are the ones that have the ability to perceive Christ as he really is. You who thought yourself to be unredeemable, who thought that no one could love you You who have the hardest time forgiving yourself for the things that you've said and the things that you've done. You who set up all kinds of walls to protect yourself from being hurt again. Christ is calling out to us. He says that the kingdom of God is for you. Today, you can pray God's grace is immediate Second thief doesn't say, here's you know the twelve month process that it will take for you to be a disciple of me this moment. God's grace is immediate for you and I here in this room today, because the kingdom of God is here. Presence of God. God's grace is continuous for us to build this kingdom of God that is yet to come, which means that we can deal with the sufferings of this life. Yes, even carrying our own crosses. In the midst of all the difficulties of the world. Why? Because we perceive a new reality. We see the world as God sees the world. We see salvation as God sees salvation. We take the mind of Christ and see through his eyes. So we see Jesus' heart for the lost, for our communities that do not yet know him. And follow our Savior to be incarnational with them. We see Christians that don't merely just stand on the sidelines and criticize culture for what they're doing wrong, but break bread with sinners. and to the lost, and share with them the good news and the love of Christ with compassion and grace, not sneering condemnation. We give our lives that others may live. That the Spirit of God would give us a better lens, a better picture. See Jesus as he really is. So church today, I ask you the same two questions I asked at the very beginning of all this. What is your perception of Jesus? How does that shape the reality of what you live? And will we see God right next to us? Hiking along with us, on the trail of life, listening to us And saying, just you wait. You won't believe what's coming. Let's pray together. Right now we have this moment to silently confess our sins before the Lord. Here's the beautiful thing about grace. As I just said, it's immediate. And so we can come to the Lord saying, This is every disgusting evil part of me, God. And I lay it before your feet and I confess it before you, knowing that he looks upon you and says, Today you will be with me in paradise So let's silently confess our sins to Him right now and go to the throne of grace