Holy Spirit, we ask that you use it for each of our lives individually. Your Lord is we living and true. It is sharper than a two edged any double edged sword. And we ask that it penetrates our hearts today. Amen. Psalm 27. The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is my s the stronghold of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid? When evildoers assail me to eat up my flesh My adversaries and my foes, it is they who stumble and fall. Though an army encamp surr against me, my heart shall not fear. Rise against me, yet I will be confident. Lord all the days of my life, to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord, and to inquire in his temple, for he will hide me in his shelter. He will conceal me under the cover of his tent. And now my head shall be Be lifted up above my enemies all around me, and I will offer in his tent sacrifices with shouts of joy, and I will sing and make melody To the Lord. Hear, O Lord, when I cry aloud, be gracious to me and answer me. You have said, seek my face. My heart says to you Your face, O Lord, do I seek. Hide not your face from me. Turn not your servant away in anger. O you who have been my help. Cast me not off, forsake me not, O God of my salvation, for my father and my mother have forsaken me, but the Lord will take me in Teach me your ways, O Lord, and lead me on the level path against my enemies. Give me not up to the will of my adversaries for false witness Have risen against me. They breathe out violence. I believe that I shall look upon the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. Wait for the Lord. Be sure Strong and let your heart take courage. Wait for the Lord. Psalm twenty seven. The children may be dismissed to downstairs. Hey, it's good to meet you all this morning. Um I I feel way about Doug. And I went out I was his youth pastor for about um seven years ago And uh was at permanent seminary and there was a youth institute there. They had a grant from Lil the Lilly Foundation. Doug was always progressive. He was always getting involved in many things. And uh he was the director of the Yemi, the Youth and Ministry Institute. Covenant Seminary. We brought students from Oklahoma uh to St. Louis to Covenant Seminary to learn about theology. It was amazing conference. I think that's where I first met Doug and then he came to Oklahoma to start the University of Oklahoma Reform University Fellowship Chapter. And I had students from my U youth ministry that graduated and were part of his ministry. So anyway, so just wanted to say that that's the long term connection with Doug and uh glad that we can see this this police watch switch or whatever it's called and uh good to be with you here to to worship the Lord and and to think about uh this issue of feed Fear and anxiety that all of us struggle with and our culture struggles with. Some of you probably have seen that famous picture uh called the screen and it's like this this guy by the name of Edward Munch uh drew this it looks like looks like This you know this this guy who's really afraid. He was an expressionist um artist, and many believe he captured the modern world's fearful look at the world It's almost a pontoonist looking figure with his mouth open open holding his head and that movie scream I think uses that That goes back uh to that artwork. And he wrote about his inspiration one night. He said, one evening I was walking along a path with the city On one side, a fjord below, and I felt quiet and hill. And I stopped and I looked out over the fjord. The sun was setting, the sky was blood red And I sense a screen passing through nature. And our critics have called it the modal pizza of our day. We are a people that are ruled in many ways by anxiety and by this this artist Moonch he he wrote about his life he said that men are ill Illness and sadness and death were the black angels that kept watch over his cradle and accompanied him his entire life. bothering you? Should I is it is it okay? Okay. Um so I I went I went online and I looked up what are what are some of the greatest fears and anxieties that America have right now and you probably can sense them in terms of the culture. Um there was a 2023 study by the University Chapman University Economic instability and inflation. This sounds like a political thing, but political polarization. That's a huge thing, right, that we're dealing with. Um Crime, mass violence, climate change, environmental disasters, technology, and AI. Losing my job because of AI Right. And then but there's all kinds of personal feel fears as well. Um the financial security that's just our jobs, uh loss of relationships, uh divorce Broken broken families. Personal safety and crime. We had that in the first one. And then ultimately failure, inadequate just and am I gonna be able to keep And so we we are frail people and this passage uh gives us I would say some some definition it helped when we think about fear in our life, when we think about fear and anxiety. Maybe there's one with a future anxiety. He knew he knew fear as a as a ch I'll be later on. New deal with the scenario. Fear is something that is understood very well. And so in this song helps us understand about it. Where does fear come from in the first place? Where does fear come from in the first place? And if you look at the Bible, right there in Genesis chapter 3. That's the first time Peter is mentioned. After Adam and Eve fell, remember the Lord God was walking in the garden, and they were afraid And the Lord said to said to him, I heard or Adam said, after the Lord said, Where are you? Adam said, I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid because I was naked and I hid myself The Lord said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree which I commanded you not to eat? Fear also Ultimate fear comes as a result of our sin and our worthiness and this relationship with God and serve. So this song helps us uh because david is really fighting against his fear and he fights against his fear in three ways he's he fights against it in confession of faith. He fights against it with a commitment to worship the Lord. And thirdly, he fights against it with a crowd An ox cry of prayer. And this is this this is a blueprint, so to speak, of how we fight against our fears and anxieties that we have. And so we you know the call here is that we want to play this. It's either it's either what what is it? Flag or flight, right? Flag or flight. The Lord's army, his angels that are that are with us. The Lord is with us. So the antidote is this bold confession of faith. That's number one. So look at the psalm if you have your Bibles in front of you. Um not certain. Um a bold confession of faith. Here's what here's what past all means. David's declaring this The Lord is my light of salvation. Who shall I fear? The Lord is the stronghold of my life, of whom shall I be afraid? There's a confession in it. David I believe that the Lord is my life and my Christ. And then you go all the way at the bottom, verse. David, what do you believe? I believe that I shall look upon This is a psalm by a confession of faith of who God is. As we think about our people, with our people it becomes like a spiral of down. We in we go internal, right? We keep thinking about the situation situation belly button so to speak off his feeder and heater and say know that this is who the Lord is. And he looks at the character form. The Lord is my life, he says. And uh that's a huge theme all future. Thank you God is light. And in him the skin says in 1 John 1 5, that God was the light that brought the pillar of light, right? The pillar Of higher through the desert wilderness that that Egypt that Israel was the father of Egypt, right? He couldn't look at the Lord, he had to eye for the Through the situations that we're in. And the Lord is my salvation. Another phrase there. David knew. And lions, right? As he was a shepherd boy from Saul of Israel that were coming after him from the Philistines. And he experienced deliverance and his deliverance. Right? He knew that God was his salvation. And that he knew the Lord. And so one of the things why why why we know that is is he uses the Lord in the song. The Lord as in capital L-O-R-E, that's that's the the Hebrew And that's important because Davis not just about He promised his covenant people that he's gonna be with them through thick and thin, and he's gonna bring them through. So this is the Lord that they David knows and this is the Lord that covenants with him and with his people. And so the answer to to my anxiety to our fears is to get our eyes off of those things and to remember that oh God is my salvation. God is my salvation my life. And David is fighting against his fear by a whole confession of faith. And this is not self-talk. This is not yourself up, you know, as a coach might do that. But the maker of heaven and earth, the creator. with Israel and with him. And so what do you do with your fears? What do you do with your anxieties? I know often for me I I go internal. I go internal and I keep thinking. And the and the level of stress and anxiety kind of very huge. thinking about those things that are bothering you and it takes it takes less it takes tone to remember who God is in the midst of that. So second so I That's the first thing. Secondly, he's committed to worship. In the midst of this. In the midst of this. Verses 4 to 6. He commits himself to give it to the presence of God. He's seeking God in his presence. He says, one thing have I asked for the Lord that I will seek after, that I may dwell in the world. the days of my life to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. This is beautiful What's in here? And he's changed again, he's changing the focus from his fear to say what I really need is the first thing that's Well who God is saying, even getting into the temple. He's changing the focus. When I was uh doing it was in the village, but I remember every every time they would have exam week, they would have puppies. There would be little puppies in this one room And you can go in and use the dogs and find your get your mind off the You know, there's something about it Yeah, you know, the people have uh these also. Uh because Because it was keeper focused. Let's let's catch up. Let's do this. And so what David is doing here is he's saying, I need my fear trans formed by uh God in his personal love and forgiveness for me. Because what would David see if David had to tell? What was there in the house of the Lord? What was the beauty of the Lord seeing well he was seeing not the elaborate uh intricate ornate son would do, but you're ultimately seeing the center of the God's love and provision in the sacrifice. The temple was where the sacrificial land would be sold for his sins. The beauty he was looking at was the holy of holy and the cherubim was there and the covenant is where blood was was taken away because David was seeing the Lord's grace and love for him in the sacrifice. That his sin had been taken away. What about the issue of that sheep of NMI have been murdered? This is David, the king. This is David with a heart after the Lord's. And when he knew what he knew, he had a great sin. Yes, he knew that the Lord repaid him of his sin and that blood was shed. This is where he takes his fear. This is where This is where it's seen. This is where this out there just being here thinking in the world. So that's happening in the temple for David. Focus is being changed. He's desiring to be in God's presence. The beauty of the Lord and the provision. Is dealing with sin through blood, through the sacrifice, so that David would be forgiven. What about us? Well, it's similar. When we come to the house of the Lord, the focus should be right on the Lord Jesus. The gospel Jesus, the good news of Jesus, the fact that he takes away fear of condemnation of God, he takes away our shame, he takes away our guilt And the Lord Jesus is that sacrifice who's taken our sin upon himself. And the Father has poured out his wrath and justice on him. And we are forgiven. And not only that, but we are given place right to stand. And we are giving all the beauties of Jesus and his righteousness a fruit This is what fires us up. This is what makes us confident that we're not people of fear that we're going to be judged Or people in death because Jesus has died for us and now we are secure in him and we're going to be with him, even in death. This is what David is seeing. This is the beauty that he longs to be with. And this is what we should long for as well. And the cool thing is as you go through the Psalm, verses 5 to 7 You see his confidence increase. As he's there in the Lord's presence, it says, uh, fear is melting away as he worships as he sees the Lord. He he he says he will hide me in his shelter in the day of trouble. He will conceal me unto Under the cover of his hand. He will live with God. He worships he desires to see. He gets confidence. confidence in his situation. And in the midst of his enemies, even he says, and now my head shall be lifted up above me. All around me. As he focuses and thinks about the force of the Lord and the forgiveness of the Lord, and the fact that he is the Lord's Son He has confidence, even in the midst of his enemies. And this confidence leads to action. What does he want to do? He desires to love action And worship the Lord to commit to worshiping the Lord is really what he wants to do. He says, Um, I will offer sacrifices, I will I will offer in his tent. Verse 6, sacrifices with shouts of joy. I will sing and make melody to the Lord. Fear, anxiety, being blown away by a repurpose on the Lord and worshiping the Lord and seeing who the Lord is This frees us from fear. What we're doing right here in the house of the Lord, right? Is it so important because this is where fear is are so anxieties and shells and see, oh okay, I can see the right perspective. That God loves me. That I'm His son and daughter. I'm beautiful in his sight by faith. Nothing can separate me from God's love. And uh I have a friend, actually Doug's friend too, Kevin Switch. Indelible Grace music, you can probably sing some of their songs here. Right? And Kevin was on this panel, uh, and they were asking all these musicians if Nashville. He's the RUF campus minister of Belmont. So he's he's there in Nashville with all these upcoming uh people that are wanting to be songwriters and so forth. And you know he's done these free tuned uh gospel albums and the the question to the panel was what do you try and do with your music and Mo said Well I'd like to try to have a catchy hook or uh a tune or something that resonates in the culture. And Kevin said this, I want to write music people say sing on their deathbed. I want to write music people sing on their deathbed. That that's a little bit different, right? It's not what most Christian producers even want to hear, but that's what good hymns ultimately do. We can be despondent, we can be doubting. He said that worship we so as we sing songs, as we sing these songs, as we pray, these prayers, as we look at the scriptures as we pray with reorganized our hearts to know that God is God. We're not God. Yeah, and without God, we're going to be crazy fearful, crazy anxious, crazy stress. With God, we have foundation, we have security, and we have something to hold on to And so as we hear the stories of redemption, we are transformed. And this comes through a commitment to worship. So this is why it's so important. It's so important to worship the Lord with brothers and sisters. It's so important to be committed to worship because it slays our fears and silence and it puts us in the right mindset. And then the last thing is this. We deal with our fears and anxieties with a one other example. called an honest God to the Lord. And this is basically the second half of this Psalm 7 and 12. It's kind of two songs. It's like a confession Of faith on the one, and then it's a lament in the second half of the psalm. Because David now begins to cry out to the Lord To set him free from all of the issues that are bothering him. And so basically what he's doing is with his fears and anxieties He's letting the Lord know about it. And he's feeling abandoned by God. Verse 7. Hear, O Lord, when I cry aloud Be gracious to me and answer me. He's feeling abandoned by God. He felt far away from God. Verse 9. Hide not your face for me. Turn not your face for me. Turn not your servant away from you. Cast me not off. Forsake me not, O God There's a song for that. Pass me down to certain safety. Right? So he's he's being honest with the Lord. He's fearful of enemies and the false witnesses. He says in verse 12, give me not up to the will of my adversaries, for false witnesses have risen against me. me and they breathe out violence. And then he's feeling rejected by his mother and father, by his family, his own parents. My father And my mother have forsaken me. But then he says, the Lord will take me in. We'll get to that in a second. But the first part of this is honesty and fortune. Pouring out your heart to the Lord. He's honest about his struggles. He's honest about his issues, his situation, his anxiety. And what we're what he's showing us is he's showing us how to pray and be honest with God and cast our tears on the Lord. And this is really important because I think a lot of times in Christian circles we think we we uh we have for can we have ten like a can't just like Right? Whatever I have. You can't let it down. Right? I gotta put it on this front. And I can't be honest. Well God wants us to be dead honest. It's not And as you read the Psalms, you see David is dead honest with his heart. He's dead honest with his fears. He's dead dead on his honest with thinking his parents have forsaken him and and they and and he he he pours it out to the Lord and so the question is do you do that with the Lord or do you do pretend your relationship with God. The beauty of the crucifixion is God. And we throw it out to Him and be honest with Him. And we don't have to up our emotions or our feelings, but instead we can acknowledge them, bring them to the Lord. And so we have a lot to learn in the presentation. uh you know in the Presbyterian denominations about other this is that reference for us crying out to the Lord. You know, we they call us the Frozen chosen you've heard that right they is showing us showing us real prize real honesty you know I think I think one of the reasons that You know, we have to be authentic. I think our culture is looking for that. Tristan Gen Z and Melania is they they want authentic, right? They want authentic. And we can do that. The songs are full of authentic things. And they also seem like, David, don't say that. You know, like you're crying out to God. Do you believe in me to God? He does. He does. He's crying out to God. And then there's this phrase, where you can see the faith. He's crying out to God, but then he says in verse 10, that the Lord will take But the Lord will take him in. So me and Doug went to Covenant Seminary, we always had the had it ready to get it ready How can David be so sure that the Lord will take him in? That the Lord will be his life and his salvation. Well, we know that because David knew in 2 Samuel 13 that there was going to be So native the greater Lord Jesus Christ is going to come and you think about this prayer of David and you think about the Lord Jesus and you can kind of put them in parallel. Right? Jesus was rejected by his by his heavenly father on the cross so that we still can never be rejected. The Lord Jesus, the greater day cried out on this on his cross, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? His judgment and justice on the Lord Jesus Christ. Why? So that he will ever be turned away from his re by his wrath Because Jesus took our sin and the justice of God. God will always welcome us, always have us as his beloved children. The Lord Jesus was rejected by his family and friends. We see that like in chapter four, where his family and friends is giving us crazy. Come out. Right? Jesus experienced the ultimate fear at being forsaken by those closest to him. He did that we would never be kicked out of the outside. We will never be rejected by our father. By the Son and by the Holy Spirit. Because Jesus was rejected. We will never be rejected. And so the gospel of Christ has an antidote for fear all throughout it. In fact, in first John 4, John writes, perfect love drives out fear because fear has to do with And Jesus is the one that took our punishment so that we would never have to fear. And Paul writes, Who shall support the love of Christ? tribulation or distress or persecution. These are or famine or nakedness or danger or the sword Then he goes on and says, No, all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I'm sure that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rulers nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything in all creation will be able to separate us from love and God in Christ Jesus, our Lord, our sacrifice. So we have this brave book that Jesus took the function, took the judgment, took the Let me pray for us. Heavenly Father, thank you for this time to consider uh this great Psalm of David, Psalm 27.