Before we look at John, I want to say a little about the philosophy of preaching and putting a pulpit ministry together. We believe the Bible is God's Word, and because of that, uh we believe God's ordains preachers, pastors to uh preach the word, to go through the word and to to study it and then proclaim what is there and um give giving applications to how we'd live our lives today. And um so in order to to get the whole council of God, we try to work through a book. That's what we're trying to be trying to do in the Gospel of John. Now uh occasionally there's there's t times that call for uh interruption of that. And times because of things going on in the world, things going on in the church, whatever. And this might be one of those times, because it's been that kind of a crazy week. Uh so and so sometimes it is appropriate to interrupt the sermon series, but we're not doing that today. Uh I know pastors today who are doing that, who are just saying, I'm gonna stop my series and I'm gonna talk about what's going on. You know, two weeks ago we all know about the tragic killing of George Floyd. And we've also seen the aftermath and what and what what has happened after that. And the country's really shook up. It's shaken the country up. Um it's actually shaking the world up. But in in God's province, uh we don't have to change our text today because there's things in this text that that I'm gonna bring out, you're gonna see, that speak to to our to to where we are. Things there are some things that need to be said that I'm going to say, but um we'll we'll we'll you'll see as we go on. We will address those some things in this text, but um Even as we read the text, I think you'll begin to sense some of the things that need to be said, not just to us, but probably to many in the world who are troubled. The passage is at John 18, verses 28 to 20. And we're in in the Gospel of John series. Come and see. Come and see. Starting in verse 28, ESV. Then they led Jesus from the house of Caiaphas to the governor's headquarters. It was early morning. They themselves did not enter the governor's headquarters so that they would not be defiled, but could eat the Passover. So Pilate went outside to them and said, What accusation do you bring against this man? They answered him, If this man were not doing evil, we would not have delivered him over to you. And Pilate said to them, Take him yourselves and judge him by your own law The Jews said to him, It is not lawful for us to put anyone to death. This was to fulfill the word that Jesus had spoken to show by what kind of death he was going to die So Pilate entered his headquarters again and called Jesus and said to him, Are you the king of the Jews? And Jesus answered, Do you say this of your own accord, or did others say it to you about me? Pilate answered Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the chief priests have delivered you over to me. What have you done? Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would have been fighting, that I might not be delivered over to the Jews. But my kingdom is not from the world. Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king. Jesus answered, You say that I am king. For this purpose I was born, and for this purpose I have come into the world to bear witness to the truth Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice. And Pilate said to him, What is truth? After he had said this, he went back outside to the Jews and told them, I find no guilt in him But you have a custom that I should release one man for you at the Passover. So do you want me to release to you the king of the Jews? They cried out again, not this man was Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber Let's pray. Lord, I pray you bless this time and your word. Help us to see what is here and how it applies to our lives in Jesus' name. Amen. Men. My title is QA with the governor. QA with the governor. Dur during this spring the with the COVID nineteen pandemic, uh we've noticed many political news conferences with mayors and governors and county executives and and the president. And they just thought to keep us aware of the latest scientific information with with the hope that eventually we could open up. People are starting to open up a little bit into a of what they think might be a societal norm, maybe Usually the statements are followed by a a a few minutes of Q<unk>A with the the the press. Sometimes the president and uh what he calls the fake media, the fake news, they go at it pretty good, don't they? It'd be quite entertaining if the stakes weren't so high. I once heard our our governor, Governor Hogan, refer to a man named Luke, and some of all of you know who Luke is. Luke is with us today With Broadwaller, formerly of the Sun Papers, you might know that uh he recently won a pew a pulipser. Congratulations, Brump. And uh he has a new V. He's not going to be keeping an eye on a governor, he's going to be keeping an eye on the Congress in D. C. for the New York Times. He's charged to keep an eye on the Congress. Well good luck doing that. Lord help him. We're praying for you, brother. God bless you and congratulations again But in our text today, two leaders have a very public Q<unk>A that's recorded in Holy Scripture by John the Apostle. And it was the morning of the crucifixion The two leaders are Governor Pontius Pilate, the governor, and the man from up north, Jesus of Nazareth, Galilee. Jesus has followers, but what does that mean? Is he a threat to Rome? Is he a threat to Governor Pilate? Pilate seems to want to have an honest back and forth with Jesus. Is Jesus merely a carpenter? Is he a rabbinic teacher or prophet? Is he a revolutionary? Is he a king? That's been the rumor in the streets that reached the ears of Pilate. And if so, what kind of king is he? It seems Pilate is open to having a sincere dialogue. With the one who's before him. We'll see in this passage the fact that our Lord Jesus Christ is a different kind of king with a different kind of kingdom He's a different kind of king with a different kind of kingdom. And following this king means we imitate his ways. When we look at the the passage, as I look at this passage, I see it's a back and forth, it's Q<unk>A of eight questions. We'll just rate we'll lift up these questions as we walk through the passage, then we'll look at some applications that we can draw from here applications about how we can live in our in our day. Now as the passage begins, uh again last week Brother Eric uh showed us um the the the the the trials uh Annas and Caipus There there were basically there there were six trials. There were three trials before the Jews and three trials before the Romans. And and and the the trial here before Pilate is the first Roman trial of two between between Pilate, Herod, and Pilate again. But the Jews have already done their work. They're already convinced. As we saw last week. They're ready to crucify him. They're ready to kill him. But the problem is how are they going to do that? So in verse 29, the first question, the first of the eight questions is, what is the accusation? That question is from Pilate And he's asking the question to the Jewish crowd that's there who is who have brought Jesus to him. And in verse 30, they answered him. See see the Jews that tried him and and and and he was guilty of blasphemy of calling himself equal equal with God the Son of God. That was that was their that was their indictment. That was the accusation against Jesus. And so Pilate says, okay, what's the accusation? And they don't say, oh, it's blasphemy. Because, in one sense, Pilate doesn't care about the Jewish accusation of blasphemy. And so look at verse 30. They answer, if this man were not doing evil, we would not have delivered him over to you. So they don't want us, they skirt their question Again, there there's the there's the Jewish and Roma dynamics that are going on here. They've come to to Kai to um to his his residence, the palace residence. It's early in the morning So this so again for for for the last three, four hours they've had these Jewish trials in the middle of the night, illegal trials. And um And then they take him to Governor Pilate's residence. By the way, Pilate and Herod and all those officials would have been in Jerusalem because it was Passover season when the moms were there, the the crowds were there, they always want to keep an eye on what was going on So they didn't have to go out of town. It was just go to a different part of Jerusalem to have this next trial, this next Q<unk>A. But they don't want to go into his house because they be because again he's a Roman. He's not Jewish and they don't want to be defiled. They want to celebrate with the people. And so His question is, what accusation do you bring against this man? And they skirt the question. In fact, they have sort of a disrespectful tone when you think about it. If this man were not doing evil, who wouldn't have brought him here? It's a little disrespectful tone, isn't it? We would not have delivered him to you. He said, What do you think? You think we're stupid? Think we're gonna bring somebody here to stop this. So rather than answer the question, which they know the answer isn't gonna work They have this disrespectful to you know tone matters. I don't want to go into that, but tone matters. Now it's not just what you say, it's how you say it. Clearly their tone, there's a little there's an up, they're upset Okay, that's the first question. The second question is not Pilate to the crowd, but Pilate, he looks to Jesus. Are you the king of the Jews? Verse 31. So he says, he said, take him yourselves and judge him by your own law. So what now what he's what Pilate is saying there, you guys have your law, you've done your trial. Why don't you just go and kill him? Go and Execute him yourself. The Jews said to him, It is not lawful for us to put anyone to death See, this is again some of the political intrigue that's going on. They did not have the authority to put someone to death. Now Pilot is saying I'm giving you that authority, but no, they didn't want to do that Verse 32. This was to fulfill the word that Jesus had spoken to show by what kind of death he was going to die. Again, last time we talked about the fact that Jesus is in control of all things. Here Jesus had said in John chapter 12, if I be lifted up, I'll draw all men to myself. It said there that he was speaking about how he was going to die. Jesus was lifted up You know, the Jews, their capital process was stoning. You would be stoned. You'd lay on the ground and they would stone you to death. Crucifixion being lifted up was not the Jewish method of capital punishment. It was the Roman method of capital punishment And it was the Romans, it was their legal process that executed the the um this. So though the Jews are the ones who wanted it done, they got the Romans to do it. But God is in God, our sovereign God is in control even here. Now, it had to be done this way, because Jesus said it would be done that way. Again, he is in control. Verse 33. Pilate entered his headquarters again. He called to Jesus. So are you the king of the Jews? Now again, he's heard the rumors. He knows that that's the word on the street. He saw Palm Sunday. He heard about Palm Sunday probably. And so He says in verse 30, if this man were not doing evil, we would not have delivered him over to you. Now Not doing evil implies a system of law, of evil or good, a right and wrong, a moral code, a worldview that makes judgments or behavior. And Pilate knows the Jews have a different set of laws than the Romans do. So he says, God and evaluate him according to your laws. This is not a Roman issue. So he goes to Jesus. Are you really the king of the Jews? Of the Jews. In verse 32, John characteristically reminds us that this is a fulfillment of Scripture. Okay? Verse 33, Pilate then turns to Jesus and asks him, Are you king of the Jews? And so Jesus responds. to Pilate's question with a question of his own. This is the third question. Do you say this of your own accord? So Jesus doesn't directly answer the question. Jesus begins a dialogue with him. Verse 34. Do you say this of your own accord? Or did others say this say say it to you about me? In other words, why are you asking me this, Pilate? Are you interested in this? Or are you merely asking because others are talking about me and you want to figure out like what the here. Are you really you you really want to know so you is it your is your soul hungry, is your soul thirsty? Are you is this inquisit this question you have a sincere heartfelt question or is Is it because you're trying to do something politically? What's your motive here? Why are you asking me this question? Reminds you of the conversation that uh the Apostle Paul had with King Agrippa back in Acts 2026 Each one of us though has to ask ourselves that question. What what why are we interested in Jesus? Why do we have this curiosity about Jesus We say to Jesus, who are you? Are you the Son of the Living God? The answer is yes, but it doesn't stop there. Because the tables are turned, and each of us is confronted with a question. What will we do with this one who is the Son of the Living God? Will we believe in Him? Will we follow Him? Are you asking for yourself for intellectual exercise? Here's a reminder. This is always an issue when we share our faith with unbelievers. Some folks considerably are pondering the state of their souls, but others just want intellectual knowledge. They will have no real impact on their lives. Rather, than wondering, Jesus comes out and asks Now back in verse 35, Pilate's going to answer back with a question, avoiding a direct answer. His answer is, am I a Jew? Am I a Jew? Your own nation and chief priests have livered you over to me. Now here Pilate here is articulating a very common misunderstanding. It's the idea that we all have our local gods. We all have our own religions, our local religions. You have your faith, I have my faith. Your gods never have anything to do with my God or with my people Just keep your God, your belief system to yourself. And Pilate wants to remind Jesus that Romans don't care about Jewish laws, religious statutes, as long as they don't interfere with Rome. Now we know that later in the first century, some of these same followers of Jesus will be told, it's okay to worship Jesus as long as you still say Caesar. Is Lord, affirming loyalty to Rome and to Caesar alongside your commitment to Jesus, your little local God. Of course the early believers could not do that and were persecuted Pilate is not at all worried about Jewish laws and Jewish theology. He wants to hear whether Jesus has broken Roman laws. So since he received no answer earlier from the people He now goes straight to Jesus with question number five. Well, what have you done? What have you done? And in verse 36, Jesus goes back to Pilate's original question about are you a king? Because the accusation is that Jesus is king, you see. That's what he's heard on the streets. It implies that he is a direct threat to Caesar. Jesus' answer is full of wisdom And full of implications for us. He begins and ends his statement with the same sentence. Look at verse 36. The same sentence, the same phrase. My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would have been fighting that I might not be lived over to the Jews, but my kingdom is not from this world. Three times in that verse he says, my kingdom. Three times he says, my kingdom. He's king. He has a kingdom. He says, my kingdom is not of this world. It's different. How is it different? Someone said it's the upside-down kingdom. It's just a different kind of a kingdom. The Sermon on the Mount is a great passage. It comes in in the context of Jesus saying that the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and follow me. And then the the next then so people gather around to hear about the what is this kingdom going to be like? What is who is this revolutionary guy who's going to bring this kingdom? What is he like and what are his values? And so we have three chapters in the Sermon on the Mount of of of the of Jesus saying in a sense, my kingdom is not like the world's. My kingdom doesn't begin with armed insurrection. My kingdom begins with the Beatitudes. those who are poor in spirit, those who are who mourn, those who are meek, those who are pure in heart, those who hunger and thirst after God, those who are the persecuted ones but don't fight, those who who turn the other cheek Jesus is saying basically in a sermon of our mouth, my kingdom is not of this world. And here he says it point blank. One of the distinctions of his kingdom, he says here, if his kingdom were of this world, then it would be a kingdom that grows, that uses force. If my kingdom of this world, my servants would have been fighting. We saw that back in the garden, didn't we, when Peter pulled the sword out a few weeks ago. Jesus said, no, no, no. Question number six. So you are a king? Pilate says in verse 37 Jesus answered, you say I'm a king, and for this purpose I was born. For this purpose I've come into the world to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who's of the truth listens to my voice. And the truth is that yes, I am king Do those who listen to my voice, they understand that. And Pilate understands what Jesus has just said, but he wants to make sure you are a king. And so Jesus says, Yes, you are correct. He was born to bear witness to the truth that God's kingdom, the kingdom that was talked about in the Old Testament, that God would bring a kingdom to this world Jesus is the one who brings it. In Revelation, we call Jesus the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords. He is King. In the Old Testament Psalm 2, we see the Father looks at his rebellious nations. Why do the nations rage against him? He says, I've said, my son is king on Zion, my hill. Jesus is that messianic king. Yes, he is. So you're king? Yes, Jesus says. Question number seven. Pilate's intriguing question. A question maybe not to Jesus, maybe not to the crowds, maybe a question to himself. A question all of us has to ask at some point. What is truth? Is Jesus truly king? What is truth? Verse 38. And after he said this He went back outside to the Jews. So apparently he and Jesus were being having a private conversation. He went outside to the crowd and said, I find no fault in him. So Pilate is convinced that Jesus as king is not a revolutionary king, a threat to him, in the sense that Rome should be concerned and threatened. Jesus is into truth. He may be a philosophical threat to Rome, but not a political threat. Ironically, history proved that Jesus' non-political strategy had political implications down the road. Well, it had implications there. Jesus as Lord, Jesus as King, according to the late John Stott, if we rightly understand it, is full of political implications. In fact, in three centuries, the civilized worlds, several regions of several continents would bow to Jesus as Lord, to Jesus as King. It would change the world. They'd be following King Jesus. What is truth? You know, John I He said the word became flesh. It was full of grace and truth. You know, John 6, Jesus said, You shall know the truth, the truth shall set you free. You know, John 14, he said, I am the way and the truth In the life. No one comes to the Father but through me. Jesus Christ is the voice who proclaims truth because he is the truth. And he says that those who know the truth will understand him, will hear his voice. He said in John chapter 5, Truly, truly I say to you, an hour is coming, is now here when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God and those who hear will live. He said in John chapter 10, My sheep hear my voice, I know them, and they follow me. Jesus, the voice of truth. Convinced that Rome was not threatened, Pilate tried to a political play now. He thinks, let me let Jesus go by giving the people a true revolutionary. Certainly they would rather see a real radical arrested and killed as opposed to the one who rode peacefully on a on a donkey heroically into the city several days prior. And so we have question number eight A question from Pilate to the people. Do you want me to release the king of the Jews? Realizing the custom of the gubernatorial Passover that happened each Passover, he offers the people an option of releasing Jesus or releasing Barabbas. Now but then you see Pilate will not be at fault with his Roman superiors, his Roman bosses, the Caesar. So politicians are always concerned about how they look in the perception, you know Posturing, optics, good optics, bad optics. Politicians were always concerned about that. Governor Pilot is a politician. What do we know about Barabbas? Well John tells us in the text he was a robber. He was a robber. But he was worthy of that. The other gospel writers, Matthew chapter 27. Verse 16. They had a notorious prisoner. He was a robber. He was a notorious prisoner. Mark chapter 15. among the rebels in prison who had committed murder in the insurrection. There's a man called Barabbas. So there had been a a a an uprising, an insurrection, a revolt, and Barabbas was one who had committed murder during the insurrection. Luke chapter 23, verse 18. They all cried together, Away with this man released to us for rabbis, a man who had been thrown into prison for an insurrection started in the city and for murder. So the picture of who he is, he's not just a robber. Of course, we've said before, John's gospel uh succeeds the other three. So people know this about Barabbas. It's pretty well known. He just says the robber and just moves on. He doesn't really give us a lot because it's already known But his name is intriguing as well. Not just who he was, his name. Jewish names mean something. Bar Rabbas. Bar means son of. Abba means father. So his name is Son of the Father. Do you see that there? They had a choice of the Son of the Father, Barabbas Or the son of the divine Father Jesus. You want the Son of the Father or the Son of the Father? Which one do you want? Verse 39. There's their custom. Do you want me to release to you the king of the Jews? He said, Not this man, but Barabbas. robber. Who is the they? The they they cried out again. The they is a mob A mob that was out for blood. A mob that was convinced that Jesus needed to die. It was the same mob that on Sunday had said Hosanna, Hosanna, probably some of the same people. You know, mobs are interesting. We've seen mobs can sway crowds It doesn't take a lot of voices to sway crowds. I believe we've seen some of that this week. I believe that we've seen Good people for good cause in the streets in a small Group of people who are very vocal, who do things that seem like it's the it's the will of the of all the people who are in the streets. I'll say that something more about in a second But I'm learning I have been learning a little bit about uh uh uh uh some of the mob, the the mob leaders, the the the so-called anarchists that we've been hearing about. We've all heard about Antifa probably all of you've heard about Antifa. Some of you have heard about Black Lives Matter, which is an interesting phrase interesting title. Um but probably I I've been learning about uh Unicorn Fire and and uh the weather underground and and and And and Boogaloo and Prairie Fire. Names you probably don't know, but they are moving the mob. They're moving the demonstrators into a mob. And the result has been very ugly. Mobs in this text. Which son of the father will you choose, Pilate said? The one who is holy and pure, the one who is perfect and loving, or the one who is a murderer and a revolutionary Ponett honestly was taken aback by the joice of the crowd. Give us the revolutionary murderer, Barabbas. The next week, Eric will continue in the next in the chapter 19, and we'll see Pilate again. We had another idea of what to do with this dilemma that he had. But I want I have three takeaways I want us to see here. Three takeaways And they each have to do with the three characters, Pilate, Jesus, and Barabbas. First, Pilate. In Pilate, we see the failure to take responsibility The failure to take responsibility. Pilate came to the conclusion that he really didn't need to do what he was what he didn't need to crucify Jesus It was not a Roman issue, it was a Jewish issue. And so instead of courageously taking responsibility, he tried deflection methods to try to try to save face with the crowds and save face with Rome. He didn't take responsibility. What are some areas in your life where you need to step up and courageously take responsibility God calls all of us to sense the day and be active, to have an active strategy of taking responsibility. In my life right now, there's a couple things. Um just well this Monday morning, um, you know, with all this going on in the news, I got we got a t Craig and I from we got an email from one of the pastors in our denomination in our in our presbytery, who said, man, this the weekend has been crazy and and uh most pastors like me need some direction And he says, you, Craig, you would stand, you're your urban pastures, you know some of the issues, you know how to speak to Jesus. He told us uh take the did this was a a season where we needed to to to sort of step up in terms of our local presbytery and if if needs be in terms of of some of the national our discussions about what is going on in our world with the with the uh the killing of George Floyd and the and the subsequent uh demonstrations. And so he basically sent us an email and said, You guys step up. Step it up. 'Cause he he wanted to hear some perspective. Um and and we took that seriously. We did some things this week that that in a sense we were we sent God calling to step up. And the second thing um that's happening uh for me in terms of responsibility is um y'all know again my mom's home but we've made a decision that that that her home and our home and lamb that we grew up she's never gonna be there again. We need we we we need to sell it. We need to get rid of it And um that's gonna be quite an endeavor this summer. And uh I'm the closest one. I'm an hour away, but I'm closer than any of the others, so this is gonna be a uh quite a responsibility of of trying to clean it up and and get rid of stuff and then sell it and all this kind of stuff. And we were and so that is something that I if there's ever a summer where I didn't want didn't didn't have time to do that kind of thing, it's this summer, but that's not important. It's gotta get done It's gotta get done. So I've got to step up and take responsibility. What are some things in your life where, you know, you need to step up because if you don't do it, it doesn't get done Pilate was in a position, he was the only one who had that the the the the the the responsibility, the the the place to do something, and he didn't he failed to take responsibility That's Pilate. Second, Jesus. In Jesus we see the power to trust the divine strategy, the peaceful strategy of Jesus. Okay? See, the Father's wise plan is for Jesus to die that others might live. And this is the passive strategy. I talked about an active strategy of taking responsibility. This is the passive strategy. Where are the areas of your life where you need to patiently endure, patiently trust in the sovereignty of God, in the plan of God who loves you? Again, this week's been a roller coaster week with uh the death of George Floyd in Minnesota and uh and the demonstrations. And many wonder About the extent of the tremendous outrage in the nation and in the world. As a black man, my reaction when I saw it was simple. Well, here we go again. There was a trouble a troubling thing that we saw? Yes But was it very surprising? No. The reality is that black people seem to have a target on our backs And this has been true ever since the days of slavery, the days of Jim Crow, America, and now in the post-civil rights 21st century, black people, especially black men, seem to be perceived as a threat. And this is a historical truth that most followers of Jesus are beginning to understand and even express words of repentance, and that's very good. And yet the fruit of repentance often grows slowly What has made this week more troublesome is the violence in the streets that came afterwards, almost negating what was happening at first. This is where we as followers of Jesus must think biblically and react biblically Jesus told Peter in the garden to put his sword away. And here we see Jesus telling Pilate his kingdom, the kingdom of God has a different value system. Jesus does not intend to defeat Rome through the sword. He doesn't intend to gather armies who go who march into cities on horseback, taking territory. No, his kingdom was spread through the world as the word of the kingdom is being sown in hearts. The parable of the sowers, Matthew 13, Mark chapter 11, Luke chapter 8 That's the way the kingdom grows. Now I always go back to the civil rights movement of my youth in the 60s because they had a leadership that understood the strategy of Jesus, you see. This week I've talked to several who marched this week. And they're some young white followers of Jesus who are seeking to live out their faith But are now sincerely fed up with what they saw happen to George Floyd in Minnesota. It's almost like the eyes of the world have now seen what's been playing to many of us for so long. And there are some who marched and have concluded that the end justifies the means. And I strongly disagree. The scriptures, such as texts like this, one won't allow us to go there. Jesus did not fight to gain his kingdom. If you like me struggle with the violence and the looting that we've seen I also hope you equally understand the violence does not mean that the cause is wrong. Here's an important leadership principle: a bad strategy does not negate a wholesome cause. Change the strategy. Don't just lose sight of the goal, the clause. And finally, what can we learn from Barabbas? Barabbas? Well simple. Jesus, who did not deserve to die, was crucified. But Barabbas, who did deserve to die, was released. Saint Saul, all of us who have embraced the gospel are like Barabbas. All of us deserved death. But because of Jesus who died, we are released. We are free to know and serve God and live forever. Jesus died as our substitute. 2 Corinthians 5 says this. He who knew no sin became sin for us that we might become the righteousness of God in him. This week I I saw a movie that I've been wanting to see. It was called it's called Just Mercy. Watched this the other night. It's a good movie. A very few times do movies bring me to almost tears. That one did. And I'm not gonna spoil it for you. I just say it's a good movie. It's a tough movie to watch. But there was a scene in that movie where there was a man named Herbert Richardson. who was on death row and he was a Vietnam veteran and he had he had uh PSB and and um he he just He did some things he knew he shouldn't have done. He was he he had remorse for what he'd done and he he wished he hadn't done it, but he had to die for what he had done. And in this in this very dramatic scene in the middle of that movie, he's marching to his death and and and and as he he said goodbye to the other inmates And then he said, he asked him, please now put the song on that I that that was prepared. He knew there was one song, but he wanted to die hearing. And so Yeah in a chair the they they they they put the little cassette tape was it's a true story from years ago and uh they started playing the song on a hill far away so an old rugged cross. So this man wanted to die To the tune, the sound of this song, the old rugged cross, where he could be remembered that someone had died For him. It was a powerful moment in that movie. We sing a song often, Amazing Love. How can it be that you, my king, should die for me? Jesus, our king, who died. On an old rugged cross. He died for you, he died for me as our substitute. Follow him. Take up your cross, deny yourself, and follow him. He's a king. A different kind of king. He's king. He's king of kings. And before him, every knee shall bow. In every tongue confess that he is indeed King and Lord. Let's pray. Father God, we thank you for your word. Thank you for the insights we can find here. And thank you that here we see ourselves We see ourselves as sinners before you, yet as those who are freed by you because of your death on the cross. So help us to be disciples of Jesus in this world Calling others to know you, calling others to follow you, living for you, living a life that reflects who you are, that others may know your goodness and your greatness and your love. But use this word in our hearts. Help us to be a sanctified people, growing in grace. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen and amen.