Processed meat. And then also I was going to mention that we sang Arise, which is a hymn written by Charles Wesley. a ways back. But this is the very first hymn that Kevin Twit, my friend Kevin Twit, he's been redoing old hymns into new tunes. There's a sort of movement, and this is connected to the PCA and RUF, and other people do it too. And he started this thing called indelible grace. He's been a campus minister and in Belmont, which is a music Christian music school, and he had all these students, and they started taking and finding old hymns that had boring organ music and redoing them into more contemporary, more singable music. And he this was the very first one he picked. You uh back on the slide it said nineteen ninety six. And he was at a conference and they were singing the old tune that Charles Wesley wrote and he was like, this song says arise, like get out of your seat, and we are like in a funeral here. And so he went back to uh his room and rewrote the music and then he sung it the next day. And so that got all this kick-started And um on Wednesday I'll send you an email, uh in the email I'll send you a link because at General Assembly last week they had a hymn sing and they sing a lot of these songs and I was sorry to miss that. But it it is a great blessing to the church to have these songs redone. Thanks for picking that one. We are looking through the middle parts of Luke, especially stopping at the parables. Young woman named Sarah Cummins, she was twenty-five in a pharmacy school at Purdue In July 2017, two days before her wedding, she called it off. Um She was not a poor person. She had already spent thirty thousand dollars. Weddings cost a lot these days. Or they can. Um she had been planning it for two years. She was planning on having the reception at the Ritz Carlton in Indiana. And there was a non refundable deposit For 170 people, none of it could be paid back. And so she and her now ex-fiance agreed that they would go into the town and invite the homeless. And so they had an awesome party for homeless people in the Rix Carlton. So these people had bourbon glazed meatballs with goat cheese and brucetta. chicken with artichokes with a chardonnay cream sauce and of course wedding cake And then people heard about it in the town and so they donated suits and dresses and took people in in vans. A bus company went around and just picked people up and took them to this party. And one man at least said he couldn't believe what it felt like to wear a suit and eat food like this. He felt like he got some dignity back. Pretty cool, right? This exchange this changed their lives and it changed Sarah's life and she started volunteering with people. So if we had $30,000 to throw a party, what party would we throw? We did go out and invite people, and that was pretty awesome last week. week to see people from different parts of the community, different churches get together. It was wonderful. Different pastors from different walks of life were here. So in 14:1, we see Jesus. He is with the Pharisees. One Sabbath, when he went to dine at the house of a ruler of the Pharisees, they were watching him carefully. People have their eyes on Jesus. What is he going to do? What is he going to say? And they're also watching him carefully because they want to trip him up. Get him, which they eventually do. We we know that. And behold, there was a man before him who had drops C, and Jesus responded to the lawyers and Pharisees saying, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath or not? But they remained silent. And he took them, and he healed them, and sent him away. And then he said to them, Which one of you having a son or an ox that has fallen down on a well on a Sabbath day will not immediately pull him out? And they could not reply to these things. So Jesus is now going to tell two stories about radical welcoming. And what he's doing is he's flipping the script on these religious leaders. Because God's kingdom is not about who is best and who is following all the rules. God's kingdom is about mercy and compassion. God's kingdom is a welcoming, gracious kingdom. Well a lot of times as a pastor people will come to me and say, Here's why I don't like to go to your church. Everyone's got it all together there. What are you talking about? It is amazing when I hear people say that. Well, let me just go down the line and tell you, but I can't do that. You just got to figure it out for yourself, right? Have we assembled all the good people around town? No, certainly not. We all do want to get invited to something important. And when we don't get invited, we feel lousy. But also remember there are times when you get invited to something that someone else doesn't get invited to. And that feeling is instinctual to us. And these stories reorient us a little bit because God's kingdom is about love, welcoming love. And that is what we all want, whether we're Christians or non-Christians, we want a welcoming love. So let's talk about love first Weddings, gonna have one today. There's a certain part about all weddings Where it's all the same thing. The first part, you know, weddings are sort of different, but it's all two people coming together to give their vows And say we're in this together. We're committing to each other for theoretically a lifetime. So that part's pretty normal to build their lives together. But then what happens after The actual wedding. The reception. Right now, that's where the fun possibly begins. One of the worst wedding receptions I've ever been to in my entire life was ours. Julie would agree with me. We would redo almost every single thing about that day except for marrying each other. we we wrote our own vows, which I would never allow anyone to do anymore. Um because they're gonna say something like, you know, we're gonna always watch The Bachelor together. It's like what are you you talking about? That is not a wedding vow. Till death do us part is a wedding vow. There is something about the old stuff. Now you can add on to that some other stuff, right? But anyway, the the reception that we had, we we were some of the first of our friend groups to get married, and we had no money, and so we just had cake and punch. Which was fine, right? But but I have now, having done a lot of weddings, gone to off the chart receptions. Whoa Professional bands, famous restaurants, in barns, in backyards. One time in an empty swimming pool, we had a dance party in there They're so great. Some of them, you know, some of the COVID weddings were pretty cool because people had to get creative and you didn't have all the formal stuff that took forever. Those were great. Receptions, though. You know, there are some rules at receptions, what you do and what you don't do, but at the heart of it, the reason why you're there is love. You got invited because you are connected to these two people who love each other because you care about them and love them. And that's why You're gonna do the chicken dance and the electric slide and the cupid shuffle, right? And that's why love covers over the faux pos that happened, the mispronounced names sometimes. The bad microphones, the awkward dancing, maybe the food's not hot because you're you're there because of love. Now I was telling Ark this last week. I did a wedding. in Fort Worth in August outside at a botanical garden and they wouldn't allow chairs because they didn't want to mess up the grass. And so everyone was standing out there and then I walk out with the you know, with the guys, and it was a hundred and seven degrees. And I had a robe on. Yeah. And so I instantaneously started sweating. My papers were completely soaked in two minutes And I just cut every single thing out except for the wedding bows, and then we were back inside in six minutes That is almost a record. And who was the most popular person? Me. Because everyone thought it was going to take an hour, right? And we got back inside, back in the air conditioning, back at the reception. Because that was where the real fun happened. But it was still because of love. And see the Pharisees, they don't understand this. They are interested in the law, what you can and can't do on the Sabbath, tradition, rules, devotion. Not rest and worship and love. And so Jesus asked them, Hey, what about your stuff? What about your oxen? What about your children? Wouldn't you do whatever it takes on any day You know, these this isn't a theoretical Sabbath question. Like, if Chick-fil-A were open on Sunday, would you eat there? Stuff like that. This is really about love. The question isn't about the purpose of the Sabbath, it's about a view of love. Because they don't care about their neighbors, about people who need help, about healing About the flourishing of the kingdom of God, right? No, they're like, hey, it's the Sabbath, we've got to keep it holy. You're in my thoughts and prayers. Maybe talk to me tomorrow. They're hiding behind rules to avoid love. And let's be honest, we can do that too. Right? We've been in churches that were exactly like that. There are a lot of people in our circles that don't want to come back to church because of that. Had one woman in my church and her brother was on a baseball team and when they went to state they all dyed their hair. Like M M, you know, bright white. And so she cut her hair and dyed her hair. And the next Sunday she got called out from the pulpit to stand up And was told what a terrible person she was for doing that. Now, is she gonna love church? Nobody would. Stuff like that happens. We can have great theology and hide behind it. And not care for the suffering, the outcast, the marginalized, not weep for the lost. And Jesus reaches out when we suffer, doesn't he? When we're cast out because he was too The Pharisees, they want to be at the head of the table, to be important, to get respect, to get the donuts. But God's kingdom is about love and it's built on compassion for others. And Jesus is a rescuing God who's redeeming and restoring those who recognize their need for Him. Even people who have written Him off before He's rescuing, not because of goodness or theology even, but because of love. He's saying, come To sinners like you and me, Jesus is saying, life is meaningless if you have your act together and you don't have God's love in your life. The irony is the Pharisees were the great minds of the day, the super smart thinkers, but they were so small-minded They had read and memorized the scriptures and missed God's love. They knew all about the Torah and the Psalms and Isaiah, but they didn't internalize it. There's a a passage in Ezekiel three that where God says, Eat the scroll Which means take these words and put them in your lives so they become a part of you, the way you are, the way they you think, the way you act, not just in your mind And these words in the Bible proclaim the Lord's coming That they proclaim salvation to the needy and the hungry, and God's arms are open wide in love, in welcoming love. Let's talk about welcoming. You know, I put on the back of this invite, all are welcome regardless of personal or religious background. Grace is here for the convinced and the unconvinced, the lost, the found, the burned, the bored, the cynical, hurting, discouraged, oppressed, and the spiritual. No matter where you are in the process, you're invited to our community of stumbling sinners. And the good news is God loves and saves sinners Sinners. We want you to find Christ grace, love, acceptance, guidance, encouragement, dignity, forgiveness, freedom, purpose, and hope. I mean I could have put a lot more on there, right? All are welcome. Tomorrow is Juneteenth. This has sort of now become a thing. And Juneteenth is a holiday where we remember that when the Civil War ended, praise God, and everyone was free, supposedly. The news didn't just pop up everywhere. So there was a delay and and later after all this happened it got to this place in Texas, and they threw a massive party sometime in June, and they started calling it Juneteenth, where they celebrated the end of their imprisonment. Or at least the Emancipation Proclamation. So that's a great thing to celebrate tomorrow. We should all join in Because for the longest time, did we as a nation say all are welcome in our places? No. And did did we start saying that after the Civil War ended? No. And in fact, it's sort of amazing, we started now making new rules. We didn't used to have actual laws. Now we've started putting in the books all of these laws about where you can drink. Where you can swim, where you can bathe, where you can use the telephone, where you can sit, right? And these became laws, not just. Pe treating people differently. Jim Crow was very evil. There's a an organization called Mission Mississippi that's involved in racial reconciliation. And what they are trying to do is to get different types of people together to have a meal in public. It's very important that be in public so people can see you. Now it's not a show, but people need to see different types of people being together. And they're calling it Gracism. Ha ha funny. Gracism, right? Practicing gracism and and that can bridge divides. And seeing grace invites change. I do want to mention this book that that the guys are going to read, and I've got twenty copies, so we can all read it if we want I put the book together years ago connected to one of our General Assembly overtures where we were confessing as a denomination the sins of omission. Like what we didn't do during civil rights. And there's a beautiful essay in there, one of my favorite ones by my friend Sam. And he talks about how in Memphis There was a church that became a B PCA church, so it's before it was a PCA church in the civil rights in the 1960s, and they had an all-white membership Which is very common. And one Sunday they had someone had planned not a lo a sit in, but a pray in So they were gonna c people were gonna come and and pray. And so this church locked its doors to anyone who was Black. They locked the doors. Now of course what they would say is we didn't want trouble. It didn't have anything to do with they were black. It just was they were going to cause trouble. Come on. But that's how we'd start justifying things. And so later, now now we're talking 2000 fifteen or maybe or so, they reenacted the whole thing and opened the doors and and repented and had a service of repentance saying that happened and that was wrong and we want to show that we remember. And there were people that were around back then that did remember. And so things like that matter to people. Seeing seeing grace happen like that Can bridge the device. So the Pharisees did want to be seen at important events, right? They wanted to be the first at the table. They wanted that coveted invite to be the VIP. And we all want that too. But Jesus tells the Pharisees that's not how it works either. He tells a story about this dinner party. The Pharisees were experts at parties. They were sort of like, imagine in Zero AD, COVID rules. They had it down. They would have been great during COVID. They knew how long to wash their hands. They knew how to social distance. They they had all of the rules. Remember we had to learn all those rules? And y remember if you didn't do the rules right, you got in big trouble? But they loved those rules, and they started throwing parties for themselves so they could be seen. Imagine like we had this in Oklahoma City, some of my guys were in it, they had a they had a Scotch club. And so everyone paid a thousand bucks a year and they were you know, felt blue jackets that had insignias on them and they all had nicknames and they had guest speakers. It's sort of like that. Now, I think that's sort of okay, but they were always into that Because they wanted to be the party for themselves. And Jesus said, that's not the kingdom of God. No one can tell the kingdom of God is here when you throw parties like that. Because it's exactly what the world does all the time. If you don't have poor, lame, sick, outcast, and if you only welcome people like you, the cool kids. The kingdom of God is not present. So he even invites them. He says, I'm going to throw a party and you're invited. And they're like, no, I can't make it. And this frustrated the hosts. So he invites everyone. Now that's a party. And he's saying to the people that wouldn't come, you missed it because you were too busy, you were too self-absorbed. You were too good to come to the party, you thought. My friend Russ Whitfield at Grace Mosaic in DC. He loves barbecue and he's become an awesome barbecuer. And so he has a business where he comes and throws parties and he calls his business the table Come to the table. And I'm going to cook for you. And it's going to be delicious. And everyone is invited. That's the type of kingdom of God that Jesus is talking about. The Pharisees had anticipated the coming of the kingdom of God, but they had not expected it to look like this. They wanted it in what they thought it would be like, which would basically be kicking the Romans out and letting them have their space. But this is what Jesus or Isaiah says in 25, 6. On this mountain the Lord of hosts will make for all people a feast of rich food, a feast of well-aged wine. Of rich food full of marrow, of aged wine well refined, and he will swallow up on this mountain the covering that is cast over all people, the veil that is spread over all nations. He will swallow up death for ever And the Lord God will wipe away tears from all faces, and the reproach of his people he will take away from all the earth. Amen. That's the coming of the kingdom of God Not all the rules are exactly followed. He's saying he will swallow up death and wipe away tears and invite the nations and we'll have a feast and we'll have a dance And it will be the greatest party you could ever imagine. And there'll be no more hunger, no more suffering, no more sadness or death. It'll be a feast of joy. But here's the thing. Completely free. You cannot pay for it. Now that sounds pretty awesome But really, when you get invited to a party, what's your first thing you'll say? What can I bring? You don't like coming empty-handed. Even a potluck, you're like, I gotta bring something. I gotta stop by 7 Eleven at least, right? I can't I can't come empty handed But in this party, the host prepares it all, sends out the invites, prepares it, and then says, Come now. The party is now. I've been telling you about it. I've been telling you about it. Okay, it's here. Your place at the table is set. And how are you going to respond? That's the message of God's grace, right? And so many times what we do when we hear God's grace is we're like. We have an intellectually polite response. We say, okay, that's a nice moving story, God. I appreciate your I love that Okay, let's study that doctrine more. Let's just get into it, study it. A lot of times at God's gracious banquet, we act. Like a guest at a stuffy black tie fundraiser instead of a homeless person At a meal cheering, going crazy when the turkey gets brought out. Yes! I've been so hungry! So we usually ask, What can I bring? How can I repay this? And in the second parable, Jesus really especially makes the point that he doesn't really invite people He compels them because they cannot reciprocate. There is no way they can pay. Not if you're poor, not if you're crippled. They just get brought in. Luke's gospel is written not to a Jewish audience. It's more to a Gentile audience. And Luke over and over emphasizes God's welcoming. God's non-discrimination. God invites Jews and Gentiles, people with different capabilities. Men and women and children, rich and poor and suffering and outcast, all can get God's lavish grace. Amen Then Strangers, neighbors, your neighbors can get God's grace. You know your neighbor that plays the music too loud, that smokes weed all the time Or you're that person and you're driving your neighbor crazy. They think that about you. We can love our neighbor. That's how the kingdom of God gets shown up. It's what's so exciting when there are people that would never be friends or sitting in the pews together. It feels like you're you're living it out in real time when it when it's that way. Especially when it's someone who doesn't expect to be invited. Then it's even moral. Not because people are projects But because everyone is made in God's image and deserves dignity and respect and honor and worth, especially in the church. So, church, we want to share Christ like that We pray that we would see the kingdom of God manifest itself like that. That God loves the outcast and the sinners. And conservative people and liberal people and Republicans and Democrats and people that don't know John 3. 16 or people that have grown up in church all their whole lives, all of it, skeptics. Religious hypocrites, people that we want to label, because there is hope for change. in all of us. Amen. The Holy Spirit can be at work in in all of us. As we see these parties like this As we see sinners come to repentance, as we are those people, we're misfit, we are broken, unlovable at times. He even invites Pharisees Some of us are probably a lot like them. He invites Pharisees to the table. He invites people who what do we say Who are weary and heavy laden. And what does he give? Rest. He gives rest. So he is gentle and lowly in heart. And you will find rest for your souls, because his yoke is easy and his burden is light, because he came to give you a spot at the table. He did all of this so that we could be brought in and feast on his salvation. Amen. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, we come to you, asking you to do this very work in our lives, in our church, in our relationships, that we would see the kingdom of God manifested like this. It would thrill our souls. We pray that in our own relationships and in this church and in the church. You would bust open your kingdom so we could see it wherever we go. And you would draw your people to yourself and us to each other. Please do this, we ask this in your name. Amen.