Morning. We're looking at Jesus' Beatitudes. We've come to Luke six, verse twenty-one. Essentially, blessed are the hungry, and woe to the well-fed. More at length, Jesus speaking to his disciples, verse 20, and then verse 21: Blessed are you who hunger now, for you will be satisfied. Verse 25, but woe to you who are well fed now, for you will go hungry. I want, I believe God wants us to take away something today that will help us From Christ's teaching. But in order to unlock the meaning, there are two key questions Uh the the questions that need to answer are who are the hungry and who are the well fed? Who are the hungry and who are the full? Blessed are those who hunger now. Woe to those who are full now. Fortunately, we have a context And in the context, we see that Jesus speaks not only of the hungry, but he speaks of the poor and those who mourn. And we've had the benefit to think about that for a while, haven't we? Who are the poor? Well Matthew says, the poor are the poor in spirit. You are blessed if you recognize that you are spiritually poor, that you are spiritually in poverty. That your spirituality is bankrupt. Blessed are those who are poor in spirit. He says, blessed are those who mourn. What does he mean? He means He's speaking of you who are mourning and sorry for what you've done wrong. You look at your life and you say, I wish I were better. I shouldn't have done this. Or I've done some things that I'm not proud of, and you're feeling bad about it. Blessed are those who mourn over your sinful condition. And now he says, Blessed are those who hunger. Blessed are those, Matthew says, who hunger and thirst for what? Blessed are those who are hungry to be a better person. For those who are hungry, to get your life right, your mind right, and just to be the best self that you can be Blessed are those who hunger. Well, you know something? If you're hungry this morning To be right. If you're hungry to be the best person you can be, I have some good news for you. I have some wonderful news for you. The Bible has some wonderful news to us. I present to you this morning, Jesus Christ. I give you Jesus. The same person I want to give you every Sunday because I have nothing else to give you. I give you Jesus and his righteousness. He is the rightness that you need. He is The best self that you need to be wary. Someone that says the gospel of Christ is good news. No, they said It's the best news, the most important news that you and I can ever hear is the gospel. And what is the gospel? Romans 4 says, here's the gospel. God justifies the wicked. When Luther first heard it, he thought, whoa, does it really say that in the Bible? That God justifies the wicked, that He accepts the ungodly and declares them good How can it be that the wicked are acceptable to God? Someone put it this way God justifies the wicked by crediting righteousness to them and ceasing to count their sins against them. Or, as Luther says, the righteousness of God is not acquired by the acts that we perform frequently, but it's acquired by faith, by trusting someone other than ourselves. ourselves and our own goodness. My hope is built on nothing less than what? Jesus Christ and His righteousness. That's where our hope is. No condemnation now I dread Jesus and all in him is mine. Alive in him my living head. And clothed in righteousness divine. What are you wearing today in your clothing? What are you wearing inside that makes you a beautiful person? Are you wearing your own attempts to please God? He's God? Are you wearing the attempts of Christ and what He has done? To the unbeliever this morning, to you who Haven't learned to trust in Christ, I say put on Christ's righteousness and stop trusting in your own ability to be good. I don't say stop trying to be good, but I say stop trusting In your own goodness. And start trusting in the goodness and the rightness of Christ And to you who believe, you who now have Christ's righteousness, I say this: wear it. Wear Christ's righteousness and wear it well. Today, be your new self. Susannah Wesley, mother to John and Charles, speaking about the gospel one day, she said, There are two things we need to do about the gospel. One, believe it. And two, behave it. That's what it comes down to. Believing that we are righteous, that we are Good people. Because Christ declares us good, not because we are good, but because he declares it based upon his perfect life. To believe it and now to behave it. And for a lot of us we've got to play catch-up. You know, we're dragging behind a little bit here. There's a little whiplash. Between what he declares us to be and what we are becoming. And yet that's our call. The text puts before you two types of people. I wonder which type you are this morning. Jesus puts before us the blessed or the hungry. And those who are worn, the woe to the well fed. There's the hungry who have Christ's blessing, and the well fed, who could be in some serious Blessed are those who hunger, but woe to those who are well fed. How do you know which one you are? What is the difference? Well, there are those who are well fed who I would say seek the good things. And are filling themselves with good things in this world. And those who hunger Who are eager to fill themselves with the right things. See, there's the good life, and then there's the right life. I wonder this morning which describes you better. Are you more hungering for the good life or the right life? If you'd allow me, I'd use an analogy this morning. Most of us know But some of you don't. Most of us know about Cracker Jacks, right? I would ask to say who doesn't know about Cracker Jacks? But I'm sure some of our internationals may not, and some of you young people really may not know what cracker jacks are. By the way, it's hard to find boxes of cracker jacks. I don't think they make them anymore I think they come now in packages. But Cracker Jacks is it's a snack. It's wonderful smack. It's good. For munching. Haven't had any, by the way, if you run into any, I'll be they're on my diet. They're okay. I can't have the peanuts, but I can have the popcorn. Caramel popcorn And you can sit, you know, you can watch TV and munch and on the old popcorn. You can go to the Orioles game and munch on the the popcorn. Pop down the peanuts. You can sit and read a nice book, sit by the pool, you know, munching away on your cracker jacks. And of course some of us growing up The Cracker Jacks were alright, but what we really wanted was the prize in every box. In every box there's a prize. In 1890 some They just had the Cracker Jacks. Around 1912 or so they started putting in the prize. They knew that a lot of people were interested in something more than the Cracker Jackson that might help them make the purchase. And so of course, you know, when you start digging around for the prize in between your munches, uh really when you got to the prize It was a piece of plastic usually, you know. Something like you get out of a bubblegum machine. It might be a plastic ring or you know, a little a little kind of a puzzle. It might even be a piece of cardboard with some little gimmick or something. And you had to draw or figure out, or some little word game written on it. But it was the adventure of you know getting the prize and always hoping to find to get the big catch, you know, as you dig down. Among the popcorn and the peanuts. But let's pretend this morning something different. For the sake of getting to the message. Let's pretend that when you got your cracker jacks uh you were going to find buried something more valuable than a piece of plastic. That you were going to find that say as you dig down Beyond the popcorn, beyond the peanuts, that you're going to find maybe a chunk of gold. Oh, that would really get you digging, wouldn't it? You're going to find maybe a string of pearls, some some emeralds, maybe maybe a diamond ring. That would get you digging. But better yet, better yet, imagine Your cracker jacks is going to give you a prize buried something worth more than gold. How can that be? Worth more than diamonds. Say there's buried a prize worth something far more than some monetary treasure. Something really worth setting your affection on. Imagine finding, if it were possible Something that when you had it in your hands, there was nothing you would change about it. You looked at it and you said Why this prize is absolutely perfect. I can't improve on it. There's nothing better I could help it become Come. I couldn't and one wouldn't want to change anything about it. What would a prize like that be? Friends, there is a prize. And that is the the wonderful Treasure of the righteousness of Jesus Christ. You can look at that Jesus, his life. And his life record and the kind of person he was and is, and there is nothing that his mother would want to improve upon. His sister or his brother brothers when they're in the right minds, they would look at him and they say, man, I wish all my kids were like that. I wish all my brothers were like that. I wished every human being was like him. And the neat thing is that his righteousness, his godliness, if you will, or his goodness, his moral integrity, do you know what? It's yours. That is you for the taking. His life record is yours for you who believe and are trusting in the prize of Jesus Christ. Think about the cracker jacks a little bit more here for us. Forget about the prize for a second. But the Cracker Jacks. He says, Woe to you who are well fed. Woe to you who are well fed, for you're going to go hungry. There's going to come a time when the cracker jacks are going to run out. And what do the cracker jacks represent? There are a number of things that could be applied here. Let me suggest that the cracker jacks are the uh uh uh uh the the light's niceties. They're the perks and the enjoyments that God often gives us. And we love the enjoyments, don't we? It's nice that we can get a vacation for a week or two weeks or maybe for some of you. get a month. It's nice that you can uh have some entertainment. Uh it's a wonderful thing for us to get some theater tickets or to get a new car You know, you get it finally get your job promotion. You can get some things that you didn't have before. Uh and we can go dining out and we can feast on things. And these are not bad things. These are gifts from God. All things are given to us richly to enjoy. But the problem is that when God gives us the Cracker Jacks You see, sometimes we just want to keep just eating the cracker jacks and we get totally caught up in the peanuts and the popcorn of life. We become well fed and we're just satisfied with the good things. And we forget sometimes that that there's something more important. And what's more important are the right things. You see, the good things Are good, yes. But they're not all what our lives are to be about. These are the frills and the perks and the blessings that God gives us. But you understand they're so temporary. And what's more important is what is right. Are we feeding on what is right? Are we digging down? For something better? Are we just happy with the little goodies that God has given us? Well, C. S. Lewis said it best, and I quote, he said, we are half-hearted creatures, aren't we? Fooling about with drink and sex and ambition. When infinite joy is offered to us, like an ignorant child who wants to go on making mud pies In a slum, because he cannot imagine what is meant by the offer of a holiday at sea. We are far too easily pleased. How true it is. We get so satisfied. God gives us something nice, and then all of a sudden it becomes an idol for us. It becomes our mini God And the next thing you know, it's running our lives. You know, in John 6, Jesus spoke to some people, and he says, and I'm going to paraphrase, he's He says, I tell you why you're seeking me. He says, You came for me because I gave you some bread yesterday. That's why you're here. I gave you a free handout of bread, a hunk of bread, and now you're back for more He says, why don't you come and eat from the bread that will lead to eternal life, which I freely want to give you? You see, the people had it backwards. Instead of first seeking Christ and his righteousness. They were seeking the gifts of Christ. He's glad to give you the gifts, you understand. But if you're just seeking for the gifts, you've missed the whole point. Because he has something far greater and far more lasting to satisfy and give you, which we need to feed upon every day, as we hunger for Christ afresh in the gospel. His goodness toward us. Colossians 3 says, set your affections on things above, not on things of the earth. And 1 John 3, 5, 15 and 17. Uh John tells us why. He says, Because the world and its desires are passing away. And they mean he who has a love for the things of the world. In other words, you put them first. He says, does not have the love of God, the Father, in his heart. So I ask you, where is your love this morning? What are you loving more? The world that Christ has created, or that perfect world Or Christ is, and which we who believe long for. She asked Lewis again, asked a question. He says, This is a good question for us to ask ourselves. Has this world been so kind to you that you should leave it with regret? There are better things ahead than any we leave behind. To put it down in the here now If God say, let's go home says let's go home right now, does your emotions say, uh, uh I've got one more thing? I'm holding on to one more thing. I hope the thing you're holding on to is things something like you want all your family to know Christ I hope it has something to do with like you want to advance God's purposes more. I hope it has nothing to do with, you know, I really do want to get a little further along my career. I really do want to, you know, spend more time and I can understand if you've got kids and they're growing up that you want to see them all grow up, you know. But you know If you are on your way, you can't do it. Heaven to heaven and your friends are on your way to heaven, you have a lot of time to spend with them when you get there. I can't think of much That would want to keep us here. St. Paul says, To me, to live is Christ, and to die is gain. The only reason Paul wanted to stay around was so that he could Help other people somehow get more and more connected with Christ and His eternal kingdom. Luther said this. He said I've held many things in my hands, and I've lost them all. But whatever I've placed in God's hands, that I still possess. Are there a few things that God's given you that you're afraid to place them back in his hands because he might take them away? If you place them in his hands, you see he might say, Okay, good, just keep them. That's what he wants, an attitude where you're willing to place it all in his hands. And he'll say, just keep it, go ahead. He might give you more. But sometimes we don't have more because once he gives it, we start liking it more than we like him for a season. is going to lead us not to a good end. Of course I know you who believe in Christ. You have a new heart. You have a new heart. I know many of you. There's a new impulse in you. I want to remind you of the impulse. There is a new heart beating in you, and it's giving out vibes. You know that? And those vibes say, boy, I'm disappointed with myself I want to be better. You know what? I really do love God. You know what? I do want to improve. I want to be the best I can. There's a certain side of you. And I say, as you live out your life this week, I want you to get in touch more and more with those impulses. Because there's another side, and there's and there's a world around you that's going to say, you know what, just Take the shortcut. You know, just munch on the peanuts and the and the crager jet. That's all that really matters. But there's another side that says, you know what, I gotta dig down deeper for something more beautiful. As I dig down deeper for it. Basically you refind Christ afresh. And somehow you get in touch with his beauty and it and it helps you to make a more beautiful choice. And to lay a more beautiful track behind you as the world watches on, as the kind of choices we make and the lives we live. You know, it was Alexis de Tocqueville in the 1800s, who was the French politician, uh well known and for his uh uh studies and infatuation with America and he was trying to figure out what is it that makes America great. What is it that makes America a genius in the eighteen hundreds he was apparently taken with America And he has come to the conclusion, and I quote, Not until I went into the churches of America and heard her pulpits aflame with righteousness, did I understand the greatness and the genius of America. You see what he's saying? And he was on to say, America is good, and if America ever ceases to be good, America will cease to be great You see, you want to be great? Here's how you're great. When you are a good person. And how do you be a good person? When you're a good country. How do we be a good country? Friends, we're spiritually bankrupt. We need to cry over our sinful condition, but we need to celebrate and hunger over their sinful The condition of Jesus Christ. He is right. He is beautiful. He is lovely. There's nothing we could change about him. We need to embrace him afresh every day and celebrate him. Because as we as we continue to meditate and feed upon him, more and more, some of that goodness is going to keep coming out, you know us until we become the people we're destined to be. A people changed into the likeness of Jesus Christ. Well In conclusion, I just want to say one more little thing, just to see if you're honest with yourself, to say it to myself as well. A little, just a little Story about an old woman. It was uh Walter Knight tells a story. There was an old woman and she used to go around selling buttons. And thread and shoestrings. And she was trying to figure out where am I going to sell my stuff. And so she would uh come to a fork in the road and she'd throw a stick up in the air. And if the stick pointed to the left, she'd go left. If the stick pointed to the right, she would go right. And that town she would go to and begin to sell her goods, her thread and her buttons and her shoes And one day someone saw her standing at the fork in the road, and she threw the stick and she kept standing there. Bending over, pick up the stick and kept throwing the stick. They said, what are you doing? Why do you keep throwing the stick? She said, Well, the stick keeps pointing to the right, and I want to go left. I know that all of us who know Christ, all of us who claim Christ, we say that we We want to follow Jesus. But down deep where you live and down deep where you feel. Because there are certain things you've already made up your mind about. No matter where Jesus points the stick that you just want to keep throwing, you say, until it points your way? That's how you know whether you're honest. And if you and if you find you're stuck somewhere and you just want to keep going somewhere down deep. I I just simply say confess it. Tell tell call it for what it is. Confession simply means say it like it is. Tell Jesus, hey Lord, truth is I feel better about my new car than I do about you. I feel better about my vacation. If that's where you are, that's being honest. And then you say, Lord, do what I can't do. Change before From the inside. Give me a new heart. Let me realize afresh and anew that Jesus Christ is a greater treasure than anything that I'm going to find on any road I travel on this. world. So well, just like to conclude with a question, you know, as you go through life or you More hungry for the good life? Are you more hungry for the right life? Are you seeking the good things of this world? Or down deep, do you really seek and hunger to be the right person? that Jesus Christ declares you to be, as you trust in him. Lord, we bow before you. We pray that you forgive us for wanting the many good things in a wrong way and putting them ahead of you. For filling ourselves with things that aren't going to last. Lord, help us to share the good things, to let loose of them if we need them. To celebrate them and to remember they are a gift from you. Especially we thank you for the gift of rightness, of righteousness, which is ours freely for the taking. As we trust in your perfect life, your death, and your resurrection, as we trust in you, the perfect Savior, with a perfect world prepared for those who trust and follow you. Amen.