No about you, but I feel like worshiping. This has been really th it is such a pleasure to be here. I want to thank you and um Today, we are going to be looking at Psalm 8, and it is the title of the message. Is reflecting God's majesty. Reflecting God's majesty So, if I could ask any who are able and who can, please raise please stand up as I read the scripture This is Psalm eight. O Lord, our Lord How majestic is your name in all the earth! You have set your glory above the heavens. Out of the mouth of babes and infants, you have established strength because of your foes, to still the enemy and the avenger. When I look at your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars, which you have set in place, what is man? That you are mindful of him, and the Son of Man that you care for him. Yet You have made him a little lower than the heavenly beings, and crowned him with glory and honor. You have given him dominion over the works of your hands and have put all things under his feet all sheep and oxen, and also the beasts of the field, the birds of the heaven, and the fish of the sea, whatever passes along the paths of the sea. O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth. This is the word of the Lord, you may be seated. By introduction, we are told that this psalm is written to the choirmaster. Meaning that it is an object of point of worship. It says it's according to the Gidd Now the gidd, we think, we don't know exactly, it's like a scyther, um a stringed instrument and could be strummed or plucked And so this has to do with music and beauty. We also know that it's a Psalm of David. Now, to start out with, um it is said that one-fifth of the Bible is poetry And poetry is a little distinct from, say, doctrine or history or stories. It is Not so much information about God as a way of engaging God and a way of inviting God. and have him impact our lives. C. S. Lewis says, the Psalms must be read as poems, as lyrics with all the licenses and all the formalities, the hyperboles, overstatements, the emotional rather than logical connections, which are prop appropriate to poetry Now recently I was looking into Psalms and what I discovered just opened up the Psalms to me. So I'd like to share this, but before I do, um I've been writing poetry since I was fifteen. And I want to read one of my poems, which is kind of on the same theme as Psalm 8. It's not nearly so glory glorious. Uh but I want to distinguish the difference between what we think of as a habit as poetry and what the Psalms consider poetry So I'm going to read you a poem called The Target. An arrow snotched into the string. The universe its twang to fling, echoed constellations swing, every atom's matter winged Stars that swarm across the sky, mountain towers from the lie, slopes to valleys, lushness slides. Reflecting hikers, weary eye. Lost the habit's fleshly cost Lost the selfish greed and gloss, lost in blessedness aghast, lost in suffering will is cast. Loosed, swept to the heart, found profound the gospel's art Now, that is generally, it's a sonnet, 14 lines. That's what we think of as poetry. Whether it is um a lyric for a song, every line has um It's I have a big tetrameter for beats to align. And um Sound and meter are the core of what we think of as poetry. But the Psalms predate what we think of as poetry. And the psalms have actually that were were different. They didn't they weren't beholden to sound or rhythm the same way contemporary poetry is. So there are three elements to a psalm. First is its succinctness. It says a very few words, it says a whole lot. Regular poetry ought to be the same. Second, it has startling images and figures of speech. That we are able to grasp and abstract bigger ideas. But third is parallelism And I want to spend a minute on this because once I got this, all of a sudden, Psalms just glistened before me. So let me go to a um short phrase from Revelation four. Um to demonstrate parallelism. Holy, holy Holy. Is the Lord God Almighty who was, who is, and is to come In that short section, there are three examples of parallelism, and they give us a good summary of what parallelism is and how it works. First is repetition. Holy. Holy. Holy. You can, it amplifies as you repeat. It is, if you will, an exclamation point. Because in Hebrew or in Greek they did not use exclamation points Then we have Lord God Almighty. Now, what this does is it explains So we have Lord, his name, we have God, his role, and Almighty, his attributes. And so those aren't just terms put together. It's meant to build the power of God as we appreciate Him. And then we have a sense of progression. Who was, who is, and is to come. So you'll notice that we have a sense of building. There's also um you can have uh like in the proverbs, a fool is this, but um a wise man is thus, so you also have antithesis. But I just wanted to bring that up before we got started on this magnificent psalm. So I'm gonna go to uh verse one, O Lord, our Lord How majestic is your name in all the earth! You have set your glory above the heavens. So, O Lord, Yahweh. This is Moses when he asked God, What do I call you? The response was, I am that I am. But what I learned when I was reading about this in seminary is that the verb for to be has different tenses depending upon how it's reflected. So this can also mean I was Uh that I was, or I will be, that I will be, or as I was, I shall be The point is that you have the timelessness of a self-existing God in that one word, Yahweh. And then our Lord Adonoyu. That gives us a sense of what God does. He's a ruler, he's an owner. Um he is a master. That's adonoi, often used um and so the translation in English is actually quite good, O Lord our Lord How majestic is your name in all the earth? Majesty Um clothed in majesty is a way that the the David in this psalm wanted to build up that this majesty covered the he um is all over the earth And you have set your glory above the heavens. And this means your splendor covers the entire Now from this point I want to go to a uh a different translation than ESV. It's L V P. Carl provided this for me, and it helps to clarify What David was talking about, what the Holy Spirit through David was talking about when he wrote this psalm. So in this I'm going to use a visual idea of binoculars And we're going from a great God to the smallest and most insignificant humans, infants So, verse um three reads, By the mouth of babies and sucklings, you founded something vigorous To deal with your adversaries, to stop the enemy and the person causing redress What I like about that translation is it takes us back to Genesis 3, between the cosmic conflict that was set in motion and the grace of God even at our fall that He promised that in time we would be able to have victory So it's not so much babies as babe that he was sent to crush the head of the serpent. And this is in fact a prefiguration of Christ and his role at defeating the enemy, Satan. Now, I'd like to take a minute and just many of you might know the term imprecatory It's one of the things that I found off putting in many of the Psalms in Pregatory is something that Uh it's accusatory, it's blaspheming, it is criticizing, it is bringing down, it's harsh talking about the enemy Now, we know from the New Testament that Christ had a little different slant. He said, Love the enemy, hate the sin. Love the sinner. And I just want to throw out here that I think David actually does that very, very well. David had many enemies. He had the Philistines, he had the Syrians. But think about Saul, King Saul. chased him for nearly a decade, tried to have him killed two times. David could have gotten his revenge and he never did. He wanted nothing to do with taking down God's anointing. Later in his life, there was Absalom, his own son, and once again he forbear, and when Absalom was killed He was mourning. And so, in fact, the lesson that I have taken from this is that every time you come across an imprecatory phrase. Replace it with Satan. It is okay to hate evil. It is okay to hate sin. Okay, now we're going to move to verses three and four. And so we're going to take our m uh binoculars and move them from an infant back up to God. Now the first part of this talks about God and the second about man And you need them together in order for the second to make sense So let me read it. When I look at the heavens and the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars which you have set in place, what is man that you are mindful of him, the son of man that you care for him About a month ago I had the blessing of visiting my nephew and his family in Hilliard uh Florida. Now his house was five minutes from Hilliard, which was ten stores, and they were forty five, fifty minutes from Jacksonville. So we're talking really in the sticks. Now it turned out that the time the day that I was there, they had a total eclipse of the moon. And that was one of the most remarkable things that I've ever seen. A full moon was sitting here and it was bright in the sky And then you have the shadow of the earth, and there's complete blackness over the earth, the shadow of the earth as it covers it, and then And as soon as it was covered in darkness, the image of the moon popped back and it became red, and you could see the moon again And at the same time, all the stars that were in the heaven became brighter because of the dimness of the moon. How big is our universe? I was reading one story where thinking of the expanding universe that given that it was I know there's young Earth theory And I I uh there are explanations for this. But let's let's go with what they said thirteen point seven billion years ago and the universe has been expanding. And this one writer was saying that when you go on to the other side of that 13. 7 billion years, that those stars are actually moving away at greater than the speed of light. So that even if we had a ship and we could go the speed of light, we'd never reach the end of the universe That is how big it is. Let us never become blind to sublimity to the sublime. I really fear that with all our gizmos, our telephones and and our screens that have three D graphics and play our spinal columns like a musical instrument that we're forgetting just to look out and see the magnificence of what God has done. Each person who is here today was called by God to be here. And I am informed by Scripture that I too was given a call by God, and I wanted to look at this magnificent psalm and be able to present it in a way that would enrich all of our lives. So we now come with this grandeur, with this majesty with his glory to a rhetorical question What is man that you are mindful of him Well what does mindful mean? Think of a parent Mindfulness for an infant means that during twenty-four hours a day 360 days a year, you are in earshot, that you're changing diapers, that you're providing sustenance, that you're caring for, you're holding, you're embracing Later as they grow, it means that we oversee, we muster, we charge, we care for And then there are those times, remember, every mother and and mothers I think are more gifted. You're sitting down and a young child, all of a sudden there's silence and you're not aga Expecting silence. And there's that thrill of terror as you run back and see what malarkey the kids are getting into. Um this is the kind of care that we have. Mindfulness means that we scold, we discipline, we commit, we deliver, we enjoin, we judge, we take From here to there. Okay. So if the mindfulness of us as serial beings with the myopia of our normal lives and our vision are capable of all this, what does it mean that God, who knows every thought in our head, is mindful of us. That is the weight that I think David wants us to have. So now we've come from God to ourselves. Let us take our binoculars and look at how God. places us, how he posits us. He says in verse five, yet you have made him a little lower than the heavenly beings, and crowned him with Glory and honor. Now I was thinking of how to Translate this in a way that would be vivid. And I thought of light. Everyone is looking at me. Um, God willing, I have no light that I am projecting. It is all reflected light, coming from lights, coming from the sun, and that is how our eyes are able to see What God has done. And so because of the light that God has provided We are able to find shape, meaning, purpose, and direction in the way we're going to live our lives. So now we're looking here at how man was placed. Let's move over and see what is God's will for us to do. I'm going to read verses six through eight You have given him dominion over the works of your hands. You have put him, put all things under his feet. All sheep and oxen, and also the beasts of the field, the birds of the heaven the fish of the sea and whatever passes below the paths of whatever passes along the paths of the sea The answer is what we're supposed to work with is everything. We are to build what He has given us. We are to use what He has provided. And once again, notice how inclusive He is very specific. He talks about sheep, oxen, and things to the field That is every walking critter on earth. Then it's birds of the air, everything that we see flying around And then there's fish in the sea and everything that passed along the paths of the sea. So notice once again the way the parallelism builds it up and tells us that we are to pay attention to absolutely everything Now, it might be said, gee, I don't have much to do with sheep and oxen But we do have school or work or what we're working with. We may not have beasts of the field But we do have shopping and making dinner. Many of us are going to have that after this service We may not have birds of the air, but we will have gridlock on ninety-five. And exercise that we may or may not want to get into. We may not have fish of the sea, but we do have projects, we do have ministries, we do have things that engage and call us all things under our feet. That means absolutely everything The bottom line to what David, I think, is trying to do in this psalm is to address the greatness That we have reflected from the majesty of the Lord. David wants us to break out of our myopic serial within the moment, within a certain space lives, and realize that we are greater than that We want to see God illuminate in our lives. Appreciate the color. When you leave today Look at any tree. You will see a hundred tints of green in every tree. The subtlety and richness of what God has given us is awesome and amazing. He wants us to revel in the sound of the hymns. I'm so appreciative of the worship They brought joy to my heart as we sung um the songs this morning. He wants us to taste the subtle spices in the food we eat and the love that shines from him through us C. S. Lewis talked about agape The love that loves love and in love all things. at the end. The binoculars leave us and they go back to the exact point, the exact words Where we started out in verse one. O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name! in all of the earth. So the logic of this psalm, I think, is first that we have an infinite And uh all-powerful creator and maintainer, who is our guide and who directs us. However, there's more. We only have access to overcome the adversary, to find this power and this meaning and this glory Is through his Son, our Savior Jesus Christ. That the quality of our belief can only be enriched Through his gospel, through the Son of God, the Alpha and the Mega, the bright morning star, our Redeemer. The fourth point that founds this psalm, this mighty psalm, is that belief is not a Ours to own. It's not ours to take, but it's ours to receive and project. And it's in that reception and that projection That we become sons and daughters of the Most High God. So now, coming to the conclusion I just want to bring up that this one-fifth of the Bible that we call poetry It is not like the Ten Commandments something that we want to be able to list and name and figure out. It's rather something that we need to mull over. To consider, to meditate on. And this is best done through the avenue of prayer. Which is the whole point of what Carl told me and it's something that I have had a rich encounter with. with that in the process of prayer is where we exactly exert this engagement with God and His Word Okay, so David confronted a specific situation, but the Holy Spirit wanted Psalm 8 to speak He wanted us, David wanted us, to reach out through God's grace to substance and power. And will that's greater than ours. God knows our limitations. He knows our weaknesses But despite pain and addictions and complications and sufferings and and uh failures, we are given access to something Last suggestion take the Psalms personally. So where you're looking and you're reading, he say me, you say I, them say we Apply the psalm to yourself. And as I said before, where you come to a point of criticism, of impression The benefit of this is going to be a new attitude that will engage our soul, and our soul then can inform our mind. mind and our mind then can guide our will which is from Christ Jesus. So let's count our blessings every day. Know that Christ will lighten the yoke and he will call us. And as Tim Keller reminds us Let us pray our fears and always pray our tears. Let me say a prayer. Father God, we thank you for this opportunity to come before you and grapple with the richness of your word. I thank you for Grace to Relay Church. And I just pray that you would use this psalm in our lives. In the name of Jesus. Amen.