So Moses continued to speak these words to all Israel. And he said to them, I am 120 years old today. I am no longer able to go out and come in. The Lord has said to me, You shall not go over hit this Jordan. The Lord your God himself will go over before you. He will destroy these nations before you so that you shall dispossess them. And Joshua will go over it to your head as the Lord has spoken. And the Lord will do to them as he did to Sion and Og, the kings of the Amorites, and to their land when he destroyed them And the Lord will give them over to you, and you shall do to them according to the whole commandment that I have commanded you. Be strong and courageous. Do not fear or be in dread of them, for it is the Lord your God who goes with you. He will not leave you or forsake you. Then Moses summoned Joshua and said to him, in the sight of all Israel, be strong and courageous. For you shall go with his people into the land that the Lord has sworn to their fathers to give to them, and you shall put them in possession of it. It is the Lord who goes before you He will be with you. He will not leave you or forsake you. Do not fear or be dismayed. Then Moses wrote this law and gave it to the priests, the sons of Levi, who carried the ark of the covenant of the Lord, and to all the elders of Israel. And Moses commanded them at the end of every seven years, at the set time in the year of release, at the Feast of Booths, when all Israel comes to appear before the Lord your God at the place that he will choose You shall read this law before all Israel in their hearing. Assemble the people, men, women, and little ones, and the sojournal within your towns. That they may hear and learn to fear the Lord your God, and be careful to do all the words of this law, and that their children who have not known it may hear and learn to fear the Lord your God as long as you live in the land that you are going over the Jordan to possess. And the Lord said to Moses, Moses, behold, the days approach when you must die. Call Joshua and present yourselves in the tent of meeting that I may commission him. And Moses and Joshua went and presented themselves in the tent of meeting. And the Lord appeared in the tent in a pillar of cloud, and the pillar of cloud stood over the entrance of the tent And the Lord said to Moses, Behold, you are about to lie down with your fathers. And these people will writhe and hoar after the foreign gods among them in the land that they are entering. And they will forsake me and break my covenant that I have made with them. Then my anger will be kindled against them in that day, and I will forsake them and hide my face from them And they will be devoured. And many evils and troubles will come upon them, so that they will say in that day, Have not these evils come upon us because our God is not among us. And I will surely hide my face in that day because of all the evil that they have done, because they have turned to other gods. Now therefore write this song and teach it to the people of Israel. Put it in their mouths, that this song may be a witness for me against the people of Israel. For when I have brought them into the land flowing with milk and honey, which I swore to give to their fathers, and they have eaten and are full and grown fat, they will turn to other gods and serve them, and despise me, and break my covenant And when many evils and troubles have come upon them, this song shall confront them as a witness, where it will live unforgotten in the mouths of their offspring. For I know what they are inclined to do even today before I have brought them into the land that I swore to give. So Moses wrote this song the same day and taught it to the people of Israel. Israel. And the Lord commissioned Joshua the son of Nun and said, Be strong and courageous. You shall bring the people of Israel into the land that I swore to give them. I will be with you. When Moses had finished writing the words of this law in a book to the very end, Moses commanded the Levites who carry the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord Take this book of the Lord and put it by the side of the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord your God, that they may be there for a witness against you, for I know how rebellious and stubborn you are. Behold, even today while I am yet alive with you, you have been rebellious against the Lord. How much more after my death? Assemble to me all these elders of your tribes and your officers that I may speak these words in their ears and call heaven and earth to witness against them. For I know that after my death you will surely act corruptly and turn aside from the way that I have commanded you And in the days to come and in the days to come, evil will befall you, because you will do what is evil in the sight of the Lord, provoking him to anger through the work of you. The word of the Lord this morning, dear Lord, we do come to you again and ask for your blessings to be with us. May your spirit lead us so you can victory of our sin and help us to hear your word this morning. As it is declared to you by a frail servant. Pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated. Different seasons in life give us a certain rhythm in life. And by seasons, I'm talking about the weather. I I experienced this when we first moved to to from Florida to here because I grew up in a tropical climate where the temperatures only change about fifteen degrees throughout the year, and so I had no clue just how powerful. Seasons can be. And my wife and I are still adjusting and adapting and still learning and trying to understand what this whole cycle of life called different seasons is all about. And so we get ready for winter. I always forget to uh work on my lawnmower and I have to call someone when it's time to cut my grass to come and help me, because it will not start We buy clothes that are appropriate for the particular season of that time. We even change our diet sometimes. Because it's winter or it's summer. And so just thinking about how we prepare for different seasons in life, the good and the bad, some people like the cold, some people like the heat. But thinking about the seasons of life really this week reminded me of how much that is so true of us in real life. Not just in terms of thinking about the different seasons weather of life, but in fact the different changes that we go through in life That the cycle of life or the rhythm of life for every Christian is characterized by change Whether we're ready for it or not, change is coming. Change happens all around us. Transitions happen all around us all the time. And whether we're prepared for them or not, they're inevitable, right? So think about it. People move away to other states. We buy new homes. We sell our homes. We move into different parts of the city. We have children. Those children grow up and they they go to college and we miss them and and they get married and we have grandchildren. Now life looks very different. We lose loved ones and they leave a gap in our lives and we cannot imagine living without them. We get sick. We get better. We get old. And sometimes we don't like it But it happens. And so change is inevitable for us. It always happens. It's always there. And so everywhere you look, change is around us. And sometimes I think even by listing some of those changes that I mentioned, it could be exhausting. And in most cases, change can be very difficult. Transitions can be very difficult. It can be so hard for us to accept what is really going on and what is changing in our lives. But you know there's something that is true. Even as we read this chapter this morning, if there is a change that is going on in our very own lives and in the circumstances of our lives, What is the one thing that we can count on that will be constant in our life that will help us to deal with change? So I may be changing. You may be changing. Things around you may change, but the constant thing in life is a God who never changes, a God who promises to always be with us. And so we can end the sermon right there and just say we know how to deal with change and say we can deal with change because God promises to always be with us. Israel is here going through a major transition in their life. And there's uh you can almost feel how different this particular chapter, and these chapters will be different all the way Till we end our discussion and our series on the book of Deuteronomy, that things now look so real to them that there's actually a real change that is going on A real transition is going on between Moses, who now we know is about to die, and Joshua is about to take over the leadership. And Moses is not going to see the promised land. We know we're told he because of his sin And so before the people either get too frustrated because of the change that is about to happen or get too excited about the change that is about to happen Moses is here being told by God to write these words and give the people what I call a reality check. A reality check that we need. And so this morning I just want to look at two things. A reality that we must remember when change is going on, and a truth we must believe in. When change is going on. So the reality check is this. Moses has lived a full life. We see that in the very beginning of chapter 31 verse 1. He has served the people competently. He has done his his duty. He has done his job. It's time for him to go to rest. And this is a crucial time again as I mentioned, as the people of God about not only to transition between the leadership from Moses to Joshua, but also as the people prepare for this final Conquest of the land. They are about to have their full and final push into this promised land that God has promised to them And so Moses is reminding the people of their disobedience. I mean this whole chapter as we read, i i the at the center of this whole chapter is You will fall, you will fail, you will disobey, you even before I'm gone, you you're gonna you're gonna fall. Isn't that our story? It is the story of the Christian to disobey, to fall, to to rebel against the Lord. And and we know how that works out in our lives, right? The moment we just Disobey and fall away and look the other way and not follow God, then we know what's coming. It's called discipline, and God disciplines us because He loves us But notice how Israel is actually responding to God's discipline to them. Look at verse seventeen, we're going to skip all over the place But look at verse 17. What do they say? The people have been shown just how how rebellious and how disobedient they are. And how do they say, Have not these evil things come upon us because God is not among us? Now that may sound like a pretty thing. That may sound like a good thing. But you know what? They're missing God's presence. That's it. They're only missing God's presence. But folks, missing God's presence is not the same as true repentance. Where is the cry that says, Well, we're going through all these things because God is not among us because we have sinned against him Because we have fallen away, because we have broken His law. Father, please come and forgive us so that we may turn to you, so that we may feel your presence among us. us. All they say is, these bad things are happening to us because God is not here. Where is he? And yet there's no true repentance. See, repentance is not really meant to draw us away from God. It's supposed to draw us to Him To love God, to to pursue Him, to walk in His ways. A and you know when we're living in in disobedience, the truth of the matter is and the reason why we we can only miss God's presence and not really truly turn to Him into repentance is because the reality check that we need to hear is that we will be tempted by the things of this world. Which is what Israel is being tempted here. To worship other gods, to follow other things, that our love will not always be focused on God, that there are so many things that will always clamor for our attention There will always be things that we want to look at and say, well, how about if I go there? Oh how about if I take that particular solution? How about if I just try and see if that is going to work first before I turn to the Lord See, we may not be tempted as the people of God to have this or to worship or to turn to these carved images of the Canaanite gods, but we sure do have our own share of gods, don't we? Gods that we are so tempted to run to that they they promise us nothing and yet we we want those things. It is money, it is it is it it is material wealth, it is power, it is fame, it is sex, it is human reason, all those things as as as some theologians call them, the idols of our hearts that we want to pursue. And the problem is reality check. Every time we follow after those things, we go to them or we we run to them and then we realize that they don't satisfy us. Even after we've received them, we've you've amassed all the wealth that you wanted and all the reason that you ask God for and you You've gotten all these things, and yet you're there standing right in front of those things, and they don't satisfy. And when they don't satisfy, this is what we do: reality check. When they don't satisfy, we begin to live in fear. And you know what drives us to fear? You know the things that we fear the most? The things which ought not to frighten us are the things that make us more afraid. I'm a coward. Do you know every night before I go to sleep There's one thing I gotta do. I gotta walk all the way to the back door and make sure that all the locks, everything is locked. And I walk back out to the front and make sure that all the doors are locked. Now listen, my thinking is not just merely the fact that I'm trying to be a protective father and husband to make sure that everything is in check. I am driven more by the fear that someone is going to come and break in and steal my stuff. Here's a question. If there was really someone a thief that was so determined to enter into my house, do you think my wooden door would stand in their way? Just one kick and get inside. But I'm driven by fear. The things that frighten me Are not things that ought to frighten me. And Israel has no reason to be afraid. In fact, he tells them here, you have seen God demonstrate that he fights for you Defeating Sihon and Og, the king of Amorites, and you have seen him rescue you from Egypt, dispading the sea, so that you may walk through and be saved, and yet you still live in fear. And we can look back and say, oh, those Israelites. You literal faith. How can you live in fear? How can you doubt the ability of God to rescue your truth? Reality check for us, we live the same way. Notice in verse 6 Other people are being encouraged not to look to the trials, not to look to the enemy, not to look to the problem that frightens them, but instead to keep their gaze, to keep their eyes on God alone. Isn't that the truth about us? When you're going through a hard time and there's an issue that is just giving you headache, the temptation is: I'm going to focus on this massive headache that is before me And take your eyes off of God who can help you. Your energy, your attention, everything is focused on the problem at hand. And the moment you begin looking at the problem at hand, you are not looking at the one who is able to rescue you. Not to mention how much we lack faith and courage in life. I mean there's a reason why the refrain in this particular chapter is be strong. Be courageous. Because we are not strong, because we are not courageous. We doubt that God is really able to help us. You know, this is a cliche we use all the time. And it's not biblical. Let go and let God. Listen, friends. The sovereignty of God, the fact that God Almighty is in control and in charge of all things in our life does not in any way diminish our responsibility to exercise faith and trust in God. Because God is all powerful and in charge of all things, that does not mean that we live our lives as Christians in a passive way. God will accomplish all things on our behalf, but he calls us to do something, and it is to trust in him. It is to have faith in him. Joshua demonstrate what that looks like for us, right? Who is Joshua? And it's interesting that it is Joshua who is actually going to help and lead the people into the land. Why? Remember what Joshua did. Remember Joshua's story. Joshua was one of the few faithful spies who went into the land and spied on this particular land that they're about to inherit. And Joshua came back and he said, Yes, we can do it. But guess what? He did not say, yes, we can do it on our own strength. Joshua exercised, Joshua was able to demonstrate God's sovereignty But also the ability to have faith and trust in God. Because he said, by the help of God, oh, we can get that. Regardless of the enemy. God requires an active human trust in Him. That's what He requires from us. And so the question we must be asking ourselves as we think about this verses is: what is the disposition of your mind during trials? What is my disposition? What is the disposition of my mind when I am going through a difficult time? Acknowledging God's sovereignty, but also realizing that I'm called to live a life of faith. A life of courage. Are we fixing our eyes on the one who will not fail us or forsaking us? Our eyes only on the things that trouble us. See again the refrain here is: Be strong and courageous, do not fear or be in dread of them, for it is the Lord your God who goes before you. It's a song. He will not leave you or forsake you. You know, I really believe that if there's anyone that needed to hear these words, it really just wasn't the Israelites. I think Joshua really needed to hear this word. words. I think Joshua truly needed to hear these words because he's about to lead some hard-headed, disobedient Grumbling, complaining, sinful people into the land. He's about to get a taste of what Moses felt for all those years. It's not gonna be fun. But Joshua realizes what a great privilege he has. Joshua realizes that this is the promise that God made to his people. It from the very beginning for them to inherit this land it's not a small matter. It's a it's a big deal. Reality check Joshua realizes something that we underestimate that the greater the privilege, the greater the responsibility. And at times that's really hard for us to see. We underestimate that because Joshua is here being told that you're not only going to be Israel's leader, but you are actually going to help the people see This great promise that God made to his people come to pass. And I'm encouraged because that's how we ought to think about life. Whatever task God has given to you, don't ever underestimate that it is a great privilege that requires great responsibility. Whether you're a parent, whether you're a teacher, whether you're a church member Whatever it is that God has given to you, we should never underestimate the great privilege that God has given to us. Because the moment we underestimate that, we don't realize the responsibility we have. We don't realize how much we need to take care of the people that God has placed in our care. And you know when we talk about this idea of Joshua being encouraged to be strong and take courage, this is not some psychological boost that God is speaking of here Okay? Psychological boost that says, be strong, man, you know. Pull yourself by the bootstraps, you know. Man up Some psychological boost. These two great truths That are laid in that statement of being strong and being courageous. One of them is just understanding that the people God is calling Joshua to lead are existing because God has been faithful. And by that I mean they are God's own responsibility. So hold on to him. Because they're his responsibility. But the second truth is this: don't you ever forget that you're or think that you're alone. The unfailing presence of God is always with you. Always with you. You know, I have often, as a young Christian, my favorite passage in scripture was Joshua 1. 8. It talks about keeping the words of this Lord. Don't ever let them leave your heart and mind. Because that's the way to success. But in recent years I've added verse 9 to it. Because I've needed it. See, there are times, even as your pastor, I have doubted myself. There are times I've wanted to quit. Because life can be hard. But the moment those thoughts come to my mind and I'm reminded of what God is saying here, that I am only an under-shepherd, that I'm only in a privileged agent. That I've only been appointed for a limited time to do God's work. I am here today and tomorrow I am gone Knowing that truth helps me put things in perspective. But it helps me to live not in fear, but trusting the Lord. Yet there are times I feel lonely. I'm sure there are times you feel lonely too. And w this sermon can be preached for leaders, and I'm I'm trying my best not to just focus on people in leadership positions. We all are in some Leadership position in some sense. But but I do think, especially for Joshua, I mean there are times I know he felt he was all alone. There were times he looked at the future and he he thought it was all bleak. I'm I'm sure Moses felt the same thing. Yet God's presence, his faithfulness can encourage us that we are not alone. And there are times even as God's presence People here complain of God being absent in their life. There are times when we'll we'll feel lonely because of our sin. There are also times when we feel lonely because of someone else's sin. And those times can be hard. Those times can be difficult. But here's a reality check about going through lonely times. Do you know that it is only God, and only God of the Bible who cuts in order to heal? It is only God, and God of the Bible, who cuts in order to heal As one of my favorite African theologians, St. Augustine, says, in moments when God strikes us down, Those are the moments we realize and see the inadequacy of our own justice and realize that only God is Just. Only God can heal. Only God can mend our brokenness. And so in those moments of loneliness, whether because of your sin or your mistakes or the or the mistake of others, I ask you to hold on tight to Him. To be strong. As much as we feel lonely Our temptation reality check is also going to be what everyone in the world wants Bigger and better. Isn't that all problem? All the time That instead of taking the opportunities that God has given to us, instead of making the best out of every opportunity that we have, we can Complain. We whine. You know, Moses complained too, a little bit. Not as much as the people complained. Do you remember after they were rescued from slavery? And they're asking for staff? And they were they even started hallucinating? What about the cucumbers and the leeks and the all the good stuff that we enjoyed in Egypt? You forgot about the chains on your backs and the We easily forget. And so instead of trying to change our seasons, we need to make the best out of every season that the Lord has for us. We need to do that by trusting in him. And trusting God is hard, isn't it? So Moses throughout his life has trusted the Lord as God said, You shall go to Egypt and you shall rescue my people, you shall raise up your staff, and Pharaoh will Cringe and you will let the people go, you shall do all these things, you shall do all these things. And Moses trusted and God did Can you imagine how much it took him to trust the Lord when he said, you shall not? God tells him, you are not entering the promised land. You've worked all this long. But Canaan, you shall not go. He's too much stress when the Lord says no. See sometimes the the life seeming troubles and disemb disappointments can prove to us to be the the greatest blessings. So we must learn to trust the Lord even when he says no. The final reality check I want us to see is we don't have much time to talk about it, but is what this chapter is telling us that we will die Right? That's the truth for all of us. And we shall die. So Moses has lived a perfect life, 120 years. Oh my But God had a plan for his replacement. God had a plan for another leader who was going to take his people into the promised land. It's not Moses. And the only reason I mentioned this is because when when a great leader passes on, dies, sometimes we can be filled with unease, right, in our hearts, wondering What does the future hold for us? How is it gonna look like? This is the leader Moses that we knew. What about his great work What about all the things that he's been trying to do to accomplish? Is that all gonna come to nothing? What is gonna happen for us and for our future? Can we really trust Joshua Listen, God, God is a good God. And his plan is in place He's gonna achieve his plan and sometimes it's it's it's for him to complete the work that he started with someone else. So we must trust that. So what's the truth that we must believe? See the truth that we must believe is summarized in few words, but the good news is it's really not up to us, right? It's not dependent upon us. It is God who is in control of all things. It is God who takes initiative to act into our lives and on our behalf. God is the one who is in charge, not the people that He has placed in authority. He is the one who is in charge. Good news because as I mentioned, even in terms of transitions and change, people tend to fret and wonder who will help us now, who will lead us now? Ways or Moses and/or Joshua But God wants his people to realize as they enter into this critical venture in their life that they are not entering into this venture on their own. That they don't have to trust their own confidence which is frail. They don't have to trust their own abilities which are powerless. But they can Take courage and be strong in the Lord and know that their confidence is only in the Lord who says, He will march before you. He is the one who goes ahead of you. And he's done that. He's proven to them that he is able to do that, to lead them into this new place. And so the truth that we must believe in is by trusting this God who leads us, and he just doesn't lead us, a God who fights for us, who fights our battles. And that's a good news for us, right? That even in moments of of trials and and turmoil, that we we don't have to trust our own finite and weak abilities, and we can depend on him. We can be encouraged. That our survival, our success in everything that we do depends on God's leadership and His leadership alone. I mean, our victories are really not our victories, they are God's victories. And so the idea is the real general is not Joshua, it's not Moses. The real leader is not the people that you see, it is God Himself. Now, having said that, it's true that divine leadership is incarnational, right? That leadership is earthed in human leaders And and I think that's a great thing that God gives to us. I think it's a beautiful thing that God helps our anxiety, which can be out of control sometimes, and does provide leaders, physical people that we can talk to and touch and share our thoughts with to lead us. Being guided by him. So he provides Joshua as a replacement for Moses. That God does not leave his people alone. What does that remind you of? What does that remind you to be thankful of? I know it reminds me to be thankful of friends. Reminds me to be thankful of mentors, or people that have spoken in my life for years and continue to do so, willingly and joyfully Because God uses those leaders and those people in my life to help me But even during times of great changes, God's people must believe in this truth, which is all truth, that his plans cannot be forwarded, not even by man's failure, not by death, not by loss. I mean even after Moses dying and God providing Joshua, it is true that people may feel like, oh, this is all coming to nothing Yet God's plan is not going to be affected, not by any chance. He will see to it that his promise that he made to his people will come to pass. See, we may be forgetful, we may be unfaithful. But that's not our God. The truth is, our God never forgets. Our God is always faithful. He's assured us that nothing and absolutely nothing will stand in the way of Him fulfilling His promises to us. And that's Good news. And that also means that our future is certain. But the certainty of our future is not dependent upon us, it's dependent on God and Him alone. Are there times that we're gonna fail and fall and sin? Absolutely. Are there times that we're gonna run away? As we're reminded this morning in our Bible study like Jonah did? Yes, absolutely. Are there times that our future is going to seem uncertain and things are kind of dark and bleak and we really don't know where we're going? Absolutely, those days will come But the truth is that God is always merciful, that God is always pursuing us and longing to draw us closer to Him. We can be assured of our forgiveness and restoration. That God is able to take even the most bitter trials of our lives and make them beautiful, beautiful for His glory, beauty for ashes, that God can with manned or broken pieces and put them together into something beautiful. Where would you be today? What kind of life would you be living today? What kind of a person would you be living Today, if it wasn't the Lord that took you out of your sin and misery and put you together and mended you and made you the person you are, the beautiful person that you are, where would you be Where would you be? I can tell you, I would be dead. Dead in my sin. But God, out of his mercy and grace, says, I don't care how messed up you are. I don't care you about your past and what you done but I am able to take all of that mess and make it beautiful You know what else is true, Christian? You know what else is true? You are still that same messed up person that depends on God's grace. But you know what is also true? You are that same person that God is mending and making into a beautiful person right now, right here. Still working on you. Still working on you. So why would you not trust him? How could you not trust him? He never gives up. Never gives up. And I want us. How do we know this? How do we know that this is true? How do you know that this is true? Jesus loves me, this I know. For the Bible tells me so, little ones to him belong They are weak, but he is strong. Yes, Jesus loves me. Yes, Jesus loves me. Yes, Jesus loves me. The Bible tells me so. You think that's a very simple, childish song? I know it's true because God's word tells me it is true. Is true. And that's what Moses is telling his people. He's telling them, you have God's word written, vocal. Visual word of God. A word of God that guides you in life so that you don't have guessing in life. A word of God that gives you strength and encourages you to live so that you don't have to walk blindly. Now the truth is sometimes you do going life guessing And blindly, but it's not because we do not know what we are required to do, it is because we have refused to accept what the Lord is telling us. God tells us what requires, what is pleasing to him, what is honoring to him, hear in his word. God said you don't have to walk blindly. You don't have to go guessing what you're going to do, how you're going to live your life, how you're going to use your finances, how you're going to care for your neighbor. You don't have to guess that I have told you how to live. And here is my word to help you know how to live. So read it. Hear it read. Memorize it. Teach it to your children. The best gift you can ever give to your children is to help them memorize God's words so that they may never forget it. Notice the special time that the people are called to read God's Word every seven years. The Feast of Tabernacles, which was really giving praise to God in gratitude for their deliverance. But what is the other part of it? In the year of release. Why? Because God's word has implications on how we live. So go home and take care of your neighbor and love your neighbor. Because that is living obediently to God's word. It is a gift of grace. Are you reading it every day? Are you thinking about it every day? Do you believe what it says? Do you do what it says? And I love this part. Moses is told to write a song and teach it to the people. And on that same day, he writes a song and teaches them a song. Now we have so many songs that we can sing, but I really want you to think about this song as God's word as well. God's word, which is a witness to confront them when they go astray in verse 19. And this word right here is given to us so that we may not be complacent in life, especially in our pursuit of holiness. To always be there before us when we are tempted to go astray. Do you nourish your spiritual your physical body by eating and drinking every day? Because you know if you don't, you're gonna die. Do you nourish your soul with God's word? The living Bread, a lamp unto our feet, a light unto our path, the word that is right and true, the word that Paul says is is profitable for for teaching, for reproof, for rebuke, for corruption, correction And for training in righteousness. Final truth, I gotta mention this. There's many. We're gonna mention the last one. Because it's good. God is all knowing. All knowing. You know what I find really awesome in this chapter is the fact that God is basically saying to his people, I know what you're gonna do. I know you're gonna rebel. I know you're gonna sin. I know you sin. I know who you are. Do you know God could have destroyed humanity? After the fall, and said, I'm a perfect holy God. So let's close this chapter We're done. Instead, God made a way. Instead, God made a way to redeem us Instead, God determined to commit himself to us, knowing so well how sinful we were. Isn't that good news? So Moses is reminding his people, don't forget that truth So seasons of life. Which one do you prefer? Are you a winter kind of a person? Summer? Beautiful spring. You know what's true though When it gets a little too cold, I complain that it's too cold. I want the heat. When it warms up, I complain it's too hot. Bring back the cold. I am never satisfied. But the truth is I I can't control those seasons. They're inevitable. They will always come I can't control those changes. They will come. I don't know what season of life the Lord has you this morning. I don't know what change is taking place in your own personal life. I don't know what's going on. But you do. So how do you deal with that change? What can be encouraging to you this morning? Other than the fact that you know that there's a constant in that change. I love what Paul says in Philippians 4:11. He says, I have learned in whatever situation I am to be content. I know how to be brought low. I know how to abound. In any and every circumstance, I have learned the secret of facing plenty and hunger. Abundance and need. I can do all things through him who gives me strength. So, friends, whatever change you may be going through, be strong. Be courageous. Do not be dismayed. For God will never be Never, never ever leave you. Thanks to you, O Lord, God, through Christ Jesus or Emmanuel, who has come to dwell with us. Be glorified in all things, for you are our God who has promised Your continued presence in our life, so that in every circumstance we may know the secret to deal with whatever comes our way, that is to be content and to find or full satisfaction in Jesus Christ May that be true of us today and tomorrow and forever. In Jesus' name. Amen.