Every meal tells a story because it involves who the cook is, the time spent, the ingredients. the skill, the inspiration. I was watching a food show which I like to do next level chef and they had a you know a competition and they were supposed to be Cooking a Cajun food, Cajun food which is a fusion of French and Creole. And as happens, one of the contestants got sent home because he wasn't spicy enough. You didn't tell the story of Cajun food. You serve a steak. Not the same. Every meal also elicits a reaction Julie and I went and took a cooking class that we'd been given for Christmas by our kids on Frentz Provenceol. And And um you know every meal what was just a reaction yum oo yay yawn Temper tantrum, not this again, Mom. So at this meal my reaction was, this is awesome. Sign me up, show me what to cook, teach me all the things. And Julie's reaction was this is stressful. Get me out of here. We still had a good time. We started on the first Sunday of Lent talking about meals with Jesus. We've been looking, especially in Luke, at the different times when he paused, had a meal with someone. They have been men, they have been women, they have been rich. been poor, they've been insiders like Pharisees, religious people, they've been outsiders like tax collectors, despised people, educated, uneducated. You get Donuts and bacon and OJ. Later, hopefully, you'll get maybe ham, potatoes. Green beans, rolls, but of course the most important meal of the day sits before us. The Lord's table, which we will get to Soon enough. The most important meal of the day, the most important meal of the week. And we're talking about resurrection stories, of course. NBA playoffs started this week, and the Detroit Pistons have come back from the dead. Ten years of terrible basketball. Last year they had the worst record. And this year there are 44 and 38. And people are talking about it as a resurrection. Conversely The Phoenix Suns missed the playoffs with the most expensive payroll by far. And so people are like, burn it down, you've got to start over. Raise it from the dead. That means you've got to kill it. Resurrection stories are common. Superman dies every once in a while. It's a great storyline, right? Gandalf died, Harry Potter died, Spock died. There are resurrection stories in Greek mythology, Norse mythology, Hindu mythology, but our story today is real. Jesus Christ, Jesus of Nazareth, came to earth to live, to minister, to die, to rise. And what we read about today went down in 33 AD, nearly 2,000 years ago. It's gonna be interesting, 2033, how the world reacts to that date. Some people believed in this resurrection then, some people believe in this resurrection now. Some people doubted then, brushed it off then, and many still do that today. We have a different reaction to the meal. Every meal. tells the story. It's easy not to get it all the way. Even if you've grown up in the story. Last week we talked about how Jesus encountered Zacchaeus right before he went into Jerusalem. And he invited himself over for a meal. I'm coming to your house, Zacchaeus. Get ready. I'm on my way. Now, I mentioned you last week that I would have loved to see what happened at that meal. Right? We don't get the reaction. So then Jesus goes into Jerusalem and everyone shouting, Hosanna, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes with the name of the Lord. comes in as a conquering hero and he later on he has a meal on the Thursday right the Passover meal Celebrating the release from slavery back in Exodus 12. They were commanded to do this every time. But we noted that instead of eating the lamb, the lamb was there. So they didn't eat a lamb. The lamb was there. We can continue on that evening. Jesus prays by himself of the disciples sleep. Judas betrays Jesus with a kiss. Peter cuts off an ear. And Jesus puts it back on. So this is a crazy night going on here. A little nap time in between, which they get in trouble for. Jesus is arrested with a big huge crowd, like way more people than they need. If he's just some rabbi, they know he's not just a rabbi, right? So they're scared. Peter denies Jesus three times. The rooster crows. This is in chapter this is in Luke twenty two. One of the my favorite passages. I've mentioned many times that this is Peter's Dark Night of the Soul, where Peter complet Peter had just recently said, I will never deny you, I will never betray you. Same night I always mention that Jesus didn't prevent this. He doesn't give Peter a little locket and say, When you're tempted, hold this or think of me three times turn around and it'll all be okay. He says, you're gonna do it. Peter says, I'm not gonna do it. And then He does it, right? Jesus was mocked, paraded around, tortured Brought before Pilate, brought before Herod, delivered to the very crowds who had just been shouting days before. Hosanna, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. What do they now cry out? Crucify him, crucify him. And Jesus indeed was crucified on a church Tree Leviticus tells us that anyone's raised on a tree is cursed. And so on Friday The king of the Jews, indeed the king of the universe, died, was buried Saturday passed in silence. It's their Sabbath, no work. So on Sunday, Sabbath is over. He's not there. What Happened. Who took him? Where'd he go? What's happening? We read this. They were perplexed about this. Two men stood by them in day dazzling apparel. They were frightened and bowed their heads to the ground. The men said, Why do you seek the living among He is not here, but he has risen. Remember how he told you while he was still in Galilee, that the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified on the third day Day you rise. And they go and tell the disciples. And Peter rose and ran to the tomb, stooping and looking at it. He saw the women closed by themselves, and he went home marveling at what had happened. What happened? He doesn't know what happened. Then we have a wonderful story, The Road to Emmaus Where Jesus is walking with these two guys who are coming from Jerusalem, and Jesus pretends like he doesn't know what's going on, and they tell him, Dude, we thought we had the Messiah, but he died. were crushed. And then he appears to them. Right? And he appears to them and and then Kathy read this too. He has a meal with them. He eats with them again. And it says, Now he was known to them in the breaking of the bread. So when they were eating together, when they were breaking bread together, when they were sharing, they knew who he was. Another time, again, he does it again. And they says that they disbelieved for joy. They disbelieved for joy They just cannot figure it out. And then one of them, another time, is Thomas. This happens in chapter 20 in John. And they're eating again. Meals with Jesus. Meals with Jesus. And Thomas goes even further and says, I gotta see for myself. Let me touch the wounds. It is you There's something about this physicality that's really important, right? Jesus wants to leave no guessing if he is real, if he really came back. It's not a group imagining. Right? He is connec connected into this is real. Now he can still appear and disappear. So this sort of blows our minds a little bit. It's because in our way of thinking, Jesus is not fully limited to his human nature. He it it does limit him, but not fully. So he can know what people think, he can know where things are, and he exists outside of only his human nature It doesn't diminish his human nature at all. Augustine talked about this, Aquinas talked about this. Okay, let's back up. Jesus had been talking about his resurrection and death a good bit, right? I mean this is not completely out of the book It was a common talk topic, but people couldn't hear him. Partly because people don't raise from the dead. Right. Anybody ever watch Iron Chef food competition, right? And you you get a secret ingredient. There are these two professional chefs like top of their game, one of them Bobby Flay. And Bobby Flay was was battling out with Chef Saki. And they get a secret ingredient. And this time the secret ingredient was trout. So they have to make five meals. They all have to have trout. It's normally common to have like two appetizers, two main dishes, and a dessert. Trout is rough. And so Chef Chef Saki made Iron Chef history by making one of the very worst dishes ever made On Iron Chef. That's saying something, right? In fact, it couldn't be eaten. It had the worst, longest aftertaste of anything the judges had ever eaten, and he made trout ice cream. Trout ice cream. Trout ice cream. His epic fail went into Iron Chef lore. And here's what's crazy. People tried it again and again. They tried trout ice cream again. They tried cod ice cream again. Just they want to make fish ice cream bad. They know the show, they know the history, they're professionals, they still can't get it through their heads. Don't make trout ice cream They would you know, it's like they would tell them, okay, you're not gonna make chow ice cream, right? Yes, I'm gonna make chow ice cream. You said trout ice cream, I must make it. I will vanquish it. Right? I can do it. Jesus is saying over and over, get it through your head I will rise again after I die. I will come back in three days. Huh? You talking about shot ice cream? They cannot compute what it is, right? But now it's happened. And it's still murky. Like who is this? You gotta know they're talking to each other, it's like, am I going crazy? I feel like I keep seeing Jesus all over the place You guys too. Yeah, we've been together, man. It's happening together. And they're looking at each other like We've had a little bit of wine, you know? But but those angels told us, and the women came back, and remember Emmaeus? And Thomas touched him, and we had all these meals with him, right? And they're looking, they turn and they say, Peter, what's wrong This Peter has a problem. Okay. John was a superstar He was there at the cross. The only one. There's eleven left. Well, where's another one? Judas is dead. So the betrayer has already died. Now there's ten. Good John, dead Judas. One of them denied Jesus. Peter, right? The other nine of them, we don't know what they did. They didn't deny him. Not in the Bible at least Peter's gotta be scared. Embarrassed, sure. He said, I can't take it. I don't know what's gonna happen. You Guys. I mean I denied him three times. I told him I wouldn't and I did. What's he gonna You know, we've been together three years and we've seen all these things. I mean, he controls the weather He's brought people back from the dead, we've seen it. But you know remember all those times when he blistered the Pharisees? He tore into these guys. Betrayals, right? Betrayals. found out I was working on a project and there was someone else on the project secretly sabotaging the project the whole time. There's big betrayals, infidelities, right? There's smaller ones. You said I could go to the party. Why'd you change your mind? My flight got canceled. The indicator light is broken, so my car broke down. But Peter said, I will never do it. But he was not faithful. But the good news, friends, today is we serve a God who is faithful, right? That's the resurrection power of all this. It's not based on Peter's faithfulness. It's Jesus' faithfulness, right? Because we serve a resurrected God who doesn't stop, who doesn't give up, who is unbreakable in his love, a resurrected, redeeming God who seeks and saves the lost like Peter too. And here we have at the very end, John, Jesus, and Peter, second to last piece of the book of John. And it says in chapter in verse twenty in verse one. And he revealed himself in this way. Jesus is revealing himself. Still today. Revealing himself, right? He does it through the scriptures, through fellowship, through discipleship, through the supper, through church, through prayers. He's revealing himself. He's opening our eyes and opening our ears so we can see him And hear him. Oh, that's Jesus who's talking, right? And so the disciples they go fishing, like we talked about, at night. And someone strolls up on them. How are you doing? Ain't caught nothing. Sometimes I'll walk on the pier and there'll be some kids and they got a bucket and they're trying to get crabs Just right there in Chesapeake Bay. I'm like, are you gonna eat these? Mm, I don't know how safe they are. Um but it'd be like if I said, Oh, you want to catch crabs? Go over there. And that's where you catch the crabs. I don't know what I'm talking about. If I know if I do know what I'm talking about, that's good advice. So they'll they're probably debating. It's like, who's that guy? I don't know. Sounds familiar. Um but he's telling us what to do. We ain't got nothing. Let's just try it. Boosh Gobs of fish. Tons of fish. This is very exciting. Peter knows who it is, like they have this conversation about it. It's the Lord. This disciple whom Jesus loved, who's the disciple whom Jesus loved? John. That's right, John. It's the Lord. When Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put on his outer garment, for he had stripped for work, and threw himself into the sea. The other disciples did the responsible thing and got the boat in and took the fish in and took it to Jesus. Right? And you know they're looking at each other going it's it's him again. But they're not talking, it's as they They don't talk for a while. Bring some of the fish you've caught. So Simon Peter went aboard and hauled the net ashore full of fish. 153 Jesus said, Come and have breakfast. Now none of the disciples dared ask him, Who are you? They knew it was the Lord. He came and took the bread and gave it to them, and so were the fish. The third time he had revealed himself to the disciples after he was raised from the dead. What a conversation, what a meal. Another one of these meals with Jesus, right? But he's not done. This sure seems like it happens in front of uh uh everyone else, doesn't it? They don't go off in a private moment. When they had finished breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, so then they start having this conversation. in front of others. Often when someone needs to be reinstated or reconstituted, we need to bring them in front of the body where they were kicked out of And Jesus starts talking to Peter, but he calls him son of John, not the rock. He had called him the rock. This is your new name. If you believe in me, you are the rock. On that testimony, not Peter's, but on a testimony of belief, we build the church. Son of John, in your own flesh, do you love me This is an interesting question 'cause it'd be it could be out of this group of people, do you love me the most of of these people? Or if it were a competition of who loved me the most, would you win? Do you love me the most of these or do you love me the most against these? And Peter had just recently they had been talking about who was the greatest. Remember from the Last Supper? They were talking about who is the greatest. There'd be a lot of different ways to be greatest. And you know, like, do you remember, Peter, you pledged your allegiance, your commitment? But but while Jesus comes up to that topic, he doesn't poke into it very much It's a simple difficult difficult question. Three questions by a fire. Very reminiscent. Jesus doesn't say, I told you so, Peter, or come on. Jesus doesn't need to do that. Jesus doesn't say, Peter, you know what I do with guys like you? Break their kneecaps, man. It's not a gangster movie, right? No threats. It says, Do you love me? I think P Peter had been thinking about that. Um for to Peter's credit, he doesn't deflect. He doesn't He doesn't say like, oh, I thought they were asking, do you know Jim? And I said, No, I don't know Jim. Oh you mean they were talking about him? Ah No. He doesn't do that. He doesn't spin it off. He doesn't Deflect like I said, hey I cut a gear off for you man, you know. He says, I love you, brotherly love. I I do not have agape love. Obviously, you see I fail. I don't have agape love. Who could? Nobody can love like he loves. I love you as best I can Fila love. I overstated my devotion, I overstated my understanding. But I love you. And Jesus says, My perfect love is enough for you. Bind yourself to me. It's not your love for me, it's mine for you. John writes in 1 John 4. You didn't pay for my love. I paid to love you, Peter. In some sense, Peter is a very quick prodigal son story, where he goes out into the wilderness And he feels very alone. He squanders all that he had learned. He feels far from Jesus But Jesus comes to him and feeds him. This is a much smaller party than a part of the Son, he's coming back to love, coming back to the Savior, coming back home, and he gets commissioned to go and tell everyone else. If I'm going to feed you, I need you to feed too. Right? Tell the story of your brokenness. It's going to be in the Bible, Peter. Like we're not cutting that out. I know you'd like for it to look better, but you did this. And it's important. And that's why you can know me and love me with your whole heart because that's the type of people I saved. You were there when I saved Zacchaeus You ain't that different. And he commissions him to tell others. I think that would have happened in the prodigal son story. If we would have kept going a few more days, should be cool. The dad comes back and says, hey, you know, let's talk. And the younger brother's here like, okay, now here we go. And he says, I want you to go out. There's a lot of prodigal sons out there, prodigal daughters out there. Let's go find them together. Let's go find them together. There's something called the fireweed. Grows in the Arctic, Alaska, Canada, purple and pink. People use it in tea, it ails stomach problems, coughs, asthma. You can make an ointment out of it. It helps with cuts and bites. You can make jelly and honey. It it promotes health and healing and it's the first plant that grows after a bad fire. It only comes through Fire. Every meal tells a story. This story ends and continues with a meal, doesn't it? And we find ourselves in that story. What's the storytelling? What's my reaction to the story? Am I in the story? That's what Jesus is calling us to be in the story. Um new country song I've recently heard. It's called Songs About Me. This guy comes up to Trace Atkins and he sees And he says, What are you doing? You sing country music and he said, I don't like country music. Ever did. He said, Well come, you should come. Tonight I'll give you free tickets. And he said, What are you gonna say sing about and he says they're all songs about me and who I am they're songs about loving and living and good hearted women and family and God To come. So the guy comes, uh after the concert, he's standing around, he's like, this was awesome. It was awesome. And so Trace Akin says, Why do you like it? Because you sang songs about me Every song was about me. Of loving and living and good-hearted women and family and God. Because we are in the story. This is a story about you. These stories are about us, about lost people who need to find the Savior. Even if you're lost like tax the tax collector, or you're lost like the therapist Pharisees, because some Pharisees did come to know him. Or you're lost like Peter, who Jesus loved, and Peter loved Jesus, but he was still lost. We can come back. This Easter to the resurrected Savior. And eat with him. Amen. The first way is a few