From Revelation 1, verse 9 through 20. I, John, your brother and partner in the tribulation and the kingdom and the patient endurance that are in Jesus. was on the island called Patmos on account of the Word of God and the testimony of Jesus. I was in the Spirit on the Lord's Day. And I heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet saying, Write what you see in the book and send it to the seven churches. and to Ephesus and to Smyrna and to Pergamum and to Thyatira and to Sardis and to Philadelphia and to Laodicea And then I turned to see the voice that was speaking to me, and on turning I saw seven golden lampstands, and in the midst of the lampstands one like a son of man, clothed with a long robe and with a golden sash around his chest. The hairs of his head were white, like white wool, like snow. His eyes were like a flame of fire, his feet were like burnished bronze, refined in a furnace, and his voice was like the roar of many waters. In his right hand he held seven stars. From his mouth came a sharp two-edged sword, and his face was like the sun shining in full strength When I saw him, I fell at his feet as though dead, but he laid his right hand on me, saying, Fear not, I am the first and the last. And the living one. I died, and behold, I am alive forevermore, and I have the keys of death and Hades. Write therefore the things that you've seen, those that are, and those that are to take place after this. As for the mystery of the seven stars that you saw in my right hand, and the seven gold lampstands. The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven lampstands are the seven churches. This ends the reading of God's Word. Amen Man, thank you. Please be seated. Um we got donuts. I was hoping we could do a donut verse of a song with everybody singing donuts with donuts Thank you, Julie, for getting those. Um before we start, I will never forget my first week of class at the university of Missouri in 1989. Dropped off in a Chevy Blazer from Ozark, Missouri to uh begin getting my degree in journalism Of which I did not pursue the most diligently. And Um I just let's forget my dad dropping me off and it I mean he was sad of course and I was not sad. Um and I remembered walking around that day, uh must have been uh Friday, probably Friday, and we had the whole weekend before us and I'm 18. I got raised in the church as a Christian. I didn't do a ton of bad stuff, and I remember thinking, I can do whatever I want And there are about fifteen thousand girls on this campus. And there's only one of me. So let me add them. That was not the most mature decision making of all time. And nothing bad happened. But my life didn't change because of that. My life changed because I did meet Julie. We met our sophomore year. And both of us became Christians while we were in college. Amen. And so what I was looking for was a lot more important than what I thought. And I actually had a lot more freedom than what I had one So it's so great when we get to experience new things. I'm really glad about that. We are preaching through Revelation Just started last week. And so I'm wondering when the last time is you heard or you said? Well, that was better than I expected. Um that's nice to hear in a cooking competition or after you've made a meal. Um it's nice to hear after a movie is over That was better than I thought it was going to be. Or a trip you were nervous about? Or a book recommendation for a book club that you were nervous about? Or that core class you've been dreading? Hey, it was better than I expected. Or a fundraising appointment? Wow, that was better than I expected. And and we all experienced the opposite of that. Oh, that was way worse than I expected That restaurant got hyped up, but it is not not worth it. That new album fell The sequel didn't measure up. And of course a lot of times our worse than are expected can uh be a little bit of a first world problem Or we start complaining like, you know, my iPhone is three behind. Oh. Or my Wagyu stake is a little over. Right But what Revelation 1 is doing for us today is showing us that Jesus beats our expectations. Jesus is better than we thought. That's a very big theme of the book of Hebrews. And it's also a theme, really, of Revelation. Jesus is bigger and better than the churches expected. And we're going to talk about just two things: the exalted Christ and the empowered church. The exalted Christ and the empowered church. So first, the exalted Christ. Jesus is setting and changing their expectations about who he is. I looked at the next solar eclipse is going to be August 12th, 2026. And what's the thing we all know about solar eclipses? Don't look into the sun. We all know this, right? We hear about it over and over And so on this total eclipse in August twelfth, we're not going to do that. We're not going to look at the sun. We need those special glasses. Right? Because the sun's still too powerful for us, even when it's partially obscured, it's too powerful for our eyes to look at. And Jesus is telling us here in the first chapter, and he's going to To continue this all the way through the book of Revelation, that he is the Alpha and the Omega. He is the beginning and the end of time. He is the ancient of days The Son of Man. This comes from the book of Daniel. Daniel 13, chapter 7, verse 13. I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven, there came one like a son of man. That he came to the ancient of days and was presented before him. To him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom, that all peoples and nations and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. The Son of Man. The Son of Man, Jesus tells us, has the authority to forgive sins. The Son of Man, Jesus tells us in Mark, is the Lord of the Sabbath. The Son of Man, Jesus tells us, will suffer and rise for the dead. And the Son of the Lord. The Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many. Amen When Jesus died on the cross that day, a centurion, a Roman soldier looked at him and said, Surely this is the Son of Man Son of God. Matthew uses that term thirty times. Mark uses it sixteen times. Luke thirty times. John fourteen times. And Revelation three times. And the Son of Man has come to see And that's what we read in one twelve through thirteen. And I turned to see the voice that was speaking to me And on turning I saw seven golden lampstands, and in the midst of the lampstand was one like a son of man, clothed with a long robe and with a golden sash around his chest The hairs of his head were white like white wool, like snow, his eyes were like a flame of fire, his feet were like burnished bronze refined in a furnace, and his voice was like the roar of many waters In his right hand he held seven stars, from his mouth came a two sharp two-edged sword, and his face was like the sun shining in full strength. the eclipse. So we can see the sun. So we can see the Lord. And Jesus comes out exalted, doesn't he? He's got this long road with this golden sash. He's got white hair. What's the Bible word for white hair? There's a Bible word that you it comes up in songs every once in a while. Hory hairs. H-O-A-R-E. Hory hairs Weird name means white. I don't know why. He comes out with white hair and his feet are like bronze, which is another reference to the book of Daniel because it Book of Daniel, Nebuchadnezzar's seeds were like clay. Jesus comes out basically like an Iron Man suit. Right, these boots are gonna be amazing. And so in other words, when Jesus pulls back the curtain It blows their minds. And Jesus is saying, you know, guys, you know, John, you haven't seen me like this very often, have you? We walked around a lot. Remember, we walked from Galilee to Jerusalem and we walked through some dusty places and we didn't have much And we didn't need much. And people made fun of us, remember? And we saw some cool stuff. And and I just wonder though, I wonder how do you think Think it's important to do some wondering within limits. I wonder if if John had seen something like this on the Mount of Transfiguration When Jesus, James, and John were up there, he came down and things were different. They saw something they had not seen before, and it might have touched on this a little bit of like a pre So so at least some of them be like, yeah. This is not a normal person As if that were unclear already when he's been right raising people from the dead and walking on water, but still their minds play tricks. It's like I don't think I saw that There must be steps out here. When he stepped off the boat at just the right time, there was a little pillar. And then he walked across and then he That's an optical illusion. It has to be. You know, um all all that food came from somewhere It was a good trick. So like this is how people rationalize it even today, right? So maybe and then if at one point this happens along the way, they go like, no That's not it. And here Jesus is saying like, yeah, this is who I am too It's not really one or the other. This is who I am too. And Jesus has all of this power. And he's holding these lampstands. Now, I don't know how you hold seven lampstands. I don't know how you do it. But he's got them all. He's got the keys to death in Hades. He holds the stars. He has a sword in his mouth. I don't know, does it go this way? Like a pirate? And here's the thing about this vision that John sees. What John sees, and this is important For the book of Revelation isn't what Jesus is going to look like in the future. It's not Jesus saying, like, you know, someday after you go through all the mechanics of Of all those movies, you know, and all these things happen and yeah yeah, you've been tracking. After that this he's like, No, this is how I am now. This is me in real time. I'm ruling over all. I rule over the Roman Empire. Which is impressive, which is debased beyond belief And which says that Caesar himself is a god to be worshipped. He says that Caesar himself is Lord. And you must bow down to Caesar, right? And John's letter, this apocalypse, this revelation, this vision is for Christians in Turkey Persecuted, the persecuted minority, persecuted by the Roman Empire, and God's people are always tempted to assimilate. We've seen it time and time again. Throughout the Old Testament? We can do Yahweh. We can do Baal. No problem. Baal certainly doesn't care. The Romans pretty much the same way, hey, bow the knee, say the emperor. His Lord. I don't even care what you mean by that. Act Roman and then do whatever you want. That's what the Romans want. Declare your love for Roman the Empire. And of course we can think to ourselves, I I think it's important, that we've got to be careful about our allegiances You know, um there's Christian nationalism in is in the news, and that's of course we're talking about American Christian nationalism, but there's Mexico Christian nationalism and Canadian Christian nationalism. I don't know what that looks like. Um and God calls us to be good citizens. We can be patriotic, thankful. Good citizens, right? Um I don't know what your policy is to whether you think you should or if other people should Stand or sit or kneel or put your hand on the heart for the national anthem or the Pledge of Allegiance. Um I've mentioned before Or that I pledge a certain s sort of allegiance to the United States of America, right? And there's certain ways of course where Paul's writing to these displaced people, the church, scattered church, um and sixty AD, seventy AD. And now here we are in twenty twenty five fifteen. It's not the same being a twenty twenty-five Christian and a sixty AD Christian. Is it? It's not the same. It's a lot different. It's not the same being black Christians and white Christians. It's not the same. Asian, indigenous, Latino, male Christians, female Christians. Not not the same. Not exactly, right? Old, young, wealthy, poor, tall, short, healthy, sick, depressed, happy, go lucky, introverted, extroverted Christians, Democratic Christians, Republican Christians, business major Christians, art major Christians Education major Christians, computer science Christians. Jesus isn't ruled by our Bill of Rights. He's not ruled by the Roman Emperor at all either, right? He's not ruled by our Constitution. He's not ruled by our Supreme Court. He's not ruled by the ESPN rankings or the Billboard charts. Jesus rules it all. Amen. And this is his church. And the exalted Jesus stands with authority. Over all, and even angels fall on their knees. Because he brings redemption, because he conquered sin and death. And he holds us all. The exalted Christ brings about the empowered church, then, right? Uh my buddy Bobby, uh he was teaching U. S. history classes at the University of Oklahoma while he was finishing up his PhD PhD at the University of Oklahoma, which meant that he was both a student and an instructor. So he had a student ID just like his students had student ID But the University of Oklahoma had empowered him, had given him authority to give out grades. Make assignments. Flump people. Pass people. Right? Do whatever it is he needed to do Because he was licensed and credentialed. Now that's true. You need a license to drive. You need a license to perform weddings Uh to prescribe medicines? Probably. To be a master plumber? Right? You don't just get to go out and do plumbing. That's me on YouTube And then we call Warren, right? And it's true for the church that we've been empowered by Jesus. We've been credentialed by Jesus to be lights. A presence in the world. This is what he says in 120, right? As for the mystery of the seven stars that you saw in my right hand, and the seven golden lampstands, the seven stars are the angels of the seven churches And the seven lamb stands are the seven churches, which really means all the churches. Jesus is giving us his message. Jesus is giving us himself. So the church seemingly Yeah, o overwhelmed by the Roman Empire. And and of course remember John is an exile a long ways from home. He's in this island called Patmos, uh uh way a long ways even from Turkey. And he's probably being tortured. He died in old age, but legend has it that he was boiled twice and didn't die. That's a pretty impressive legend. Um his friends are all dead. He has these uh men that he's raised up, one of them called is called Polycarp, a church father, a long ways away, doing his own thing and smirk. He's sort of like Yoda, tucked away somewhere, waiting for someone to come find him on an X-wing, right? But he doesn't get that. He gets a vision. Vision. He gets another word. From He he gets to behold his glory yet again. eternal word the Logos Logos empowers the church to be a city on a hill and a culture dead set against it. And Jesus holds the church. He holds the lampstand in his hand. And he calls us his people. If you are in Christ, he calls us to be messengers, angels, canteclears. Town criers, bearers of the good news. But he holds The keys of the kingdom of death and Hades. And here's our brother John. He calls himself Brother John, our partner in Tribulation because Jesus is telling us to the persecuted church, he's saying, I got you, but it's not like you're not going to be persecuted But I got you, right? You will share in my suffering. I am the suffering servant. You will share in my suffering. As you see this, you remember the others. When I took the towel and washed your feet. Remember that? Remember when I was buried underground for three days? Remember that Because after all, Jesus is a messianic person. or vision or who he is or what he's doing has never been the hope of the victors Jesus' messianic hope is not the hope of the rulers. It's the hope of the defeated people. And as we suffer we we may better understand that because often our privileges, which of course we have privileges, thankful for privileg privileges Um keep us from seeing the kingdom of God. Keep us from seeing the people who are in the kingdom of God. With the kingdom of God, but keep us from identifying with the people Or finding solidarity of of whatever way with outcasts, marginalized, poor, needy, and we we might learn from persecuted churches across time and the world. Right? And as we enter into that, whatever level God calls us to, we need to remember Jesus says often over and over again, fear not. I am with you. I will never leave you. I will never forsake you. I will be in the dark places. I will be in the scary, dangerous places. I will be in the persecuted places. What are we going to do about it? Jesus That I'm with you. Fear not. Remember who I am. Remember, your hope is in something greater than you expected. Better than you expected. Uh uh listened to a country song this week by Carter Faith It's pretty funny, I thought. She says, sings, I want a man like Billy Bob Thornton. Really? I mean I sort of think that's cool, but he's tough as nails, but his head's a wreck. Okay. I want a man like Robert Redford. Oh a little better, right? Uh he's got that Sundance Kid kind of charm I want a man like Wayland Jennings. I want a man like Jesse James. I want a man like Scots Fitzgerald. Gatsby has me on every page. And then her chorus says, I know I'm a contradiction. I'm always falling for a work of fiction. I'll probably get divorced, but that's fine. I'll be a pretty good ex-wife someday. Okay, I'm driving down the road thinking this is a weird song, right? I don't know. You you want a man like Billy Bob Thornton? Lady. But but I I do think maybe when we think about it, you know, I want a king like What I want a savior, I want someone to save me. Like Okay, well there's the good answers and then there's the real answers. Someone could come take me away from all this. If someone could try drop that mega billions on my lap. Somebody could take this pain away So I I think you know when we think about our expectations, again we're not being persecuted in any sense like this, but there's There's something going on that's eating us up or can't get rid of or worried about. In the midst of our day, remembering it's always important to remember what they would have read when they read this This this scroll shows up one day and they start reading it. It's like, what were they thinking? And then we think, okay Where am I at? We gotta have them both. It goes from Jesus to John to angels to the church To us. This is the apocalypsis, the unveiling that John has for us. And John is saying Jesus is better, stronger, more powerful, more able than we ever thought. He is so powerful, but he's also so beautiful, and he's so able, and he's so willing to save sinners like you and me. Amen? Amen. Let's take a few moments.