So adult Sunday School has a a practice now of um using the passage for the sir upcoming sermon. And uh so it's really kinda nice because it helps you dive into the passage and really You know, think about it before the sermon. It help I think it will help with the the meaning. And uh when Joan asked me to read today last minute I thought, well, I've already been prepared. So I'm going to read from Revelation 1, 1 through 8. The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him, to show to his servants the things that must soon take place. He made it known by sending his angel to his servant John, who bore witness to the Word of God and to the testimony of Jesus Christ, even to all that he saw. Blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of this prophecy, and blessed are those who hear, and who keep what is written in it, for the time is near. John to the seven churches that are in Asia. Grace to you and peace from him who is and who was and who is to come. And from the seven spirits who are before his throne, and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of kings on earth. To him who loves us and has freed us from our sins by his blood, and made us a kingdom, priests to his God and Father. To him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Behold, he is coming with the clouds, and every eye will see him Even those who pierced him, and all tribes of the earth will wail on account of him. Even so. Amen. I am the Alpha and the Omega, says the Lord God, who is and who was and who is to come, the Almighty. Well it's it happens bothering Okay we're gonna turn this on now. So do you feel blessed? The scripture reminds us that the blessed or happy, lauded. Commend it, exalted is the one who hears, who reads aloud the words of this prophecy, and blessed, lauded, happy are those who hear and who keep What is written in it, for the time is near. I hope that you feel some of that blessedness, some of the happiness of hearing uh the word of God. We'll be looking today at Revelation, uh just the opening words of this uh of this last epic book of the scriptures, uh, that hopefully you would feel blessed by uh this time together. Let's pray. Lord God, your uh servant David was astounded when you told him about the future uh and your fulfilled promise promises and goodness to him. He said in 2 Samuel As if it were not enough in your sight, O Sovereign Lord, you have also spoken about the future of the house of your servant. Is this your usual way of dealing with man, O Sovereign Lord? And Lord Jesus, you spent time in your earthly ministry encouraging and comforting your disciples about the future when you said, Don't let your hearts be troubled. In my father's house are many mansions. Holy Spirit, help us now to take to heart and to hear and to live in the wonder of your word, of your word that teaches us and speaks about future things, that our hearts might be set on you and your kingdom. That has come and is coming in its fullness. Open our minds and hearts now to receive your word in Christ's name. Amen. I was uh I was sixteen years old uh when a couple of my young life leaders uh invited me to the Peter, Paul, and Mary Congress. concert the last concert at the Merriweather Post Pavilion Columbia. Anybody here went to that one? So uh some years ago. Of course Peter Paul and Mary with this great American folk uh group uh singing about the civil rights and justice and And so they were performing there at the Merryweather Post Pavilion. Uh but there was a catch. Uh they uh I need it to be the blind date of uh of a high school girl they were bringing back from Colorado's uh summer camps. And I said, okay, but there were a lot of things I didn't know about that particular evening. I did not know that uh after the concert, Paul Stukey uh uh was going to give his testimony of how he came to Christ and how his life was transformed, uh which was really a wonderful uh moment. I also didn't know that uh they decided that we were going to go swimming in Wild Lake, uh in Columbia. They had brought me a bathing suit. Uh and uh it was uh it was a wonderful time. Uh but I don't remember anything about the blind date. Uh but I do remember coming home somewhere around 3 a. m. in the morning and uh my mom was awake And she said, I have been worried sick about you. I haven't slept at all. Where have you been? I tried to explain uh to her what had happened. Uh my mom was really upset. But behind all of those words or thoughts of being angry and her loss of sleep behind all of that was that she loved her son, that she cared about me. Abraham Lincoln said, all that I am or hope to be, I owe it to my angel mother. Uh I uh pastored in Penn Lucy in Baltimore City where Tupac Shakur, this famous rapper, actually grew up in high school. Uh he uh wrote a rap called uh Mama Uh dear mama, ain't a woman alive that could make take my mama's place. I can always depend on my mama, and when it seems that I'm hopeless, you say the words that can get me back in focus When I was sick as a little kid to keep me happy, there's no limit to the things you did. And all my childhood memories are full of all this Sweet things you did for me, and even though I act crazy, I gotta thank the Lord that you made me I have envelopes filled uh with letters of from my mom over many years. The letters uh she wrote to me while I was in college. Letters she wrote to me while I was in seminary, many that she wrote to me over the years as I was in the ministry. And those letters were full of encouragement. So full of words exhorting me to press forward and full of words of counsel and ways that uh she thought it would be helpful for me to apply. But behind all of those words was a deep sense that I was a dearly beloved son. But what was the source? What was the source of all of that fierce mothering love for me and for my other siblings and for her children, her grandchildren, and her great-grandchildren? Who was my mom modeling and reflecting in all of that compassion and focused affection? Well, it was her God. Isaiah forty-nine says God captures uh he r God captures and he relates his love uh of deep bonding love of a mother f For a child. It says, Can a mother forget the baby at her breast and have no compassion on the child she has born? Though she may forget, I will not forget you Mothers and all women are created with this divine image of God, and they show forth to us that compassion and the qualities of God's fierce love, God will not forget his children. All of us here have owe a deep gratitude of thanks to the women and the mothers, the spiritual mothers, who have revealed the love of God to us. Well, this book of Revelation and these opening words of the first chapter were written to believers to remind them that God does not forget. you. He does not forget his people. The word revelation is from that word apocalyptus, which means unveiling, to lay bare, to disclose things before unknown, to manifest. The revelation is the unveiling of unseen spiritual forces operating behind the scenes of history and controlling its events and outcome. Aren't you glad that God reminds us in this book that He is the one that's in control of history? Uh that in the midst of all of the crazy, confusing things that are taking place, that God understands and has unveiled and laid bare all that's happening. And he is the one in control. We live in anxious times, don't we? We live in times of many wars. Uh and rumors of wars and social tor turmoil and political divisiveness and threats from within and without. It's really hard to find peace, is it not? Uh I got a uh on our way to uh to to sleep uh this week a couple of nights ago, I get a uh text from my daughter uh Caroline in San Marco, Texas. Uh she sent us a picture of a tree uh that was in front of her yard that was now crushing uh their recently purchased car. Uh and apparently there were 150 mile an hour uh winds that had swept through this particular region uh with hailballs the size of baseballs and um and uh I have to say that night I had a hard time Resting. Uh there was no electricity. We have two grandchildren there. Uh she's doing fine. The kids are doing fine. But uh it was uh it was an anxious time. And last week in the Wall Street Journal, editor Barton Swam wrote an opinion article titled, Are Americans Ready for War? He opened with these lines, free nations prefer peace to war, but what pr preference is con but that preference is complicated by the continual existence of nations led by criminals, ideologues, irreverentists, which I had to look up. Apparently it means that one state's desire to annex the territory of another state Uh he said, in our fallen world, war eventually comes, want it or not, and it's coming. Uh you know, I read that article. And uh let's just say it didn't give me a lot of peace. Uh we all know that we live in a world of many threats to peace. Yet we also know, believer, that Jesus is the Lord of history. And he reminds his disciples, and he reminds us now that we can have the grace and peace that this book opens up with. We can have this grace and peace because he has conquered sin, he's conquered death, and he's conquered the devil But Revelation doesn't sugarcoat or gloss over the hard realities of conflict in our world. It reminds us that we do not live in a neutral or nice world. Real evil exists and the ultimate source of all malicious activities identified in the book of Revelation. And actually Revelation 12, it says the great dragon was hurled down that ancient serpent called the devil or Satan who leads the whole world astray. He is filled with fury because he knows that his time is short But this revelation of Jesus Christ is not about the unveiling of two equal and opposite forces duking it out. wondering who will win is about the supreme triune creator God of the universe who is in who is in power and with his power and wisdom and justice and love has redeemed fallen sons and daughters. and is bringing that salvation to a great climax and an eternal destiny where God ushers into In his final judgment, condemning the lying, deceiving, murdering devil to eternal judgment and hell. And so this revelation of Jesus Christ was given to encourage believers, to encourage you and I, that he has not forgotten us. He has not forgotten the trials and the sufferings of his people, but that he is totally aware, he is totally present, and he will return soon. And because he's coming back, We should live as expectant and ready people. We should live as expectant and ready people. Now how do you and I live as expectant and ready people? Well, in these opening verses, I believe that Jesus encourages us to value time, to value the time, to value his revelation The Word and to value Christ Himself. So we value time. In the verse opening, it says the revelation of Jesus Christ would God gave him to show his servants the things that must soon take place for the time is near. This is not mainly about valuing the time that we have left on this world or short or long, which we should do because it's a gift. But it's really about taking into account the brevity of time of our suffering and trials and troubles and recognizing that our trials and sufferings will soon be over. The value of the brevity of time. Jesus is soon coming in glory. He's coming in the clouds and history. To raise the dead and to judge the world. He finally will destroy Satan and to impart God's children in their final glory. And so it says to take to heart. You know, John, John who wrote this book, he was the last of the apostles. All the other apostles had been martyred by this time He was uh he was sent to the island of Patmos. Uh and uh he and while all the others were either crucified or stoned or some were beheaded, tradition says that John was cast into a cauldron of boiling oil, but escaped by miracle without injury under the Roman Emperor Domatian. Uh but he then was banished to the island of Patmos Which is uh in the Turkey region, and he uh received this revelation of Jesus Christ. Uh he declared himself exiled to this barren rocky island uh off the shore of Asia Minor because of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus Christ. The political state uh was no longer friendly In the Roman Empire. Before there was some toleration for Christians or or Christian leaders, but uh one historian said that such banishment like that John experienced would have preceded by scourgings, marked by perpetual fetters, scanty clothing, insufficient food, sleep on the bare ground, a dark prison, and work under the lash of a military overseer. So when John, this apostle, talks about suffering and patient endurance, he speaks about it firsthand. He declares himself to be a companion of the suffering. And so John is writing letters to the churches. He's writing letters to the churches, these seven churches experiencing severe persecution And one of the aspects of the severe persecution was is that Christians uh who uh were in the Roman Empire were being persecuted because they refused to acknowledge Caesar As God, as Lord. Uh there was a responsibility that every citizen of the Roman Empire were to at a certain time of the year was to take this pinch of uh incense and present it uh to Caesar and say, and say, Caesar is Lord. Caesar is God uh and uh and to acknowledge him as divinity. If they refused to burn the pinch of incense, uh then it was an act not just of irreligion, but a act of political disloyalty That would not be tolerated. And so this was the context of the early church at this time. What was a Christian to do? What was the Christian? Well, they were confronted with the choice Caesar or Christ. And so the book of Revelation was written in such a time like this. It's a book written to the church to encourage believers to be faithful in the face of this persecution. Well, one of the things that you keep hearing In the book of Revelation, over and over again, is words to hold on. Don't give up. I'm coming soon. Be faithful to the end. Endure tribulation. Hold fast to the truth. Resist the devil. Obey the commandments. Keep on keeping on. And so uh we find uh this encouragement uh to keep on. And I know that for many of you here, you probably say Well how long is it gonna be? Yeah, well when is Jesus coming back? I mean it's he keeps saying it soon, but it's like it's been two thousand years Uh and I you know we uh we we uh we we understand that the challenge of waiting. Uh and of course we know in the scriptures that a thousand days is uh like a day in the Lord's economy. Uh and why is God uh waiting? What is he waiting for? Well Uh he's waiting uh for the full number of his elect to come into the kingdom. Um and uh so his coming is uh is a patience. God is patient, not wanting anyone to to uh perish but to all come to repentance. And so we have an opportunity to be the light and the darkness and to be means of grace and to guide others home. There's a interesting picture of this time in Revelation that's given uh about uh the the the the challenge of the persecution. Revelation 12 shows this great battle in vivid technicolor. And it talks about a woman who's ready to give birth. Uh she was about to give birth. And that's probably one of the most vulnerable times for a woman. Uh nothing is more consuming, nothing more demanding, nothing more emotionally intense as a mother uh who is uh who's been carrying this child in her womb and is ready to deliver the baby into the world. And while she has some capacity to assist in the delivery process, for the most part, it's the forces of nature that take over. She will deliver this child. But in the process of delivering, she can't do anything else. She is all out there. She's totally exposed. And because she has uh she's so consumed in the delivery process, she has no ability to protect either herself or the child from any enemy forces who may be near. And so when you read Revelation 12 about this, what we find is not the delivery in a nice, warm, comfortable room with low lights. you know, soft music, uh, with a security force outside. Uh uh to guard the woman from unwanted malicious uh persons uh which is what we expect to find in our modern hospitals. What we find in verse four of chapter twelve is and the dragon stood before the woman who was about to give birth so that when she bore her child he might devour it. This is not the idyllic homey images of Norman Rockwell or cozy country Christmas cottage Thomas Kincaid. This is more like the horror genre of Stephen King Shining or the zombie post-apocalyptic horror drama of The Walking Dead. This is revelation. God does not mince the words of the forces that are upon his people. But of course what we do know is that who this child is in ver it says she gave birth to a male child who will who A one who is to rule all the nations with a rod of iron, but her child was caught up to God and to his throne. What we find here is that God is in charge. God is in control, regardless of how vulnerable your situations are, how many forces of evil that you feel like you're going to be overwhelmed by. God is in charge. He's in control. There was a Presbyterian pastor whose uh whose daughter uh had asked him uh a question. Uh as he was going to sleep one night. And um and the question was, you know, why did God allow why has God allowed such evil in the world? And I'm trying to find my notes here. I will find them. This eight-year-old daughter. Daddy, why did God allow evil? If God is God, why does he allow evil to continue? The father was tempted to say, go ask your mother. How do you answer such a question in 25 words or less? Really, he felt really inadequate, and then he struggled to tell her Sin, wickedness, evil ultimately serve God's good plan. God will in the end be glorified through it. And he felt uh like he was a total failure, but his daughter said, I just wanted you to hear you say that God is In charge. That God is in charge. That God is in control. And of course, that's what we find here in Revelation: the assurance that God is in control. But we find also that uh the call to value God's Christ revelation, blessed, you know, happy, exalted, commend is the one who reads and and hears and keeps this word as written here. You know, God knows how to bless his people through his word. And so revelation was given, as one scholar said, while the truths are certainly matters for the mind to grasp, they are presented to us In a riotous procession of symbols, a panoply of music, color, texture, taste, and smell. It is uh you know some would say that the Bible is a book, Revelation is the movie in HD High definition. It's God's grand finale, fireworks display, and living colors, crushing sound, breathtaking drama. Uh and one author says, It is a great thing to have one's intellect uh to capture, uh to be captive through the word of God. But how many Christians People have an imagination never yet harnessed for the service of Christ. We need our imaginations harnessed Uh there was one uh uh young boy after reading uh the the whole book of Revelation, he says, I know just what it means. You know, we have scholars that are debating all these particular I would encourage you just to let the words of Revelation just sweep over you, just to feel uh the force of it and not try to figure out all the particular woods What does this symbol mean? What's this thing? But really just the feel and sense of God's bigger truths. But the last thing is to value Christ. And from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of the kings on the earth To him who loves us and has freed us from our sins by his blood and made us a kingdom. Priest to his God and Father. To him be the glory, dominion. forever and ever. What a wonderful thing. When you think about who Jesus is, he is the faithful witness. He's the f he's the one that came to bear truth. John eighteen, uh Jesus is before Pollet, and uh Jesus acknowledges that he's a king. So you are a king. And Jesus answered, You say that I am a king. For that this purpose I was born, and for this purpose I have come into the world to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice. And of course, we are grateful. We're here today because Jesus was a faithful witness. That he came as the one, the truth, the way, the truth, and the life. Oh, but Jesus is the firstborn from the dead. You know, you start thinking about all those that Jesus rose raised from the dead, well they had to die again. Uh I ever wonder about the uh all the one Jesus, you know, uh was crucified. After his death it said that the graves uh in Jerusalem opened up and the saints were walking through the city. What was that like? Well, we assume that, you know, just like Lazarus, you know, they all had to die again. Well Jesus rose once as an indestructible life and as an assurance to every one of us here who believe in him That he has gone before us as the firstborn from the dead to assure us of our eternal life, that he will raise us with him. But he is also the ruler of the kings of the earth. I find that to be extremely comforting in our day. That he is the one that overall is that takes dominion. His dominion is universal. That there is nothing that happens without his permission. And that God is in control of history. But this word to him who loves us and has freed us from our sins by his blood. Loosed us from our sins by his blood. God no longer holds our sins over our heads, uh before our faces, but has removed them infinitely far from his presence How far? Psalm 133 says, infinitely as high as the heavens are above the earth. So great is his love for those who fear him. As far as the east is from the west, infinite, so far as he removed our transgressions from us. I, even I, Isaiah 43 says, He blots out our transgressions for my own sake and remembers our sins no more. Yeah, there is a uh in the Peacemaker's ministry, uh which is uh a ministry to help people in reconciliation. There are uh four promises that they encourage people who are seeking to apply forgiveness to make. One is I will not dwell on this incident. Second, I will not bring this incident up or use it against you. Third, I will not talk to others about this incident. And fourth, I will not allow this incident to stand between us or to hinder our personal relationship. Wow, what a thoroughgoing uh You know, character of true forgiveness. And where does that come from? Well, it comes from Jesus uh his blood has washed away my sins. Hallelujah. And so we uh come to this table at this point today uh because that Jesus Christ