Then I find each other down the planet. And it seems to be very interesting because that was taken advantage for a thousand years. Improvement in the And dark and feel it over him that he might not be continued any longer until the thousand years were ended. After that he must be released for a little while Then I saw thrones, and seated on them were those to whom the authority to judge was committed. Also I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for the testimony of Jesus and for the Word of God And those who had not worshipped the beast or its image and had not received its mark on their foreheads or their hands. They came to life and reigned with Christ for a thousand years. The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were ended. This is the first resurrection. Blessed and holy is the one who shares in the first resurrection. Over such the second death has no power, but they will be priests of God and of Christ, and they will reign with him for a thousand years. And when the thousand years are ended, Satan will be released from his prison and will come out to deceive the nations that are at the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them for battle. Their number is like the sands of the sea. And they marched up over the broad plain of the earth and surrounded the camp of the saints and the beloved city. But fire came down from heaven and consumed them, and the devil who had deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire and sulfur where the beast and the false prophet were, and they will be tormented day and night for ever and ever. Then I saw a great white throne, and him who was seated on it. From his presence earth and sky fled away, and no place was found for them. And I saw the dead, great and small, standing before the throne, and books were opened. Then another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged by what was written in the books according to what they had done. And the sea gave up the dead who were in it. Death and Hades gave up the dead who were in them. And they were judged, each one of them according to what they had done. Then death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire. And if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire. And then I think Bethany, please seated. Last week I was talking with the kids about Thanksgiving. And remember we if you were here we we were talking about things that we're thankful for and and one of the kids said turkeys. Right, which was good. It was the Sunday before Thanksgiving. I said, Well how can we show that we're thankful for turkeys? And CeCe said, by eating them Thought that was an exquisite answer. Um and so I looked up. In the US we consume two hundred and fifty million turbines Now, wouldn't you think most of the turkeys we eat would be on Thanksgiving? No, not so fast. Forty-six million of those 250 US turkeys are eaten on Thanksgiving Thanksgiving. So we're eating turkey a lot more often than I guess we realize. Uh the average factory farm turkey lives only five to six months. Their rays specifically it's pretty brutal. But wild turkeys can live 15, 20 years. So with all that in mind, what is the favorite thing A turkey hat what's the turkey's favorite thing on Thanksgiving Day? Vegetarians Yeah. I didn't really know how to bring in um death from Revelation twenty. But we're not talking about turkey death, are we? We're talking about actually not even super the death of people, but the death of death. Just look at this. Death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. Death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire It's amazing. So that all that is wrong in our world, sin and death and evil, will be made right, and Jesus will have the last word And this means that sin and death and evil have an expiration date, unknown to us, but not unknown to God, when He will take care of all everything that's wrong. Just two points today. Jesus reigns and Jesus rules. Jesus reigns you probably most likely don't know about this guy named Gregor McGregor. Gregor McGregor You gotta name him Gregor, right? You know, it's obvious. Um 1820s, Gregor McGregor, he was a member of London High Society. He had spent His career as a soldier, he had fout fought in South America. He was sort of a a very big hero of Venezuela. And he came back and he touted the country in Central America called Poyase. Have you heard of the country named Poyase? There is no country But Gregor McGregor had produced maps, he had drawings, he wrote a book about it, he had documents about it That he was the prince and governor of Poyas, and he recruited investors to rebuild and make it better than ever, and 250 people signed up to go over to Poyas. And how did that turn out? They found an untouched jungle And half of them perished. How appalling. Gregor McGregor was a soldier. He actually ended up going back to Venezuela as a hero. He was a fighter. He did a lot of things. You can look him up. But he also is a liar. And an imposter and a trickster. And he's just a small example of what the Bible says, and ending up in the book of Revelation says about Satan. Satan has done a lot of things. He does have power. He does fight, but he's an imposter, a trickster. And a liar, right? And here in our text today, Satan is put in his place. He's been attempting to usurp and displace the king of king Kings and Lord of Lords from the beginning of time. We talked about in Bethany read that he's been deceiving since the very beginning of the Bible, right? Since Genesis. He's been trying to corrupt God's people. He's had some success. He's also been trying to thwart God's plan all along over and over again Remember, he thought he had him. He thought he had them when he got Herod to kill all the baby boys. Surely this will do it He thought he had him nailed to that cross, right? No one escapes this. This is judgment, thought he had him. Jesus rose from the dead. And so now all along I sort of wonder, because Satan isn't dumb, I don't think. Satan c can also read the scriptures Think Satan knows the scriptures better than some people. So what's he doing knowing this chapter is here? What's he doing? Well I think he's either ignoring it, right? He's not paying attention. These are all fables. There's a lot of fables in the world. There's a lot of stuff going on. Oh number two, he's trying to change it I mean maybe this is wrong. A lot of people think this is wrong, right? A lot of people think this is gonna isn't how it's gonna end up. So maybe Satan's like, I can change this, then try and see all along Or maybe it's sort of like a terminal cancer verdict, and you just live it up as long as you can Keep doing what you're doing. The the clock is ticking, but I I'm not gonna stop what I'm doing. Let's have fun. Evil Fun. Right, but so then when we put all that together, what has Jesus said? Because John's vision is drawing on the Bible and drawing on the New Testament, especially The gospel that have already been written, Jesus has said all power is given to me. Matthew twenty eight. Jesus said in Matthew sixteen, the gates of hell shall not prevail. And Jesus Jesus said, You will have trouble in this world, but I have overcome the world. Jesus and we hang on that Jesus has defeated death already once by dying and raising. And he's been on a redemptive mission since then For people, the souls of people, to adopt people into his family, to have his people, his church become the bride of Christ And to restore the world. Not just people, the actual world This world. Not an imaginary world somewhere else. This world. And so all creation will be renewed because of what Jesus said. has done. And because his people are found in Christ. And Jesus calls this the thousand years. Let's look at twenty one. through three, then I saw an angel coming down from heaven holding in his hand the key to the bottomless pit and a great chain, and he seized the dragon, the ancient serpent who is the devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years and threw him into the And shut it and sealed it over him, so he might not deceive the nations any longer until the thousand years were ended. After that he must be released for a while. thousand years. We've been hitting some of these numbers, images, points, and we have two of them in this past year, a thousand years. Right? Um a lot of ink has been spilled on this thousand years, this millennium, pretty much starting in 18 A guy named John Darby mapped all this out in what we now call dispensationalism. And dispensationally has this core teaching of a secret rapture And dispensation really relies on a very literal interpretation of these things in the Bible. Over and over again, everything is exactly as it says, except for some things which obviously can't be true. And so this got crystallized in the Schofield study bible in the early 1900s. This is when people, a lot of time you know we do this, we're in a Bible study and we look down at our notes and we say, well, R. C. Sproul says blah blah blah. Tim Keller says, or John Piper says, but you know, the Schofield Bible, they just said it was in the Bible. The Bible says, and people just started reading this and they took it. All. But you know what I'm mentioning is this is all from four through six. This is this is one little passage in a big book. Then I saw the thrones and seed on them were those to whom the The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were ended. Blessed and holy is the one who shares the first resurrection. Over such the second death has no power. They will be priests of God of Christ, and they will reign with him for a thousand years. hundred years no one took that literally. They all thought a thousand is a big number. It's a big round number. There are other big round numbers in the Bible And so most people throughout time have not been distracted by this apocalyptic imagery, apocalyptic numbers, apocalyptic distractions Because what we've been saying and of course you don't have to believe what I'm telling you. You're not not a Christian if you believe in dispensation. It's a fine position. Now it I can't be ordained in the PCA holding that position, so there are some boundaries for some people. But we don't want to be distracted by these things. Um seven through ten, when Satan gets released, a lot of people are distracted by God and Magog. Who are they? Where are they? We've got to figure all this out, right? Because what our theme at least has been here in this time is John's vision, John's apocalypse, John's revelation, is a vision of the unstoppable Lamb of God, the rider on the white course, right? The champion who comes to destroy evil and restore a fallen world to all flourishing. And that that doesn't just happen, then it's happening also now. It's not fully realized. But but John's vision is telling us Jesus will ace the mission. Don't worry. Jesus will face the mission. And someday we will all be together with all the saints who have gone before us. Amen. And we'll be singing the redemption songs that we've rehearsed over and over. You can look back at 19 and 7, where we'll be singing Hallelujah. Hallelujah, salvation and glory and power belong to our God. For his judgments are true and just. Hallelujah. We'll be singing with them. We can sing that with them now, right? That we will be surrounded by a great cloud of witnesses. And as we move toward that day, the mission of the church to proclaim salvation in the reign of Jesus continues despite persecution. Even scandal. And of course, many times in the Bible we hear uh angels or the Lord Himself or Jesus Himself saying Do not fear. Because Jesus has come for us. He came, He is returning. And that's why God made the point, you know. Now we're getting used to this now of the revelation version of the nativity scene, uh, with the great beast hoping to destroy the nativity scene Newly born Son of God being protected by the angels, of course. And as we as we forget that As we do fear, because things look back. The beast is strong, powerful. We gather together in my ourselves that we're a kingdom of priests, holy temples, barriers of the name, and and as Christians we can bring hope to the world. We don't have to Sing Santa baby or I saw Jesus kissing Santa Claus and those are fun and funny. We can sing, oh come all ye faithful. Joyful and triumphant. Come and behold him, come and adore him. So we can bring hope and healing even to a world that seems out of control. And so ad Advent brings us hope because Advent reminds of the reality that Jesus reigns, Jesus has entered a dark place, a smelly place, an obscure place, a stable even And he still enters places. And despite our setbacks and damages and hurt, Christ reigns, and he will prevail. Jesus reigns. Right. Jesus also rules. And when ruling means there's a judgment. Right? And are you a judgy person? Well yeah, you're a judgy person, right? These pants are too tight This weather is too cold. That's past interference. That was a strike. Why are you signing that guy on the team, right? This service is way too slow. This stook is steak is way too cooked What are the Ravens doing? And we love it. How many shows are there where Where there are judges over and over and over and over. I don't know if you watch them, but of course there's tons of them. They're pretty actually pretty easy to make. It's not hard to make the bachelor, but there has to be a judge, the bachelor. You're out! You're in for a while longer. American Idol, there's gotta be a winner. We vote, right? Dancing with the stars. I think a lot of this started, some started in the way we view it now with Survivor, right? The tribe has spoken You are cast away. That's apocalyptic language from Revelation, right? So we have all these competitions, sports, evaluations, and we do it in church. too. For good and bad. We often call it discernment. Um and it can be difficult at times to hold truth and grace Together, uh to be persistent and patient, right? And also I want to make sure I say it It can be wrong to not judge. It can be wrong to withhold judgment. It would be wrong for men coming up to ordination to say we're just not going to decide. Well you gotta make a decision, right? It would be wrong in the face of church scandal to say like, well, we're not gonna mess with that There has to be judgment. It would be wrong to not judge. And then also, it's also true that we can judge wrongly. Think of the Pharisees. So sure, so sure that Jesus was the imposter. Billions still agree with them. But the Bible is clear there is a judgment. Um it's sort of a supreme court. Things get bounced to the top, to the top authority to render a ruling. And the Bible tells us that Jesus has been given that authority And he will wield it. And there will be a final judgment about all things. All things And Jesus says, I rule it all. I rule over death and evil. I will win. And that's what we read in the great white throne, right? And I saw a great white throne in him who is seated in it, and from his presence earth and sky fled away, and there's no place was found in them. And I saw And the books they were opened. Then another book was opened, and the book of life, and the dead were judged by what was written in the books according to what they had dead. And the sea gave up the dead who were in it. Death and Hades gave up the dead who were in them, and they were judged, each one of them according to what they had done. Then death and Hades themselves were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death. From the lake of fire. And any but anyone's name was not found in the written book of life, he was thrown into the the fire. There's a verdict. It seems so often that death will win. It seems so often that pain and war and hatred will never Wake up on Thanksgiving Day the shootings in DC. Right, this young woman, 20-year-old Sarah Beckstrom, volunteered to go on Thanksgiving so others would Another one Andrew Wolf twenty four is in critical condition. So you know, Thanksgiving isn't only Macy Day Parade and the Westminster Dog Show, which by the way takes a judge who doesn't have to give one reason Why he or she thinks this is the best dog, it's just completely in his or her mind. And so we're tired, tired of conflict conflicting cancer. We're tired of car problems. We live in a broken world. There's so much wrong and misguided opinions. Um feels like we wake up to more bad news or Black Friday or Cyber Monday. to push more, more, more. I woke up this morning at five AM worried. Couldn't go back to sleep So I have to remind myself, um, there's a Sandra McCracken song that often comes into my car on Sundays, especially when I listen to the station And she sings, I will lay my worry down. I will turn my face to you now. O God, keep my peace. My mind is set on you. Let the anxious fears release Lease, let me hear your voice of truth. I'm a child lost in the field, good Father, bring me out, so that I can rest here in your arms, let your mercy find me Dark is the night, deep is your love, great is my need. You are enough. John agrees. He's had this revelation. He's written it down and given it to the seven churches and through them to us. This is his message, right? That Jesus is coming. We celebrate that he has come. We look forward to our coming. And I mentioned this in my prayer that that perhaps there's this last name in the book of life. And that's what we're waiting for. These are purchased names, purchased with a price, bought with a price, rescued names, aligned with Jesus names. And after all, I think the the truth of About this judgment is that everyone gets what they wanted. Don't want him. They don't want to have an eternal life with Jesus. They don't want. And so Jesus says, okay You're gonna get what you want. The Bible's very clear. If it's true, the Bible is very clear that with Jesus is life, without Jesus is death, sin is death, right? So if you want that, here you go. Maybe you thought it was going to turn out different. But it's not like you got something you didn't want. There wasn't some misunderstanding along the way If you are in Christ, you have eternal life forever. In a restored world. with everything set right. John Donut, a great poet, writes this Death be not proud, though some have called thee Mighty and dreadful, for thou art not so. For those whom thou thinkest thou dost overthrow, die not, poor death Death. Nor yet canst thou kill me. Soon our best men will go to thee, rest of their bones and their souls delivery, and one short sleep pass You know, um when you think about an eternal life with Jesus, how long is a thousand years? How long how long in an eternal life of Jesus has He not been here? A a bit, right? A millisecond in eternity One short sleep past will wake eternally, and death shall be no more. Death, thou shalt die. Amen, right? Um there's a Gregor McGregor out there Fooling people. Revelation helps us to reset ourselves. Coming to worship, O come all that we adore him to behold him, helps us to set ourselves To not be fooled because there is a judgment day and we have a champion. Amen? Amen. Let's go to him in uh prayer. We have a few ways to respond. One is in silent Prayer. Let's take a few moments and do that now. We also have a course Confession and the bulletin and order of worship so we can pray together. Let's pray. Mercy of the Lord, we confess that with us there isn't an abundance of But in you there is abundance of mercy. We are spiritually poor, are rich, and in Jesus Christ came to be merciful to the poor. Strengthen our faith in you. We are empty vessels that need to be filled. Fill us. We are weak in faith. Strengthen us Us. We are cold in love. Warm us that our love may go out to one another and to our neighbors through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. Amen. If you have prayed that prayer If you know that you're a sinner, hear this declaration of pardon from the scriptures. For by grace you have been saved through faith, and this is not your own doing, is a gift of God, not a result of work. So that no one may boast. Your sins are forgiven, your dignity is restored, your shame is taken away, all by the life and sacrifice of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ At the time of the banquet, he sent his servant to say to all those who were invited, friend, your spot at the table is set. He has made a place for you. Thanks be to God Let's raise our voices and and declare our faith to the world. Christian, what do you believe? I believe in God the Father Almighty, maker of heaven and earth. in Jesus Christ, His only Son, our Lord, who was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified. Died and was buried. He descended into hell. Third day he rose again from the dead. He ascended into heaven and seated at the right hand of God the Father Almighty Almighty. From there he shall come to judge the living and the dead. I believe in the Holy Spirit, the Holy Catholic Church, the Communion of Saints, forgiveness Now let's take a minute and invite each other to the table so it's not Just me doing all the talking, the Lord be with you. Lift up your hearts. Let us lift up our hearts, the Lord our God. Therefore we proclaim the mystery of faith. Christ has died, Christ has risen, Christ will come again. I was looking up that song um and I typed in Lay My Burdens Down. Interesting to me to think about how it's lay my worry down. Where are we supposed to put our burdens? On each other. Carry each other's burdens, right? Take it, take my burdens, please I gotta take your burdens. I don't know if it's a fair trade. It's probably uh we don't have to do the math, right? Or we give them to Jesus, right? He says, Take my yoke upon you So he he he's saying she she's singing it's worry too. Um That seems they both seem difficult, don't they? That Jesus takes our debts, he takes our burdens, we help each other along the way the way. And um if you find yourself in him, you know, your name can be written in the book of life But it might be written in the book of life and you just keep on resisting. Find yourself in him this Advent season, right? We can celebrate together the names. We might be surprised at some of them that are on it and aren't on it. God's mouth is not the same as ours And uh yeah he's he wants people that love him to follow him, believe in him, trust in him May that be us today. If you find yourself in him, if your name is written in the book of life, this table is for you. There's grape juice and wine Wine and bread and and crackers, feel free to come up and take um the meal. A a little taste of the feast that is coming before us Let's pray, Lord, we come to you asking that you would uh do these very things in our lives, that you would make us your people, that that that we would know our names are in the book of life. Because they're written in a Bible we have on our shelf, not because they're written on a certificate that we got a long time ago, they're written in the book of life. That we are Christians. Help us, Lord, as we go and bubble throughout this advent season to remember that. To love you because you have loved us. Use these Elements. They are what you say they are now that they are consecrated, now that they're before you, now that they've been set apart as something different, by faith they become what you say they are body and blood of Christ to feed and nourish us. Do that today. We ask in your name. Amen. On the night whose betrayed our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ took the bread and he broke it to the This is my body which is for you, do this in remembrance of me. Likewise he took the cup, and he said, This cup is the new covenant of my blood poured out. Do this in remembrance for me. As often as you eat the bread and drink from the cup, you proclaim The death of death in Hades, someday in the future, not yet fully realized, but coming nonetheless, until he comes. Amen. Please come back to the city. Uh three times kind of sounds like Oh the origin won't the central fuel. Same glow and glow and bave. So, Sorry for telling you guys. So you need The king of peace is joining the Savior of the world is He comes to me his near me Three by the voice and all your voice making that temple Up brought from birth leaves for