Blessed is the one who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book. I, John, am the one who heard and saw these things, and when I heard and saw them I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel But he said to me, You must not do that. I am a a fellow servant with you and your brothers, the prophets, and with those who keep the words of this book Worship God. And he said to me, Do not seal up the words of the prophecy of this book, for the time is near. Let the evil evildoer do evil, and the filthy still be filthy And the righteous still do right, and the holy still be holy. Behold, I am coming soon, bringing my recompense with me to repay each one for what he has done. Um for my children's message today I was gonna talk about so I'm I am talking about it. Um Um we've been doing hymns or Christmas carols, right? And and I've made the point last week, what did we talk about? Beholding. Beholding. Or maybe that was the week before, yeah. And adoring. And today I was going to talk about how it's interesting Harp, the Herald Angel sing. Okay, no more comments from the back, please. Um I was going to talk about how, well, I wasn't going to say it this way, but you know, it's interesting in Christmas time we have this peculiar specialty Vocabulary that um sort of gets past and um people Let it all slide, right? In other words, there's not a lot of times really throughout the year when you've got to know a lot of Latin. Maybe if you're talking about law terms or something like that Not you know, habeas corpus or things. Uh but the other time is really Christmas. Um we sang the first Noel. Now Noel is a little not exactly Latin word, but it's getting into that um Anglo Saxon lineage. It means carol, right? The first carol And then of course it's amazing we have a whole refrain here, which I always think is pretty cheater um writing, songwriting when you just repeat the same things over and over again, but it's a classic trick. Angels we have heard on high. I'm going to talk about angels in the sermon today. What's it like to meet an angel? Kathy knows? Oh, what's it like to meet an angel? Super cool, like Going into Hobby Lobby. Hey, we're gonna make crafts. I'm so glad you're here. Everyone's sort of freaked out, aren't they? They're mostly afraid So when when you hear the angels sweetly singing o'er the plains, you know of course they're singing in Latin, of course, and um and they're singing Gloria in Excelsi Sta Glory to God in the heights, right? Um and so we we can know these terms that people are been singing all this time and um I think there's something cool about not translating them and letting them sort of sit in a little bit of a mystery as we struggle to maybe explain the virgin birth. That's a doozy, can't be right. And there are things like that that are are uh high minded in some ways, like Latin, and in the ground, in the dirt, and the mump and the mire at the same time. It's a uh interesting way that we get to talk about Christmas. And John Prag thought that we can talk about Christmas at Christmas time with a little bit of a pass. People wouldn't be surprised to hear you talk about the living nativity. Um, even though they may really think, let's just talk about sand. We can break Okay, so uh we're finishing up the book of Revelation. How exciting. I was gonna pass out a quiz to make sure we've all been paying attention, right? Um we I think we know who wrote the book of Revelation. John the Red And where did he write it from? The island of Patmos. And what's most likely a theory as to when this would have been written? Before the fall of the temple, which was in seventy AD, because it's not mentioned. That's somewhat debatable, but uh A decent guess. And and it goes out to these seven churches, right? And and then I can maybe give you a quiz on when will the millennium be? And who is Gog? And who is Magog? And you have to write down it. Draw me a picture of the seven-headed beast. Well we won't do that. But I do want you to be thinking about what's your favorite band, your favorite singer, what's your favorite city You've ever been to. Julie's gonna say Paris. What's your favorite food that you've ever had? Your favorite job, if you could take any job in the world, what would it be? Make you completely happy. What's your favorite color besides gray? I don't get to I don't get to pick gray. And then two more questions. What is the saddest thing? What makes you just sadd So sad. And what is an ad evil that you would want to see eliminated? So we have some of our favorite things In mind. These are a few of our favorite things, right? Have you heard about the Sagrada Family Cathedral? Sagrata Family Catholic Church. It's in Barcelona. As of October 30th, it became the tallest church building in the world. They put a little extra thing on the top to take it over the top Uh I think it took over for a church in uh Germany. This uh church is it's uncompleted. And it got started in eighteen eighteen So that's what 150-ish years almost. The main architect, his name is Antonio Gaudi. It took his whole life. He worked on it from start to finish every day until he died in nineteen twenty six, and he died because he got hit by a streetcar. Dramatic ending Um now it's not an official cathedral because there's already one in Barcelona that was built in 1448. So it's going to be tough to supplant it It's a mashup of Gothic and Art Nouveau. It is only built on donations, right? And ten years ago they said it was 70% complete Um and actually in 2019 they filed their first building permit after 136 years of building. Should try that one Your next project. Um it's a building that's slowly, slowly Slowly, slowly being completed from the mind of someone. The plans are a little crazy. They actually make some sense, but it's a vision that this person Telling us throughout the book of Revelation of this heavenly city that is being built. It's this already not yet, because uh John is seeing a Vision of the future, but he's also seeing a vision of the now. John's revelation isn't just someday Jesus is gonna reign. Jesus is reigning and And someday it's going to be completed. This has been John's uh message. And John really is saying when you put all this together that Jesus has been founding the heavenly earth City since the foundation of the universe. This has been the plan. This is where we're going. And Jesus has an opportunity. unlimited budget and unlimited ability and a rather mysterious timeline. Oh. So we are looking at how it'll all turn out. My first point today is false worship. False worship. Okay, so we mentioned this last week, the beginning Of chapter 22. This is the last chapter in the Bible, or in the very last page of the Bible. It's exciting. This is how it turns out. You're a skip to the back type of person. Here you are Then the angel showed me the river of the water of the bright of life, brightest crystal, flowing from the throne of God in the Lamb, to the middle of the city, the street of the city, also on either side of the The river, the tree of life. Back. With this twelve kinds of fruit, yielding its fruit each month, the leaves of the tree with the healing of the nations, no longer there'll be anything Accursed, but the throne of God and the Lamb will be in it, and his servants will worship him, and they will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads, and night will be no more. Of her son, for the Lord God will be their life and they will reign forever and ever. What a beautiful picture of lower head, right? Amen. There's going to be a It's going to be a throne. God is going to sit on the throne. The Lamb will be sitting on the throne. There will be a river of life going through the There'll be the tree of life giving healing to all the people. The lamb will be there and the servants will be there. The sun will be illuminating everything. There'll be color and bright and light and darkness will be north No more and the accursed will be gone. And John gets to see all this and passes it on through the churches to us. So then we read this verse six. And he said to me, John, these words are trustworthy and true, and the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, had sent his angel to show his servants What must soon take place. And then Jesus says, the angel, and behold, I am coming soon. Blessed is the one who keeps the words of the prophecy. Of this book. And I, John, am one the one who heard and saw these things. And when I heard and saw them, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angels who showed them to me. But he said to me, You must not do that. I'm a fellow servant with you and your brothers, the prophets, and with those who keep the words of the book. Worship God. Okay, now this is super interesting because if you go back to chapter 19, so a couple chapters ago, verse 9. And the angel said to me, Write this, Blessed are those who are invited to the marriage And he said to me, These are the true words of God. Very similar, right? And I fell down at his feet to worship him, but he said, You must not do that. I'm a fellow servant with you and your brothers who Hold on to the testimony of Jesus, worship God. Now I find this very interesting. For several reasons. Of any of the disciples, of any of the apostles, wouldn't John be the least like the Person to worship an angel. I mean, he has been to the Mount of Transfiguration, right? He has seen Jesus do amazing things. And there's not a lot of angel talk in the Gospels, not a ton, right? It's not like he gets thrown off all the time by all these other apparitions. And and what's amazing is it already happens once. Right And so I don't think John is a dummy. Do you? You can't say that out loud, I think you do, right? Uh you don't. You think John is pretty sophisticated John has seen amazing things, and John has this instinct to worship the wrong thing. John, twice. He's even just been told not to do it. Now, you know, was this angel dressing up like Jesus? I don't know. Is he purposely trying to fool John? It doesn't seem like it. He's testifying about these things And I can imagine in the midst of all that John has seen, things get a little lost, a little crazy. It's it's it's he's seeing things that He can't explain. Like w here we are two thousand years later, and we can't explain it. So so I do think it's um possible and I also think John is putting himself in this text. You know, he didn't have to exactly write this part Because we do worship the wrong things. Even chunk. And if you're gonna worship the wrong thing, and angels not too bad I mean you're in the ballpark, right? But he has this impulse even to do it wrongly. And and that just gets us at back to a basic point is that all people are created in the image of God. And all people are created in their DNA to worship. Right? And there's tons of worship in the book of Revelation. There's multitudes, and they're singing and there's recounting, being in the presence of the Lord God Almighty. It's an amazing thing. And of course here on Sunday mornings, it's just like that Now we're of course a poor approximation of of what we're headed toward, but an approximation nonetheless because we're having Having a back and forth with the Lord, even in this, in our humble way. Right? He calls us, we respond. He speaks to us, we respond He teaches us and we respond. He declares us forgiven and set right and we respond We declare our allegiance to him. He calls us to eat at the table and we respond. We respond because he's been giving us his presence. And then even at the end, he gives us a benediction. He sends us out with a blessing into the world until we return again. And along the way between this Sunday and next Sunday, and even on this Sunday, right, will be tempted to worship other things. It's important to gather again and say, like, oh, mmm I sort of got lost there. Peace. I love peace, but I can't worship peace. I love success I can't worship success. I love solitude. I can't worship solitude, right? I love beauty. And it's always tempting to worship something or someone else and devote our lives to it and that's basically because um it seems more present like maybe John had seen all these things and then the angel was there. Right in front of him. And it was awesome. We see things in front of us. They're more present than God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. They're more immediate in front of us, they demand our attention more. And so John bows a second time, knowing better. He still bows to worship incorrectly. And in some sense the angel, this messenger, became a distraction. Um I think it's important because I don't know if John meant this, but but I think Maybe a part of what John's doing with this is saying even things in this book can be a distraction to worshiping Jesus. John's distracted in the very book he's writing About focusing on Jesus. About Jesus is going to reign over all the world. Jesus is going to destroy all evil, and he's distracted. And so couldn't it be that we might be distracted by the number 666 or millennial days or theories about timetables about I was making the joke about who Gog is and that And after all, I think again a part of John's point in writing this book is um the enemies of the Jesus seek to destroy him and his followers. And one of their Tactics is to trivialize Jesus and distract us from him. And it soon Super effective when it's embedded in the very thing. When we think we're learning about all this about Jesus, we're actually being distracted by him. Because in the midst of our charts and graphs and figuring everything out, Jesus Jesus can become small in the book of Revelation. He can become not the point of the Book of Revelation, right? It can be that we are so enraptured by the rapture that we forget Yet Jesus is the point of this book, right? And faith can lose momentum, and faith can get pushed aside, and John teaches On reminding us, I think, even by putting himself in this story that we are prone to wander. Prone to wander. And we can wander off so easily we can wander off to where Angels even. Um but you know if you see penguins on I-95, they're not in the right place are they? Today you might have gone, oh, penguins. They're not supposed to be here. And so as we go out into our weeks, eventually, hopefully next Sunday We'll come together either here or somewhere. We'll straggle in, disheveled, beaten up sometimes, right? Carrying Each other's burdens. Um we've been out there in doubt and disease and darkness And disasters and death, right? And Paul or John is saying, this is our Babylon. And this is our Laodicea, and this is our Smyrna. This is our ephesus. But this is not yet the new city. The new city is to come. You know there are people that think that Jesus did come back at 70 AD, and this is the new heavens and the new earth. We are in the new heavens and the new earth How crazy is that? Get in my car, let's drive around Baltimore. Are you freaking serious? Where are you living? But you think this is where we're at it, right? No way. It can't be true. And John is just I John is even saying, can you imagine being there at Revelation 7 or Revelation 19 and and then worshiping this angel, right? It's just beautiful He messes up. And he's showing us that we still have to be together and and learn and sing and grow and repent when we get it wrong. And I think John The book of Revelation also is a a mishmash, which the whole Bible is, is using our imaginations, um, listening and wondering And thinking about, right? Because our souls uh are um more than our bodies. But they're not unconnected from our bodies exactly in the way we think of it. And so as we're as we're in the ideas, are we in the realm of ideas and imagination Paul keeps on coming back to like, no, you have to stand, and you have to sit and you have to sing. You can't just think about singing. That's not singing, right? You can't think about tasting. That's not tasting. You can't think about coming. You need to come. Our bodies and our souls are connected so we so we have things to do, we have things to talk about, things to listen to, right? And these are connected to each other. False worship is so easy But that's not the point. The point is the true Jesus is to be worshipped, right? It's the revelation, not of the beast, it's not the revelation of the Bahia Or the Leviathan or the Great Prostitute, although we do learn about them. It's the revelation of Jesus Christ. I was thinking about um July thirteenth, nineteen eighty-five, the Live A concert broadcast around the world at the same moment. We talked about this before. The same moment Freddie Mercury got on and sang We Are the Champion, and it's estimated that 1. 8 billion people watched and sang the song Forty percent of the whole world were singing the same song at the same time. It's one of the greatest performances of all of history. And could you imagine instead of singing We Are the Champion, we're singing to the champion. Everybody. Somehow we all know the words. And as we've gone through the book of Revelation, what are we singing about? Who are we singing to just from the book of Revelation that Jesus has defined faithful witness. That Jesus is the firstborn from among the dead. That Jesus is the ruler of the kings on earth. That Jesus is the Alpha and the Omega, the all Almighty, one like the Son of Man, the living one, the one who is alive forevermore, the holder of the keys of death and Hades, the justice of God The one seated on the throne, the one worthy to open the scrolls, the lion of Judah, the root of David, the rider on the white horse, the ruler of the The faithful groom, the treader of the wine press, the one seated on the great white throne, the one who pens the book of life, the maker of all things new, the bride of the That's who we're talking about. That's who we're singing to. That's who we're worshiping. And of course what we remember is okay souls and bodies, there's a lot to do. We're not yet to that place. So there's we're preparing for that place And hit our little church, uh, our worship service every Sunday to get ready for and to come and be here. Living nativity is a whole thing, right? A lot of work. Um a blessing. ESL. A lot of work Opening up for a house tour wasn't a lot of work, but a little bit of work. A blessing, right? BBS. Blessing. Um our liturgies, our songs, our readings. These are all good, all good, all good. They're all important. But but but again the book of Revelation Reminds us that while we do all these things, the foremost, utmost, uttermost, preeminent foundation, but not exclusive, foundational truth Truth is Jesus rains. Everybody needs him. There's no other way to salvation. There's no other way to God. And if you have the whole world without Jesus, it's sinking sink. Now, with that in mind, I think Revelation is also clear that people need food and water. and education and literacy and housing and safety and dignity and respect and because what we know is coming, we we Today. We believe today. We have faith today in something to look forward to. We look to Jesus and his birth This Christmas season, his life, his death on the cross, his resurrection. As Jesus has been always uh creating and redeeming and recreating now And of course there's so many distractions with the beasts and the numbers and the wars and the debates and the Illuminati and the Knights of Templar and the Maces and false prophets and church scandals, but John is reminding us to look to Jesus. Now he does So at the end of the book. Couple things. Very end here. Behold, I am coming soon, bring my bringing my recompense with me to Repay one for what he has done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end. I, Jesus, have sent my angel to testify to you about these things for the church Churches. I am the root of the descendant of David, the bright morning star, and the spirit and the bride say, Come. And let the one who hears say, Come, and let the one who is thirsty come. Come, and let the one let the one who desires take the water of life without Christ. Verse twenty twenty one, the very last verses of the Bible studies to these things, testifies to these things, says, Surely I am coming soon. Amen. Come, Lord Jesus. The grace of the Lord Jesus be with us all. Jesus has but John has been given Giving us apocalypse, this unveiling of things to come, the these patterns and metaphors and pictures and stories and liturgies even, John's not been giving us slogan Logans or memes or bullet points. I also don't think John is really trying to scare us into salvation. Some of the things are I don't really think that's the point. Um John's showing us is the Jesus out of head He's got it at the end. We are headed to that final Day and John Sam is this truth, this revelation, should impact our lives and shape our lives now. Because of this truth it it it it affects where I am today. Not not making us like doomsday preppers or something like that. John is sort of saying it's ex are gonna be rough. I'm not clueless here. We're gonna make them. Hold fast. Stay strong. Don't panic. And so John's sort of talking about time, so I'm gonna end here talking a little bit about time. Um I don't do a lot of Greek and Hebrew, although I've been doing Latin a little bit. There are two words in the Greek for time. The first is chronos. Kronos, right? This is plot time. Uh watches, timers, duration countdowns, advent calendars, how many days for Christmas? Eleven Twelve. I don't know. LS Siri. I do know it's three hundred and eighteen days till I go to the VBI's. Um A lot of times I'll wake up in the morning and I'll think about I'll be thinking about my day. And I'll the way I think about it is a little bit of a rubric I'll say. Today's Saturday, right? said Julie. She may or may not be awake. She usually says, yeah, it's Saturday they said, Oh, so that means yesterday was Friday, right? Yeah. Tomorrow's gonna be Sunday, right? If the pattern holds, tomorrow will be Sunday, right? So that's Kronos time, right? That's just the progression of time. But there's another part of time that's Kairos time. Kairos is like opportunities ahead of you. Rose is a little more of an expectation of something that's to come. It could be like uh I want to go to college someday, or I hope to be married Someday, or I'm thinking about my retirement someday. Or what do I need to do to get drafted in the NFL? Or what do I need to do to become the first chair best Bassoonist. I met someone who's trying to do that. Not easy. Except it's bassoonist, it's easier than other things, right? Not a big huge count tool out there. service. So Kairos is this future thing that pulls into the present time. That is connected to Cro Right? It it's the season ahead that gives uh energy to the present. It's what we look forward to the impacts now. And and I think a part of the point John making other people have made is that if we are obsessed with the Kronos, with the time right now, it can blunt our expectations for what is ahead Right, we can forget because we're watching our phones, we're watching the news, we're watching the stock market, we're watching our vets This is what everybody's doing now, right? Watch it. Every single thing. It's micro-bed. It's like what's the next pitch? We're not talking about seasons or game, we're talking about teeny tiny little moments To miss the whole season. Preoccupation, inoculation. And that can make us forget who God is and his kingdom. His kingdom comes, will be done. His character. The whole book started Go all the way back to the beginning. The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show his servants the things that may soon play He made it known by sending his angel to his servant John, who bore witness to the Word of God and to the testimony of Jesus Christ, even to all that he saw. Blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of this prophecy. Blessed are those who hear it and who keep what is written in it, for the time is near. Jesus tells us in verse 8: I am the Alphi and the Omega, says the Lord God, who is and was Now just one more thing here. In Revelation seventeen Verse 8. We read this: the beast that you saw was and is not, and is about to rise from the bottomless pit So Jesus is who was and is and is to come, this beast was and is not, but will come. The Antichrists are lacking substance, their frauds, their cheats. And so we need to focus our life on Jesus, our life on eternity with Jesus. And and the best band gonna be made in that Sorry, Gar. The best song rendered incompetent in comparison The best city you've ever been to, the one you can't wait to go back to with all its nooks and crannies and amazing history and architect architecture and whatever, moats and canals or castles or nothing compared to what we're headed to You you you want the perfect job for forever, you're gonna have that You're not going to have a terrible job, and I can think of ones I don't want for sure. But we'll be in we'll be in like flourishing Their favorite foods, even better. All the colors, we talked about colors last week. Radiant colors collided No cares, no stress, no anxiety, no tears, no death, no debt, no miscommunication, no un Expectations. No boiling hot caramel on your hands. The villains are thwarted. The sadnesses are gone. The evil are all dealt with. And the thing about it is you can't be good enough to get there. Not how it works. But you also can't be bad enough to not get. It takes faith in Jesus for all people. And that's That's what he's calling us, right? The bright morning star is calling us out of the darkness that we live in so often, out of the angels that we worship instead of Jesus. And he's saying, I'm coming soon Soon come Lord Jesus come Lord Jesus the Spirit and the bride say come, but the one who hears say come Let the one who is thirsty come, let the one who desires take the water of life without price. Last Sunday I got a text from a acquaintance friend of mine, a friend of mine, and he he said, Doug I'm worked up, I'm too much think I'm too much thinking without any answers. What can I hope in? You seem to have Hope. No, a lot more hopeful people than me. Um. Another language. Aramaic We don't talk about Aramaic very much. The Aramaic word for come, Lord Jesus, come, Lord, is Maranatha. Viranata. In the midst of all that God brings to us, in the midst of this world, in the midst of the stresses, toils, the dangers, the stress There's in the midst of um relatively free expression of worship, but maybe a squeeze on that that we're not used to In this Western world, in the midst of um relational strife and turmoil, um In the midst of gender confusion, in the midst of politics, in the midst of all these things we say, Come, Lord Jesus. Meredith. Please come. We need your return.