It's like thunder. Come. And I look And behold a white horse, and his rider had a bow, and a crown was given to him, and he came out conquering and to conquer. Say, Come, and out came another horse, bright red. Its rider was permitted to take peace from the earth, so that people would slay one another, and he was given a great sword When he opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature say, Come. And I looked, and behold a black horse, and its rider had a pair of scales in his hand And I heard what seemed to be a voice in the midst of the four living creatures saying, A quart of wheat for a denarius, and three quarts of barley for a denarius, but do not harm the oil and wine When he opened the fourth seal, I heard the fourth voice of the fourth living creature say, Come, and I looked and behold a pale horse, and its rider's name was Death, and Hades followed him. And they were given authority over a fourth of the earth, to kill with sword and with famine, and with pestilence, and by wild beasts of the earth. When he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar The souls of those who had been slain for the Word of God and for the witness they had borne. Then they were each given a white robe and told to rest a little longer until the number of their fellow servants and their brothers could be complete, who were to be killed as they themselves had been When he opened the sixth seal, I looked, and behold, there was a great earthquake, and the sun became black as sackcloth, and the full moon became like blood, and the stars of the sky I fell to the earth as the fig tree sheds its winter fruit when shaken by a gale. The sky vanished like a scroll that's being rolled up, and every mountain and island was removed from its place. Then the kings of the earth and the great ones and the generals and the rich and the powerful and everyone slave and free hid themselves in the caves and among the rocks and the mountains, calling to the mountains and rocks, Fall on us and hide us from the face of him who has seated on All tribes and peoples and languages standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes with palm branches in their hands, and crying out with a loud voice, Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne And to the Lamb. And all the angels were standing around the throne and around the elders and the four living creatures. And they fell on their faces before the throne and worshipped God, saying, Amen. Blessing and glory Glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be to our God forever and ever. Amen. Then one of the elders addressed me, saying, Who are these clothed in white robes? From where have they come? I said to him, Sir you know, and he said to me, These are the ones coming out of the great tribulation. They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Therefore, they are before the throne of God to serve him day and night in his temple, and he who sits on the throne will shelter them with his presence. They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more. Sun shall not strike them nor any scorching heat, for the lamb in their midst of the throne will be their shepherd, and he will guide them to springs of living water, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. Amen. Thank you, Kathy. Please be seated. Uh just be glad that Joan convinced me not to put the whole passage. Because there's a lot more. You could have gotten to read all of the twelve tribes of Judah and twelve thousand of them. But so we cut a little bit of that out, go a little faster. Bob also remarked to me that he's never heard a sermon series all the way through the book of Revelation. So that's uh unusual I guess. Um seems like we should study it since it's one of the books that is the m least understood. Uh most actually one of the probably has some of the most images and popular and we're in one of those passages today. So we're going to be talking about horses. I may have mentioned that my last intern when I was in RUF She um when when we got placed together, right, because I don't interview they just like assign us somebody and you can reject that person if you want. But so when I said I called her up and and she told me, oh by the way, I'm bringing a horse with me from Florida to Oklahoma. And I said, is this an April Fool's joke? It certainly was not an April Fool's joke, and she did bring her horse chants from Florida Oklahoma and I learned a lot about horses because our daughter Anna was around eight or nine at the time, and Natalie wanted to help Anna uh learn how to ride horses and so we became a little bit of a horse family for a couple years and um horses are a big pain Did you know that? Horses are a interesting combination between tremendous power and strength and also being a big huge baby Can't do anything for themselves. Um they're moody. They disobey all the time and they get hurt like crazy all the time. They get sick, they get hurt, uh they their their legs really aren't exactly meant for the big body that they're holding up in some ways. This is why uh there's a lot of accidents. And the other thing about the horse is um You know, when you put a dog down, it's a big deal, but a horse is a whole nother thing. Uh and there's always like a you know, this how much money are we gonna sink into this to see if this horse gets better. I feel that way about a poodle. I think we've maybe got our limit. But Julie says no, we're gonna Pull another tooth for two thousand dollars. Okay I'm k still uh still uh mad about that one, but alright. Horses are a whole nother thing. No, whole nother thing. So famous horses Sea biscuit is a great one. Man of war. Secretariat, right? Okay. Famous horses. Traveler. Trigger, exactly. Mr. Ed. Got that one on my list. Silver. Silver is along Long John Silver's horse? No. Lone Ranger's horse. Uh Black Beauty. And there's one that you're missing. What? Picka where's that from? Oh, okay. I was thinking of Misty of Chickate, yeah. Spirit. Oh, and there's another one. I have another one on here. Spirit. Spirit, right? Spirit. Okay, so we're gonna be talking about horses. That's about all I got on horses. Um we June and I went to the horse race, so there's one other thing. We're gonna look at evil today again. This is in some sense a similar sermon from last week We're looking at evil. We're looking at history. And last week we talked about chapter 5, but then we also looked ahead to chapters 11 through 14. Um but but really this is where things start in the imagery and the characters that you've heard of before in pop culture and stuff like that. this this is where it begins. Now let's just remind ourselves in chapter one we saw Jesus, the vision of the Son of Man It was awesome. Chapters 2 and 3 are the letters to the churches, right? Chapter 4 is similar to chapter 1, and chapter 4 and 5 sort of go together where we see in the throne room of heaven, the Son of Man, the ancient of days, being worshipped by everyone saying, Worthy, worthy are you, O Lord our God God to receive glory and honor and power, for you created all things by your will. They existed were created. Worthy are you to open the scroll, to open the seals, for you were slain, and by your blood you ransomed people For God from every tribe and language and people and nation, and you have made them king a kingdom and priest to our God, and they shall reign forevermore. And so we've been thinking about all of this setup And remember, we have talked about in eleven through fourteen the great dragon, the Leviathan, and the Behemoth. We've talked about already last week the killing of the witnesses. But I'm reminding you, every week really, is that evil is not at the center state Evil does get a time, but despair does not rule the universe. Death is an intruder and is not ultimately welcome. And there is meaning in the chaos if we know Christ. So let's talk about the power of evil. Uh these seven trumpets get blasted. Uh there's seven bowls poured out eventually. And and I I think it's important that it's not exactly this then this then this this than this. It's some of that, because they're numbered, right? The first one and the second one. So they do come out in an order. But it's probably better to think about it like overlapping circles or an aria that has uh different components that sort of come out and come back together and make a song as they come together, right? Um it's like a variation on a theme in the in some And so we're talking about how the book of Revelation is telling a story. We're not trying to crack a code We're learning the story, we find ourselves in the story, as opposed to deciphering a riddle. And the other important thing here is that seals are more important than marks. Last week we did talk about the mark of the beast, we talked about the 666, but I want to remind you that the dragon marks, but the Lord seals. It's different. The king's seal isn't a mark. The king's seal represents all that the king has. This the king is giving an authority Wealth, might, armies, horses to the people that have The seal. So we have these famous horses, the famous four horsemen. 1924, Notre Dame, Lindeman, Harry Stroudracker, Don Miller, Jim Crowley. And Elmer Leighton, the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse from Notre Dame, 1924. Four horsemen also is the name of a professional wrestler It's what they called the four Supreme Court justices voting to overturn the New Deal back in the day. There's Metallica Metallica. Metallica song. Named about it. There are lots of television episodes named the Four Horsemen Movies. Traditionally the Four Horsemen have been considered conquest, war, famine And death. And this has a powerful grip on our imagination. So in some sense, we want to say, good job, John. Good job, Holy Spirit, for telling John, because we remember this It's in our minds. This imagery has stuck. So let's look uh not exactly almost in order, but horse number two. When he opened the second seal, I heard the second creatures say come and out came another horse bright red its rider was rider was friended to take peace from the earth so that people should slay one another and he was given a great sword. The red horse of war, the rider takes peace, so that we can kill each other. So that we can make war with each other. The politics of power. We've been talking about power a lot. And I just want to pause for a moment and talk a little bit, maybe I already have a little bit, about the just war theory You know the just war theory is there are some wars that are not okay, and there are some wars that are okay, and those are the ones we call the just wars. And the problem with that is everyone thinks it's a just war In especially in real time. Uh I just finished listening to a uh podcast that my daughter's journalism company did. She didn't do it, but her people did it. And it's about the uh Eric Rudolph, the guy who bombed the Olympics and he bombed the clinics and he bombed in Birmingham. Um and h he would say his killing was justifiable homicide because he's killing people who kill people Right? So so his mindset is it's okay to bomb clinics, to kill people who kill people. What do you think Putin thinks? Does Putin think it's not okay to take Ukraine? Of course he thinks it's okay to take Ukraine. And I looked up that it the death estimations for civilians in the Ukraine are fifteen thousand. The military deaths are estimated for the Ukraine to be sixty to a hundred thousand and for Russia to be three hundred thousand for these just wars. I looked up Hamas. You know, Hamas thinks it had a just war. There's a reason why it bombed Israel two years ago on October seventh 2023 and 1,200 Israelis died. But since then, of course, Israel says we are justified. You've heard it time and time again, right? We're going to defend ourselves. Of course it's justified for us to do this. And since then, another eight hundred Israelis have been killed, but sixty-eight thousand Palestinians have died. War, right? We have our own wars, they're not quite as drastic. Our own political war Our own policy wars, funding, schooling, zoning, social media, Jimmy Kimmel, Target, Bud Light, Men vs. Women, Black vs. White, class war Outsteps another horse. When he opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature say, Come, and I looked and behold a black horse, and its rider had a pair of scales in his hand And I heard what seemed to be a voice in the midst of the four living creatures saying, A quart of wheat for a denarius, three quarts of barley for a denarius, and do not harm the oil in wine. The scales are out of whack This is the black horse that that represents the evil of famine, hungry, hunger, scarcity, greed, where basic staples are too expensive Expensive and the luxury items are hoarded for the good people. Again I looked up. This estimation of what things cost. So they they they estimated about fifty countries. What would it cost if you had to buy a quart of milk, a loaf of bread, two pounds of rice, dozen eggs, two pounds of Of cheese, chicken, bananas, tomatoes, potatoes, and one point five liters of water. How much would that cost? On the very lowest end of the set spectrum In India, that cost $13. 96. That is cheap, isn't it? For reference, in the US, in in January, it was estimated this Basket of food would cost $52. 80. So in India it costs $13. 96. And having been to India, I'll tell you, if you take American dollars to India, you are doing great. That 1396 goes a long way, doesn't it? But the Indians themselves make two hundred and fifty dollars a month So that's a lot different, isn't it? You keep going through the twenty dollars and thirty dollars and forty dollars and I mentioned the US is fifty two eighty. Switzerland, that basket of food $85. 39, but Bermuda $105. 20. Woo! There is a famine on the land. Resources are not equitably distributed, right? Supply and demand is a great theory and it works a lot of times, but does not always work in any sense if you've heard of price gouging, right? And there's like m small price gouging and there's like massive price gouging. And we pr And we should pray, give others their daily bread. So we do join with lavender and equipping farms internationally Very important ministry. Another rider comes out. When he opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature say, Come, and I looked, and behold, a pale horse. And its rider's name was Death. And And Hades followed him, and they were given authority over forth of the earth to kill with sword and with the famine and with pestilence and by wild beasts of the earth. Death and Hades This pale horse given authority for a time, given some space for a time. We God's people are just people, all people create in the image of God, right? For us in God's people, sons and daughters of the king, we're called priests and temples, but we're corrupted and dying. No matter how much time or money we spend at the health club or in CrossFit or with a personal trainer or with our C B D oils or plastic Surgery, our paleo diets. Death is coming. Hades. For all of us But it can come sometimes, it feels like way too early. And so these horses sort of swirl together. Um it's not a progression really, they're they're present They're they're acknowledged. Um we don't exactly know why, but God allows all of this. God allows the war, the injustice, the famines, the greeds, the And then as w as it keeps going, this is the fifth seal, right? They're the altar of the souls who have been slain For the word of God and for the witnesses, they cry out with a loud voice, O sovereign Lord, holy and true, how long before you will judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth. How long, O Lord, how long, the martyrs. The witnesses cry out. It's estimated there might be it's hard to really add this up, seventy million Christian martyrs. Time. The biggest number in that number comes from the twentieth century. The biggest number of martyrs comes from the 20th century. It's estimated that between 2000 and 2010, one million people died for the Christian faith So we cry out, How long, O Lord? How long before you judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth? Six seals is about disasters, creation coming into chaos. Who can stand? Last week we asked, who is worthy? This week the question is who Well, thankfully sermons don't end there, right? Um it's a pretty depressing So we can look at the power of God. And you know, and it's important as I'm trying to make this relevant to our day so we're not just thinking about what's happening happening in Turkey in sixty AD. Because we read and hear and watch the stories, the shootings, the stabbings, the killings, the rapings, the corruption. Right? But we also deal with our own personal stuff. Infertility, miscarriages, divorce, hospital. visits, funerals. Not only war between nations, but war between family members. I I've been thinking about how often I'm in some sort of conflict. Um in the PCA there's plenty of unity, but there's conflict. In our presbytery there's unity, but there's Rental car agency conflict, tax preparer conflict, IRS conflict Team member conflict, marital conflict, right? We have conflict. And in the midst of this, we are looking to what is going on. And that's what John saw. Uh there's a great Johnny Cass song. It's one of the last ones he wrote called The Man Comes Around. It's about the book of Revelation. Tyson suggested we sing it. I don't know if it's really a church song. Could be, but okay. Um and it goes it starts this way. And I heard as it were the noise of thunder, one of the four beasts Saying, Come and see, and I saw and behold a white horse. There's a man going round taking names, and he decides who to free And who to blame? Everyone won't be treated all the same, and there'll be a golden ladder reaching down when the man comes around. There's someone more powerful than all of this. There's someone more powerful. And I'm going to flip ahead to Revelation 19 Verse eleven. This is the way Revelation nineteen, verse eleven goes Verse eleven through sixteen. Then I saw heaven open, and behold, a white horse. The one sitting on is called faithful And true. And in righteousness he judges and makes war, and his eyes are like a flame of fire, and on his head are many diadems And he has a name written that no one knows but himself, and he is clothed in a robe dipped in blood, and the name by which he is called is the Word of God. And the armies of heaven, arrayed in fine linen, white and pure, were following him on a white horse, and from his mouth comes a sharp sword with which to strike down the And on his robe and on his thigh he has a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Arm Lords Now I watch this is verse chapter six now I watched when the lamb opened one of the seven seals and I heard one of the four lifting Living creatures say with a voice like thunder, Come, and I looked, and behold a white horse, and its rider had a bow, and a crown was given to him, and he became out conquering and to conquer. Sure feels like the same horse and the same rider. And in the midst of black and red and Pale and death and Hades and Lefiathons and Dragons and Bohemus There's a Rider on a White horse. Right? This means that God is in control of all, God's in control of even of death, and death does not have free reign forever. And the Bible is the furthest thing from a sentimentalistic Look. Johnny Cash Says this, the hairs on your arm will stand up at the terror in each sip and each sup. Will you partake of that last offered cup? Or disappear into the potter's ground when the man comes around. That's Judah where Judas died when he killed himself. The hairs on our head should stand up. There's tear in a Because there is a rider coming someday who is written on his leg. That sure sounds like a tattoo to me. I don't know He's got tattooed on his leg, King of King and Lord of Lords. He is called faithful and true. The Word of God. And He holds the scales. He leads the armies. His eyes blaze. He has the crown. And all will be set right. Amen. Amen. All will be made whole. Amen. Jesus is the Lion of Judah, the ancient of days, and Jesus is also the Lamb of God who comes to take away So so just and it's you know this is how we have to hold Jesus together is he comes in on a stallion, but he came into Jerusalem on a stallion. Donkey. He could have come in on a stallion. That's what emperors do. He came in a different way. As a king, an unusual way For king but on a donkey. And this king on this white stallion died on a cross for our sins, humbled himself even to death. Who can stand? What's the answer to who can stand? Nobody Who is worthy? Ain't nobody. There's only one. There's one worthy person, there's one stander. But John sees angels holding back the forces. This is chapter seven. We didn't read this part. After this I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth, holding back the four winds of the earth, so that no wind may blow on earth or cease And he called out with a loud voice to the four angels who had been given power to harm earth, saying, Do not harm the earth, or the seal, or the tree, or the sea of the And then we read our first number. Now it's our second number we've talked about because we talked about a number Last week, but that's up ahead. This is our first number. This is where everyone loses their minds. We have a number. And we switch from like, well, there's not gonna actually be Beasts and rioters, but oh there is gonna be this number, right? And what is the number? One hundred and forty four thousand? And what is a hundred and forty four thousand 12,000 times 12. So these are important numbers. These are symbolic numbers. And you know, I don't know what they mean So I'm not going to tell you what they mean, but we're holding all of this real loosely anyway. Um some people think it means 144,000 people. That's how many people Uh a lot of people if you if you grew up in dispensationalism then you're thinking that these tribes are gonna be reformulated. No, that's gonna be Not impossible, but pretty tricky. We're gonna have to do some genealogy, right? Uh I don't know that the the test is DNA test is gonna not tell you what tribe you're from There ain't tribes anymore. You're gonna have to this is like going back not to the Mayflower Way back to when the tribes were still doing stuff. So that's one theory that this all has to happen. So many Jehovah's Witnesses? Like way more than in Oklahoma. This is like hotbed. They're everywhere, aren't they? I don't know who talks to them. I always I'm mildly interested, but I like uh I I want to talk for two minutes, not twenty. But the Jehovah's Witnessing, this is there's a hundred and forty four thousand And everyone else is serving them. And so you're trying to get into that number. And how do you get into that number? Doing good stuff, knocking on doors, standing out, handing out pamphlets, right? Um and they want to be because they get to rule over all of us. Sounds nice. The Mormons have a similar thing. You know what? It also could be a whole bunch of people. A big number, symbolic number. I I prayed at the beginning, right? So I the one reason why we read from that psalm was it's listing some of the The tribes. And in Christianity, we claim the Old Testament as ours because we are engrafted into the story of God's people. And so technically, by blood, we aren't Jewish. We're not Israelites. We're not descendants of Abraham. But the Bible says we are by faith We are in that group. That stuff matters. We don't just throw all that out and start at the book of Matthew. Right? And so John is seeing all of these people From God's whole family. And what does he see when he sees that? Verse 9. This is one of the best Bible verses, I think. After this I looked, and behold a great multitude that no one could number, from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages Standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white, with palm branches in their hands, and crying out with a loud voice, Salvation belongs to the Lord our God, who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. Amen Didn't we read that in chapter five? Who's worthy? Worthy are you to take the scroll and open the seals, for you were slain, and by your blood you were ransomed people for God from every tribe and language And people and nation. And you have made them a kingdom and priest to our God, and they shall reign on the earth. And so God's plan all along was that his people Would spread to all people. It was never intended just for one small group of Jews. was always to be for the nations. And now we finally see that it has happened. A great multitude that no one could number from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages. And John's you know looking at this and and they're thinking, even in Smyrna Even in Laodicea? Even in Pergamum? Even in Relay? Yeah. People from everywhere. From all tribes, peoples, and languages. And you know, there's an empire bearing down on them. Romans are mocking them. And they're asking, who can stand? And there's rocks crashing around all of them. And John keeps on saying, this world is not all there is. Fix your eyes on Jesus. And there's a great multitude praising God. Lift your eyes to the great unveiling. Lift your eyes not to color blindness. Our goal is not colorblindness. We want to celebrate all the colors, all the languages, all the throughout time, all the generations that were different from each other And we can praise God in English, sure, but we can also praise God in Zotong and Choctaw And Korean. We had a general assembly a couple years ago where um some of the Korean pastors helped and and and we sang hymns in Korean So I don't know Korean, so I'm mouthing the word the sounds of it, but still counts I think. It was still amazing. And and and what are we singing? Salvation belongs to the god to our God who sits on the throne. And on the Lamb. Amen. And we're singing with all these people. We're singing fifteen through seventeen. Therefore they are before the throne of God and serve him day and night in this temple. And he Who sits on the throne will shelter them with his presence, and they shall hunger no more, neither thirst no more. The song shall not strike them, nor any scorching Heat for the lamb in the midst of the throne will be their shepherd, and he will guide them through springs of living water, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. And then we might be surprised at who we might be singing with. we're not singing with we might be learning new songs that other people care about. And in the midst Of the famine and the war and the desperation and the destruction. The Lord tells us all will be well. And God shepherds us Right? The great lamb of God takes away the sin of the world. The great warrior on a white horse comes to save the day. What are we mostly saved from? We're saved from a lot of that destruction eventually, but we're mostly saved from the wrath of God. We're shielded and protected from the wrath of God. And then we're singing, worthy is the Lamb who is slain, worthy is the one who sits on the throne. Worthy are you to hold all things. Johnny Cash puts it this way. Hear the trumpets, hear the pipers, one hundred million angels singing, multitudes are marching to the big kettle drum Voices are calling, voices are crying, some are born and some are dying. It's Alpha and Omega Kingdom come. And then the end. The wise man will bow down before the throne, and at his feet they'll cast the golden crowns when the man comes around. Man comes around. It unless it's a response to us from us. It should elicit a response from us. That we would worship The Lord all of our days. And in all this commotion, all this commotion, there's a lot going on in Revelation, right? It's it's loud, it's not quiet. Trumpets, seals, beasts, angels, songs, marks, seals. And then there's eight one. Seal there was silence in heaven for about half an hour. Everything also got quiet. So we're gonna do silence for a half hour. The Lord does reserve some quiet for response. Take a few moments to do that now as we think about what we've learned the Holy Spirit is teaching us.