Think about what if this didn't happen? What if we didn't win World War II? And there are books about these, you know, alternative his alternative history Uh there's an interesting uh show called um The Man in the High Castle, where the Axis powers won World War II and then the United States of America is chunked up into sections. The Nazi section, the Japanese section Japanese section and then a third sort of no man's land section. What if what if D-Day hadn't worked? circumstances, right? And and one reason why I do want to come back on this and finish is because this is like one of the chapters I want you to remember when you think about The book of Revelation. We've we've talked about the mark of the beast and 666, and we've talked about all you know the very the exciting stuff, the cool stuff. But this is really the central Of what we need to be thinking about. And so war. God judges the world. There are powers at work in the world. There are forces, devils, antichrists, Leviathons, behemoths. Then God eliminates evil. He's not a therapist saying everything's okay It'll be fine. No. He's killing cancer, right? He's eliminating cockroaches and tapeworms and everything that's stuck in the life out of us Because evil has to be fought against, shut down, caged up, and destroyed. So my first point is to be talking about the birds and the beasts and war. Now Well, Bethany and I were talking this morning about 80s Christian music. There's not a lot of it Amy Grant, Sandy Patty, Petra. Petra. Remember Petra? I wore out those Petra tapes. Um and one of the songs is this means war. Um and it goes this way, Son of the morning, highest of all. You had so much going till you took the fall, had a place in the glory, but you wanted it all impossible odds, but you had the goal. It seemed so unlikely that you would rebel such a worthy opponent that you knew so well, but you went down fighting when you heard the bell, took a third down from heaven when you went to hell This means war. Not the greatest poetry of all time, but hey, I remember singing it a lot. The battle still raging It's war and both sides are waging the victor is sure, the victory secure, but so judgment we all must endure this means war. Satan is at war, has been at war with us ever since the beginning, very first moments of the Bible, Genesis 3 Satan shows up, the serpent, we've talked about the serpent and the dragon. And Adam and Eve were fooled They disobeyed God, and that decision plunged all of us into sin and misery, into darkness. We've been at war with God ever since. We've been at war with each other. Within war, even within ourselves, we're in conflict, and certainly with the world around us. And that began at the very first book of the Bible, Genesis, and it's continued all the way throughout. And now here we are at the last book of the Bible. chapters of the Bible, last pages of the Bible. And John has this vision and God through John is making this clear to us because we often do forget That we're at war. In our natural selves, right? We forget our own journeys have sometimes taken us away from true worship Our decisions and our actions have have sometimes taken us away from glorifying God and enjoying Him forever. Decisions and our actions have taken us away from loving God with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength, and loving our neighbors as Himself. And so the Bible is reminding us through History, prophecy, song, laments, proverbs, letters, and apocalyptic visions The apocalypse means the revealing. God's revealing what's gonna happen. And Revelation is full of drama and characters and a cataclysmic War, and they're gathered to fight, led by what Bonnie read in verse 11. Then I saw a horse the heaven open, and behold a white horse, the one sitting on it is called faithful and true in righteousness. He judges and makes war. His eyes are like a flame of fire, and on his head are many diadems, and he has a name written that no one would know but himself. He is clothed in a robe dipped in blood. His name by which he is called is the Word of God And the armies of heaven, arrayed in fine women, white and pure, were following him on white horses, and from his mouth comes a sharp sword which strike down the nations. He will rule them with a rod of iron, and he will tread the winepress with the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty. And on his name, on his robe, and on his thought, he has a name written. King of Kings and Lord of Lord, our warrior king will show up to handle the business to destroy evil, to tread the wine press, and the fury of the wrath of God Almighty. He will win. And now remember we talked about how uh in Ephesians six for we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers of this present darkness, against the spir Spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places, our battle is not against our family, our parents, our spouses. It's not against the neighborhood association. And its rules. It's not against the sport teams we don't like. It's not against the news outlet we don't like. It's not against Jimmy Kimmel. It's not against East Coast, West Coast, plaids versus pastels. It's against Satan and sin. Sin brings death. God is life, God is love, God is holy, holy, holy, right? And God is patient with sin. But he does not tolerate it. Patient, but non-tolerant. And so here we have the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, going to battle as our mighty warrior. And even treading the wine press. Now, you know, we we sort of understand wine presses, grapes have to be smashed to get the juice out so they can be fermented. And I think this metaphor right here is uh a a beautiful picture of a terrible thing because I as I read it, Jesus is in the wine press He's the one being pressed. He takes the pressure. He gets squeezed. He gets pressed. And he delivers the wrath and fury of God. And he takes My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from saving me from the words of my groaning? Oh my God, I cry by day, but you do not answer. By night, but I find no rest. For dogs encompass me, a company of evildoers encircles me. They have pierced my hands and my feet, I can count my bones. They stare and gloat over me, they divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. This mighty warrior also takes the cross crown of thorns. Put upon a cross, stabbed in the heart. This warrior gave up his life as a sacrifice. An atonement of sin. The Bible even uses the word propitiation, and this is the way to reconciliation and forgiveness. That he takes the wrath and fury of the Lord the God Almighty. And so this war, uh John is showing us is Is grizzly. It's not fine. Butterflies and rainbows and unicorns, right Seventeen and eighteen. Then I saw an angel standing in the sun with a loud voice, he called to the birds that fly directly overhead, come gather for the great supper of God to eat the flesh of kings The flesh of captains, the flesh of mighty men, the flesh of horses and their riders, and the flesh of all men, both free and slave, both small and great. This is similar to Isaiah, which we when we went through Isaiah, I mentioned this. Uh one thing I like about the Bible is seeing the connectivity that it has The very end of Isaiah, the last few verses. But this two verses are positive, and then we get to the last one. For as the new heavens and the new earth that I make shall remain before me, says the Lord, so shall your offspring and your name remain. From new moon to new moon, from Sabbath to Sabbath all flesh shall come to worship before me to c says the Lord. And then this And they shall go out and look over the dead bodies of the men who have rebelled against me. For their worms shall not die, their fire shall not be quenched, and they shall be in a horror An abhorrence to all flesh. Isaiah and Mount John are talking about this tragedy about people. People who have never turned to the Lord, have never put their faith in him, have resisted God's love, they didn't acknowledge his true power, and these fat ravens remind us. Of that great catastrophe. Kings and captains and mighty men and horses and riders, housewives Rich, mighty, politicians, PhDs, none of none of it matters if you're against Jesus in the last day. And so yeah, the background of salvation is truly a catastrophe of epic proportions beyond all calculation. It's far worse than we than we can imagine Imagine though John tries to tell us. And the only thing that stops the the tragedy, I think Tolkien said there's a U catastrophe The good catastrophe that changes this terrible catastrophe is is what Jesus has done to come, this great warrior who has come, but he came as a baby. And he grew as a man, and he died on the cross, but he rose again from the dead. This is what saves us, not moralistic devotion Not the management of details. It's God who does the work. God who does the work. And back there at the garden, remember Remember when when Satan showed up? You remember what God said to the dragon? Serpent I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring, and he shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise your head. A bruise to the head is way worse than a bruise to the heel. God has done the work. He goes to war for us. Point two is um feasts. It's the end of the world as we know it. Fat birds are screeching We've talked about death and destruction and wrath and beasts and plagues and hail and it's scary. And the Bible opens with this really weird wedding. Not as strange as it gets when there's not even a lady there. Made from flesh, made from the rib of Adam. And here we are at the very end, John throwing us this second curveball. It ends at the wedding. Right? Uh we now I've been to a ton of weddings. Um I think I've administrated like eighty of them. I've been to big blowouts. I've been to ones with mashed potato bars, which I'm still talking about right? I was at one in um Baton Rouge with had with had an unlimited gumbo bar. I've heard great bands. Uh fancy club Those beautiful locations, stunning churches. I've also done weddings outside in Texas and 105 degrees in August. That was a short one. I was a big hit 'cause I kept it to four minutes. I was cutting, cutting, cutting 'cause I was sweating on whatever my notes I had, right? I've done weddings on New Year's Years Eve, I've done weddings on the Monday after Christmas. I've done weddings for dear, dear friends, I've done weddings for practical strangers, I've done a wedding for a home couple. I did a wedding after church many times. I used to keep them all in my Bible, but in the move I lost it Actually one of the things that I missed the most that I wish I had. Think about weddings is every bride is beautiful. Every groom is beaming Weddings are magical and meaningful when we say to each other in sickness and in health, for richer and poorer till death do we part We say to each other, I take you to be my wedded wife or husband. I will be true to you, forsaking all others, keeping myself only for you from this day forward to have and to hold, to love and to cherish To honor and to respect in the midst of all God brings of us, as long as we both shall live. We bind our lives together with words. We bind our finances together, our domiciles together, our emotions, our schedules, our bodies of sexuality One person and two become ones. And what's amazing is Christianity talks this way about itself You will not find that in Islam. Islam calls us to duty to obey the rules. You will not find this in Buddhism or Hinduism These religions call us to eradicate ourselves and become a collective force of indistinguishable energy. Secular humanism Does not talk this way. It calls us to live long and prosper. And at the end, you die. End of story The Bible says we are living temples. We are priests. We are saints and sinners. And the Bible calls us family. Adopted sons and daughters, that's pretty intimate. But then it even goes to this step: the bride of Christ. Truly remarkable Truly remarkable. Intimacy, tenderness. And so we've read this before. Then I heard what seemed to be the voice of a great multitude like the roar of many waters and like the sound of mighty peals and the thundel crying out. Hallelujah, for the Lord our God, the Almighty reigns, let us rejoice and exult and give him the glory. For the marriage of the Lamb has come and his bride is made Herself ready. It was granted her to clothe herself with fine linen, bright and pure, for the fine linen is the righteous deeds of the saints. A feast, a wedding feast. That day for me, March fifth, nineteen ninety four. When I stood and I actually wrote my own vows, which I do not allow anyone to do. You can write your own vows, but you're also going to use the ones that's for the test of time Um Anna and Ben got married in November. They're gonna pretend to get married again in April. Fine. One of my favorite weddings, I wasn't at this wedding, but my friend Rob, his wife left him in his uh thirties And he moved back home. He was a pastor. And he moved back home to Virginia. And now over time he met a woman named Robin. She had been adopted uh from Korea. And she never thought she would be married. And so it was interesting. She was in her late thirties, he was forties. And he had already done this all once, and he wanted to throw a feast. And they had one of the coolest feasts I've ever heard. Wish I could have done that. I didn't know him then. These moments are life changing, they have massive ramplication And the Bible is telling us that that day is coming and is already here as we await the consummation evermore. And so now we rejoice waiting for that day. We feast waiting for that day. We splurge waiting for that day. We're not mere misers. And we've been on this big journey since Genesis 2 to get to here To get to this wedding. And someday when we're at this thing, it's gonna be amazing. There's gonna be no bridezillas. There's gonna be no crazy fathers of the bride. Or mothers of the bride. I I think the fathers of the bride are a little crazier because they're they're really ch Trying to not act crazy. One time, this is one of the early weddings I did, I was sitting at the rehearsal dinner, and the father of the bride sat down next to me and we had a conversation where He was trying to get me to call the wedding off for tomorrow. I'd never met him before I never talked to him one like dude. Seems inappropriate, right? Uh you did it, it didn't work for you, and I'm just gonna do that? No. Um it's gonna have an unlimited budget. this feast. And you know, our marriages until then, good, bad, broken, complicated They're all still pictures of this day, however imperfect, because all pointing, all weddings point to this future reality. And all of us, even the best ones, are poor representations of what we are going to get. Amen? Something to look forward to War, feasting, and worship. So everyone's gathered. There are great multitudes There are liturgists and elders and four living creatures. After this I heard what seemed to be a loud voice of a great multitude in heaven crying out, Hallelujah! Salvation and glory and power belong to our God. For his judgments are true and just for he has judged the great process Who corrupted the earth with her immortality has avenged on her the blood of his servants. Salvation and glory belong to the Lord. Amen. Hallelujah. We can sing that song today. We can worship this today. Because we will be rescued. We we've talked about the beast and the dragon and the sea creature and the land creature and the scorpions and the locusts and The great prostitute. She showed up earlier in chapter seventeen and chapter eighteen And again now in chapter 19. And the contrast is between the bride who saves herself for the groom and this person that expresses Exchanges intimacy for money. Or precious or an expression of love, but a commodity to be bought and sold. So bows versus visa. Jesus bought Another TV show is called The Americans, and this is a show that uh I think it's set in the eighties, and they're the These two people, man and woman, Philip and Elizabeth, and they're Russian spies pretending to be normal American family. They have two kids and the kid don't know that these are not their parents. They're not married to each other. And one of their biggest ways to get info is the bedroom. Information is power. They'll do anything to get it. This is where deals are made, plans are found out Nothing is sacred. People are chess pieces. That's this person the Bible's talking about And John, John is telling the churches, the seven churches, and through those seven churches, our church, all the churches, he's saying to us. Stay true to the group. Don't give up your status as the pride Don't believe Babylon's commercials. The whispers. She's a liar. Rip your heart out There was a song for this character in chapter 18. Fallen, fallen as Babylon the Great, she has become a dwelling place for demons, a haunt for every unclean have grown rich from the power of her luxurious living. And when she's thrown into the fire, they're sad. Sad because they had profited from her. But it's all gone. I thought you loved me, but you used me. What's your real name Who are you besides a lie? Don't forsake your love. Rome does not love you. The world does not love you. Don't believe it. It's an empire. The empire will end. Who loves you? The warrior king. King of Kings, the Lord of Lord. He loves you. He's coming. He's a rescuer. He's sacrificed for you. He's treading the winepress of God's fury for you And we will be at the feast if we are found in him. Amen? We look forward to that day. You know, I think we're gonna dance the Macarena, I'm pretty sure I'm Ben to a wedding where you don't. Everything's gonna be perfect. Everything's gonna be perfect and we'll sing. We're not gonna sing Taylor Swift. We're not gonna sing. All you sing the ladies. We're not gonna do the YMCA, I don't think What are we going to sing? Salvation and glory and power belong to God, for his judgments are true and just. We're going to sing, Hallelujah, for the Lord our God, the Almighty reigns. Let us rejoice and exalt and give him The glory for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his bride has made herself ready. The sing of our salvation. our Savior and His love for us. And seeing that the beast and the evil and the great prostitute have been defeated And we are at the marriage supper of the land. Amen? Amen. Take a few moments as we consider what the Lord is speaking to us through the Holy Spirit.