In the eighties or so, seventies, eighties. And in rural Nebraska, you know, there are all these farmlands and so you live a long ways from each other and the bus comes and picks you up and you go to school and then you go back because you got work to do. So there's not a lot of hobnobbing like normal when you're in grade school, you know, and the the high school sports get a little better. But so my buddy had this bike that he loved Rode it all the time around his little farm, you know. And uh as he got older, uh his parents would say, Well do you want and they used to just get me a bigger one. I love it, it's the same thing, just a little bit bigger one And so he got to about fifth or sixth grade when he realized, because he had never seen this before, now I don't know how that happened. This person may be semi-clueless for sure. But he told me the story. He realized that he had been in love with his tricycle He had never seen or ever gotten an actual bicycle. He just got bigger and bigger tricycles. Weird. My um proposition today is that feels a lot like the church It might feel a lot like this church. We're riding around on tricycles. It's the church doesn't feel very powerful, it doesn't feel very modern, it doesn't It doesn't feel very fast, it doesn't feel like it can go anywhere, but we're still pedaling away on our tricycles, right? And and the world celebrates power. Politics, grand juries, acquisitions, winning, winning at all costs, military power, creative power, technological power. The power to take and to give life. The power to heal and to harm. And then maybe you remember, if this has happened to you, most of us has had this happen. When you get your first car. Oh man. It doesn't matter what that car was. Mine was like a 1986 Honda Civic hatchback. um stick green about the color of that green right there um and I felt like I could go anywhere I wanted because I could To some, I mean relatively, right? In my world, that was a big deal. And you know, there were rules That we were supposed to follow. And of course, being a very obedient person, never breaking any rules, I I followed all those rules, of course, most of the time And so so I now had way more power than I had ever had before. Now there's a flaming lips songs. Flaming lips, they're from Oklahoma. And it goes this way, if you could blow up the world with the flick of a switch, would you do it? If you could make everyone poor so that you could be rich Would you do it? If you could watch everyone work while you lay on your back, would you do it? If you could take all the love without giving any back, what would you do with? What will you do with all your power It's a very dangerous thing to do exactly what you want. Proposition number two, we feel a lot proposition number one, we feel a lot like we're on these tricycles in the church Imagine what John would have thought in sixty AD. Faced with Honda civics The Roman Empire, the most powerful empire in the world, could do whatever they want, go wherever they want, rule whomever they wanted. Power. We can relate a tiny little level. But then John gets taken to the showroom where there's Ford two fifties. Right, Chuck? What's the most powerful car you've driven? Put you on the spot. Yeah. So you you get in the showroom of these trucks? You're like, oh, I didn't even know they made them that big. What are these for? Well come on. I'll show you what they're for, right, you know. So so so John doesn't in the in the midst of how John feels, right? Tricycle. In the midst of what he sees I mean a Honda Six pretty awesome when you've been on a tricycle. He sees this F Ford two fifty. He's taken to the very seat of power. He sees who's truly in charge, truly sovereign, the true word. The force that empowers the church in the face of the greatest empire, to that point, one of the greatest empires of the world, and an empire that hates the church So we're thinking about power. Uh we all have our own experiences of power or power of life and death, power of The media, family dynamics. And as we as we look and the world, you know, they felt that way. It's always the world's falling apart. They've been feeling that way for a long time. So we're going to look at the power of heaven and the power of worship. I've mentioned several times that I've been able to go to uh Washington DC and advocate for a A couple of things. Normally uh it's for women and children in third world countries or in Africa who need water, food, and education. Who knew? Um my buddy Bobby had has done this a little more often than than I have, and um So he's met with senators, I usually would meet with senators aides, uh senators and congressmen and sit in offices, and he has met people who ran for president. Watch Senate meetings and you know when you stand in the Senate chambers And you you think about all the power and all the speeches and all the deliberations. Or if you get to visit the Oval Office, all the power, call, button, and it's how It's awesome. Um when Julie and I went to the Yankees game with True, you know I Yankee Stadium is awesome. And they have a Hall of Fame and there's trophies in there. And it's a game ball where Don Larson threw a perfect game in the World Series And you just in awe of the power of even just things, dynamics Right? And so here, John isn't in the Senate chambers, isn't in the Oval Office, isn't in Yankees Hall of Fame, he is in the throne room of Yahweh. Again, it's not a future vision. It's not like, you know, someday, no, he's in the throne room, present, now. And what does he see? Angels. An emerald rainbow, you know rainbows are signs of the promise, the Noahic covenant, where God says he won't destroy the world anymore There's jasper. Jasper is opaque, red, yellow, brown. It sort of signifies protection. There's carnelian What is Carnelian like? Carnelian, turns out, is red and orange, translucent. And in the Roman Empire it it it was used for signet rings and like talismans. Um, you know, uh lucky charms that you would rub, and it s supposedly conveyed courage and physical powers. Um There are angels, messengers, armies Strange creatures. it? We just have made them all sweet and cuddly. What terrifying unicorns. Um there's twenty-four elders, which probably, you know, we're sort of Holding numbers a little bit loosely, but we understand the way the Bible works, we just don't want to go too far. But most likely this would be two sets of twelve Twelve tribes of Israel, twelve apostles. Which would mean uh they are representing God's covenantal people. Right, so it's not just Yahweh, it's Yahweh and His creatures, and His world that He's created, and His covenantal people, His church, but who is sitting on the throne? And he who sat there had the appearance of Jasper and Carnelian, and all around the throne was a rainbow that had the appearance of an elder and of an emerald. So Jesus is on the throne. Jesus is Alpha and Omega. This is Jesus' power, splendor, majesty, greatness, honor, and reverence. And it's a lot different than the experience of the first century. Remember, John is writing to seven churches in Turkey at the time. For the most part, persecuted churches. And John is exiled on the island of Patmos. He's not like living a great life. Um and there, as I've said, staring in the face of the greatest empire, the best, most feared, most disciplined army With their violent, opulent, gory games, sophisticated government, legendary Senate, the Caesars were rendered as gods You could have as much philosophy as you wanted. The markets were filled to education, technology, luxury, sexual favors Over and over and over again, the church looks so small. And in that reality, which which you know our reality when you think of our nation ruling power, but we're not the only ones. Think of the Axis and the Allies warring with each other with power, bombing. Russia, China. And Jesus tells John it's gonna be all right. It's gonna be all right. Wars will cease. Slavery will end. Justice will prevail, freedom will ring, it's going to be alright. And I'm telling you, John, this is the message that I want you to send to the seven churches, which means to us too It was to them and through them us. And he's saying to them, and he's saying to us, the gates of hell will not prevail. Amen. Yes, John. Yes, church, there is darkness and greed and oppression and anger and death and destruction and disease and despair. But you are going there with me. My kingdom is greater than this kingdom, and I'm the king of this kingdom. And then he says, It's time to worship. Right? It's time to worship. So let's talk about the power of worship. The power of heaven. We've seen a little bit of taste of the power of of heaven. It's hard to imagine what John would have thought, except he knew he needed to write it down. And so the power of worship, I I've mentioned this several times. that that here in the fall especially um with with football especially right there's this pageantry that goes to it Um college game day is on. Everybody's wearing their colors except for Bob, but Bob's now on the team wearing his colors, right? Corrected Bob. So but uh Uh you don't show up to a Ravens game with the University of Delaware hat on. So we so that's another step too far. And and I was at the game on Monday, Cal uh texted me On Saturday, so let's go to a game. And just so happened, we went to the Monday Night Football game. In September was delightful. So much better than freezing cold and raining. Right? And you're walking and you're like, oh It's amazing. Everybody walking to the same place, everybody on the same schedule. People get to do it a little bit different, but you're going into the same time You get this little wristband because it's a night game and those they light up. There's songs, there's bands. I mean it's Something else. The songs, the signs, the symbols, seventy-one thousand fans and one point five million square feet, and we see our allegiances. Who you for? There were a lot of Lions fans around Baltimore that week. And they were generally well regarded. Right? And you hear Let's Go Ravens. Let's go Ravens. Let's go Ravens. Let's go Ravens. John doesn't hear. Let's go Ravens. Does he? No He hears, holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty who was and is and is to come. He hears, worthy are you, O Lord our God, to receive glory and honor and power, for you created all things, and by your will they existed, and were created. And he hears the angels and the elders and the stones and the creatures and the symbols all saying, holy, holy, holy, you're worthy He he sees the king of the universe calling him to the throne room. The king of the universe has said, I see you, church. I see you. I know what's going on. I care about you. I follow you And you need to worship. I've written you letters. Come and worship. And you know, a lot of people have said, including John Calvin, and that means a lot uh that worship is one of the most central human activities possible worship is a part of our core being Now, of course, they don't mean worshiping the Lord only, although that would be the ultimate goal of our worship, right? But but we we were made to worship. When you see that car you always wanted, it affects you. When you see the mu or hear the music, and it's just Sublime, intersexy When you get in the presence of something that's awesome mountains, oceans, people, places, things, art And you stand and you go, Wow. I can't believe it. Just simply from this passage, we're gonna talk next week more about this worthy because it happens twice in chapter five. And all the things that we could worship, all the things that we do worship, are teams our looks, our style, our money, our safety, our security, our morality. And we wonder, is it worth it I think art is sort of a good example of is it worth it? Not that art Um you know, obviously we we know that Van Gogh's paintings no one cared about in time. in real time. So like are they amazing? I don't know. You you know the famous banana duct tape thing Okay, this guy in not too long ago, 2019 maybe, made three pieces of art, and here it is. A blank white picture frame and a banana stuck with duct tape. That's it Do you think that's art? Well, let me tell you this. A man paid $1. 2 million for that piece of art. He was a cryptocurrency billionaire, I guess, so $1. 2 billion is nothing to him. Um and the week after he bought it He took it on stage at some event and ate the banana. So instance I think that's sorta cool It's all dumb, but it's sorta cool. But so like okay, are what we are worshiping are what we are revering, is that worth it? Are we talking about bananas? Sure feels a lot of times like we're talking about bananas And and I think a part of what you know is happening in this book and in this passage is Jesus is saying, I see you guys, I see you, Grace Church. I see you churches in Turkey. I see you churches throughout time. I see you persecuted churches. I see you privileged churches. Now look up and see me Like I'm who we're talking about. And so we worship God holy, holy, holy The Lord God Almighty who was and is and is to come. And and I think what what we're doing each week as we gather is In some sense we're practicing for our eternal fruit futures. Right? In some sense it would be good to know this song ahead of time. It it probably won't matter. He'll teach it to you. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty who was and is and is to come. It's probably good to know and to be able to say worthy is The one to take the scroll and open the seals, for you were slain, and by your blood you ransom people for God from every tribe and nation and people and language. And you have made them a kingdom and priests to your God, and they shall reign on the earth. It's probably good to know and be able to say, Worthy is the Lamb who was slain. to receive power and wealth and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing. And so I'm I I think that's what we're doing here. We're coming every week. We're reminding ourselves, oh man, we came here on our tricycles. We passed those big bad Honda Civics. They almost ran us over. And what we're doing, it it seems sorta Sang some songs, prayed some prayers, ate some bread, drank some wine. I think it matters Um in some sense it's a call for our allegiances. You know what type of person are you? Are a Ford person or a Chevy person? Foreign domestic person? Beetles or stone persons And Rome is saying, Look at what I've made. Come on. You gotta be a Roman person And that's pretty tempting for this little measly church, isn't it? It's tempting. Um And the Lord lists John's head and eyes, and he lists our head And our eyes and and we often think to ourselves, you know, we probably could do a lot better. True. We we probably could be a lot cooler Uh we probably could change with our messaging. Um fog machine. I'm all fog machines, cool. Um Um get a little peppier music maybe. Maybe we should align ourselves a little differently with X, Y, or Z thing, or or maybe it might be good if we sort of like uh Downplay some of this a little because that's not really helping our cause too much. But um Jesus keeps on saying Look up and see me. Look up and see me. And you know, where have we heard this holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty who was and is and is to come? Where have we heard that before Not the first time. Back in Isaiah six, Isaiah And one called to another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is filled with his glory. And what did Isaiah do? Because he didn't see this exactly in the same way, but it's so sort of similar when he saw this before Jesus came and did all that he did, right? He didn't know that part Before that, the foundations of the threshold shook at the voice of him who called, and the house was full of smoke. And Isaiah said when he saw this Woe is me, for I am lost. I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of the people of unclean lips, for my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. I am done. When I stand in power like that, I got no shock. I'm instantaneously disintegrated Very natural reaction. John didn't have that reaction, did he? I was thinking about yesterday uh when uh Pastor Dan led us in the service for Christopher Woodland. And um one of the women, a friend of the family, got up and and talked talked about Christopher and what he did and and and and she talked about basically her theme was all of his unfounded hopes He didn't really get the money he wanted, he didn't really get the career that he wanted, he didn't get the family he wanted exactly, didn't get the brother he wanted We know that for sure Um and he didn't get the health he wanted. And and she sort of concluded, I think sort of like this And she said, but when Christopher went to the throne room of God, I'm sort of mushing these a little Together, when he was ushered into heaven, when he was ushered into the presence of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, when he was ushered into the presence of God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit to that throne room He did not say what Isaiah said, did he? No. Because he knew he was safe. He knew he was in the Lord. He knew he was more than a conqueror. Through Jesus Christ, our Savior, who since Isaiah had happened, had come and lived and died and rose again for Christmas. For Isaiah, for John, for you, and for me. And that's powerful Amen. Amen. Let's take a few moments, pause.