So we're losing time here. We see it's Revelation fifteen, one through eight, sixteen one through seven, and eighteen. Then I saw another sign in heaven, great and amazing, seven angels with seven plagues, which is the last, for with them the wrath of God is finished And I saw what appeared to be a sea of glass mingled with fire, and also those who had conquered the beast and its image and the number of its name standing beside the sea of glass With harps of God in their hands. And they sing the song of Moses, the servant of God, the song of the Lamb, saying, Great and amazing are your deeds, O Lord God the Almighty. Just and true are your ways, O King of the nations. Who will not fear, O Lord, and glorify your name? For you alone are holy. All nations will come and worship you, for your righteous acts have been revealed. After this I looked, and the sanctuary of the tent of the witness in heaven was opened. And out of the sanctuary came the seven angels with the seven plagues, clothed in pure white linen with golden sashes around their chest. Yes. And one of the four living creatures gave the seven angels seven golden bowls full of the wrath of God who lives forever and ever. And the sanctuary was filled with smoke from the glory of God and from his power. And no one could enter the sanctuary until the seven plagues of the seven angels were finished. Then I heard a loud voice from the temple telling the seven angels, Go and pour out on the earth the seven bowls of the wrath of God. So the first angel went and poured out his bowl on the earth, and harmful and painful sores came upon the people who bore the mark of the beast and worshipped its image. The second angel poured out his bowl into the sea, and it became like the blood of a corpse, and every living thing died that was in the sea. The third angel poured out his bowl into the rivers and the springs of water, and they became blood. And I heard the angel In charge of the waters, say, Just are you, O Holy One, who is and who was, for you brought these judgments. For they have shed the blood of saints and prophets, and you gave them blood to drink. It is what they deserve. And I heard the altar saying, Yes, Lord God the Almighty, true and just are your judgments. After this I saw another angel coming down from heaven, having great authority, and the earth was made bright with his glory, and he called out with a mighty voice. Fallen, fallen is Babylon the Great. She has become a dwelling place for demons, a haunt for every unclean spirit. A haunt for every unclean bird, a haunt for every unclean and detestable beast. For all nations have drunk the wine of the passion, of her sexual immorality, and the kings of the earth have committed immorality with her, and the merchants of the earth have grown rich from the power of her luxurious living. Then I heard another voice from heaven saying, Come out of her, my people, lest you take part in her sins, lest you share in her plagues. For her sins are heaped as high as heaven, and God has remembered her iniquities. Pay her back as she herself has paid back others, and repay her double for her deeds. Mix a double portion for her in the cup she mixed. As she glorified herself and lived in luxury, so give her a like measure of torment and mourning. Since in her heart she says I sit as queen, I am no widow, and mourning I shall never see. For this reason, her plagues will come in a single day death and mourning and famine, and she will be burned up with fire, for mighty is the Lord God who has judged her. And the kings of the earth who committed sexual immorality and lived in luxury with her will weep and wail. over her and as they see the smoke of her burning, they will stand far off in fear, in fear of your judgment to come. And the merchants uh uh yeah, in f fear of her torment, and say, Alas, alas, you great city, you mighty city, Babylon For in a single hour your judgment has come, and the merchants of the earth weep and mourn for her, since no one buys their cargo any more. Cargo of gold, silver, jewels, pearls, fine linen, purple cloth, silk, scarlet cloth, all kinds of scented wood, all kinds of articles of ivory, all kinds of articles of Costly wood, bronze, iron, and marble, cinnamon, spice, incense, myrrh, frankincense, wine, oil, fine flour, wheat cattle and sheep, horses and chariots, and slaves, that is, human souls. The fruit for which your soul longed has gone from you, and all your delicacies and your splendors are lost to you. The merchants of these wares who gained wealth from her will stand far off in fear of her torment, weeping and mourning aloud. Alas, alas, for the great city that was clothed in fine linen and purple and scarlet, adorned with gold, with jewels, with pearls for in a single hour, all this wealth has been laid waste. And all shipmasters and seafaring men, sailors and all whose trade is on the sea stood far off, and cried out as they saw the smoke of her burning. What city was that like this great city. And they threw dust on their heads, and they wept and mourned, crying aloud, Alas, alas, for the great city, where all who had ships at sea grew rich by her wealth For in a single hour she has been laid waste. Rejoice over her, O heaven, and you saints and apostles and prophets, for God has given judgment for you against her. Then a mighty angel took up a stone, like a great millstone, and threw it into the sea, saying, So will Babylon, the great city, be thrown down with violence, and will be found no more. And the sound of harpists and musicians, of flute players and trumpeters will be heard in you no more. And a c a craftsman any craft will be found in you no more, and the sound of the mill will be heard in you no more, and the light of a lamp will shine in you no more And the voice of a bridegroom and bride will be heard in you no more. For your merchants were the great ones of the earth, and all nations were deceived by your sorcery, and in her was found the blood of prophets and saints, and of all who have been slain on earth. A lot of revelation. Um just remind you that I'll be gone for the next three weeks. Next week you'll hear from Chuck Garriott, good longstanding friend of mine. He lives in D. C. and works for Ministry of State, runs Ministry of State, which is a great ministry that he does. And it's connected to not only our nation's capital, but there are chapters in state capital capitals where they have Bible studies and they do ministry with um people who were connected to the government not just government officials but all the workers who make that all happen. And then it'll be Craig Derriott who you've heard before. And then there's a guy you might have heard named Carl Deutschbach. Our good friend Carl and Debbie will be here And then I'll be back. And I also remind you that we looked at some of the passages before it feels sort of like we're skipping ahead from last week, but we had covered some of those previously. Uh uh you've also learned if I've been here long enough that I I do like to sprinkle in some history so that uh the Bible history is connected to our own history and time so it doesn't feel always so distant, you know, a a land far, far away, Narnia Some made up place. These are real places in real time. And although you know when we're in Revelation, it can feel like it's not that. But as John sees this revelation in probably around the 60s AD before the temple is destroyed in in 70 AD, most likely, they're thinking about what's going on. the two major world empires uh split and we have the United States of America and the Soviet Union, right? And and the way uh the These two empires postured themselves was the United States considered itself an empire of liberty. Liberty is more like you get to do what you want, as opposed to you're free to be whoever you want. So Uh the US decided uh felt like it was positioning itself as an empire of liberty, as a world democracy for people. the the Soviet Union would would often look at America and say, well, you know, this civil rights problem is a big deal And so we want a just society where everybody is the same. And so we're sort of going to like put down in some sense the high and raise up the low. And so we'll be a just society of solidarity. Right, now this is simplified of course, that's not a the way it all worked. And and so that was true in the forties and fifties and sixties and seventies. And then who remember what happened in nineteen eighty nine Was it November ish nineteen eighty-nine when the Perwan Wall fell? Some of us were alive. Many of us were alive I I remember, I think I was in high school. I was in high school, that's the right date. Something that we thought never could happen happened. And this empire crumbled fast. Now I think I maybe have mentioned this, but uh Mikhail Gorbachev made a speech s decently thereafter, maybe two-ish years after, and it was uh the first speech he He spoke in America after the Berlin Wall, and he did that speech in West in Fulton, Missouri, which is where Westminster College was, and my wife was a journalism school, and she covered that event. Just truly amazing. She wrote an amazing expose, uh probably close to winning awards, about the number of porta potties On site, there were not enough. There were not enough. It wasn't well prepared for. So it's a pu brilliant journalism right there And so we're thinking about empires. And you know, I looked up empires, and there's two ways to to view empires of land mass and also population. And in nineteen twenty, the British Empire covered twenty Twenty six percent of the world. That's astounding. Uh the Mongols In 1300 had 17. 8% of the world. The Russians in 1895 had almost 17% of the world. The Spaniards in 1810 had 10% of the world. Truly incredible. The Roman Empire population wise had thirty percent of the world's population in 150 Empires Massive Empires. Only one of those we are still talking about And the British Empire has certainly decreased by a long shot. Empires uh can provide a certain amount of safety in solidarity and structure and security, but they're certainly temporary. And we also know that the U. S. , we have tried to uh create not empires but new governments and government structures uh that we think is going to be the best uh for the people we fostered them and they uh almost always have toppled In other words, John is pointing out that empires will not last. That's his theme here lately. He's been looking and we've been talking about the swirling nature of the plagues and the bowls. And about Babylon the Great and the Roman Empire, the Roman Empire that drinks on the blood of the martyrs. And so John is giving us, his vision is a view of cosmic history. And the point today is the Empire of Death is taken over by the kingdom of life. The empire of death is taken over by the kingdom of life. And John gives us these vivid illustrations of evil and injustice, and he also gives us a promise at the end. Always a promise. And so this was true when John was getting this vision in probably the 60s. It was true in 1060. It was true in 1960. It'll be true in 2016. Revelation 718 is a reality that life will eventually defeat death. Evil will be vanquished, and justice will prevail. Amen. Let's think about that empire of death. First, how does John describe and portray Rome? The Empire of Death. Chapter 17. I don't think we read this. Then one of the seven angels who said who had the seven bulls came and said to me, Come I will show you the judgment of the great prostitute who is seated on many waters, with whom the kings of the earth have committed sin sexual immorality with the wine of those sexual morality of the dwellers on earth have become drunk. And he carried me away in the spirit in the wilderness, and I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet beast that was full of blasphemous names, and it had seven heads and ten horns. The woman was arraised in purple and scoop jewels and pearls, holding in her hand a golden cup full of abominations and the impurities of her sexual immorality, and on her forehead was written the name of a mystery Babylon the Great, mother of prostitutes, the earth abominations. The shed blood of saints and prophets drunk on it, demonic spirits, blasphemous, sexual immorality. The beast, this empire subjugates people, makes war, is filled with fine luxuries, unparalleled access to vice And slavery. Lots of slavery. The Empire of Death, this is really verse eight chapter eighteen. Gains its power and influence and control not from the good will of people, not from seeing people flourish, but from the dragon. Satan. And all these luxury items from all over the world, China and India and Africa, they're like the stolen jewels from the Louvre that happened last week Pilford gone. Julie and I are watching uh because of that, and she recently went to Boston And we're watching this documentary about the museum in Cambridge, the Gardner Museum. This lady had this elaborate museum and in nineteen ninety uh It's this is still unsolved. One of the most famous Rembrandts in the world, th it's the one where they're on a ship. It's Sea, I'm sure you've seen it. You can Google it real fast and you'll notice it. You'll have seen this. It's the only Rembrandt seascape ever, and it's gone. It's been gone for 30 years There's a Vermeer. Now Vermeer's a little less known, but this is he's a very technical Dutch painter. He only painted like 32, 33 paintings, and one of them's missing. I bet you you've seen it. On the internet. If any of you know where it is, let me know. If you know where these jewels are, I would like to know those too. Priceless, stolen, priceless, stolen items Banished, greed, gone. And I think John is really then in essence This is something we've been hearing before as we've gone through this book. He's actually talking about worship Again and again he's talking about worship. And the reason I say that is because idols always demand worship. There is no idol that does not demand sacrifice. Idols are never neutral. Okay? And we discussed this even last time. Last week the Roman culture is filled with idols. We even talked about naming the days of our week for gods and idols, right? Mars, the god of war, Aphrodite, the god of sex, there's gods of trade and commerce and crops. And Rome became a prosperous empire seeking after mammon The Bible calls that type of idol in the New Testament. Because Mars demands what? War. Aphrodite demands what? Sex. Conquests. And the driver of this engine In the Roman Empire, and it's been true many, many times, it's been true in our own nation. It's not steam or gas or electricity as power source. What's the power source that drives these engines? Slavery. People. Blood. Drives the engine. That's how these things get made And of course the Romans have laws about this because one of the things that happens as you as you drive this engine sometimes society is like oh that's a little too one-to-one so now we're gonna like go around the bend accomplish the Same purpose through making laws where what we're doing to use people is legal. to get people under your thumb so they can become the drivers of your engine, right? And so the Roman laws serve these purposes, as do the Roman games serve these purposes. I get by by trampling on others. It's the way of the world. And so what's interesting Is Christianity comes along? Now remember, we're in like 60-ish AD, and already Christianity has become a big problem for the Roman Empire Why is that? They're not a whole bunch of these people. Why is Christianity a problem to the Roman Empire? Well, because instead of saying we all understand we're seeking our own good. That's the deal. That's what we're here for. Christianity says love your neighbor as yourself. Yo. What? The Empire says, the Empire comes first. Everything is subject to the Empire. We are filled with duty and honor, and if anything, the Roman Empire was duty and honor, writ large. And Jesus says, and his followers had it in their mouths: seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be given unto you. Jesus said, Lay down your lives for your friend That is not the same as the Roman Empire. I don't want to pause and say It's so it's there are lots of movies about this, right? The the one person that won't bend the knee to the big huge structure, right? We love these movies. I do want to pause and say The big tragedy is when Christianity becomes the empire. That's not supposed to be the deal. Now Um I'm gaga about cathedrals. I'm so thankful for them to go visit the mount of Energy and time and oh yeah, money and sweat and tears to create these edifices in the 1100s, 1200s? I mean they stood out crazy. There's something sorta cool in some ways when knees the when uh kings are bowing their knees to pastors Until the pastors aren't really pastors, they're called popes, and the popes run the world Then we've lost our bearings, right? W when the very thing that was against the empire becomes the empire. Okay, let's just uh Jim Baker's Empire Jerry Baldwell's Empire, Bob Jones' Empire. Who's the guy in Houston now? I don't hear about him as much. Joe Olstein's Empire Um there we're still sort of building empires. It's tempting to build an empire. I think it makes it connected to we have an instinct ability to build things. Right? And that's beautiful. God made us that way to build things. But then we can build things for ourselves. We can build our own empires. And that's different than the kingdom. Of God by a long shot. And after all, what does Revelation 18 say? 187. As she glorified herself and lived in luxury. Now this obviously wasn't in the Bible, but John Calvin would say the chief end of man is to glorify God and then That's a far cry from glorifying ourselves. And so the Romans are are faced with this peace People that are okay to suffer, but in a different weird way. They're okay to be persecuted and put to And so you know the Romans are like, Okay, let's do it. So they just killed him and killed him and killed him and killed them. John says they're like addicted, intoxicated with the blood of the martyrs, drunk on the blood. And then the Romans are like, we don't want to stop. One high leads to another high, leads to another high. Let's keep going, right? Let's put it into modern day there are times that that happen when China is cracking down on Christianity. There are raids on house churches Right? And um and the reason is because the Chinese government, the communist Chinese government, they intuitively understand Um that they can let it go for a while, but crosses and symbols and Bibles threaten the Empire. And they must be destroyed People must be jailed. People must be persecuted. Because Christians and Priests and pastors don't serve the Communist Party. They don't serve the party's propaganda And the Christian elements, the elements of Christianity pose a threat. And and I looked up this week that there are approximately ninety million members of the Communist Party, which I actually thought was would be more official members I suppose. And it's estimated how many Christians are estimated to be in China? The official number by the government is 36 million. People think it might be a hundred million. It's very difficult to squash out people who understand this, who serve Jesus as Lord and Savior. And and and and and when we read all that it is right tracking with what We've been saying all along. I I read one last week. Here we are again, Psalm thirteen. How long, O Lord, will you forget me forever? How long will you hide your face from me? How long must I take counsel in my soul and have sorrow in my heart all the day? How long shall my enemy be exalted over me? John knew that song for sure, right? He's sitting in Patmos, day after day after day. He's thinking about what's going on, what he's seen How long, O Lord, he now sees Jesus and I'm like, you could change all this, man. I've seen you walk on water You control the weather. How long? Why are you waiting? But but because John isn't missing words about this right Rome is Babylon and this is terrible. He says Rome is a whore and we're not talking pretty women glad glamorized here Rome is in the power of Satan, the ultimate evil. And I also think, is John writing this scroll, maybe he shows it to the first person that no one's seen it yet. You know, he's like, I have this vision, this is Jesus talking. And somebody reads this quote like John. This is how you get killed right here, man. I would probably put this away. Uh you could burn this? If I burn this, it's the only copy, right? No one else has this, right? You're getting us all in trouble, man. People get sought in hot this is how you go to the lions It's at least going to get you marginalized. pull back to today. Not Rome in the sixties and Turkey, but the United States in twenty twenty five There have been 22,000 shooting deaths this year. Mass shootings are considered four or more people, 350 one this year. Mass murders, four or more people, fourteen mass murders. Incarceration routes up out the route incarceration rates Cop the roof, school school achievement down, reading down, teen pregnancy up, sexually treadmill diseases up, white supremacy up, anti Antisemitism up. Poison water. Up. Systemic poverty. Up. Drug overdoses. Forest fires Um holding back the government, as John prayed about, for political gain. These are political strategies. long, O Lord, we can raise our voice with David and with John as we notice about ourselves and and okay we don't have these little basketball games. We certainly got Netflix. Basketball, baseball, football Music, sailing. All of these are fine things. I love all those things. But John is also saying, wake up too And that we as God's people can speak prophetically, we should be able to speak prophetically somehow into our current age if we can see What's real going on? And we can cry out, how long, O Lord, how long? So the good news is that's not the end. Amen. That's always the good news that that instead of having then the empire of God, we have the kingdom of God. Different It's not of flesh and blood, right? It's sort of the weird part about Jesus could have been the king in Rome. Easy It's not what he's interested in. And John paints this vivid picture, right? It's not super abstract art. He's using Old Testament imagery, especially Exodus He's using these types and figures to show us there is a day coming of justice. There's a day coming when all this focus that he's been focusing on and witness, hate, and death and sin, right? Will be transformed and made new. Now some people think that Um they have reasons that this world that we're in, this earth, this orb, is gonna be obliterated. Um But I don't think so. I think what's going on, and this is what I understand as the the Bible's story in one part is that it's gonna be restored. This is like restoring old cards. I don't know how to do that. It's what I imagine it's like restoring old cards It's what I watch videos of restoring old cars. So like at some point this car got bought in 1965 or whatever, this Mustang 1965, it was brand new, it was cherry red, it was amazing. Well I came across it in 1995, and guess what? It is a rust bucket. Someone treated this car really bad. I don't know when that started. The neglect or the misuse. There's probably puke in here places and it's probably been in the river, I don't know. It's been crashed several times. Somebody made a little But in on a run, you know the easiest thing would be throw that car in the trash heap and get a new car That's what we do sometimes, isn't it? But there are certain weirdos who see what that car was And they know what it takes to move it back. Sort of in time and then forward in time at the same way, right? So we're a stored car, one thing that's sort of cool is it depends on how um uh authentic you want it to be. But my opinion I put a brand new stereo in there. I'm not putting an old stereo. I want the br I want GPS like it's even better than it was in 1960 Right? But that means I gotta know what to do. It probably means I need a mentor. It probably means it's gonna take a long time. And I'm gonna be working on that shop. Now this is all theoretical for me, I have no idea. Um I might get frustrated. I might want to to give up. Um I might feel like I might put in a piece wrong and figure that out later. Right? There might be some work But that's what I think is way more what's going on in the book of Revelation. Because God loves this world. Remember, He made it good. He never said this is a trash place. Now he said, well, we gotta. It's certainly not right awesome right now. This car's broken. 21 Then a mighty angel took up a stone like a great millstone during the sea saying, So will Babylon be the great city be thrown down with violence and will be found no more Bonnie read this. And the sound of the harpets and the musicians and the flute players and the trumpeters will be heard in you no more, and the craft of any craft will be found in you no more, and the sound of the mill will be heard in no more, and the light of the lamp will shine in you no more And the voice of the bridegroom and bride will be heard in you no more, for your merchants will be great ones of the earth, and all the nations were to see by your sorcery, and in her was found the blood of the prophets and the saints, and of all those who been before Or this will be restored because that is going to go away. All that pain and suffering, the rust, the neglect is going to be gone. And we are going to then inherit the new Eden, the new Jerusalem, the new city on the hill, because the Lamb of God is worthy The great warriors coming on a stallion with sword with all power. And remember we said in in in 1916, it's easy it's It's hard not to skip ahead, just a little bit. On his robe and on his thigh, he has a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And he is going to set all things right. Through his labors, we are going to make this car run again. It's going to be better than new. John's vision is like, it's not going to be easy, it's not going to be quick. But you can know what to expect as we go through Through this process. And we can know that we're going to get there some way. And we can know that this evil does not have the last say, but goodness does And we can know that hate does not triumph, but love triumphs, so we can hope for what is to come. And I guess I'm I pulling this back in. We live in some sort of Babylon. You know, uh this was a metaphor then. They weren't in Babylon. It was a metaphor for terribleness. Imagine what it's like today today to live in Damascus, Syria. Imagine what it's like To live in Libya, Bangladesh, Pakistan Nigeria, Haiti, Afghanistan. Wouldn't you think this book would be important If someone were to read this like this isn't the way it's always gonna be. It's true for us, but it's gosh We have a deep human longing not only to build things, but we know this is wrong. We know it. I think God has implanted on this. We know that we need better leaders, judges, kings. Governments. And we know even good ones, even the best ones still make mistakes. Right But then we know, and John keeps showing us, there is a true judge, a true king, a true warrior. And that true warrior king is also the Lamb of God. makes sacrifice, who takes away the sin of the world, who came down and subjugated himself to the Roman Empire Um I have a buddy who on Friday got arrested Shocking to me really. Yeah, he he's got lots of friends and I'm one of 'em I texted him, I said I love him, man. Sorry. I don't really know if it's his fault or not his fault. And um that was it and he He started texting me back a little bit. Um and I said, Well, uh, I love you. And um Make sure your guns were all put away and said, Yeah, I've I've done that. I said There's a lot of things that gonna happen probably in the next whatever. And I said, um these aren't long treatises, you know The rooster's gonna crow tomorrow. The sun's gonna come up tomorrow This is very dark today. I've mentioned this song and I mentioned it to him. Even though you're not whole You're not empty. Even though you're not whole, you're not empty. There's dignity in you, right? And um And and I know a lot of people are telling you a lot of things, and some of those things honestly might be true, right? You have done these things, like you didn't just get in jail But I want to remind you who you are. Even in jail. I want to remind you what your name is, who you are, your identity. It's not only that. Partly that, sure. It's not only that, man. And so I want you to keep moving toward Jesus and friends and the light. It's a little picture I think of this. Um it feels so dark and it can feel so dark and it felt so dark to John. I think he will. But can he do this? And they sing the song of Moses, the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb saying, Great and Amazing are your deeds. O Lord God the Almighty, just and true are your ways, O King of the nations, who will not fear, O Lord, and glorify your name, for you alone are holy. All nations will come and worship you. And your righteous acts have been revealed. Just are you holy one who is and was, for you brought these judgments, and you have shed the blood of the saints and the prophets, and you gave And I heard the author saying, Yes, Lord God Almighty, true and just are your judgments. Can we join Join the Christians. I looked up there were probably ten to fifteen thousand Christians in Afghanistan. Christians with Any moment their heads on the chop chopping block. Can we join them in singing? Therefore they are before the throne of God and serve him day and night in his temple. He who s sits on the throne and will shelter them with his presence. They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more. The sun shall not strike them, nor any scorching heat. For the lamb in the midst of their throne will be the shepherd, and he will guide them to the springs of living water. And someday, soon enough, God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. Amen Amen. Let's take a few moments in silence. Think of the Lord and Holy Spirit and what he's saying to us today. Let's do that now.