With me. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, for the law of the Spirit of Life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death For God has done what the law, speaking by the flesh, could not do. By sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, he condemns sin in the flesh in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. For those who live according to the flesh, set their minds on the things of the flesh. But those who live according to the Spirit set their minds on the things of the Spirit. For to set the mind on the flesh is death, but to set the mind on the spirit is life and peace. For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God, for it does not submit to God's law. Indeed, it cannot. Those who are in the flesh cannot please God. You, however, are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if in fact the spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the spirit of Christ does not belong to him. But Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin. The Spirit is life because of righteousness. If the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, He who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give you y li life to your mortal bodies through the Spirit who dwells in you. Romans 8, 1 through 11. We are in the second week of Advent. We are thinking about the in-between times between when Christ came for the first time in Christmas and when he's coming. Again the next time, which will be a great and glorious day for those who are in the Lord. Be a day of regret for those who are not. at the very least. And then we made the point last week that we also are thinking about when Jesus comes in the in between time. Not in the flesh, not coming all the way back, but he shows up in our midst. He is still Emmanuel, God with us. He's not just absent waiting to come back. And so we pray during Advent, especially, thinking like, oh yeah, we want to see you. We want to hear from you. We want you to be around, not just some vague thing out there, or not just a baby. Babies are awesome for sure. So we're looking at the fruit of the Spirit. What after Advent, we will start with the fruit of the Spirit in Galatians. and we're going to go backwards because it works out perfect to end up on love right around Valentine's Day, right? So why not do it that way? I don't know if the order matters too much. But what we're talking about in these Advent sermons are other fruits of the Spirit. Okay, not just these uh character attributes, but that the Spirit brings forth lots of stuff, life. Last week we talked about the fruit of union with God. And this week we're going to talk about the fruit of resurrection. Okay? And I'm going to keep making this point over and over again that the fruit is what comes out of your life. It's the actions and attitudes that flow out of who you are, your character. So it's not just doing Not just doing love, not just doing self-control. If I have a life in the Spirit, these are things that come out of me Because the Spirit is in me. Julie and I, uh years ago, we signed up for these, you know, vitamin packets that were specifically designed for each of us. Which meant we had to go through a big, huge uh list of questions. And it's all fairly, you know, what are your goals? What are you trying to do? Um Um what are your stats? Etc. But one of them uh one of the questions I was asked is how much fruit do you eat every day? Uh basically none. I don't know why. I'm not against fruit. I don't eat breakfast really. Um I don't eat lunch a lot of times. So I just don't eat fruit. I do love pineapples, fresh pineapples. I'll eat those. I hate bananas. Cannot stand bananas. I'll do a frozen smoothie sometime. But I think maybe we all have this same attitude about the fruit of the spirit. Like, eh, okay I know about fruit. I don't really care too much to delve into all the specifics. I'll add a little sprinkle of love on top sometimes. I'll do a dash of patience now and then. Uh some spiritual practices are all fine. But the fruit of the Spirit comes forth from a life bound walking in the Holy Spirit all the time. We all make mistakes, of course. Patience, love, self-control. But those things are not life itself, are they? They come out of life. And we can use the characteristics and practices of Christianity to just promote a moral life. Let's be good people. We can use the characteristics of Christianity to construct a pleasant ethical system. And all of this can happen completely without Jesus, right? We can also use this as sort of a way to gain power over people. And there's we can a lot of think of evil power, but there's also good power. I'm going to show you how good I am by doing all the good things so you will look up to me so I can be a good person, a good citizen, a good church member. I'm going to live life on my own, apart from the Spirit, and just co-opt. The fruit of the Spirit. But what we know is the Christian life is the fruit of God's miraculous work. It's not the law. The fruit of the Spirit is resurrection for dead souls. And that's what Paul's talking about in Romans 8. Now we remember Romans 6, which says the wages of sin is death, right? We've all earned those wages. But the fruit of the Spirit is life. Right? A resurrection life, a resurrection power. And that's what Paul's talking about in Romans 8 There is now, therefore, now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. For the law of the Spirit of life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. For what God had done in the law, weakened by the flesh could not do, weakened by the flesh could not do, by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for the sin he condemned sin in the flesh. Right? And he goes on in five through eight. For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, But those who live according to the Spirit set their minds on the things of the Spirit. For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God, for it does not submit to God's law. Indeed, it cannot. Those who are in the flesh cannot please God. Which way are you going? Where are you headed? What tree are you? What animates your life? And Paul's putting this big contrast, right? Death, life. And he's saying the Christian life is begun by the Holy Spirit, is animated still by the Holy Spirit. Sustained by the Holy Spirit, enriched by the Holy Spirit, directed by the Holy Spirit. We're talking about the Holy Spirit a lot. We're like Pentecost Who's in here? This is very unpresbyterian language. It shouldn't be, it shouldn't be, right? So let's go back to Genesis one. In this big point, right? Who gives life? There is no life apart from God, right? God created the heavens and the earth And we don't exactly know how it went down on a play-by-play, but he spoke it into existence. And and in the normal traditional Crown him with many crowns. There's the line where he is the Lord of the years and he's the potentate of time. The potentate. Do you want to be the potentate of something? That would be cool, right? The potentate. The ruler of time. He's the ruler of all. He created the rolling spheres. He's ethably sublime. And so God created these forms: earth, water, sky, heavens. And he separated them, right? And then what did he do? He filled them. He had them made, and then he put stars in there. And the sun and the moon And mountains, trees, rocks, fish, birds, and animals, and tr and people Put people in there. What did he say to the people? Be fruitful and multiply. Fruit. Be fruitful. And that doesn't just mean make babies. It means make things. Create culture, create community, tend the garden. And what they're learning as they're tending the garden is, oh look, if I pick this apple, there's seeds in there So one apple can turn into twenty apples. There's multiplication happening. These two animals made ten. That's a little much Let's get the rabbits apart. So we can really start multiplying a lot of stuff, right? But we've talked about this past in Genesis 1. What did Adam and Eve want? They wanted all that, all that, but without God involved. I'll take all of it, just I don't want to obey Him. I'm going to go my own way. So I want the fruit of what God gives me without him. So they took it and they ate it. And what happens when you take anything off of the tree or vine or stalk or whatever, it starts to die. You can eat it or use it or bake with it or whatever. You can throw it away Or you can plant it. Planet is still dying. It just has new life, right? And it immediately begins. It's not connected to the vine anymore. And so when they pick that fruit, They disobeyed. What does the catechism tell us? It plunged all of us into an estate of sin and misery Death. Sin. Misery. And we all follow our first parents. And we can follow them to the graveyard. We can follow them by reading about the shootings, the wars, the diseases. the disasters because sin should come with an intruder alert. Intruder alert, intruder alert. This is not the way it's supposed to be. Something's in here. Death has entered in all its variations. We were made to live in unity with God, find ourselves with Him, and all of life is His. As we cultivate his garden, his creation, his community, and if we do it apart from God, we are rotten and dying too. So Paul's big point here. But I'm not sure what I'm saying. recently and it it said, um, try hard to be a little less awful. Okay. The bar is low sometimes, right? And I think Eve might have wanted to wear that shirt. Right? She just got blasted by Adam. She's like, could you try harder to be a little less awful, yo? Well, it's not my fault. The serpent won the day back then. And because of that, the creation groans, doesn't it? We we now Do all this work with thorns and thistles and pain and suffering. And what happens not very many chapters later The third person kills the fourth person. It didn't take long. Then you read a little bit, I think it's Genesis 6, there's this guy named Lamech who is bad. And this is why I I think I told the kids one time, and we can all use this, every once in a while, very rarely, when you get asked why you did something wrong You can say it's Adam's fault. It's very rare to use that. But it's ultimately if we go all the way back to how did this happen? It's Adam's fault. We are from Adam's lineage. And in our own selves, we are dead to God. We're dead to each other. We're dead on the inside, honestly. And you know one of the things about dead people? They don't do stuff. I mean, I hate to be the master of the obvious here. But you don't get to tell the dog. Come to life. Come on. Let's go. Follow instructions. Breathe. All you gotta do is breathe. Simple. But we think we can live without God, the Holy Spirit, and Jesus, and we think we can fix ourselves. It's sort of like New Year's resolution, right? I'm gonna fix this bad habit. I'm gonna sign up for this class. I'm gonna have better manners or better hygiene Or go to the workout more, or sign up for Dave Ramsey. I'm going to change my diet. All of this is good stuff. It's not life. My cousin spent twenty or so years working for the government in DC. And she was burned out, sick all the time, driving through the craziest traffic in the world that I know of. And she was just dying. And so she decided to move back to where she was from in Michigan and buy a farm. Whoa! Radical change. Right now she has goats and chickens and It's a whole different life. But the thing about it was she wasn't dead. She was sick. What does the Bible say we are without Christ? Not sick. Not sick. And if we're dead, we have to be made alive by something else besides us. And you know what? That sounds like bad news. Unless there's someone who can do it. And someone who's willing to do it. Right? And so that means it's good news if there is someone. And of course we know there is someone. And this is the message we have for the world. This is the message we're going to talk about tonight. It's the message that people need to spend some time on besides these Christmas lights, right? We have a God who saves, who rescues There is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, for the law of the Spirit of life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. Amen Jesus was condemned in the flesh so we can be raised up and given life. The law was fulfilled. So this is a Christmas text. Verse 3, for God has done what was what the law weakened by the flesh could not do by sending his own son. What's that? Christmas. In the likeness of sinful flesh and for sim, he condemned sin in the flesh. God sent Jesus into a world full of misery and sin to live under the law. To suffer, to get broken, to get bruised, to be stricken, smitten, and afflicted, right? To end up dying on a tree. This one, Jesus of Nazareth, the one who was love. Who was goodness? Who was faithfulness, right? A member of the Trinity. People wanted him dead. He created life. Some people listened to, followed him, watched him, worshipped him, other people. Hated him. So this one has to go. And Jesus Did go, didn't he? Purposely, generously, sacrificially And what if the story ended there? You know, we'd still be talking about him. He he he had a following. People talk about him and don't believe in him, right? I mean, we can talk about Queen Elizabeth. She's amazing. People still gaga over Princess Diana. You know, Princess Diana knew Mother Teresa. I think they died on the same week. I think maybe you've mentioned before that C. S. Lewis, J. F. K. and Aldous Huxley died on the same day, November 22nd, 1970. sixty three we talk about them Roman emperors, Napoleon, US heroes, Bible characters. Jesus would count. But Christmas and Easter always go together, right? You don't get one without the other. For the death he died, he died to sin once for all. But the life he lives, he lives to God. So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God. in Christ Jesus. That's resurrection power in you. Resurrection power. It's not just understanding the story. Okay, I've heard. the story. Yes. This is the time of year we talk a lot about virgins. Woo! More than any other time. We never use the word nativity any other time. But it's not just knowing the story. This is what we were talking about last week. It's being united to each other. So in this sense, it's sort of like a marriage. Guys were just at a wedding. My daughter got married two weeks ago. I've done a lot of weddings. Um And the thing about it is, you know, when as you know, if you've got married and even if you haven't still Make sense. You're you're taking a risk here. I'm gonna attach my life to your life in a way that is not gonna happen in any other way. So that moment, it's not like to-do lists. There are things you've got to do. It's a whole union. I lost my place here. I was gonna talk about this. Oh. So Ben and Anna. I've probably done a hundred weddings. I haven't done one in a while. I wasn't gonna do her wedding, but the circumstances 'Cause it needed to be fast and they didn't have anybody else, and I'm pretty cheap. Uh so y it's amazing when you're standing there at a wedding, 'cause 'cause no one's standing where I'm standing. It's a very weird thing. And all it is is speaking to each other. A few words. That's how you get married. None of the rest of it matters. That's why I can do a wedding in six minutes. You can put all this stuff around it. None of it matters until you stand each other, hold each other in the hand, and you repeat vows. It's it's only words. You know, um the younger brother I like to come back to the prodigal son very often. And the younger brother would have been thrilled to be treated as a servant by his father. That would have been a game changer for him But he says, no. The father says, no, you are my son, my beloved son. I love you. I'm throwing parties for you. This is why uh we are also called the bride. This is special. This is a covenantal relationship where you are saying I reject every other person. How many billion people are there? Seven to eight billion? Say half of them are female. So I'm getting down to one female. One! There's four billion others. Off the table. This is the union that I want to have with you, right? The words, the new outlook, the new trajectory. Things change when you make that decision, when you say those words. I try to get her to change and get a cell phone to plan on her own. That would be nice. It's a new relationship, a new covenant. When when Jesus appeared to Mary after he rose from the dead, do you remember what who she thought she was seeing? A gardener. And what was that gardener doing? Tending the lilies, which is one of the smaller pictures of the church. So I'm getting to the gardener, that's the gardener piece, right? My son Drew, he uh went to Cornell And so he picked apples for a semester during COVID in Ithaca. And so he has all these apple stories. They're not very exciting, honestly. Except that he would bring apples that you can't get. 'Cause they're ex always making new apples and experiencing new apples And that's when you realize, okay, when you go to the store, how many apple varieties are there in there? Four, five, six, I mean There's not a lot. That's because um standardization, right? Packaging, putting them in trucks, running them through a bin, they need to be the same size, type thing Um started in the forties. How many apple species are there? Seventy five hundred Whoa. I just think God as a gardener is amazing Like he didn't scrimp. Right? And when we work with his creation the way he wants us to, we can make a lot Right, it's really cool the stuff that we can do to bless the world with fruit, our fruit. Pfft Fried again. Um when the kids were smaller, maybe eight to fifty fifteen or so. My mother in law, Jeannie, who's not here today, she got on this big jumba juice kick. You remember jumba juice? Fruit smoothies. I don't know I don't know if it's around anymore. And so they would get like a hundred dollar gift card. Like, whoa! I could spend that in a day. Easy. But what I did, I've told maybe this a couple times, I used to do RUF. And RUF was 9 p. m. on Wednesdays. That's because that's when parking was free. So I would at 8 30 or 8 o'clock I would drink a couple Red Bulls and I would be hyped up like crazy. So I come home at 11. 30. No way I'm ready for bed. No. So what did I do? I watched Seinfeld super edifying show of really amazing people doing really great stuff in the world, right? And I would eat a box of Cheez-Its. A big box of Cheez-Its. How healthy do you think that was? Had another phase where I think I was like, okay, this is a little much I would eat Ben and Jerry tubs. Now they're little tubs, right? Come on. Not the littlest tubs, but still a tub of Ben and Jerry's? How many calories is that sitting in your gut at 2. 30 in the freaking morning when you decide finally to go to bed? Unhealthy. Jamba juice would be way better. God gives us life in the spirit Right? And the fruit comes out of that life. And we still make mistakes. It's still messy, right? Sanctification is no way over. Paul knows that. But he's calling us to live the way we started our Christian life. Resurrection power. That's good news for us today if you're in Christ. If you're not in Christ, come to Him, right? He is still unifying us today. Himself. The Spirit is still alive. The Spirit is still dwelling in us because He's the Spirit of Resurrection.