Morning, Saints. We are starting a new Message series today, the book of Jonah, the uh Old Testament prophecy of Jonah. We're calling it the Angry Prophet and the Compassionate God. The Angry Prophet and the Compassionate God. If you have a Bible, you can stand as we read Jonah, the Old Testament book, verses, with just the first three verses this morning, verses 1 to 3, ESV translation. I hear the rustling of the pages. I know it's a hard one to find. Let's look for it. This is when it's easier to have a smartphone, right? You just kinda, you know Okay. Jonah 1, 1 and 3. Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah, the son of Amitai, saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and call out against it. For their evil has come up before me. But Jonah rose to flee to Tarshish from the presence of the Lord. He went down to Joppa and found a ship going to Tarshish So he paid the fare and went down into it to go with them to Tarshish, away from the presence of the Lord. Let's pray. But I pray this these three verses, Lord, would would would speak to us this morning as we begin to look at this book, this great book of Jonah. May you use these lips and may you speak to each of our ears, not just our ears, but our hearts as we respond to you during this time. We'll give you glory in Jesus' name. Amen. May be seated. My title is Running Away from God. Running away from God. Running away. It was two o'clock in the morning, the phone rang, it was my grandparents. In Danville, Virginia, six hours away from the home I grew up in the DC area, and they said, my sister Renee, they said, Renee is here. We picked her up at the Greyhound station She's fine. Go to bed, and we'll talk in the morning. My mother was very relieved, quite embarrassed, and pretty angry. We've been looking for my sister Renee for six six or seven hours, looking everywhere we could think of, for friends and calling her friends and going to round the neighborhood to her friends. She had run away. And and this is b this is in the days before cell phones. This is this is when I was a kid. So we're talking, you know, this is this is when they had all they had was carrier pigeons back then, you know, whatever. This is before the cell phone days And sh she stayed away for a couple of weeks. It was kind of a cooling off period. Running away. Now I I myself never got that frustrated with my parents to run away, but many kids do during Especially during their teenage years, maybe some of you have experienced that, maybe some of you did that. Kids get frustrated with parents, afraid of something, or They decide they just don't want to live in the family home anymore. Did you ever do that? I never did, but I will never forget that day. Running away from God. Yes, from God. I would like to suggest that is our very nature to run from God. All of us. The prophet Jonah, called by God, used by God, we will see that even he rebelled and ran away from God. God permits seasons of rebellion in our life, even in a life of faithful servants. God permits seasons of rebellion, seasons of running away from Him. Think of it. The Old Testament, Abraham. He told a few half truths about his wife. Not protecting her, but protecting himself. From the wicked king's lustful policy of killing off the husbands of the women whom he wants to add to his harem. Think about Moses who who murdered a man, thinking himself to be the deliverer for God's people Think about Peter in the New Testament, who denied Jesus three times. Think about Paul in the book of Romans in chapter 7 where he wrestles with the fact that he he doesn't do what he knows he needs to do, but he keeps doing things he knows he shouldn't do. He ran away from God in those moments. We run away in our hearts in many, many ways, saints. It often leads to behavior that clearly shows the condition of our heart. First, some introductory matters about the book of Jonah as we as we begin this. First of all, the genre or the type of literature. This is he's it's a prophet. But this is different. In the Old Testament, there's various types of genres or styles of literature. This narrative, this case, law, there's historical record, this prophetic oracles, this poetry, this music. There's theology through story, and what we have in the book of Jonah is theology through a story. We have a uh it's a story, it's a story, it's a personal story. What type of story is it? I want to talk about the kind of story that this is. We just finished the book of Habakkuk, which was a different kind of a of a prophetic book. This is a theology of the story. First, it's a short story. We all like short stories. People don't like to read anymore, do they? This is a short story. Four chapters. But there's lots of action. There's various scenes. The main character is God and Jonah. And just like in Habakkuk, he's a prophet who's wrestling with what God has said to him. Very similar, right? Habakkuk was frustrated, but Jonah's angry. We're going to see that in chapter four. Easy angry. It's a short story. It's a true story. It's a true story. If you have a Bible, turn to 2 Kings chapter 14. 2 Kings chapter 14. The only other place uh in the Old Testament, where the place where we see Jonah's historic setting, this prophet, is in Jonah chapter, 2 Kings chapter 14. I'm going to read verses 23 to 27. It's the 15th year of Amazar the king of Judah. Jeroboam, the son of Jehoash, who's the king of Israel, the northern tribe, Jeroboam is the king. He began to reign in Samaria, which is the capital of the northern tribes. And he reigned 41 years. This is the setting. And he did what was evil in the sight of the Lord? He did not depart from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nabab. This is Jeroboam one. This is Jeroboam two now, which he made to Israel, which he made Israel to send. Now So Jeroboam too was a was an evil king. But it says in verse 25, he restored the border of Israel from Label Hamath as far as the Sea of Arabah. Don't worry about where those places are. According to the word of the Lord. The Lord predicted that he was going to do this expansion, this expansion, this restoration of the borders to the old days. According to the word of the Lord, the God of Israel, which he spoke by his servant, Chonah. Ding ding, here we are. Here's our man. Jonah, the son of Amittai. That's him The prophet, who was from Gath Pepher. Okay? So we find Jonah was used by God, okay? to predict some good stuff. And he had some some positive things that happened. He says, for the Lord, verse 26, the Lord saw the affliction of Israel was very bitter, for there was none left, bag or free And there and there was none to help Israel. So he saw that people were having there were it was a bad scene, there's a lot of evil going on, but the Lord was gracious to them. But the Lord had not said that he would blot out the name of Israel from under heaven So we say them by the hand of Jeroboam, the son of Joah. So during the during this time of Jeroboam chapter 2, there was a glimmer of hope and blessing that God gave to the people, and it was predicted by Jonah the prophet. Okay? That's the historical setting with uh of a book. And we know from history that um this the reign of Jeroboam II was from 782 to 753 BC before Christ It was a politically prosperous time. He was a contemporary, Jonah was a contemporary of the prophet Amos and the Prophet Hosea. People date the book about 760 BC. Okay? My point is simply this. It's a short story. This is a true story. It's historic. We can look at the Bible and say, this is when it happened. Third, it's a Christ-centered story. Matthew chapter 12, you might remember these verses. Jesus is talking to the religious leaders. Listen to this. Matthew 12 38 and following. Some of the scribes and Pharisees answered Tim Jesus saying, Teacher, we wish to see a sign from you But he answered them, an evil and adulterous generation seeks for a sign, but no sign will be given to it except the sign of the prophet Jonah. For just as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the great fish, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. The men of Nineveh will rise up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it. For they repented at the preaching of Jonah. And behold, something greater than Jonah is here. Jesus talked about Jonah. Again, that's another reason why we believe it's historic. But but but uh Jesus used the the the experience of Jonah in chapter three, chapter two and three, of three night three days and three nights in the belly of a fish. And Jesus says that's a picture of the Son of Man, Jesus, who would be three days and three nights in the ground, talking about his death and burial. Okay? And then he says, something greater than Jonah is here. Something someone greater even than Jonah. The ministry of Jonah, a greater ministry, was the ministry of Jesus. And Jesus says to the scribes and the Pharisees, You thought Jonah's ministry was powerful and great, and it was something greater than that. His ministry is before them. And yet their scribes and Pharisees are rejecting it. But so so This is the Christ that Christ is in this path in all the Old Testament. We see Christ. We see him in several ways here. Next, this is a story that is very human. It's a very human story. We can identify with Jonah, you know, his fears, his prejudices, his emotional despair, his conflict, his realization that he doesn't love all people. He doesn't love his enemies as God wants him to love his enemies. We saw in our last series that Habakkuk knew from what he knew from what would happen because God had said it was going to happen. He knew what to do because God said what God was going to do. And Habakkuk knew it. He just disagreed with it. But God told him what was going to happen. Jonah hasn't been told specifically, but Jonah is anticipating what God's going to do based on his correct understanding of the character of God. And he disagrees with it. You ever been there? You ever get upset because you think God might bless your enemies? You don't have to say amen. Half the time it never even happens. But we anticipate things and get mad about them. It's a very human story. It's a very humorous story. I was thinking about the the tone of the very sober tone of the book of Habakkuk. Jonah has a lot of humor. It's a funny story. It's a serious story, but it's a funny story. You got boats and sailors tossing him into the sea, kind of pleasing their gods. Got a big fish vomiting him into dry land. Get the king who, but a king would never believe, the king who believes. You got Jonah depressed over plant. It's a funny story when you step back and think about it. But it's also got a very serious message. Humorous story. Don't be fooled by the humor. Most of all, it's a very convicting story, Saints. We have a tendency like Jonah to run from God, foolish as that may sound. We have a tendency to say, we love our neighbor, but do we really love our neighbors? It's a story. Short story. A true story. A Christina story. A human story. A humorous story. A convicting story. The first and third chapters, we see Jonah interacting with pagans, pagan sailors in a pagan city. The second and fourth chapter, we see Jonah interacting with God. Chapter 1, God is calling. Jonah running. Chapter 2, Jonah is hiding. God is chasing. Chapter 3, Jonah is preaching. God is saving. Chapter 4, Jonah is pouting while God is reasoning. God and Jonah. Let's look at the story. Just these three verses. Look at the story. Verses 1, 1, and verse 1. Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah. Now how does how does he hear the word of the Lord? We don't know. We don't know. The prophets received the word of the Lord. What we do know is that it was clear to him. That it was the word of the Lord. It wasn't just his mind. It wasn't just his mama. It wasn't just his wife if he was married. This was the word of the Lord. Satan. This was the Lord's word for him. It was clear. It was the voice of God. It was not, it was it unmistakably God's voice. He knew it. Some of us we have the problem, we're not sure what God wants us to do. So we say, well, I don't know. Jonah didn't have that excuse. The word of the Lord came to him. Jonah, son of Amitai, we looked at him, looked at the context of him. He's a historic person. Verse 2. The word says this: Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city. This is a call to first get up and go. Arise and go to Nineveh. Nineveh is a great city, a huge city. Um it's a it's a cross-cultural uh uh uh uh uh calling that he had to get up from the people who he where he was familiar with, the places he was familiar with, and go to some people that he wasn't familiar with And proclaim God's truth. Rise, go to the end of a great city where lots of people. Call out against it, for their evil has come up before me. Findle Easley, commentator regarding the times of Jonah. It was a time of unprecedented peace and prosperity in the northern kingdom of Israel. Syria to the north was so weak that Israel was able to expand, even taking control of Damascus, the Assyrians, with the capital of Nineveh. Nineveh is the capital of the Assyrian Empire We we're we're in a few uh we're in a period of entr of retrenchment and inner turmoil that was going on in Syria. At the same time, they were very well known throughout the ancient Near East as a potent military threat. So uh The Assyrian Empire was was building and was getting a reputation as as a great big uh threat in during that time, during j during Jonah's day. And God says, go and call out against their evil. Now notice, Nineveh is a pagan city. It's not a city that has a covenant with God. They're not Israel, it's not Samaria, it's not uh Jerusalem, it's a pagan city, pagan empire, and yet they are responsible to God. Okay? They were made by him, just like all people. They knew something of his demands, instinctively, just like all people. So they are accountable to him, just like all people. The psalmist Think of the Old Testament and the the calling to Israel to not just be concerned about themselves, be concerned about the nations, all the people, because God is not just the creator of Israel. God, Yahweh is not a tribal God. He's the God of the heavens and the earth and all peoples. I was thinking about Psalm 67. It's a very brief psalm. May God be gracious to us and bless us and make his face shine upon us. That your way may be known on earth, your saving power among all nations. Let the peoples praise you, O God. Let all the peoples praise you. Let the nations be glad and sing for joy, for you judge the peoples with equity and guide the nations upon earth. Let the peoples praise you, O God, let all the peoples praise you. The earth has yielded its increase. God, our God, shall bless us. God shall bless us that all the ends of the earth fear him. That's the Psalm 67. That's the whole Psalm. And there's this back and forth of the us and the nations. Okay? Israel's calling was not just to be received the blessings of God for themselves, but to be a blessing and a light to the nations. Genesis 12. 3. You'll be the father to Abraham. You'll be the father of many nations. You would have blessed the nations. By you shall the nations be blessed. Verse three, that that that word of change, a contrast, but but The word comes, here's here's what you do, Jonah. But Jonah rose. So he did obey because God said arise, right? So at least for the for two for two words he obeyed. He rose. To flee. To Nineveh? No. To Tarshish. From the presence of the Lord. He went down to Joppa, found a ship, going to Tarshish, paid the fare, went down to it, to Tarshish, away from the presence of the Lord. Says it twice in that verse. Imagine you you're in Baltimore and you're commanded by God to go to Virginia Beach and so you go get your car, you head towards the beltway, so far so good And didn't you start heading towards Nova Scotia? No. Wrong direction. Wrong direction Jonah goes far away in the opposite direction to Tarsus, which is way over on the near the near on the other side side of the Mediterranean, something near Spain. That's part of the argument and the humor of this book. This prophet of God. He's God's prophet, the one who declares the will of God for people. He's the father of the will of God in his own life. Intentionally rebelling against the clear will of God. Why? Why? Why does Jonah run? Some believe he was jealous for God's name, for God's reputation. See, if if he if if the Ninevites believed. and and repented, then it would look like God was a fickle who changes his mind. Like the fickle tribal deities He believes one thing one one day and then he gets he has another emotion, he changes and and he says, No, god God is a f we we don't want people to think that you're a fickle, so he didn't want to go he figured it was God's will that these people not believed I think that's a bad argument. Some believe he was concerned about his own reputation. If the Ninevites believed He would be seen as a false prophet. He says, if you don't turn, you're going to burn, and they believe, so they didn't burn. So he'd be seen as a false prophet So his reputation as a prophet's on the line, and plus, you know, um his reputation as as one who's loyal to his own people would be on the line because w why what Why why don't you go and and and preach the the word to these pagan people who we don't like? So his his buzz back home may not like the fact that he's being obedient prophets. So he says so he just he's in a quandary personally God's reputation, his reputation, no no no no no. But that's those are secondary Those motives are secondary. I believe it's clear. Um if we understand human nature and understand this book That he didn't there was one simple reason why he didn't want to go to the Ninevites to preach to the Assyrians, because he didn't like them. He hated them. He didn't want them to be saved. This is like I was trying to think, what is that like? This is like someone who's involved in the Black Lives Matter movement, gets saved, and God says, Go preach to the Ku Klux Klan. This is what's going on here, folks. He doesn't want to preach to the people that God wants him to preach to. So he says, no, I'm not doing it. It says, but it says he went down. He went away. Those words are intentional. They show rebellion, the butt, the down, the away from the presence of the Lord. What are some lessons that we learned here in these three verses? First, we see God's compassion for sinful people. Sinful nations, nations like ours. We see the compassion of God for people who don't know him, who are created by him but don't know him. You know, many people have false notions. Of a judgmental Old Testament God and a loving New Testament God. Have you ever heard that before? That the God of the Old Testament is so harsh and judgmental. The God of the New Testament, oh, Jesus shows us that God is loving. Well, look There's a verse, or when we used it last week. God doesn't change. Jesus Christ is saved yesterday, today, forever. God doesn't change. The God of the Old Testament is loving and judgmental. And the God of the New Testament is loving and judgmental. In the study school class, we just were looking at Revelation chapter 18. That's God. God will judge. In wrath, he remembers mercy. We saw that last a couple weeks ago. But no It is absurd to think that the Old Testament God is only judgmental. Jonah understands the compassion of God. That's why I didn't want to go. You understood that God is compassionate. A primary verse in the Old Testament about the nature of God is Exodus chapter 34, verse 6. This is when the after the law was received, and Moses is on the mountain, and there's a lot of encounters that happen in Exodus. I'll read six and seven The Lord passed before him, Moses, and proclaimed, the Lord, the Lord, a God merciful and gracious. Slow to anger, abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness, keeping steadfast love for thousands forgiving iniquity and tran transgression and sin, but who will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children and the children's children to the third and fourth generation That's a core Old Testament understanding of the nature of God. He's merciful. He's gracious. He's abounding in steadfast love. He's faithful. He's Is he wrathful? Does he get angry? Yes, but he is slow to anger. That's right in the middle. That's important in the Hebrew context. Yes. And Jonah knows that. That's the God that Jonah is proclaiming. And so we see God's compassion for sinful people. Secondly, we learn lessons about Jonah's rebellion against God's compassion for sinful people. Joan knows that compassion and he's rebelling against it. The very fact that God would be compassionate to sinful people The other lesson that we learn is we see Jonah's absurd desire to flee the presence of the Lord, the absurd desire to flee from God's presence. Genesis 3, you remember the fall in the garden? Remember what Adam and Eve did? How they hid fig leaves with high from God? Remember that? Foolish farley Genesis 4. Cain, Stuart's brother. And it says in verse 4, this is the first uh uses of the phrase, verse four chapter 4 of Genesis, verse 16. Cain went away from the presence of the Lord. He went away from the presence of the Lord and settled in the land of Nod, East of Eden. The presence of the Lord. We use at the top of the verse, of the worship. Psalm 139. Let me get a sense of Psalm 139. We read one verse there. But the psalmist is saying, Lord, you've searched me, you know me. You know when I sit down and when I When I rise up, you discern my thoughts from afar. He he's he's extolling and praising God for the fact that God knows him That God searches him and knows him, he knows his heart, knows he knows his being, knows where he is all the time. He said that knowledge is too high for me. Verse 7: Where shall I go from your spirit? Where shall I flee from your presence? Interesting that uh Jonah is just about to experience um Some of the places that are in the next couple verses. He says, if I ascend to heaven, you are there. Jonah was spewed into the skies. The heavens of the third heaven, the skies. If you make my bed in Sheol, which is the place of the dead, you are there. Jonas was underneath the earth because he was in the sea. If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, Even there your hand shall lead me and your right hand shall hold me. If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me, you ever been in the middle of a great fish? It's dark there. I have not, but trust me, it's dark there The light about me shall be night, even the darkness is not dark to you. What the psalmist is saying there's no way you can go in the universe where God's not there with you. Jonah in his mind knew that, but he's running from God. He's fleeing from the presence of God, whatever that meant, in his mind. What are some practical lessons for us? Well, one is a simple question. Who are your enemies? Who are your enemies? Your personal enemies. Who personally don't you like? Who enemies of your ethnic or cultural group, heritage? Who do you have a hard time praying for? Because you don't want to see them blessed. You don't want to talk to them. You don't want to encourage them. You don't want to witness to them. You only want to think about them. Is there anyone like that that God wants you to think about and wants to break you because of that relationship? He wants you to repent. What are various ways that we flee the presence of the Lord? I was thinking about this, and here's some ways that we flee God's presence. One We flee his presence by twisting his word so that God doesn't really say what we think he said. Just like in the serpent, did God really say Okay? Isn't that cool? We don't have to do what God said because God didn't really say it. That's that's that's a that's a subtle way of fleeing from his presence. We we flee from his presence when God says something in his word clearly and we decide that we need to, well, let me just pray about it. No, the the word said it. It's time to obey, not to pray. Remember in Genesis Joseph was uh confronted well he was approached by um uh a a A tempting, sinful, seductive woman named Potiphar's wife. Remember what he did? He didn't say, let hold hands and pray about this. He didn't say, let me go in the corner and pray about it. No, what did he do? He ran. He ran. There's a time not to pray, but the time to well you can pray while you run too. You can do both at the same time. You know You can we can walk and two gum at the same time. But you run. Um he prayed he maybe prayed for strength in that in that situation. No. He didn't pray. He didn't say, Lord, let me be a witness to her in this situation. No, no, no, no. In some situations, wisdom says, don't pray. Run. The prodigal son. You know a story in Luke chapter 15. It's a great story. The two rebellious sons. The younger son fled by going to the far country. The older son fled by trusting his morality and his good deeds. For the Father, his good deeds for the Father, rather than resting in the love of the Father. That's how he fled. The presence of the Lord. See, we run from God's presence through activity sometimes. God says be still. We just want to keep running and running and ignoring his voice. Activities, often religious activity. Can keep us from the presence of God, from being in his presence, from resting in grace. See, God first and foremost wants you, not your works. We also flee from his presence where we don't give God a chance to change our heart. When he's trying to guide us and direct us by not giving, not being open to opportunities that God might give us. Because we just we just Put a wall up. Tell your story. Uh I guess it was about a year ago, Pastor Josiah came to me. Pastor Sam, I'm uh I'd like you to think about being the interim pastor at Grace. And um my initial reaction, no, just fine, no way. No way. Um I have my reasons. Yet I'm here. And now I will see you later. I can think of many reasons why one what why it was God's will for me to be here. It is God's will for me to be here. But but here's what was going on my mind. I'll just I'm opening my heart here. First of all, my first the first church I served uh years ago was Forest Park Presbyterian Church. It was an all-black Presbyterian church. I loved it. It was all black people. People like me People like me. No cultural tensions. Culture tensions, yes. But no cultural tensions. The second church I served was Faith Christian Fellowship, a multiracial church, a diverse church. People like me, people like you. But it was fine. That was who I am. I I could that I I that was I was in my sweet spot And then Josiah says, hey, aren't you, you know, at least at least the one and I think you're the one. No, no, Josiah. No way. Well Long story short, the Lord nudged me through various things, and uh I said yes to his calling. And uh as I look back at it, you know I've And think about this, I think that I was giving in to the spirit of Jonah and not listening to the spirit of God. That's what's going on in my heart. As none of my my calling I'm African American and I'm gonna I'm gonna help African American people understand the gospel and that's what God's called me to all my life. I don't want to I don't quote I don't want to preach to white people, unquote. Can I say that here? I guess I did, didn't I? That's the spirit of Jonah. That is not the spirit of God. And I had to learn that. God showed me that. Words by a guy named Whitfield, not George Whitfield, Norman Whitfield. You played hooky from school, and you can't go out to play. Mama said for the rest of the week in your room you gotta stay. Now you feel like the whole world's picking on you. But deep down inside, you know it ain't true. You're in punishment because your mother wants to raise you in the right way. But you don't care because you already made up your mind. You want to run away You're on your way. Runaway, child. Running wild. You better go back home where you belong. Song by the Temptations when I was a teenager. Some of you might recognize some of you older than me recognize that song. Maybe. Norman Whitfield. The rest of the song goes on to describe the hunger, the loneliness, the fear, the confusion, and the vision, the longing for mama, the longing to go back home. When you run away, it never ends well. Jonah learned that, we'll see this in the book, that it doesn't end well. Question, are you fleeing the Lord's presence? Are you fleeing the Lord's presence? This year? This fall? This week. Are you f are you saying no to God in some way? You know, David was a man after God's heart, but he had a major episode of moral failure in his life. You probably remember that. You probably know that Adultery that led to murder. And the prophet of God, Nathan, admonished him to come clean, to come straight. And so David did. And David confessed and he repented, and he wrote several psalms about that experience. One of them is Psalm 51, where he cries out, Lord, cast me not away from your presence, dear Lord. Fleeing the presence of the Lord, running away from God. Do you know God? Are you saved? Have you trusted Him? Then follow him. Trust him. Don't run from what you know of your God, for what he's calling you to do. And don't let prejudices keep you from following him. Are you not saved yet? Do you not know don't know Christ yet? God still has compassion on you and wants you to come to Him, to repent. God is there. God cares. God is not the angry God waiting to smash people. God is the God of compassion and loving kindness and mercy and grace. He's slow to anger, but he does get angry. Some have said our salvation is as easy as ABC. You admit, you believe, and you commit Admit that there's a God who created you and and and has has a purpose for your life and you have strayed from that purpose. You have fallen, you're you're you've you've you've gone off the track if you're a sinner. Admit. Be is belief. Believe in God, in his words, he sent his son to take care of your sin problem. Believe And see, commit yourself to him. Confess your sin. Commit yourself to him. Trust him. Follow him. Believe that his salvation works for you if you're in him. Salvation is as easy as A, B, C. Run away, child. Run in WoW. Come back home where you belong. Let's pray. Well, you're a kind God. You're a patient God. You call us to yourself in many ways. You say, come, ye sinners, poor and wretched. Jesus ready stands to save you. He's able. But we know that's who you are. We sang it. We confess it. But even we who believe you in our hearts, sometimes we stray, sometimes we we get distracted and get off course. And we continue down that course. So bring us back. Bring us back to where we were in the place of grace, in a place of trust, in the grace of joy and blessing. Well, I would pray for anyone in the sound of my voice, Lord, who who doesn't know you yet, that they would know that you're a kind, gracious, loving God who's compassionate towards them. Just like the pagan sailors, just like the Ninevehites, you're God ready and eager to save. Knowing that The one who has begun a good work in us will complete that work in the day of Christ Jesus when we stand before you. Lord, use this word in our hearts. Help us to To reflect on the book of Jonah and the things we're going to be learning in the next few weeks. Your holy word that you've spoken for us. We'll give you thanks in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.