Lord, today we pray that you would help us to hear and drink deeply of your word. We pray for Jerry Souter as he comes to minister the word to us today. We pray that you would help us to pay attention, to hear the holy scriptures read, to hear your word proclaimed. Lord, and we give thanks for all these things joyously in the name of our Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. A little different today, we have a scripture reading and then another scripture reading. So if you would please uh stand for the reading of God's holy word from Joel. This is from Joel the Prophet Joel, chapter two, verses twelve through twenty seven. Yet even now, declares the Lord, return to me with all your heart, with fasting, with weeping, and with mourning. Rend your hearts and not your garments. Return to the Lord your God, for he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love, and he relents over disaster Who knows whether he will not turn and relent and leave a blessing behind him, a grain offering and a drink offering for the Lord your God? Blow the trumpet in Zion, consecrate a fast, call a solemn assembly, gather the people, consecrate the congregation, assemble the elders, gather the children, even nursing infants. Let the bridegroom leave his room and the bride her chamber. Between the vestibule and the altar, let the priests, the ministers of the Lord, weep and say, Spare your people, O Lord. And make not your heritage of reproach a byword among the nations. Why should they say among the peoples, Where is your God? Then the Lord became jealous for his land, and he had pity on his people. The Lord answered and said to his people, Behold, I am sending you grain, wine, and oil, and you will be satisfied. And I will no more make you a reproach among the nations. I will remove the northerner far from you, and drive him into a parched and desolate lake. His vanguard into the Eastern Sea and his rearguard into the Western Sea, the stench and foul smell of him will rise, for he has done great things. Fear not, O land, be glad and rejoice, for the Lord has done great things. Fear not, you beasts of the field. For the pastures of the wilderness are green, the tree bears its fruit, the fig tree and the vine give their full yield. Be glad, O children of Zion, and rejoice in the Lord your God, for he has given the early rain for your vindication. He has poured down for you abundant rain, the early and the latter rain as before four. The threshing floors shall be full of grain, the vats shall overflow with wine and oil. I will restore to you the years that the swarming locusts have eaten. Eaton, the hopper, the destroyer, and the cutter, my great army which I sent among you. And my people shall never again be put to shame. You shall know that I am in the midst of Israel, that I am the Lord your God, and there is none else, and my people shall never again be put to shame. Amen. May God bless the reading of His Word. Please be seated. We welcome Jerry to our pulpit and look forward to God's word. Thank you, brother. Good morning. I am just delighted to be here this morning. Morning. And we are going to be looking at the famous penitential Psalm fifty one. It's hard to overestimate the importance of this psalm. We read it today during our uh uh confession. Uh in the Middle Ages it was uh Recited at the end of services seven times a day for eight months a year in monasteries all over Europe. It's called the Psalm of Psalms, and my friend Carneal called it the Psalm of Recovery. So, repentance is really what we're going to be focusing in on today. And repentance has to do, like with our pumpkin, with sin. Origin in the fourth century, a theologian, said, We are all sinners, whether we have anything social to confess or not. I think this is very astute and was certainly supported and sustained by the reformed when they came up with the doctrine of total depravity. Our problem was, is, and will continue to be our sin, and a just God, and that only through Christ can we find salvation. So by calling this message, salvation is the flower for the repentant heart. Um I tend to think in metaphors. So I went to a Hershey two weeks ago. And it was filled with roses. There were patches of blue roses and pink roses and few ch uh more tints I think than you'd see in a rainbow. And it is true, so it's salvation is the flower of the repentant heart. So you take a rose bush and you put it in God's loamy soil. And then it's out in the breeze with the spirit and rain, purifying rain coming down on it. And then it has the energy of the sun beating down upon it. And what do you get? You get roses. However, for fallen people in a society like ours, We might decide to say, oh, I don't need that soil outside. I think I'm going to um, you know, come inside and I can root myself in the styrofoam of all my gadgets. Or I don't need that water. Uh booze is a lot cooler, isn't it? And I don't need that sun. Uh I can bask in the glory of my 29-inch television And um my cell phone and CNN and MSNBC and all of the rest. Um what you have there is unnatural check Uh it's corrupt in and of itself. There are good things in all those areas. And um but in and of themselves it leads to death. Now I'm going to read Psalm fifty-one, so once again if you're able, please stand while I read the Psalm To the choir master, a psalm of David when Nathan the prophet went to him after he had gone in to Bathsheba. Have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love, according to your abundant mercy. Blot out my transgressions. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. For I know my transgressions, and my sin Sin is ever before me. Against you, you only have I sinned and done what is evil in the sight in your sight. so that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment. Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin my mother did conceive me. Behold, you delight in truth in the inward being, and you teach me wisdom in the secret heart. Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me and I shall be whiter than snow. Let me hear joy and gladness. Let the bones that you have broken Rejoice. Hide your face from my sins and blot out all my iniquities. Create in me a new heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from your presence, and take not your Holy Spirit from me. Restore to me the joy of your salvation, and uphold me with a willing spirit. Then I will teach transgressors your ways, and sinners will return to you. Deliver me from blood guiltiness O God, O God of my salvation, and my tongue will sing aloud of your righteousness. O Lord, open my lips and my mouth will declare your praise. For you will not delight in sacrifice, or I would give it. You will not be pleased with a burnt offering, the sacrifices of God. are a broken spirit, a broken and contrite heart, O God, you will not despise Do good to Zion in your good pleasure, build up the walls of Jerusalem. Then will you delight in the right sacrifices? in burnt offerings and whole burnt offerings, then bulls will be offered at your altar. You mean be seated. So the psalm starts out to the choir master, a psalm of David when Nathan the The prophet went to him after he had gone in to Bathsheba. So you probably remember the story. It was springtime, a time when Kings go off to war. Oops. David didn't go off to war. He sent Joab and the servants of Israel off to war. And I'm sure there wasn't a premeditated bone in his body when he stepped out on his roof to look and survey the grandeur of the nation. And he looked out on the grandeur and the wonder and the beauty and wound Beauty absorbed him. He went and he spied Bathsheba. Ironically, in 2 Samuel 11, it says, ironically, that she was Puring her purifying herself from uncleanliness. David investigated who she was. He called her up, and the king Of the land made her an offer that she could not refuse. He betted her, and she conceived. Oops. Actually, it was a quadruple oops, because you have the shame of Fathsheba, you have that their son might turn out to be a bastard, you have uh a number of sins that are taken away and of course the betrayal of Uriah her husband So, faced with this, David tried to do what many of us do when confronted with his son. He tried to cover it up, so he sent off for Uriah. Uriah came back. He said, Watch your feet, Uriah, and I will send a gift after you. That's code for. Go back. and lay with your wife. Well, he refused to do it. The next day he he David was kind of exasperated and asked him why he didn't go home. And he said, the arch is in a booth, and the servants of Israel are in the field with Joab. How am I to go home and make merry with my wife? As you live, as your soul lives, I will not do this thing. We are about to see how sin Blossoms into greater sin. We have um so he sent um he wrote a note, sent it back to Joab To put Uriah in the center of the battle and then pull all the men back so that he would be killed. That much went off without a hitch. After a suitable time, David was David took Bathsheba for a wife, and everything was hunk hunky-dory. Except for God. God was displeased. He sent Nathan to him to David. And Nathan said, Hey David, did you hear about this rich fool? He had huge flocks of sheep and goats and uh but suddenly he had an emissary come and he needed a dinner. They were in another field. So he thought, well, I can get one from my neighbor. Now his neighbor was very poor, and he had this one U lamb. And he loved her. She was like a member of the family. She would eat scraps of food from the table. He loved her like a daughter. Well the rich man came, David, and he slaughtered her and fed it to the emissary. What do you think, David, about that? David was outraged. He was livid until Nathan said, You are that man. And it is in response to that that this psalm is written. Okay. Salvation is the flower for the repentant heart Let me talk about repentance. What repentance is not is mere sorrow. It's not, oops, I'm sorry, I'll I won't do it again. That is not what repentance is. Repentance Is by definition a rooting in God's glory. So, as an example, in Erdman's dictionary He says, repentance is a complete change of orientation involving a judgment upon the past and a deliberate redirection from the future Now, I don't disagree. However, it's leaving out the most important aspect of repentance, which is that repentance is God ordained. It's a God thing. And that our brokenness refers to our appreciation of a just and a perfect God And an equal appreciation of our sin and our limitations and our weakness in context with that God. And that allows us to then turn around. So now let's look at this psalm. He starts off. In the first three verses, we have two elements: God, God, and God, and then we have sin, sin, and sin. Have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love, according to your abundant mercy. Blot out my transgressions, wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. For I know my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. Two things. Notice who is doing the heavy lifting in all of this. It is God, it's not David. Oh God, um so it is God who's blotting out the transgressions, who's washing David thoroughly from his iniquity, who's cleansing him from his sin In verse 3, very interesting, he brings up a point that's really important when we think about repentance. He says, I know my transgressions and my sin is ever before me. Repentance is not just something that we did when we first converted to Christ. It is something that we need to do on a daily basis to make our um uh sin palatable uh to purify us before God. Uh referring back to the To the verse that we read before, for godly grief produces repentance that leads to salvation without regret, whereas worldly grief Produces death. So those we need to keep in mind that we've got worldly grief and godly grief. One other thought before I go back to the psalm. Calvin said it's easy to use words like faith and repentance But these are most difficult to perform. He, therefore, who makes the word of God consists of these: faith and repentance. By no means loosens the rein of discipline, but compels men to a course by which they are most afraid to take. If your conscience is alive from faith, and repentance are most difficult. Let me tell you a quick story that occurred in my own life that I think is a good example of God. godly repentance. It happened, turns out, before I knew Jesus, before I was committed to him, but I'll show you why I think it is godly repentance. So I had been smoking cigarettes for sixteen years I have asthma, it's a dumb idea, it was stinky, all that we know how bad cigarettes are for us. At the time, my son was eight years old, Eric. And there was only one place where I could go. and um smoked cigarettes in my house and so I was down there with Eric. And so this little baby picks up this nasty cigarette butt. And he has a beatific smile on his face, and he hands it up to me like it was a jewel. The cognitive dis Slayed me between that beautiful boy. Well, two days after that was the last cigarette that I had and my Eric is now 37 years old. It was a very painful year. Um crawling skin, I call it. It was it was just miserable. He was However, every time that I was tempted, I saw Eric's beautiful cherubic face. Every time I was sitting there in the line and they have the bank of cigarettes there for you to grab one, I thought of Eric. And even though I was a pagan, I think that was God's gift to me that allowed me to focus on what was true and right and real. And not be mired by addiction. So now going back to uh Psalm fifty one We have David who has already recognized God's goodness and mercy. He's admitted and confessed. And he's beginning to reorient towards God's holiness. And he continues in verse four Against you, you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight. so that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment. Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me. Behold. You delight in truth in the inward being, and you teach me wisdom in my secret heart. So what is our ultimate aim with God? Isn't it like the Westminster Confession says to worship and Adore and rest in God. And so David cries out And he knows that ultimately others were hurt, but ultimately the sin is against God. And although evil is common to all In front of our maintainer and creator God, our rebellion can be stripped away. Moving on to chapter seven, I think we have a wonderful verse that prefigures Christ. Verse 7 reads, Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. Hisop, other than this, appears three other times in the Bible. The first was in Egypt. Egypt. And the Israelites were told to take a hyssaplant, to wipe it on the blood of the lamb, and then put it on their lintels, so that the angel of death would pass over them. And they would be spared. That in itself prefigures Christ. It is Moses bringing salvation to his people. It's mentioned six times in Leviticus as a something that people can do for leprosy. But the other reference is 1400 years after this. Jesus Christ had been on the cross for hours. He was asphyxiating, he was, and he just was able to mutter, I'm Thirsty. And so they took a hissap branch and they dipped it in sour wine and they put it up to his mouth. And it after that he said, It is finished, and he gave up his spirit. So when we talk about being washed in hyssop, I think this is pointing towards Christ. Then we say, let me hear joy and gladness. Let the bones that you have broken rejoice. Oxymoron is a logical contradiction. Doesn't seem to fit together. Let the bones that you have broken rejoice. How David here is normalizing The humiliation, the brokenness, the pain, the suffering that is part and parcel to the life that we always That we enjoy. Moving on from 10 to 12, create in me a new heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from your presence and take not your Holy Spirit from me. Restore to me the joy of your salvation. And uphold me with a willing spirit. What David is doing is he is wanting to be reunited. With the God. He wants to have the love of the Lord. This is David, who is written nearly half of all of the Psalms, this is David, who was uh punished um who was saved from Saul, saved from the Amalekites, from the uh Ammonites, from the Philistines, This is David, who enjoyed his God, and he realized that he wanted this intimate relationship with the Lord. So now, David has repented, he's confessed, he's bathed himself. In God's healing, because ultimately it's God who's done everything. He's embraced his remorse. And so now and for the first time, he's able to tell God what with God's grace he's able to do in thirteen through fifteen, then I will teach transgressors your ways, and sinners will return to you. Deliver me from blood guiltiness, O God, O God of my salvation, and my tongue will sit sing aloud of your righteousness. O Lord, open my lips, and my mouth will declare your praise. It's really significant that this comes in the latter uh sections of this psalm that what God does is he's reaching out and um he is now telling God No, don't forgive me because I'm going to do this. Since you've forgiven me, now I can do what is most natural to me which is bring sinners back, sing your praise, worship you, and the like Just a note, David was forgiven. We know that he continued to be The man after God's own heart. However, the consequences of sin were not mitigated by being forgiven. The baby of Bathsheba and he died, the first one. Um Another son of his, Amnon, the sexual sin continued. Amnon lusted after Tamar, a daughter of his, and he raped her. Tamar's brother was Absalom, and Absalom slew Amnon. And then, if you remember, later on, Absalom rebelled against David and nearly took the kingdom away from him systematically. Um, and let's go on to the next generation. His next son by Bathsheba was Solomon. Solomon, for the first part of his kingdom His rule was a wise man. He ended up having, it is said, seven hundred wives and three hundred concubines. With this degree of sexual engagement, it's no wonder that his sons were much more interested in being selfish and self serving. than they were in being good rulers. And so after Solomon, the kingdom splits and falls apart. So now we're coming to the end of this psalm. Do good design in your good pleasure and build up the walls of Jerusalem. Then will you delight in right sacrifices, in burnt offerings, and whole burnt offerings, then the bulls will be offered on your altar. So just previously, he said, You don't want my sacrifices and you don't want my offerings because Of my sin. And here, David, I think this is the first part in Scripture where God acknowledges the phoniness of worship that normal um uh normal coming before god and doing the same old same Will not save him. But now having repented, he knows that the Lord will allow him to go back to The practices that were established in the Pentateuch for allowing a connection with God's. So, in some We have first the whisper in our heart from God. We turn looking at God, and then we can embrace for the first time faith. Following that faith through his word, we can now Enjoy the benefits of belief. Having belief, we see the greatness of God, His majesty, and perfection, and at the same time Same time we can reflect on our own inadequacies, leading to godly sorrow, and that leads to repentance So let us despair of our own righteousness. Let us root out self-satisfaction, cast out our How do we do that? By focusing on Jesus, on his gift to us. Applying that, being in his word, we will see ourselves in a right relationship with a just and perfect God. The weight is great, but the weight Jesus promises will be lifted because the yoke is easy And we're left with the whiff of a rose, the rich, shocking surprise. Prize, of petals on flowers, the sweet nectar that are attracting bees, the rich color and opulence that pulls honey hummingbirds into view. Salvation. I'm using earthly metaphors because there's no way we can appreciate what God's Endgame for us is infinities, inexhaustible call on our hearts The love of God, the love of one another, and love. Let us bow our heads. Um as I pray to God. Dear Lord, I thank you, Father God For bringing us your word. Lord, we reach out like David reached out. We ask you to cleanse us. We ask you to wash us. We ask you to cleanse us from the evil which we have. Teach us your wisdom. Wash us, Lord, and make us whiter than snow. Lord, cast us not away from your substance, from your presence, and take not your Holy Spirit from us, restore to us In to your willing presence. In the name of Jesus, Amen.