So with all that in mind, we're now going to turn to God's word. We're continuing on in our series in the book of Jonah. Familiar story for many of us. We've already seen uh the first chapter, it's it's been pretty eventful so far. God said, Get up and go and and take my word to Nineveh. the over this way and Jonah immediately gets up and runs clear in this direction and God pursues him and sends a storm and um where we left off last time Jonah was thrown into the water seemingly lost for good. And now we're going to pick up where we left off starting in in Jonah 1. 17 and reading all the way through the end of chapter 2. So if you would, would you please stand as we honor the reading of God's Word together this morning? Hear now the word of the Lord, starting in Jonah 1 17. And the Lord appointed a great fish to swallow up Jonah. And Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights. Then Jonah prayed to the Lord his God from the belly of the fish, saying, I called out to the Lord out of my distress, and he answered me. Out of the belly of Sheol I cried, and you heard my voice. For you cast me into the deep, into the heart of the seas, and the flood surrounded me. All your waves and your billows passed over me Then I said, I am driven away from your sight, yet I shall again look upon your holy temple. The waters closed in over me to take my life The deep surrounded me. Weeds were w wrapped about my head at the roots of the mountains. I went down to the land whose bars closed upon me for ever. Yet you brought up my life from the pit, O Lord my God. When my life was fainting away, I remembered the Lord, and my prayer came to you into your holy temple. Those who pay regard to vain idols forsake their hope of steadfast love. But I, with the voice of thanksgiving, will sacrifice to you. What I have vowed, I will pay Salvation belongs to the Lord. And the Lord spoke to the fish, and it vomited Jonah out upon the dry land. Well, this is God's word this morning. Let's pray together. Lord, we thank you for your word. We thank you that you have not required us to live by bread alone, but you've given us every word which comes from the mouth of God. And Lord, we know how desperately we need you. We need to feel feed upon your word this morning to be strengthened, that you might help us to love you more, to follow you more faithfully, to live for you, to serve you, to trust in you. Lord, I know how weak and frail and overcome with sin that I am, and yet I pray that you would help me not to stand in the way of your word as it goes forth this morning, but that you would work as you've promised, that your word never goes out void, never returns to you empty, but always accomplishes that which you have appointed it for. And I pray, Lord, that you would work now as we read your word. Help us to understand it. Give us eyes and ears to to see and hear what it is you would say to us this morning so that we might be transformed more and more into the likeness of Christ and able to live for Him and love Him more deeply. And we pray, Lord, that you would speak, for your servants are listening. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen. May be seated. Well Jonah, as we said, is is one of those familiar stories to to many of us. Even if you haven't grown up in the church, chances are you you grown up knowing something of the story of Jonah and and the great fish. And uh it's a great story, uh a really interesting, fascinating story, but For some of us, as as we read it so often and so many times, we we can miss some significant details that so often uh we're meant to pick up on and be kind of shocked and stunned by as we read through this book. And I was I was reminded again this week of one of those things. I don't know if you've if you've thought about it as you've read the story of Jonah, but His story should have ended last week. It should have ended there in verses 15 and 16. So they picked up Jonah and hurled him into the sea, and the sea ceased from its raging. Then the men feared the Lord exceedingly And they offered a sacrifice to the Lord and made vows. Jonah was unfaithful and disobedient at every point in in this story so far. The Lord said, Get up and go this way. He got up and went that way. And he went away from the Lord, running from his presence. He refused to pray to him. He refused to to do anything to turn and obey the Lord. And it ended up with him getting thrown into the water, which should have been a watery grave. His his story should have been that Jonah fled from the presence of the Lord. The Lord sent a storm, Jonah was thrown into the water and drowned, and thus ends the ministry of another unfaithful prophet of Israel. But his story doesn't end there, does it? It goes on. It continues to go on as we see God pursuing Jonah. The story doesn't end last week. And there's only one reason. It's not because Jonah is so great. It's because Jonah's God is so gracious. And that's really what we see in this passage that That our our only hope, friends, when things go wrong and things can go wrong for a whole host of reasons, right? We can be like Jonah suffering under the the fruit of our own sinfulness. The the reaping the the fruit of our own actions. But also we can be having things go wrong in our life for seemingly no reason at all. Things can go wrong for a whole host of reasons in our lives. And this passage reminds us that our only hope when things go wrong It's that we have a gracious God who is willing and able to save. And this this whole story of Jonah is really a study in comparisons as Jonah is is compared to the the sailors, to the Nineveh, to God himself. And in many ways, throughout this whole book, God is just holding up a mirror to Jonah and saying, take a good long look at yourself and see how how closely your heart matches up. to my heart. And one of the ways that God does that, one of the ways He He teaches Jonah here, is by revealing himself to Jonah in various ways. And so I just want to walk through this passage this morning. And see three aspects of God's character that He reveals to us in this passage. We see that God reveals Himself as sovereign, God reveals Himself as merciful, and God reveals Himself as patient. Let's look first at God's sovereignty, mainly verses one seventeen through two three. There's a certain moment, especially as you read through the scriptures, there's certain moments where Where God enters into the story in a decisive way and just changes everything. Where he he enters in, takes this final determinative action that changes the whole outcome of everything else that was supposed to happen in the story. And if you've if you're familiar with with much of the New Testament, especially the book of Ephesians that Paul writes to that that church there in Ephesus, you'll maybe remember that One of those decisive moments comes there in chapter two, where Paul, in the beginning of chapter two, talks about how how dismal and hopeless our condition was by nature. Lays it out. He doesn't really pull any punches when he talks about it either. He says there, you were dead in your trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following the course of this world. following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience, among whom we all once lived, in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath. like the m rest of mankind. Paints a pretty bleak picture of where we stand by nature. Children of wrath, like the rest of mankind, caught up dead in our sins and trespasses, having no hope. And then he gives two little words that change everything. Your life was hopeless, but God. Your life was hopeless, but God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which He loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ by grace. You have been saved. God is in control and he enters in in a decisive way and changes everything. Well, friends, we're meant to see here that that this fish is a but-God moment for Jonah. Jonah was cast into the water, about to die, but God sent a fish to swallow him up. It's important for us to see here that nothing just happens to Jonah, does it? Throughout this whole story, God is pursuing him, right? Jonah runs from the Lord, God sends a storm. He appoints a great storm to come and and So that Jonah was cast into the sea. And there in verse 3 of our passage, Jonah acknowledges to the Lord, you cast me into the deep. into the heart of the seas. Even though the sailors were the ones that picked him up and threw him in, Jonah acknowledges God is the reason that Jonah is wet. All of it. Your ways and your billows passed over me God is the one that's been acting in decisive ways throughout Jonah's life, and it's also God here who sends and appoints the fish to come and swallow him up. Nothing's just happening to Jonah. And praise God, friends, that nothing just happens in your life or my life either. The sovereign God is always in control of the things that we like and the things that make us uncomfortable and things that even just grieve us and break us to the core. Our loving God is in control of all of it, working for His good and for His glory and our good. He sends this fish, but we also should see that this fish is the means of God's salvation. Notice throughout this whole prayer, Jonah's in the belly of the fish crying out to God, and he's saying that God has already delivered him. He's not asking for God to deliver him in the future. He's saying, You have already saved me. I cried out to you, and you did answer me. Because the fish is the means of his salvation. He thought he was going to drown at the bottom of the ocean. And here now he finds himself safe, although probably miserable and stinky, in a fish, knowing that there is still hope for him, even though It seems pretty bleak still. The fish is the means of of salvation, and in the fish he's been protected from drowning. And that that maybe raises a couple questions for us. It's hard to read through this story without the question, what kind of fish swallowed up Jonah? It's pretty vague. The the Hebrew is just as vague as the English. The Hebrew word means fish. And uh so really we have no way of knowing what kind of fish this was. Some of speculated it was some sort of a whale or or something. It But there's not really any way for us to know, and that's really because the fish is not the point of this story, is it? The focus isn't to be on the fish, it's to be on the God who appointed the fish to save Jonah. We probably also have to take a step back because some of you are might be thinking this, maybe some of you are who are listening online feel this way too, that this is the point where this story loses you. You say, I'm I'm all on board for the fact that there might be a fish who is large enough to swallow a man whole, but the idea that a man could be alive for three days and three nights in the belly of a fish is just Absurd, too much to wrap our minds around. I think there's a a few ways that this passage indicates that that this story is really true. That this that Jonah is telling us what actually happened. He's not using a metaphor, he's not talking about a poem or some expression that means he was recovering somewhere that felt like a fish or whatever it was. He's saying he actually was swallowed by a fish. You'll notice this is just straightforward historical narrative at this point in the story. The Lord appointed a fish to swallow up Jonah, and Jonah was in the belly of the fish for three days and three nights. Could you ever notice how quickly that gets passed over? Can you imagine if if Jonah gets back up to dry land and Someone sees him and says, Well, you look you look really rough. What happened? He goes into all this detail of how he he ri ran from God, detail about the storm and how terrified the sailors were and and all of this, and he says, Yeah, and then I was swallowed by a fish. You you'd probably like hold on, back up. We need to we need to rehash this a little bit because you just you can't just kinda drop that as if it's nothing. And yet Jonah It just mentions it casually as if it's just a given that people are going to accept the truth that he was swallowed by a fish. And here's the reason. If the God of the Bible is who he says he is, the all-knowing, all-powerful God, the one who created all things out of nothing simply by calling into existence things which did not exist. The one who upholds the universe by the word of his power, if this is who our God is, all powerful, all sovereign, depending on no one and nothing for any of his existence, but simply fully satisfied and self existent. in himself, if that's who he is, then the idea that he could somehow miraculously keep Jonah alive in the belly of a fish for three days and three nights really isn't that great of a stretch of our imagination, is it? Certainly we can overfocus on miracles. We have to remember that miracles, by definition, are things that are rare and unexpected. God more often than not uses ordinary providence. He heals people through medicine and doctors, but he's able to heal people immediately. without any of those means. He's able to go above and beyond and around the ordinary means of his providence in order to work in mighty, miraculous ways. And that's what he does here in this fish. And it's not any stretch of our imagination to see that if he is who he claims to be. It really happened. Jonah was in the belly of the fish. And he's reminding us that God is in total control of everything. He ends there, he he climaxes his his prayer there at the end and in verse nine where he says, salvation belongs to the Lord. Jonah is giving expression to this reality that God is the one who just decides who and he's going to save, how he's going to save. According to the counsel of his will. He alone is the one who is in control of all things, and that includes salvation. The Lord decides who he will save because salvation belongs to the Lord. We're going to see that that's a lesson that Jonah thinks he understands, but as we go through the rest of this book, we'll find out that he's he's still kind of bristling against that truth in many ways. Salvation belongs to the Lord. God is in control of everything. Throughout this whole story, especially this section of the book, we're seeing that God is teaching Jonah. Working in his in his life and in his heart to make him more like himself. And the way that he's teaching Jonah right now is through some really difficult situations and circumstances that he's brought into his life. How's God teaching you this morning? Because everything that happens in our lives comes from the loving hand of our Father who's in control of all things. And that means He is always working through it to teach us. about who he is and what he's like and to shape us and mold us and make us more and more like himself. Sometimes that means he He gives us wonderful, joyful blessings and seasons of comfort and rest to remind us that He is a gracious God who's given us all things richly to enjoy. And other times that means he gives us suffering to remind us that this world is not our home, to lead us into greater love for him and to have greater joy in his salvation and to long for his return, to repent of our sins. There's different reasons that that suffering can come into our lives, right? Sometimes we can be Jonah. As we've said, we can be the ones who have sinned and are dealing with the consequences of it in our lives. Other times we can be more like Job. Suffering comes into our lives and we have no idea where it's coming from or why it is. We're certain that it's not because of our sin. And yet, in the in the end, God's purpose through our suffering is very similar in either way. The purpose is to make us more like Christ, and our natural response whenever suffering and hardship comes into our life Whether it's great or or relatively small discomfort. The response are the words of Psalm 139 Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts, and see if there be any grievous way in me, and leave me. In the way everlasting. Even if your suffering is not the result of a sin that you've committed, you are still a sinner who needs to deepen your repentance as you walk with the Lord. And this is a way that the Lord breaks us of our love of comfort. Our love of security, all the things that we find our hope and our joy in, apart from Christ Himself. Jonah is learning this lesson. We'll see, he's learning it slowly, bit by bit, but he is learning it. And the Lord wants to work in our lives in the same way. So friends, don't waste your suffering. Don't waste your suffering, whether it's the the form of just the the annoyance that comes from being stuck at home and not having the freedom to go out, or whether it's the the grief and the pain that comes from losing a loved one or or anything in between on that spectrum of suffering. It all is suffering. It all is trials that only happen in a fallen world. Don't let it pass by you unnoticed and don't waste your suffering. God is sovereign. He's at work for our good and all that happens to us. We also see that God is so abundantly merciful. In this next section, especially verses four through seven. The summary of Jonah's prayer, though, really comes in verse two. He says, I called out to the Lord out of my distress, and he answered me. Out of the belly of Sheol, I cried and you heard my voice. That's really the summary. I was in distress and God delivered me He saved me and he describes everything that happened to him in this passage as a near-death experience. And really to fully grasp that, we have to start all the way back in the very beginning of chapter one, because Jonah has been going down. throughout the story. First he goes down to Joppa, then he goes down into the ship, and then he goes down into the bottom of the ship. And now here we find him going down to the land whose bars closed upon him forever. He's describing his his distress in the water as a near-death experience and it It paints the picture clearly now for Jonah that every step away from the presence of the Lord is a step towards death. He says there in verse 3, You cast me into the deep, into the heart of the seas, the flood surrounded me, your waves and your billows passed over me. The waters, he says in verse 5, clothed clothes in over me to take my life. The deep surrounded me. Weeds were wrapped about my head at the root of the mountains. I went down to the land whose bars closed upon me forever This sea is like a prison that's almost come to life and is trying to drag him down to the bottom. No matter how hard he struggles, no matter how hard he tries, he cannot escape and deliver himself. He's about as close to dead as you can get. And we have to step back and see that, as we've said already, this is the result of Jonah's sinful disobedience to the Lord. He fled. He wanted to get away from God as far as he could. Desperate. If you noticed last week the scene with him on the boat, it's almost like Jonah has a death wish. All of these pagan sailors are crying out to their gods for deliverance. Jonah's just asleep in the bottom of the boat. When they ask him to come up and pray, he he refuses even to pray if it means saving these other men on the ship. He'd rather drown than repent. He wanted to get away from God, and so now here at the bottom of the ocean in the belly of a fish, sloshing around for three days and three nights in utter darkness and isolation, The Lord gave him just a taste of what that would be like. To be away from the presence of the Lord. Just a taste, though, because he's still alive, and that means there's still hope, which is why Jonah says, I know now that I shall again look upon your holy temple. Because the Lord delivered him. It seemed hopeless. But God, there it is again. The Lord delivered him, even though there was no hope. I went down to the land whose bars closed upon me forever. Yet you brought up my life from the pit, O Lord my God. Jonah's again learning, salvation belongs to the Lord. He thought he was a goner, and now there's hope. And so he he says he's gonna come back and he's gonna Fulfill his vows. He's going to offer sacrifices of thanksgiving to God in the temple and thank the Lord for how he has delivered him. Because though he deserved to drown, God showed him mercy. It's so important, friends, for us to see the mercy that Jonah has received here, because as we'll see, we are far more like Jonah than we may realize or may want to admit. We all deserve God's wrath and his curse for our sin. And the the call of God is to repent and trust in Christ. And yet Repenting is not just being sorry for the sin that we've had. Our repentance is incomplete until we see our sins in light of the mercy that's held out for God in Christ. You see, Judas was sorry for what he did. But he had no concept of God's mercy held out to him in Christ. And so all he had was remorse. True repentance needs to understand the mercy of God that's held out to undeserving sinners through the Son of God. Jonah's fleeing from God, but God pursues him, mercifully working in his life to bring him back to himself. Reminds us that we ought to always search our own hearts and ask, where are we trying to flee from God? Maybe for those of you who are in Christ this morning, who know the Lord Jesus, we still find ways that we try to keep him at arm's length. We try to try to carve out segments of our life that we don't want him to control. We try to keep certain sins secret and hidden, thinking that if if no one knows what we do on our computer, no one knows how we spend our free time when no one's watching, that that that means the Lord doesn't notice either. But the Lord knows what's going on in Jonah's life, even when he's down there in the belly of the fish. There's nowhere that we can get apart from God's presence. And praise God that He pursues us and exposes our sin in order to gently, tenderly restore us to himself. Maybe you're here this morning or even watching and you're not a Christian and you've convinced yourself that you believe the Lord doesn't exist because you want to keep him at such far arm's length that you don't want him to have anything to do with your life. You don't want him telling you How to live, where to go, who to be, fleeing from God. And regardless of which category you fall in, we need to step back and see how abundantly merciful the Lord has been to us and is being to us. If for nothing else, no matter what is going wrong in your life, you have life. You are here alive today, living and breathing, and that means there is still time to find Christ. Beyond that, you're hearing God speak to you in his word, proclaiming the gospel to you, the good news found in his son. Friends, don't refuse his mercy. Come to Him, repent of your sins, be restored in Christ, or find Christ and salvation in Him. Give up whatever He is telling you to give up in order to find Him, because He is supremely worth it. And his presence is fullness of joy, and it has his right hand are pleasures forevermore. No matter what it costs you to find Christ, he is abundantly and supremely worth it. As we reflect on God's mercy, it's a natural transition to begin to reflect on God's patience because not only has God been patient or merciful to Jonah in this passage, he's also been so patient with Jonah. We hinted at this before, but I I don't know about you, but if I were in the Lord's position, I would have given up on Jonah a long time ago. Did you notice this is the first time in this whole book that Jonah actually talks to God? He's been refusing to pray up until now, and only now does he begin to pray when his own neck is on the line. And it's so tempting to read this prayer as this mighty prayer of a man who's just hit rock bottom and is now just vowing to serve the Lord completely, who's had a total life transformation and a change of heart. But I think this prayer actually reveals so much of the work that still needs to happen in Jonah's life. And it reveals some of his sin that we see there. We see it maybe especially in verses 8 and 9. He said, Those who pay regard to vain idols forsake their hope of steadfast love, but I, with the voice of thanksgiving, will sacrifice to you. What I have vowed, I will pay, because salvation belongs to the Lord. No doubt he's comparing himself to the pagan sailors who he has no idea that they've converted at this point, because he was already in the water when that happened. He's probably also thinking of the Ninevehites that he's been called to, the these pagan sailors, this wicked evil nation. Who he thinks deserves no steadfast love from God. They've cut themselves off from any hope of salvation because of their idolatry. You see, Jonah has really good doctrine, but his heart is really in the wrong place. He knows the truth: that idolatry is a wicked sin that God hates, and that only the true God has steadfast love. But in his heart he's proud for being among the people of God, and he's looking down on those who don't know any better, rather than s longing to see them come to faith and repentance in Christ. Right doctrine, wrong heart. And so he he thanks God for himself, but he fails to realize that he is no more deserving of God's mercy than the pagan sailors or the wicked Ninevites. And just notice as you read through this prayer, of all the wonderful things that Jonah acknowledges about God, of all the great things that he's learning, notice the one thing that's strikingly absent from his prayer. Any form of repentance. Throughout all of this prayer, there's no acknowledgement that his guilt and sin and rebellion against God is the reason that he's in the fish. He's thanking God for delivering him without telling God he's sorry for needing to be delivered. How often do you and I find ourselves doing the exact same thing? Indeed, he's in the process of having a partial change of heart, but he's not totally there yet. What a wonderful reminder of God's patience. I think maybe the the third place we see God being patient with Jonah is actually how the text reveals what I what I think is God's displeasure towards Jonah there in verse 10. The Lord spoke to the fish, and it vomited Jonah out upon the dry land. Maybe two things, and I I don't want to overstate this first one, but Jonah's just been pouring out his heart to God. He's crying out to the Lord for deliverance, and the Lord speaks not to Jonah, but to the fish. But second, and maybe more significantly, we're told that the fish vomited Jonah out upon the dry lamb uh land, a deliberately repulsive and disgusting term. My seminary professor Mark Mutato says of that term, he says, the author could have used any of a number of Hebrew words to indicate how the fish got Jonah back onto dry land. The fact that he chose a repulsive term is significant because this specific form of this specific verb is consistently used in contexts where God's displeasure is in view. We look on the outward appearance of Jonah's prayer and see orthodoxy and presume a change of heart in Jonah. God looks on the heart itself and sees something else, which will become evident to us as the story continues. God's displeased with Jonah. And yet he's willing to save him. And he's not just willing to save him and then say, now Jonah, just go sit off in a corner somewhere and just be sorry and you're no more used to me. No, he's he's saved him. He's still not done with him and as we'll find out he still plans to use Jonah. In his service. What a wonderful display of the patience of our God. How often does he bear with us in such the same way? He's going to work in Jonah to make him a man after God's own heart. He won't give up on him despite the fact that he's fighting so hard against holiness. That's such good news for us, friends, because Christ saves us from our sins. But what what an awful thing it would be if the gospel was only About God delivering us from the penalty of our sins. And then left us to live as miserable sinners for the rest of our lives. No, what good news it is that God also patiently transforms us more and more into his likeness. Gradually, bit by bit, throughout the course of our lives, chipping away at those rough edges to make us more and more like Christ. That He doesn't give up on us. He doesn't just throw up His hands and say, He's no use. There's no hope for her But he continues to work in our lives. He loves us with a love that will not let us go, no matter how hard we might try to run away from him. He's the God that pursues us to the very end and draws us to himself with his irresistible grace. We also see, friends, that God's patience has a purpose. Peter tells us don't be so surprised when people look around and say, Where's the fulfillment of all that God's promised? It's been thousands and thousands of years and God hasn't done anything. And he says, Well. With the Lord, a thousand years is like a day, and a day is like a thousand years. He's not slow the way you think of time and the way you count slowness. No, he's being patient because he wishes all his people to come to repentance. If Jesus came back right now, there's people that he has to save that don't yet know him. God is patient, and the purpose of his patience, the purpose of his kindness is to lead us to repentance. Friends, we also have to acknowledge this patience will not last forever Don't waste your suffering. Don't turn from God's mercy, but don't ignore God's patience. It's calling us to repentance. Whether you you don't know Christ, then you need to know Him before your life runs out, because this life is all there is to make a decision for Christ. Or if you see him being patient with you as you waste so much of the gifts that he's given you. None of us wants to stand before the la the Lord on the last day, saying that we've been saved only as through fire, with no good works to show for it. The very thought of God being displeased and dishonored with our lives if we're in Christ is a repulsive thought to us. So let God's patience lead us into even deeper repentance as we seek to walk more faithfully with Him day by day It really is fascinating. Jonah's story should have ended, but God wouldn't let that happen. Because Jonah has a gracious, merciful, sovereign, patient Lord and his God. And that that is the good news that you and I need. this morning, friends, because you and I are so much like Jonah. We can be so spiritually proud, looking down on those who who we think should know better, who we think are less deserving. We run from God in so many of the ways that He calls us to live for Him. And if Jonah is nothing more than an example for us, then we have no hope to ever be changed and made more like Christ. The hope for us is that there is one greater than Jonah. In the Lord Jesus Christ, we have one who is greater than Jonah, who when the Lord sent him to go and save people, he didn't run in the other direction, but he obediently came and humbled himself, taking the form of a servant. Taking our nature on us on him with all its its weaknesses and limitations and infirmities, everything except our sin. He entered into this world and lived in this sinful world, being sinned against day after day. Can you imagine how how frustrating and burdensome it must have been for a perfect Son of God to bear with being sinned against repeatedly, the one whose eyes are of of too pure to look upon evil, having people spit in his face. Friends, and he didn't do that for someone who was worthy of salvation. He wasn't like Jonah thinking he was better than he was. No, he is the only one who didn't need God's mercy. And we are the ones who are undeserving of God's mercy, the ones who are causing the very sin that we need to be delivered from. And he came to lay down his life. He wasn't spared from a near-death experience, he really died He wasn't three days and three nights in the belly of a fish, he was three days in the heart of the earth in the grave, dead and buried And yet he rose again on the latter that he was delivered from death, and he was delivered from death not because God was displeased with him, but because he is the only Son, the one in whom the Father is well pleased. The one who is fully able to save, who stands ready to save, holding out the promise that if you draw near to God, He will draw near to you. If you ask, you will receive. If you seek, you will find. If you knock, the door will be opened. If you come to him, he will never let you go. He will not lose a single one of all whom the Father has given him. No one can snatch you out of his hand. If you come to him and lay down the burden of your sin at his feet, you will find rest. Friends, these are certain promises that you can take to the bank. He is ready to save. And willing to save, able to save to the uttermost all who draw near to God In the same way that Jonah could not fall so deep into the ocean that God couldn't deliver, none of us can sink so deep in our sin that God's grace can't reach us to deliver us and save us. There's no limit to the depth of his grace. It truly is greater than all of our sin. And the wonderful news is that w once he saves us, once he transfers us into his kingdom, declares us right, gives us his righteousness, once he does that, he's not done with us, but he actually works in our hearts to make us more and more like him, to make us holy. So that a year from now, five years from now, ten years from now, you might not struggle in the same degree with the same sins that you battle now. That you might not be the same person that you are today. What a wonderful thought that is, friends. That you might not love him as little a year from now as you do today. And that one day you actually will be able to love him the way that you were made to, with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, with all your strength. Nothing battling for your affections, but one day you will be presented before him in the splendor of holiness, perfect in every way, blameless, to enjoy him and delight in him for all eternity with no sin to get in your way. Because its presence will be gone forever. Friends, if you know this glorious Christ, thank him for the salvation he's bestowed upon you and ask him to keep on working in your life, to keep sanctifying him. Every day, wake up determined to put your sin to death and to live for him in an even more deeper way. Friends, if you don't know him, what in the world is stopping you from coming to him? Come and find a life in Him, the free life of eternal life that's held out for you in the gospel, that Jesus will take away all of your sins and make you more and more like Himself. showing his love upon you, that you you don't deserve it, and yet he freely offers it. Friends, don't wait, because this risen Lord is returning as a judge. To stand in judgment over all who have ever lived, and only those found safe in Christ will have life in him. All others will be cast out into an outer darkness that is far worse than the fish that Jonah found himself in. Everything that's good and beautiful in this life, all comfort, all joy, all the the the warmth of the sun, the cool of the rain, all of it will be extinguished in that outer darkness where there's weeping and gnashing of teeth. Friends, don't turn away from God's patience and his mercy, but come to Christ. He's the only one who is able to save, because salvation indeed belongs to the Lord. Let's pray. Oh God, how desperately we need you. We sin in so many ways. Even after you have saved us, even after you've brought us to yourself, we continue to turn away from you, doing the things that you tell us not to do, not doing the things that you tell us to do. Lord, we daily break all ten of your commandments, every day, in thought, and word, and in deed. And so what good news it is for us that you not only promise to transfer us into your kingdom, Lord Jesus, but that you transform us into your likeness. We pray that you would continue that work. We thank you for your promises, that you will complete the good work that you started in us, and we pray that you would help us to even see the progress that we make daily. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen.