Study from 1 Peter. And uh it's about suffering. First Peter's been about suffering, and I was reminded as we prayed this morning as Jim prayed. And he prayed for uh the victims of the uh of the earthquake. Uh last night and again this morning, I was in correspondence with one of my students who actually lives in Lebanon. And um I've been very much aware of the engagement of many things, many things that have happened in Lebanon. What most of us have been unaware of is that the earthquake has actually impacted Lebanon as well as Syria as well as Turkey. being so connected. But it's not just the the physical rumbling of the earthquake or the downing of buildings that did happen in Syria, but because of the Syrian uh movement and uh the movement of m many of many of the people out of Syria they have gone to Lebanon. Lebanon is probably the the greatest um receiver of displaced peoples in the world today. So my student Um this is a long story to to come to the point. My student who is there is is right at the end of his uh dissertation. He's trying to get his dissertation done so he can graduate. uh in the first of June. And uh and his correspondence to me was that they've been so overwhelmed with the uh with trying to meet Earthquake needs and the fears that go along with the earthquake, which their part of the world is uh also a part of it, but also physically meeting that that he hasn't been able to do anything Like, okay. So the world actually stops for much of the world during these difficult times. That's part of the pain that we feel. And as part of the suffering that the brokenness of the world actually brings to us, we can see it, we can feel it. And uh uh at least I uh know somebody who's in the middle of it. And and so th the the pain and the suffering globally uh comes to our awareness First Peter uh talks about suffering and talks about different kinds of suffering, different ways in which that suffering Happens. And as we come to the fourth chapter today, it is again an awareness that God gives us suffering for a reason. And um and this is the reason. We're gonna talk about this thing with big kids as well as uh younger kids. Uh God gives us suffering that we might see in And the trouble is when we experience suffering, we tend to get the telescope backward. I want to ask that you would stand and let's read together from the fourth chapter of 1 Peter. And I may have given an insufficient number of verses. So if I start reading a part that's not on the screen, hang with me. It may be that I I omitted part of it or part of these verses or but I'm going to read the entire chapter Uh so if you have your Bibles, I encourage you you can turn there as well. The fourth chapter, this is the word of the Lord. Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves with the same way of thinking, for whoever has suffered in the flesh has ceased. From sin, so as to live for the rest of the time in the flesh, no longer for human passion, but for the will of God. For the time that has passed sufficient For doing what the Gentiles want to do. Living in sensuality, passions, drunkenness, orgies, drinking parties, lawless idolatry. With respect to this, they're surprised when you don't join them in the same flood of debauchery and they malign you, but they'll give account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead. For this is why the gospel was preached. The end of all things is at hand. Therefore, be self controlled and sober minded for the sake of your prayers. Above all, keep loving one another earnestly, since love covers a multitude of the earth. Show hospitality to one another without grumbling. Jesus Christ. To him belong glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen. Beloved, don't be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes comes upon you to test you, as though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings, that you might also rejoice and be Glad. When his glory is revealed, if you are insulted for the name of Christ, you're blessed. Because the spirit of glory and the and of God rests upon you. But let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or an evildoer or a meddler. And if it begins with us, what will be the outcome for those who do not obey the gospel of Christ? God. If righteousness is scarcely saved, if the righteous is scarcely saved, what will become of the ungodly and the sinner? Therefore let those who suffer according to God's will and trust their souls to a faithful creator while doing good. It's the word of the Lord. Let's pray. Father, lift our eyes to you In the world we do have tribulation and suffering and difficulty and struggle, and we have it in our lives. But Turn our eyes to you, that we might see you. That these struggles, these difficulties, and we ask that you might even allow us to see them this morning again. But turn our eyes to you, that we might understand you, that we might see ourselves In light of your glory, in light of your grace, in light of the suffering of Christ for us. So, Father, come and be with us, we pray. In Jesus' name Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. There's a uh a picture in my mind that I've really not been able to for many many years get out of my mind. It was a picture when I went to Liberia a number of years ago after one of the implosions of Liberia And I had gone to conduct a series of workshops to try to help people work through the trauma and the pain and the suffering that they had experienced. And at one point in the workshop there was an older gentleman who was well known by everybody. Uh some of them were a little surprised because he didn't look the way that they remembered him from before. He was a radio preacher. His voice had become changed. And when he shared his name, everybody in the workshop um was amazed that he was there. He was well known for bringing the Word of God. And he was well known for his ability to take that and to apply it uh to the lives of people. And he shared a story at that time. And uh the story was when he had come to a certain roadblock, he was on his way from one town to another uh to minister. In the church. And he was recognized by the soldiers, the boy soldiers. They were 12, 13, 14, 15. fifteen at the roadblock. And when they saw him and they knew who he was, they said, We're going to see how big your God is. And they required him to strip himself and to crawl on the ground over the bodies that were there. They wanted to embarrass him, they wanted to shame him, they wanted to give him every pain that they could. And he came to the workshop. And he said, I have not been able to release the pain of what happened to me. There is suffering in the world. I came to that same roadblock about two weeks later. It wasn't filled with soldiers anymore. It was only one one soldier. And that one soldier looked at me and made us all get what was known then as getting down. We had to get out of the car And they searched the car. They searched every nook and crevice and they went through all of our bags to see if we had any contraband, anything that they They thought it was contraband, or probably anything they wanted. Machine gun that occasionally waved a little closer to my face than I wished it would. And he looked at me and he said, You see that place right over there? And I knew the place. I had heard about the place in the workshops. He said more than five hundred people died there, but God didn't see it. God doesn't look at suffering. He turns away. And then he went on to a drunken rant. His mind was broken. He couldn't see what was so evil that he had been a part of. Suffering is hard in our world. And it's difficult for us to hear stories like I just told you. And to recognize that these stories Are not only real, but they have been increasing in our time and a suffering of the of the years gone by. Christian Church. We're probably entering a time over the last fifty years, seventy years, where the suffering of Christians in the world is greater than it ever has been. First Peter was written for Christians in suffering circumstances And it's very easy for us today, and I've heard this a lot, this sort of idea that happened even on the cross when Jesus was on the cross. cross. You remember one thief looking over and saying, hey, why don't you save yourself and save us too? Suffering. He saw his thief, saw his suffering as something that needed to be changed, but he didn't believe that Jesus Was able to do anything about that suffering. And we too today, when we see suffering, when we hear about suffering, we tend to ask the question: where's God? If God is really so big, if God is so great, why doesn't He just speak suffering out of the world? And when we do that, this is how we see God. Way far away. So far away. Is irrevelent, totally irrelevant to our world, to our pain, or to the suffering of the world. And we ask this question, and we wonder why it is That there is still suffering in the world. First Peter comes to us so we might understand it. The first few verses, and I Uh is this fourth chapter is so dense that I I can't walk you through verse by verse. I'm gonna take sections But suffering in these first few verses is there that it might show the brokenness of our world. The brokenness of my situation, the brokenness of my choices, that indeed I do face suffering. I face difficulties. Sometimes it's because of what I did or I didn't do Of what I said or what I didn't say, of the relationships that I've had that have become broken. And I feel the weight of that. And things go wrong. They go wrong badly. Whether I call that suffering for Christ or suffering for the consequences of my own behavior, it's still suffering of some sort. Sometimes the suffering that we experience might be a small cut compared to somebody else. That has an amputation. Our little small cut is a little paper cut. And we think, but it still hurts. And that's actually important for us to recognize. It still hurts. When it hurts, what happens? And take your mind again back to the gospel account The disciples saw a man who had been blind from birth. And they asked the question that everybody in the society at that time asked. They just put words to it. And they said, Lord, who sinned this man or his parents that he should be born blind? In other words, whose fault is it? So we tend to want to find fault where there's suffering. This man's suffering in blindness, the disciples said. So there must be a sin. There must be a reason for it, a cause and a consequence. If there's suffering. It's brokenness. The world is broken, our relationships are broken, we're broken. We live in a broken, broken world. And so when 1 Peter here speaks of the gospel even being preached to those who are dead, we all die, don't we? And even people who have heard the gospel of Christ died. So, where is this God who somehow rescues us from suffering? Well, everybody suffers. And then they die. What kind of a hope is that? Well the hope is this We need to somehow turn the telescope from this way to this way. And we need to begin to look at those events that are far. away and focus our attention, using perhaps one eye to see the big scene, and using the other eye through the lens of suffering that we might see what God is doing. So the bitter opposition of the world against the truth of Christ happens today. Churches are burned in country after country. India has lost many, many congregations, people Like us, meeting in a building like this, only mostly smaller, but even bigger An opposition has come and burned the building because it reflected the presence and the place of Christ. So the suffering wasn't just because a few people said the wrong thing to their neighbor, but because they worshiped Christ. And we look at it and we think, how can this be? Where is God? Well, Peter answers it. It's not just that suffering shows brokenness in the And that's what we see in the first two verses Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves with the same way of thinking, the same thing That Christ armed himself with, you arm yourself with. When there is suffering, ask yourself the question, why? And the why is not the same question that the disciples ask. Lord, why is this man born blind? Because of the sin of his parents or his sin? No, Jesus said. But rather to show the glory of God. The glory of God is seen in our suffering So suffering shows God's glory. Peter picks up a little bit more on that, verses 12 and 13. Beloved, don't be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes up. Upon you, to test you, as though something strange were happening to you. No, it's not strange. But rejoice insofar as you share Christ's suffering. So we no longer are living, as the text says, for our own human passion. We're no longer living for the things that everybody else lives for. Instead, we live for Christ's suffering causes us to focus what's on the other end. And it brings that distant thing, that distant reality into our hearts and into our minds. When we don't use suffering that way, all we do is what the children could see this morning in a few after church. You want to see my telescope, you could try it too. And you can look around and you can see I can't focus that thing. It doesn't work. Pastor Carl, once you get a telescope that works, we'll take it outside and it will work. It works great, but we're too close in here. So suffering often doesn't allow us to see what's farther away And that's where we have to fix our eyes. God isn't saying, listen, I'm going to fix your suffering in the next 30 minutes, in the next 30 days, maybe not even in the next Why is God bringing me through this? Well, it's God's glory. God is doing something far greater than I can see. And that's where I need. Faith lends to be able to see what it is that God is doing. It's the passion of desiring God's will. That's what took Christ to the cross. Was to see it was not, as he said, not my will, Lord, but yours be done. It was for the benefit not of just his disciples, but of you and of me. We were way farther away than 30 minutes. We weren't 30 days away. We weren't 30 years away from the cross. We're 2,000 and counting. Away from the cross of Christ. Long distance, Jesus was able to see it. It was the glory of God. Long distance, God is calling you and He calls me. Look at God. Look at God's mercy, look at what God is doing. He has something else in mind that we haven't seen. So, there's no surprise when we suffer. The reference is not, though, just to plain, what I want to call plain suffering, but to suffering for the same my values, not my practice, but the values that God says are good, the things God says are true, the things that God says walk So there is suffering, indeed, because I'm sick. I've watched Debbie go through that Uh you get a hip replace in their suffering. She groans and she complains about every move. And uh that's true. Uh it's painful. And she takes medication to be able to take to co And to get to control that pain, and she's glad she's got it, I'm glad she's got it. The moment is painful. Why do we go through the pain? Well, the hope is, in hip surgery, that you're going to walk better. That's why you go through the pain. That's why you suffer, so that in the end you have something better from it. Say, well I don't like suffering. I don't like pain. So let me just not have the hip replaced, and I'll suffer forever. And that's sort of the choice of sin and salvation, isn't it? Let me let me not suffer God's way, let me suffer my way. Well, there will be suffering either way. Suffering that God gives is to teach us to lean on Jesus. to lean on Jesus. Last week Debbie came walking on her own free will. She was a little slow, and if you watch her she was a little limpy Um uh but she doesn't get away from her walker at all right now. She's leaning on that walker And God says, I will bring suffering into your life that you might learn to lean on me. Lean on Jesus. There's a province in China that Debbie had a chance to go to a few years ago where HIV AIDS was rampant. A super high percentage of people in that province had um advanced form of AIDS. Not just HIV infected. And what was so unique is that it was mostly among Christians. So we'll figure that one out Why was it that Christians had an unusually high percentage of HIVAIDS? Well they must have been more wicked than everybody else, right? That might be the answer that you That you would come to based on the question and answer that Jesus and the disciples had. Lord, who sinned this man or his parents that the man should be blind? Lord, who sinned these people or their parents That they should have HVAIDs. All right. What's the answer? Well the answer was that particular province of China, the Christian Church And if you were known to be a believer, you couldn't get a job And so you had no means of supporting your family. If you got a job, there was no certainty you would keep the job. And it was No means of supporting your family. You could go and contribute your blood. You could sell your blood. Now they were good. They didn't just take your blood. No. They spun it and they gave you back part of your blood. Well, some of yours and somebody else's as well. So what happened was instead of of testing the blood first, they simply combined it, and then you got back a part of that blood, along with HIV eight And so because the church lives for Christ. They received the penalty of the world around them. It doesn't make sense. But God took that event in China And he enabled the church to say, we can be able to have suffered, and we understand what that suffering is So God calls us to reach out to those that have HIV and AIDS. It's like In this country, people who didn't have HIV and AIDS were accusing the ones that did. In China, they said Said no. We have it too. We know how we got it. We're going to minister to everyone that has it. And it was one reach to the purpose of Of Jesus Christ. It was the ability to take suffering and look through the suffering and see Christ and be able to minister in the So suffering shows God's glory. It showed it right there in that province in China. Verses twelve and fourteen speak to that very clearly. Beloved, don't be surprised uh as it but rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings. So we actually share in Christ's sufferings. Our suffering, then lets me see who Christ is, not Just the general glory of God. Again, if you look through this telescope and you look close, all you see is color. You see brightness. Look at the window, and that's all I see is I see just light. I look at the doors, it's dark. So I focus it. And I can actually see. When I focus my suffering, I can see Christ. the suffering. Christ was insulted. Christ was shamed. Christ Was put in a place that, but I can identify with him. I can identify with the shame. I can identify with the insults. And I can care and I can bear the betrayal. Because Christ has borne that for me. Carrying and bearing betrayal is actually the theme of this season of the As we come into the Easter season. It was Peter who denied. But Peter wasn't the only one who denied. You and I deny also. We deny when it's more convenient than to believe. We will deny. We deny in our lives. Judas betrayed. But I betray too My words, my life, my faith doesn't align with what God's called me to do. Thomas doubted. Do you doubt? You ever doubt? Thomas doubted. I doubt It's these sufferings, these pains of living in a broken world, that God calls us to see Jesus One of the my colleagues in um for a number of years Was a woman of glory and grace, but she was from a family of God's glory and grace. She was Rondees. Her husband was a Presbyterian pastor. in Rwanda. The time when Rwandan society was melting down and and you would die if you were Hutu in the presence of Tutsi or you were It didn't matter. Uh at certain points y you were dead either way. They were a family, it was actually a blended family. Mother was one tribe and father was another tribe. So in a sense they got picked on by both sides, and the kids even worse. Because who who were they? Were they Hutu or Tutsi? didn't matter. During the height of seeking out and killing of the Tutsis, Violet's father Decided that God had called him to protect however many he could. There was a family that had come to him for protection. He knew that he couldn't protect them. But he said, I have a s I have a small room attached to my house. It was actually the bathroom that belonged to his bedroom. He said, let me put you in the bathroom So there's a family of five living in a bathroom. I don't know how big your bathrooms are, but I know my bathroom you'd have to stand up if you got five people in it you wouldn't even be able to sit down. It's small. But he had a little bit bigger one. It had a window in it, had a source of water, had everything they needed. And then he shut the door and he put And that night, indeed, there was a knock on the door, and the soldiers, the interamwe, came and they said, Where are they? Where are who? Where are the Tutsis that were said to have come to this house? And he said, The house is yours. Find He said, but I'm going to my bedroom to bed. You where the bathroom was, right? It was his closet. And he was in his bed. He put himself between death and life. And they came back every night and looked again and again. And the safe room was just on the other side of his bed. We see Christ in our suffering. And God actually calls us into that place. Where, like Christ, we may put ourselves between life and death. Like Christ. Might be known. So suffering shows me God, God's glory. Suffering shows me Christ. Suffering shows me what I'm saying. Physical discomfort narrows my focus to the discomfort. Did you notice that? You couldn't see it, only I could see it. And mom knows it, dad knows it. With a little bandage around a little finger. It was really tiny Probably he hadn't lost his finger. I could still see it wiggling. But there's the thing with band aids and kids. And And we know it. The bandage doesn't actually make the pain go away. But it does disguise it a little bit, it keeps it clean, we know that. But somehow it feels better when we're a child To have that cut bandaged. And sometimes you look at a kid and you say, I don't see anything. I know, but it really hurts. I need a band-aid I really need a band-aid. Okay. How's it feel now? It feels fine, Mom, now. Suffering has a way of doing that. Suffering has a way of focusing our attention or taking our attention away. So physical discomfort narrows my focus to the discomfort. Discomfort. When I take the discomfort, when I take the suffering, and I bandage it in the presence of Christ, my focus is turned not from the Turn away from the suffering to the presence and the healing of Christ. Why do we suffer? So that we can see Christ. And we might know his healing. And we might know his comfort. It's not for human passion, the text tells us, but for For the passion for God. It's not for myself. It's for others. That's what Christ suffered for. He didn't suffer for himself, he suffered for me. He suffered for you. He suffered for those thousands of years away from the cross. Not for self-honour. But for Christ's honor, not for self-redemption, but that we might experience Christ and the redemption of Christ. Christ suffered. He suffered for us. He suffered for Christ's purpose of redemption. Our passions. No God's passion. That's what suffering's about. The book of Acts is a history book that reminds us that God spread Christianity. He moved Christianity from a city, from a small place to the world because of suffering. And it has always been that way. God has allowed us in our American Christianity to seemingly be free of a lot But the suffering that we have, the only question I want to give to you is does your suffering lead others To Jesus? And does it take you back to Jesus? Because the suffering in the book of Acts, the suffering of Scripture, was always to focus. Now take your suffering and take it to the world Bear the suffering of the world. Listen to it. Hear it. Receive it. And let the mercy of Christ grow, emerge, blossom, and fill your life In the lives of those that you touch. Let's pray. Father, we don't understand much of our lives Much of the suffering that we experience or that others experience. But we know this morning from your word That you have given to us these times of difficulty, times of suffering in our lives, that we might see you. That we might know your glory. That we might see Christ Himself. So, Father, would you turn our eyes? To what is important. Your work in us, your work through us, because of Christ. So pick us up this week, we pray. When we encounter difficulties, when we encounter struggles, when we hear of others that are suffering, open our mouth. That we might focus on Christ. Give us words to speak, not embarrassment, not shame, but boldness and hope that the world That will suffer, will suffer eternally if they're unable to hold the hope of Christ. So in our suffering, Lord Jesus, be with us. Enable us to hold to you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.