We're going to be continuing on in our series in Paul's letter to the Ephesians. We started that all the way back around Easter time and we're Coming near to the end of it, by the end of this month, we'll be finishing up our study in this letter. It's been a a rich study as we've gone slow and tried to really dig into what God's Word has to say to us in So we're going to be continuing on in chapter six. We'll be looking at Ephesians six, verses five through nine. If you have a Bible, I'd encourage you to open it up so you can follow along as we read God's Word together. Don't have a Bible with you, you can use the Pew Bible and find it on page 1245. So I'll give you a moment to find the passage, and then uh when you find it, if you would please stand as we honor the reading. of God's word. Hear now God's word from Ephesians six, starting in verse five. Bond servants, obey your earthly masters with fear and trembling, with a sincere heart, as you would Christ, not by the way of I service, as people please But as bond servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart, rendering service with a good will as to the Lord Masters, do the same to them and stop your threatening, knowing that he who is both their master and yours is in heaven, and that there is no partiality with him. This is the word of the Lord. Let's go to the Lord again in prayer. Our Father, you tell us in your word that your word is Living and active, sharper than any double-edged sword, able to pierce to the division of soul and spirit, and of joint and of marrow. It's able to pierce us to the core and to leave us exposed before you Lord, we ask as your your word goes forth in this time, would you search us? Would you know us? Would you try us and see if there be any grievous way What do we need, your word? We need your word to correct us, to rebuke us, we need it to encourage us, we need it to train us. Train us for righteousness. And so we pray, O Lord, that you would convince us that this is your word that we hear. That you would bless us as we study what your word says together. And that you would allow us to store it up in our hearts and practice it in our lives. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Well please be seated. Well I'm not sure if you would share this same feeling with me, but at times I can just uh look out and just be Overwhelmed by all the problems in the world. Not not just the reality of sin and brokenness and evil But that reality combined with this vague sense that we we have to come up with a way to fix it Especially at times we can feel that burden as Christians or as those belonging to the church that we should have the answers for everything that ails and plagues our society. I think sometimes we can be overwhelmed for for one of two reasons. Either the the sheer magnitude of some of these problems, and we feel like we we might try to do Or other times it might just be that we're we're so limited by the circumstances of our lives. We feel like uh if only these circumstances would change, then I might be able to serve the Lord in various ways. We can try to to do too much. If you if you listen to those speaking in the world or on social media, we we have the responsibility to to end abortion, end racism, end poverty, end hunger, and and all of these kinds of things. And that if you're not doing something concrete towards those ends, that at best At best, you don't care. At worst, you're part of the problem. Don't misunderstand. These are real problems, and we long to see them addressed. We long to see the Lord at work to bring healing, to fix And some of us will be in a position to do something and to do a lot in some of these areas. But not all of us are in the same position to do the same things in every single area of all that's going on in our world. I think one of the interesting things we see in this passage this morning in Ephesians is that Paul actually signals a better way. And essentially what he's telling us is this: live the ordinary Christian life. Don't feel like you have to go out and single-handedly change the world and fix all of the problems in society. Just live as a faithful Christian. And the reality is you can have a profound impact on the world around you. Thinking of this in the context of preaching, I remember hearing Mark Dever, who's the pastor of the Capitol Hill Baptist Church. talking about preaching and he said earlier in his ministry he felt like every sermon had to be a home run, just hit it out of the park. And the longer he's been in ministry, he says he's just happy to get on base. Right? Over time, by doing that, just a consistent moving forward, just a little bit at a time, over time you can have a more profound impact than you've ever imagined. And so the lesson from this passage for us this morning is live faithfully as a Christian in your God-given circumstance. Wherever the Lord has placed you, live faithfully as a Christian. And we're going to look through this passage and we're going to see that Paul gives us two exhortations and then two encouragements. Let's look at the exhortations first. The first exhortation that he gives us in this passage is this: don't let your circumstances prevent you from serving. You can imagine how many of these slaves might have been feeling at this time. The word bondservant there means slaves. Uh Mike reminded us of that in Sunday school this morning. It's a the the accurate translation of what's going on here. These are these are slaves and their masters. You can imagine how they were feeling it. They might be feeling they need to get free so that they can serve Christ. Paul speaks to them differently than I probably would have. If it were me writing this letter to slaves and masters, I would have wanted to say something like: don't own people. Slaves seek your freedom and masters free your slaves. Paul doesn't say that. Paul says slaves obey your earthly masters It is really important for us as living in the United States in 2021 to recognize that slavery in the ancient world is far different than the slavery that lies in our own history. Of course, the institution of American slavery is an evil, wicked practice. And sadly, some Christians use passages just like this to justify those institutions, and we need to acknowledge that. We need to make sure that we don't ever twist scripture. in those ways. But slavery hasn't always looked the same throughout history. That doesn't mean it was good. At times it could be cruel and brutal. But it wasn't primarily based on race. In fact, it the the Old Testament recognizes that slavery was something that that people ought to voluntarily enter into out of need. maybe. I was reminded of that this week listening to to Derek Thomas speak on this passage. Doesn't mean that it was good, but slaves could could enter into a situation where they could build wealth, they could build influence, and potentially eventually become free. Often it was a way to provide for those who couldn't provide for themselves. I was reading somewhere this week and reminded that that Felix, the governor that Paul stands before after he's been arrested had at one time been a slave and purchased his freedom and and now has significant political influence. And so it's just important to recognize the the reality that that history hasn't always looked the same. There are differences And not to read back our own experiences, our own knowledge into other periods of history. Still, we might wonder why doesn't Paul condemn it? I think there's two things to see that help us understand that. The first thing is as you read through this, Paul really gives slavery no support or no justification. Mike Allen in his commentary points out that Paul talks about slavery in this passage in a different way than he spoke about marriage or the family. If you remember a few weeks ago we we saw that when he's speaking to husbands and wives, he points back to creation for the ordinance of marriage, and he he ties it to the gospel, that the way a husband relates to his wife is a picture of how Christ relates to the church. Last week we saw when he's speaking to parents and children, he points back to the Old Testament, to the Ten Commandments, to root the obedience of children to their parents there in the fifth commandment. In both of those institutions, of marriage and the family, he shows that they were part of God's good plan for people from the beginning. In a world without sin, you would still have marriage and you would still have the family. He doesn't do that with slavery. He simply acknowledges it as a reality, but he gives it no positive support from the scriptures. And I think the reason is that Paul has a different purpose in mind in this passage. His focus, like we said, is on how to live the faithful Christian life in whatever situation Paul God has placed you. And so he recognizes slavery as a reality, and he teaches people, both slaves and masters, how to live for Christ in their current context. Sinclair Ferguson in his commentary on this passage says: In this passage, we have apostolic teaching on how the gospel of grace functions in a social order that we find intolerable. Isn't that so freeing as you think about your own life? Consider the significance of this. He's not saying to these slaves, your goal has to be to bring an end to the institution of slavery, and only then Can you begin to serve God? Because it wasn't in their power to change such things. He's simply saying you can serve God today, in the place where he has put you. So if you're overwhelmed by the social problems of our day and you feel like your circumstances limit what you can do, it's comforting to know that we can still serve the Lord. Because we're limited in all kinds of ways, right? It might be good things. You might have a family or you might have kids. They're blessings from the Lord and they take up a lot of your time. It might be something negative, right? It might be something hard, sickness. Maybe as this passage often applies to to workplace situations. With with an employee and an employer, maybe you have a really difficult boss that actually makes it harder for you to do your job. Useful application of this passage is simply To think smaller. Don't despise the day of small things. Right? He's telling these slaves, the best thing that you can do to serve the Lord is obey. Be a really good worker. Serve your masters really well. Don't just phone it in, right? Work hard and serve well. Seek your master's good. Not just when he's looking Do it with a sincere heart because you genuinely want to bless him, doing the best work that you can. The situation that God has placed you in this morning should not keep you from serving him because he's put you there for a reason. Because he has a way that he wants to use you. Isn't that what Paul says in Philippians when he talks to them about him being in prison? He says What has happened to me has actually been to serve the advance of the gospel. He didn't say, come and break me out of jail so that I can continue preaching. He said, No, the gospel is continuing to advance because the Lord has placed me We have these little board books put out by the Banner of Truth on different biographies for little children of of people throughout history. There's one on uh Martin Luther's wife, there's one on uh George Whitfield, Martin Lloyd Jones, but there's one on Susanna Spurgeon And if you know anything about Charles Spurgeon, her husband, he was a really famous, well-known Baptist preacher in London in the 1800s. And his wife really had health issues. And at a point in her life, she wasn't able to go around and travel with him anymore and be there when he preached most of the time. She was often confined to home, to rest. And yet she didn't just sit back and say, well, I guess I can't serve the Lord. Right? No, she actually found that there was a problem in the day where many poor ministers couldn't have good books. And her husband had a lot of good books, and she she was able to start sending good books to ministers who couldn't afford them so they could better understand the scriptures. She found a way to serve the Lord without letting her circumstance Make her feel like she couldn't do anything. Friends, just consider the impact it might have if we as believers committed to faithfully living the Christian life in every place where God puts us, investing in relationships with people and genuinely seeking to serve them. With slavery, this was intended to foster a relationship between the slave and the master that would actually undermine the system at its core. Because it's hard to justify owning someone and mistreating them if then every Lord's Day you're sitting with them as equal, equals in the worship of God. Charles Hodge says it this way. He says, It's thus that the Holy Spirit deals with slavery. Slaves are not commanded to refuse to be slaves. To break their bonds and repudiate the authority of their masters, they're required to obey with alacrity or eagerness, with a sincere desire to do their duty to their masters as part of their duty to Christ. Masters are not commanded as an immediate and imperative duty to emancipate their slaves, but to treat them according to the principles of justice and equity. It is not to be expected that the men of the world will act in conformity with the gospel in this, any more than in any other respects, but believers will. And the result of such obedience, if it could become general, would be first that the evils of slavery, and then slavery itself, would pass away as naturally and as healthfully as children cease to be minors. Sadly, in our own history, many believers compromised, as we said, and twisted the scriptures in order to justify the institution of slavery. And so the process of bringing it to an end took far longer and was far more costly and far more devastating. Imagine just how different history might have been if believers had faithfully heeded scriptures like this. Maybe it would have been ended yeah. Years earlier. Even better, maybe the believers who came to the New World could have stood up and prevented it from ever getting a foothold in society to begin with, all because they simply took God's word seriously and lived as faithful Christians where God had placed them. What might that impact be on our day, friends? Maybe you feel like you have no influence to overturn uh the the system of abortion, but just by living as a Christian you might find countless ways to phrase abortion. Maybe you adopt a child who needs a home. Maybe you give a pregnant mother a place to stay or free babysitting or driver to appointments Maybe just through simple encouragement or helping to pay medical bills, there are countless ways and countless situations with any of the problems in our world today that just by living as a faithful Christian, you could make an impact for Christ. Maybe you're in a bad work environment, and this passage feels really relevant because you have a boss who is cruel and overbearing. Friends, the reality of the Christian life is that we don't just love people who are nice to us. Do we? We're to love our enemies, we're to pray for those who persecute us. Over time, what might be the impact if you loved them by praying for them and served them as being the best employee that you can be? Even if nothing changes in them, the Lord's going to change you. Because as you share in Christ's sufferings, you're going to become more like Him. Don't despise the day of small things. Don't believe the lie that says, if only my situation were different, then I could serve the Lord. No, friends, there is a great impact that we can have as ordinary Christians who commit to living the ordinary Christian life. That's his first exhortation. The second one is this: serve Christ in all circumstances. Right, the first thing we saw was there's always an opportunity to serve the Lord. We focus there on what we do in our circumstances. But the second exhortation he gives is the focus on why we do what we do. Right, we saw already that he told slaves to obey their earthly masters. He said, Work hard, do genuine good will from the heart. But the primary motivation Is not that your master is such a good guy, he deserves good work. In fact, he says to these Christian masters, stop threatening your slaves. That means they were mistreating their slaves. You might be evil. The reason that you're so committed to obeying him and so committed to seeking his good from the heart is because you ultimately serve an even greater master. Notice that all over the text, right? This distinction between the the earthly masters and the common master that both slave and master serve. Verse 5, he says, You obey with fear and trembling from the heart as you would Christ. Several commentaries point out that that's the same language that Paul brings out in In Philippians 2, when he says that we are to work out our own salvation with fear and trembling, pointing out there that the reverence that they might have for their earthly masters is to be similar to their reverence for Christ. Because by serving him, they ultimately serve the Lord. Verse 6, he says that they're to serve as bondservants of Christ. I think that really gets to the heart of things. Because ultimately he's saying you are servants of Christ and not of men. No matter what situation you were in, no matter what your station in life might be, you were a servant of Christ. He is the one, he's talking to these slaves. Christ is the one who's placed them in this position, just like Joseph, because he has a way that he wants to use them. So he's saying, by obeying your earthly masters, you obey the Lord God. Obedience then becomes an act of faith as you're trusting in the sovereign goodness of the one who's placed you in difficult circumstances. He's saying that's why you can love and serve your master regardless of whether he's good or evil. Because ultimately you serve the Lord, the one who laid down his life for you while you were still his enemy. Because ultimately you serve the king who washed the feet of the very disciples who would use those feet to run away and abandon him the night that he's betrayed. After what he's done for you, shouldn't we count it a privilege to serve him in any way that he might ask? So the knowledge that in serving others we ultimately serve Christ Himself then makes it a joyful obligation and a delightful duty to serve him in any area. The other thing we see from this passage is how it points us to Christ, because the message of Scripture is that we are all slaves by nature. Every one of us is a slave to sin. God made us free so that we might live for Him, but we rejected Him and went our own way. Wanting to be our own masters, we actually placed ourselves in bondage to sin. Calvin calls it a voluntary servitude. Right? We willingly serve as slaves to sin, and yet we can't free ourselves. We love it and hate it at the same time. Our lives are in spiritual bondage, leading to death. And friends, Christ is the only one who can set us free. And the Old Testament pattern of the people of Israel being slaves in Egypt for four hundred years. That's a pattern that points us to Christ and His death and resurrection, which is the second Exodus, where Christ comes and delivers us from slavery to sin. So that we can serve Him. He lived for us and He died for us. He rose again for us and frees us from slavery so that we can find freedom only in Him. But friends, you have to understand that freedom is not autonomy. We don't get freed from sin to become our own masters. When you are freed from sin, you become slaves of Christ. Christ becomes your Lord, your King, and your master. True freedom is only found when you become a slave of Christ. That's because while sin is cruel, Christ is gentle and lowly. He's the one who came not to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many Once he frees us, he calls us to live for him. He doesn't say, I don't have a yoke. He says, My yoke is easy and my burden is light. But friend, make no mistake, when he saves you, you belong to him. The beautiful comforting words of the Heidelberg Catechism. What is your only comfort in life and in death? That I am not my own, but in body and soul belong to my faithful Savior. Jesus Christ. And it goes on and on with comforting words that we can trust in him. But it starts off, I am not my own. I belong to Christ. Paul says in 1 Corinthians, you have been bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God with your bodies. We are servants of Christ, and yet, friends, there is no No greater freedom in the world is there. It's like a fish being trapped on a hook that then how foolish would it be if that fish said, I want to I want to be free from the hook, but I don't want to go live in the water No, right, if you're a fish you get two options. You die on the hook or you live in the water. Because the fish depends on water. It can't survive apart from it, and yet that's the only place where it's truly free because it was made. Made for the water. Friends, you were made to serve Christ. You will never know true freedom until you bow your knee to Him That's why Augustine said, You have made us for yourself, and our hearts are restless until they find their rest in you. Friends, if you're here today and you have not submitted your life to Christ, if you've not turned away from sin and trusted in Him as your Savior and bowed to Him as your Lord, come to Him today. Believe on the Lord Jesus and you will be saved. You will know the truth, and He promises that the truth will set you free. Because when you become a slave to the Sun, the Sun sets you free, and you are free indeed. He has two in two exhortations. Don't let your circumstances keep you from serving. And whatever you do, in every circumstance, make sure that your focus is Now let's look at the two encouragements that he gives. The first one is this: God blesses obedience. You see that come out in verse 8. Paul exhorts these slaves to obey their master, and he tells them, Serve in all circumstances, but remember ultimately you're serving Christ, not men. And in verse 8, he gives them an an encouragement and a motivation, saying, God will bless your obedience. He says it this way in verse eight, knowing that whatever good anyone does, this he will receive back from the Lord, whether he is a bondservant or is free. He says, this is true whether you're a slave or not. We're going to come back to that point later. But notice now, he says, when you do good, you will receive it back from the Lord. You ultimately serve Christ. He will be sure to reward you. How discouraging is it to work hard, do good, maybe you go above and beyond, and just goes unnoticed or unappreciated? Where you might have a boss that only focuses on the the one or two things you didn't get done instead of all the things that you worked hard to accomplish, or or instead of focusing on some of the things that went right, he just picks on the one thing that went wrong. Seems like you might not even care how hard working you are or any initiative you take to go above and beyond or out of your way. You don't even get a thank you Maybe it's just a simple fact for you that it sometimes seems like just doesn't matter whether you work hard or not You might feel like you worked so hard, but at the end of the day you just have little or nothing to show for it. Maybe over the last year or so you've been a teacher wondering if your students are actually learning anything that you've tried to teach them. Maybe you give hours to a project and at the last minute it gets scrapped and all those work hours feel wasted. Or you work to heal a a hurt and wounded relationship and the other person just will not budge no matter how hard you try. Friends, it could be any situation. The news is still good. Good works and never go unnoticed by your Lord. They can't save you. But once you come to Christ, when you obey, out of a love for him, he promises to bless you in your obedience. Maybe not in material blessings. You might not even see those blessings until you're with him in glory. And in short term, it might look like wasted efforts, right? You might say, no good deed goes unpunished. It feels like doing good can be too costly, but friends, the Lord Jesus promises that every costly obedience will be abundantly worth it. The shorter catechism gives us those encouraging words that on the last day when Jesus returns, we will be openly acknowledged and acquitted in the day of judgment. It's not a beautiful hope to look forward to. Will hear those precious words, Well done, my good and faithful servant. Enter into the joy of your master. Friends, the Lord knows your good works, and they will be made Known on the last day. Whatever good anyone does, he will receive it back from the Lord. The second encouragement is somewhat opposite. He says, God impartially holds people accountable If it's a comfort to know that God blesses our obedience, even when it's hard, even when it's painful, or even if it feels like it goes unnoticed, the opposite is true also. God holds people accountable. And so he says in verse 9, Masters, do the same to them, and stop your threatening, knowing that he who is both their master and yours is in heaven. And that there is no partiality with him. He spent most of the passage speaking to the slaves here, helping them to live as faithful Christians, and now he turns his focus to the masters. And he says this. He says the gospel doesn't just reshape how slaves obey their earthly masters. It also transforms how masters are to govern their slaves. He says, do the same to them. Slaves are called to obey here, and so likely he's not saying that masters are to obey their slaves. I think the key is when he points to Christ as being the one who is both their master and yours. Right, he's emphasizing that both slaves and their earthly masters are equal. They serve a common master. And just as slaves are called to serve their masters out of obedience to Christ, so masters are called to care for their slaves. as a way of serving the Lord. Not only that, he says the way that the earthly master exercises his authority must be shaped by the way that Christ, their heavenly master, cares for those who are under their authority. And so Christ is a servant leader. He came not to be served, but to serve and give his life as a ransom for many. And so those in authority must always see themselves first and foremost as servants, sacrificially served Seeking the good of those under their charge. Christ is gentle and lowly, and he leads with patience and tenderness, not with threatening. And so he says, Stop your threatenings. The reason is this: he says, God shows no partiality. Both of you serve a common master. All men are equal and are equally accountable to Christ. He is in heaven ruling over all things, and one day each and every one of us will give an account to him for how we lived. So he tells the earthly masters, Don't expect special treatment because of your station in life. You will give an account just like everyone else. If you were cruel with your servants, then your heavenly master will be severe with servants. It's an important principle for us, right? Because praise God we have no no slavery as an institution still here in this country, but we all have roles to some degree or another that that mimic the servant master. relationship. Most obvious, as we said earlier, is is the relationship between an employee and an employer. When you are in a position of an authority, you you You must begin and see yourself as a servant who's been put there for the good of those under your care. Your calling is not just to prosper at their expense But to seek to care for them as part of your service to Christ. Because Jesus is our master, and by the way that you lead and use authority, you show people what Jesus is like. And to the extent that you abuse your authority and take advantage of people, using them instead of serving them, you distort the gospel. And you misrepresent Christ. That's why he's so clear that he will hold people in authority to account for how they use that authority But we can't think of it as if it's only people in authority who give an account. Right? The clear message of Scripture is that the Lord looks down from heaven and sees every last one of us Friends, he sees all that we do. He hears everything that we say. He knows all that we think and everything we desire. And one day Christ is coming back. But when he returns, he is coming as a judge. Friends, and on that day every single one of us, servants, masters, husbands, wives, children, parents, men, women, all of us, friends, will speak Stand before him and will give an account for all that we do. For all of our works, everything we've ever done, everything we've ever said, everything we've ever thought, all of them, friends, will be exposed and held up before us. You know your own heart. You know your own mind. I don't think I need to convince you that every last one of us will be blameworthy. On that day, and that none of us will be able to stand on our own. God's standard is perfection And every last one of us will fall short. If everything that I've ever said, thought, or done was held up behind me on this screen, you would never see my face again. Because I would be so ashamed of all of it. I think that's going to be true for every last one of us, friends. Our hope is only found in Christ. All of us have sinned, but He is the one who perfectly perfectly obeyed and then died in the place of his people to pay our penalty for our sin. And he promises that when we trust in him, he forgives our sin and he gives us his perfect righteousness. On your own you will stand before God naked and exposed, but when you have Christ's righteousness, he covers you as with a perfect white robe To stand before God on that day. All of your bad works are forgiven and wiped away. All of your good works are held up and acknowledged. And we will see that they were all worth it. Friends, once that day comes, it's going to be too late to come to Christ. And he says he's coming suddenly without warning. Make sure today that you come to Christ. Now is the time to do your business with God. Find freedom in having him as your master. We're not called to just stick our heads in the sand and pretend like the world is fine. There really are many problems in the world And there are really many ways that our circumstances do limit what we're able to do. Friends, what good news it is that the gospel always applies. That it's always possible to live as a faithful Christian no matter what circumstances you're in, no matter what problems are going on in the world. Don't despise the day of small things. Commit to living the ordinary Christian life. Reverently submit to the God given authorities in your life Use your own authority to serve others for their good. Pray and worship and witness. And friends, do it all as part of your service to Christ, trusting that He's going to bless your efforts and that none of your good That because of you, Lord Jesus, because you really lived for us, you really died in our place, and you really rose again, that all of our works have purpose. None of our works are in vain. Lord, we know that you are in control of all things, that we belong to you. We pray, Lord, place us where you would have us to serve you. Give us whatever circumstances you know are for our good. And show us how we might live for you in those circumstances. Lord, I pray that you would just give us a glimpse of the fruit that might come from seeking to live an ordinary, faithful Christian life out of love for Christ. We pray all this, Lord Jesus, in your name. Amen. Let's stand and sing our