Good morning. I am going to attempt the impossible this morning. Uh or rather I should say we are going to attempt the impossible. We're going to try to go through in under thirty minutes. 26 verses of the Old Testament. And if that was not difficult enough, we will be addressing the difficult doctrine of election and God's holiness. Lord have mercy upon us. If you're able, would you please stand and let us read together God's holy word given to us in Deuteronomy chapter 7. When the Lord your God brings you into the land that you are entering to take possession of it and clears away many nations before you, the High Tites. The Gargashites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Peritites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, seven nations more numerous and mightier than you. And when the Lord your God gives them over to you and you defeat them Then you must devote them to complete destruction. You shall make no covenant with them and show no mercy to them. You shall not intermarry with them, giving your daughters to their sons, or taking their daughters for your sons, for they will turn away Turn away your sons from following me to serve other gods. Then the anger of the Lord would be kindled against you, and he would destroy you quickly. But thus you shall deal with them, you shall break down their altars and dash in pieces their pillars and chop down their ashram and burn their curved images with fire. For you are a people holy to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you to be a people for his treasured possession out of all the peoples of who are on the face of the earth. It was not because you were more in number than any other people that the Lord set his love on you and chose you, for you are the fewest of all peoples But it is because the Lord loves you and is keeping the covenant that he swore to your fathers, that the Lord has brought you out with a mighty hand and redeemed you from the house of slavery, from the hand of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. Know therefore that the Lord your God is God, the faithful God, who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his commandments to a thousand generations, and repays to their face with those who hate him by destroying them. He will not be slack with one who hates him. He will repay him to his face. You shall therefore be careful to do the commandments and the statutes and the rules that I command you today And because you listen to these rules and keep and do them, the Lord your God will keep you with the covenant and the status love that he swore to your fathers. He will love you Bless you and multiply you. He will also bless the fruit of your womb and the fruit of your ground, your grain and your wine and your oil, the increase of your herds and the young of your flock in the land that he swore to your fathers to give you. You shall be blessed above all peoples. There shall not be male or female bearing among you or among your livestock. And the Lord will Take away from you all the sicknesses and none of the evil disease diseases of Egypt which you knew will inflict on you, but he will lay them on all who hate you. And he he you shall consume all the peoples from the Lord your God will give you over to you. Your eyes shall not pity them. Neither shall you serve their gods, for that would be a snare to you. If you say in your heart, these nations are greater than I, how can I dispose dispossess them? You shall not be afraid of them, but you shall remember what the Lord your God did to Pharaoh and to all the to all in Egypt. The great trials that you Your eyes saw the signs, the wonders, the mighty hand, and the outstretched arm by which the Lord your God brought you out. So will the Lord your God do to all the peoples of whom you are afraid. Moreover, the Lord your God will send hornets among them, until those who are left and hide themselves from you are destroyed You shall not be in dread of them, for the Lord your God is in your midst, a great and awesome God The Lord your God will clear away these nations before you little by little. You may not make an end of them at once, lest the wild beasts grow too numerous for you. But the Lord your God will give them over to you and throw them into the great confusion until they are destroyed. And he will give their kings into your hand, and you shall make their name perish from under heaven. None No one shall be able to stand against you until you have destroyed them. The carved images of their gods you shall burn with fire. You shall not covet the silver or gold that is on them, or take it for yourselves, lest you be ensnared by it. For it is an abomination to the Lord your God. You shall not bring an abominable thing into your ha into your house, and become devoted to destruction like it. You shall utterly detest and abhor it. For it is devoted to destruction. The word of the Lord this morning, Father, we do thank you for this, your word that you've given to us. It's so easy for us to read it and remain the same. Yet that is why we do ask this day that your Holy Spirit will truly apply it. May we never be the same again. In the name of Jesus. Amen. Please be seated. Okay, are you ready? Does it trouble you? Did it trouble you hearing me read these words about God choosing one nation, one people? As opposed to all these other seven nations that we just read about. Does it trouble you just a little bit? Just a little bit. Maybe not as much. How exactly do we relate God's choosing of a particular, of one people, one nation? How does that relate to how God cares and loves us? From the particular to the universal, how is that possible? Think about it See the doctrine of election, which says that God's sovereign choice rests completely on him to save and to choose whomever he chooses to save. Is such a difficult doctrine for us to understand, at least in our minds. And it should be, right? That the human mind really cannot conceive of the mystery of God's divine choice and love. To choose one over the other. It is him who says in Romans 8 and 9, He will have mercy upon those whom he chooses to have mercy. Esau and Jacob What chosen not because of the good or the bad each one did, Paul says. It was all God's doing And he knew what he was doing. Now as as we hear the this doctrine of unconditional election, as some would call it And relate that to holiness. And here in this church this morning, I want us to listen to something that is a bit subtle, but something that we can actually hold on to. And it is this. That the story of God choosing Israel is our story. That the story of God choosing Israel is a paradigm. It's a story of God choosing one in order to save us. That God would see it fit to choose Israel, to bring salvation through them, the Messiah to come through them, in order that you and I who sit here as Gentiles Would receive God's salvation. And he can do it. He can choose because he is the king of the heaven and the earth, and by that fact he can choose. He has the right to So as we see in this passage, God is saying that he sets his people apart. He separates, he cuts them away from others. and sets them apart. For what reason? Verse 6 told us. For holiness. Because you are a holy people before For your God. And that's why He sets us apart. And so our salvation, therefore, does not rest on us. Our salvation completely rests on the gracious, sovereign position of God, our Creator. And so, since we're talking about the doctrine of election in a sense, I thought it would actually be good to use the five solas of Reformation: Scripture alone, Christ alone, faith alone, in order to understand I'm only going to use three of them, not five. And so I want us to see in verses one through five that God alone is the one who sets us apart. And that secondly he sets us apart through or by his grace and calls us into a relationship of faith. So God alone, grace alone, faith alone. Verse 1 through 5. Moses is telling and reminding God's people in verse 1 through 5 That God is going to clear the way, to clear the way for them to possess the land. And the way He's going to do that is by clearing and destroying the seven nations. Uh they're numerous, they are mighty before them And we listed them the Highites, Gargashites, Amorites, Canaanites, Pharisites, Hivites, Jib. Now all these nations, there's so much history behind them and how they came to be where they are. In fact, in some of the Old Testament passages, only six of them are listed. The Gagashites are kind of missing. Uh and that may explain the much smaller nation and all of that. But we're not gonna get into that. But he lists them as these nations that are occupying the land. Which God is about to give it to into his people. And so he says, once you get there and once you possess the land, this is what I want you to do. Get rid of them. Completely annihilate them. Destroy them. And he also says, well, which means I don't think it's gonna happen uh completely all at once, but he says, even the ones that are remaining that you haven't destroyed, I want you not to have any political or marital treaties or covenants with them. Don't do that. Not even that Do not have mercy upon them. That's a lot. And so entering into a treaty for God's people with these other nations, of course, we know the people of God already had a covenant with God And so what would it mean for them to enter into any kind of a treaty with another nation? That would mean a disaster. It would compromise their covenant with God And so by destroying all the religious furniture, if you will, of their enemies, the God's people are here in fact denouncing the worship of false gods And so these seven nations are people that were told, again Old Testament throughout, they are wicked, they are unholy, they do not acknowledge the sovereignty of God, and not even that. These people are occupying the very property that God intends to give to his chosen people. So they need to be out. Again, God had a covenant with his people. Covenant that he had made with his with their father Abraham. And it was not just a religious treaty, a religious covenant. It was actually it had political bonds. We just went through the Ten Commandments reading about the ethics of Of how God's people are supposed to act in the new land. And by by that covenant, God's people are here being set apart. They're being called as a distinctive Nation group of people. And so for them to even dare have any relationship with the marital or political or otherwise with any other nation was an act of unfaithfulness You are basically being an adulterous, idolatrous child of God. And so these prohibitions that God is giving to them are meant to accomplish one thing, which is really important. They're supposed to preserve the only and the most important relationship that God's people have, and it is their relationship with Yahweh. With God, God alone. We can give the example of marriage as it's listed here. Remember, marriage uh in Israel was actually uh the union that set um uh that actually strengthened the fabric of the covenant people And so that's what they were supposed to marry within the covenant family. And so you can imagine by marrying from outside the effects that you're bringing and destroying that fabric of the covenant people of the covenant family. We know two stories of two kings of two people who did that, Solomon. We all know what happened to him. Ahab. They did that to devastating effect Now, remember God had commanded their people not to worship idols, right? Remember, do not make any carved images and all of that. Now the implication of that here is seen in the way God is in fact Using Israel and saying, I'm gonna use you to destroy my enemies, those that worship false idols. It's it's waging war against against those who worship idols And God is using Israel. Now this this nations as we're told they've listed here for us to understand uh not just who they are, but actually to to be able to see the the the the group, you know, the the major that they are mighty, they are many. But their numbers are listed to in fact show forth God's power. That even though they may seem as numerous and mighty, that does not stand in the way to fulfill the promise that he made to his father ab to their father Abraham. And so there's a double action here that we see that's going on in These verses one through five. One, God is destroying the wickedness uh you know from the people. But there's also even a an even more beautiful thing that's going on here. There's redemption that's going on here. That God is in fact saving his own people, redeeming them from evil, from being. With the nations that would tempt them to worship other gods, other idols. And so this was not a small matter for God's people. This is life and death for Israel. Because again, God has set them apart and and He set them apart for His own use, for His own holy use, for for them to be holy, for them to serve God alone. And so for them to interact and to To compromise with with other nations by having treaties and covenants with them would actually lend them hopeless. It's a matter of life and death. Now, you know some people read the Old Testament and not just the passage that we just read this morning and go like, whoa, God must be cruel then For him to promise to give why he could have just kicked out the this Jebusites and Gagashites and just Told you know, led them somewhere else. I mean wh why does he have to tell the people to go and destroy annihilate, just destroy women, children, and and men uh from This land. Why did he have to go to such an extreme to do that? And some people have a really hard time with that. Now we must always keep in mind that God is always perfect, holy And he has a right to judge. I mean that that would not re that one cannot be questioned at all as we think about God's holiness. Now think about Israel itself and the centuries that they've spent in rebellion and God has been kind God has been patient with them, not doing much, but God has been relenting and he And he's been I mean these people are complainers. I'm talking about Israel. And yet God has been Patient with them. I don't see that as cruelty in any way. Nonetheless Again, if you read the story of these Canaanite nations, we realize just how wicked they were, that they had completely rejected God. But that God will always be just and holy regardless of how we think about him. But that he must also punish sins. Now, he could have used any other means to punish, to destroy, to to kick this this nation out. But he chooses Israel to be the arm of his vengeance. He uses Israel to be the one that brings about judgment upon this nation. Now you'll ask me, okay, now you've explained to us what that is all about. Now what does that have to do with me How do we apply this in our lives? I mean you think about it. So God is waging war against wicked nations. Are we called to wage war against those that are wicked? That we don't we don't worship idols? Is that what we're called to do? And if it is, then how do we do it? Do we ask churches to arm ourselves and let's all take some guns and swords and bows and arrows and go shoot them down? I use bows and arrows because that's what I know. See, the first thing we must understand is that we are called to wage war. War against wickedness and sin, but war against sin where? Right here. The battle is right inside your heart. That God wants us to mortify sin, to wage war, battle within our own selves. See, this warning here that God is giving to his people to be careful not to have Treaties and interact with people that are so sinful, it is not just God waging war against wickedness outside. It's actually for them to see it as a warning for themselves. Listen God is holy and just. If you dare do the same thing that these nations are doing, you know who you're playing with. So, how much more should we be looking at our own lives and asking the Holy Spirit to help us to deal with our own sin, to modify our own sin? What is sinful, not to associate with darkness? I don't mean that we cannot have fellowship or befriend those that are. Sinful. We can do that without participating in their sin, without being part of their fellowship. We are having not called to wage war with sword. Against those that are wicked. That's not what we're called to do. Paul says that you know our battle right now is not against flesh and blood, right? What is it? Against It's a spiritual warfare. And so we have been given the best weapon ever to fight against sin and the devil, and that is the gospel of Jesus Christ. So that's what we preach. That's the only message that is able to turn sinners into saints, and that's what we do. That's our sword right there. And so we love our neighbors. We even love our enemies. Guess what? Even when they mistreat us for the sake of the gospel of Jesus Christ, we lay down our rights. For them, so that they may know Christ. So God alone can set us apart for holiness. Secondly, grace alone, verse 6 through 16. If you read verse 6, it says, For you are a people holy to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you to be a people for his treasured possession out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth. What a beautiful ver verse. Right in the middle of it. That this is the essence of them being set apart. The essence of God's people being set apart is not by the merit of their own, but only by God's race that he chose them he said out of all the nations out of all the people peoples of the earth not because there was anything special about you But because I loved you because of my grace, and then it says, and I made you, you have become my treasured possession And so we see this these two doctrines here of the election and holiness. That it is because God had chosen them and set them apart for their holiness that God would actually employ such a such a crazy, we may think, policy of holy war. And and these two doctrines are completely related. Together as we as we look at the covenant that God has has with His people, that it was Israel that was set apart to be holy and separated from all the peoples of the earth And so their character is not based on anything that is inherent in them, not on the merit of themselves, but on divine choice. That's it. That's why God calls them into a covenant to be with him. And he says, He chose them to be a treasured possession. Now that's a reason not to boast. Not to be arrogant That's a reason to know that there is a responsibility upon God's people that He requires of them because of so much grace that He has shown to them. They can obey him. They should obey him. They must obey him. See, Israel was no special people, it wasn't. But why them? Why such a tiny little group of people without prestige, no special qualities? Well, why them? What was so special about Abraham that God would choose him What? He was just a man and a family. There were nations that were building up and out there, but God would go around and go, you why See, I think this was an act of God alone, which is what the Bible tells us. And so we may wonder about the ultimate cause that made God choose Abraham. I have no answer for you. The only answer I can get to is this. This is the mystery of God's divine love. Something that we will never be able to grasp. It's the mystery of divine love. That God did, in fact, love Israel, that God did in fact choose her, and thereby honoring his promise that he had made to their father. Abraham. Again, he says, I did not choose you because you were many. In fact, he says you were the fewest of our people. It was rather because I loved you. And so that's the basis that God uses to call Abraham and his descendants That's the basis that God makes the promise and says, You tiny little people, I'll make your great nation, your children will be as many as the sand on the oceans And that's the reason why God charged their way and He rescues them from slavery, and now they're standing on the plains of Moab as they are about to possess the land that God promised to his people. People. What a beautiful thing. What a great proof of God's greatness in His grace as compared to that which is much bigger than their smallness. God's grace is so great than their smallness. Smallness, than our smallness. See God He says in verse twelve through twenty-six, if you look at it, that there's a litany of things that are going to happen here. He says he's gonna, and I wish we had the time to go through all these things, but he says I'll grant you prosperity, I'll grant you health, I'll grant you Military success, but this is contingent upon your obedience. The idea is this: that if you obey, then you would continue to experience God's faithfulness and his loving kindness. Now, God's faithfulness was always assured for God's people. There was never a time that they would ever doubt that God was going to be kind, to be faithful towards them. Never. They were never supposed to doubt. But Their future completely dependent on how they were going to view their obligation as people called by God to obey Him. How they would respond to their covenant obligation. Now we must, however, understand that obedience does not merry God's blessing. Okay? It's not our obedience that merits our divine blessings from God. So, how do we see obedience? How should we view it? It is this. Obedience is what maintains a proper relationship with God. How can we be known as those that belong to God? It is by obedience. Obedience is the fruit, is the evidence that we actually belong to God. Prosperity, fruitfulness of the land would actually here with all extend to every place. There will there would be no bearing women, the ground will bear fruit, and and all these things are all coming together. Now think about Think about it. In Genesis 15:5, God is making a promise to Abraham, and he's just one man and a wife and a few servants, and telling him, I'm gonna make you a great nation. I mean your children will be so numerous you you're not gonna believe it. Do you see the fulfillment of that here? It's like it's all coming together And then he says, even the diseases that you experienced in Egypt, which were really un unpleasant, I mean they had bores and and bowel movement issues. I mean, it was bad when they were in Egypt. He says, I'm gonna take those things, I'm gonna put them on your enemy. What is the Christian life? John tells us what the Christian life is, you know? John says in John chapter 15, 5 That we as believers are chosen by God. He says, You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you so that you should go and bear fruit, and that any fruit you should abide, and that by your fruit you should abide, so that whatever you ask. The Father in my name, he may give it to you. The Christian life is about God's sheer grace shown on us. That God in Christ came to liberate us from sin and death. Those that were in bondage to sin, He came to save us from the power of darkness, and He transfers us into the kingdom of God so that we may live for Him And that God tells us that when He chooses us and sets us apart and calls us out of this darkness and into the light, that He actually does take ownership of us. That we are His treasured possession. Now you think about that for one second, being a treasured possession. We all know what a treasured possession is, right? No need to define it. It's something that is special, something that is valuable, something that is unique, something that is rare. Now you think about God, the creator of all things, who can make in an instant billions of things that he could actually treasure because they are precious in his sight. And yet he would say, You are my treasured possession. That God would say, I am going to set my affections on you. Don't you hear the special Message that God is telling us when He talks about us as a special treasure. And He says it's not because you are rare. There's billions of people out there. It's not because you are special. You will always meet someone who's more special than you are. But it's because of grace. Now let me ask you, how can you get the affections of someone on you? Can you can is that possible? To get to convince someone to set their affections up on you? Maybe a dog Not a cat. Where do we put those things that we treasure? Do we just lay them out there for every Everybody to see. Is that what we do? Where do we keep them? We store them, right? We keep them in a safe. We buy guns to protect them. Because they they are worthy, they're special, they're expensive. You are in God's safekeeping. Now, how much do you have to pay for that which is treasure? Some of us will spend eternity trying to work so that we can obtain one thing that is That we can treasure. People will sell their homes and their whole savings just to get something that is special How much do you have to pay to be a treasured possession of God Almighty? How much? Zero. Absolutely nothing. If that doesn't give you the chills I don't know what will. I pay absolutely nothing. God says, I am his and that's it. End of story. I am his treasured possession. What an undeserved favor. What a remarkable truth about God that we can rejoice and be filled with so much humility before God. Stand in awe. of him to say, Lord, why how could you even look upon me and choose me See, Paul asked the question about grace, wondering if grace abounds, then we should all just go ahead and sin, then, so that grace may abound even more. No, if so much grace has been given to you, then that must motivate you to live for God and to do what He tells you to do because you know how much grace you have received. And because of that, I will do everything you tell me to do. I am yours. God alone sets us apart. Only by his grace. We are chosen by grace into a relationship of faith. Verse 17 Through 26. God's people must therefore keep the faith, keep the faith, not begin to doubt that their enemies are much bigger and mightier than God. Because it is the Lord who fights for them. See, there was danger for God's people here to begin reflecting and thinking about the strength of their enemies instead of reflecting and thinking about the strength of their God And so Moses is encouraging them not to fear. And the remedy for fear is what? Remember. It's memory. The remedy for fear is remember, it is your memory. Because if they trusted the Lord, then he says verse seventeen through twenty-six, they would be able to see A reputation of the amazing thing that they saw in Egypt, man, all the plagues that came, all the signs and wonders, and God's outstretched arms that rescued them. That they would be able to see a reputation of this of that You remember in chapter 1, verse 44, I'm sure you remember. Chapter 1, verse 44. It says that the Israelites were so fearful that God that they were chased by the Amorites like bees. Now the reference of one is here. Tables are turned. Remembering and reflecting on God is really what keeps our focus on Him, isn't it? Our focus on God as all warrior. That if we know that God, our Lord and God is in our midst, that is our divine warrior, then we have no reason to fear See, remembrance is such a huge theme in the Bible. Such a big, big theme in the Bible. Why? Because remembrance is what lifts us from our own thoughts And our own fears to something that is objective, to God as our captain, the one who wins for us all day long. See, it was fear that cost Israel not to possess land. This is the second time, right? They're about to enter. In the beginning they were fearful. But you see, fear was not just the initial threat. This was a permanent threat that they would experience before God. So they're being reminded not to fear. Think about what stands in the way of Israel. God is just telling them that He's gonna gradually, little by little, He says, little by little, I will destroy your enemies. But then He also says, But do not covet their gold and silver. Don't be tempted to tax that. Well I mean you think about it. I mean you're entering into this place and there's all this gold and all this silver. I mean we could put that stop in good use. They could have used it, right? But it says don't do that. Because that's gonna tempt you Not to trust in the Lord. Try to think that you can actually provide for them when God Himself has told you that He is your provider Now, again, I wish we had time to actually really go into all these verses, but the question I want to ask all of us is: do we trust God? Do we trust God? I'm not sure about you, but I know what I struggle with. I know that faith is difficult for me. Okay? Faith is hard. I struggle, believe me, all day long. Uh because uh the idea is that there's so much for us to to gain when we trust. There's so much. There's so much for us to gain when we trust the Lord. Yet the risk, oh boy. The risk is just another business, isn't it? See, that there are two things that we need in order to trust, right? One, if I know that um The rewards that I'm gonna get by trusting, by having faith are great, then you know the willingness to take the risk is there, right? I mean I I'll be willing to risk it if I know what I'm gonna get back. That's one. The other reason is if the one who is asking me to have faith is worthy of trusting Now, if you met a character out there on the street and told you, Josiah, you I think you may have cancer. Now, would I believe that character on the street, or would I believe my doctor who or would I believe Dave Willard You know, I probably would believe Dave more than I would believe another kid. Why? Because I don't know you. I don't know who you are. Did you go to school? But that's the Christian life, isn't it? The Christian life is God through Christ coming to us and making this unspeakable Promises that we gain when we trust in Him. I mean, we have life. We have all everything that we could ever ask for if we trust Him. Now there's but this is the problem There's a problem though. You can have it all if you can lose everything else. Huh? So you're telling me I can have it off. All I gotta do is go back in Lose everything I have, including myself. Die? You're telling me to die so that I may live Now if that doesn't sound like a contradiction to you, I don't know what does. But yet that's faith. Yet that is faith. Now, see I think this text is a little confusing. For me at least. Do you remember what we just said about prosperity and health and success? Does that sound a little similar to you? Something that you hear on TV Does it sound a little like uh prosperity gospel? Hey, if you have faith, all your diseases are gonna disappear. Amen If you have faith you're not gonna lack any money. Amen. So what do we say when bad things happen to believers? What do we say when people lose their jobs? What do we say when people get sick? What do we say when people suffer with terminal illnesses that They cannot get a cure. Is it because they don't have faith? That's why? I see that I think there's a A healthier way of looking at this text and understanding what God wants for us is this that the earthly blessing that God was giving to his people, all these promises that he's giving us making are supposed to be a reflection of God's blessings that we receive in eternity in the kingdom to come. In fact, that's how the New Testament Addresses the whole idea of prosperity and success. These things are supposed to spar us on as Christians in our Christian journey. To know that there is a life that awaits us when Christ returns in his kingdom. In fact, what is promised for us in the new kingdom is much greater than near-earthly possession, and that's worth looking forward to. In the meantime, just like God tells his people that he will little by little destroy their enemies. Here's the wonderful message that God has for us this morning. To remind us that he is graciously. He has graciously called us. He has graciously Set us apart. He has graciously chosen us and set us apart for himself. And that means he is also working in our hearts. Every single day, sanctifying us, molding us to be the children that He wants us to be, to trust Him more, making us holy. And we will be holy one day in glory. And so the question that we must go home asking ourselves this morning is: this: for the one that has so graciously set us apart. How do we respond to him setting his affections on us? How do we respond to God setting his affections on us? There's only one way. We can only set our affections on him. Him. I pray that that's our prayer this morning, that we can truly set our affections on Christ and Him alone. Father, we do thank you this morning for your word. Thank you that you By your goodness, your love for us, have chosen to deliver us from sin, to save us from ourselves. Thank you for reminding us that you are indeed working in us, in our lives, to make us, to prepare us, and to make us ready for you when you return. Pray that you would bless us and allow us to cherish the fact that we are your treasured possession all the days of our lives. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.