Good morning. Thankful for that uh peace doing our offering. Kiri Ilyason Lord have mercy. Krise. Lord have mercy upon us We're continuing our study in the Book of James and uh hearing from uh Pastor Eric last week and he ended on a good note, what is a true religion? And uh James uh continues uh from chapter one into into chapter two and and I would actually argue that he is continuing his argument uh or his discussion on what true religion looks like. So if you're able, would you please stand with me as we honor the reading of God's Holy Word, reading from James chapter 2, we're gonna only read the first 13 verses The word of the Lord. My brothers, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our Lord Jesus Christ the Lord of glory. For if a man wearing a gold ring and fine clothing comes into your assembly, and a poor man in shabby clothing also comes in And if you pay attention to the one who wears the fine clothing and say, you sit here in a good place, while you say to the poor man You stand there or sit down at my feet. Have you not then made distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil thoughts? Listen, my beloved brothers, has not God chosen those who are poor in the world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom, which he has promised to those who love him? But you have dishonored the poor man Are not the rich the ones who oppress you and the ones who drag you into court? Are they not the ones who blaspheme the honorable name by which you are called? If you really fulfill the law, the royal law, according to the scripture, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. You are doing well. But if you show partiality, you are committing sin and convicted by the law as transgressors. For whoever keeps the whole law but fails in one point has become accountable for all of it. For he who said, do not commit adultery, also said, Do not murder. If you do not commit adultery, but do murder, you have become a transgressor of the law. So speak. And so act as those who are judged under the law of liberty. For judgment is without mercy to one who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment. The word of the Lord this morning, let us pray. Father, we do come to you acknowledging that you've preserved this word that we may be blessed by it. And so this morning, we do ask that you would open our eyes that we may see. Open our ears that we may hear. Help our hearts to receive your word, so that we may be changed, transformed, encouraged, convicted. And given hope in what you have laid before us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated. I'm sure just like me you have pet peeves. One of my biggest pet peeves is driving behind slow drivers. Do you ever get frustrated when the speed limit says fifty and someone is be in front of you driving at 35 It just drives me crazy. If the speed limit says fifty miles an hour, please let's keep it at fifty or at least forty-eight But not 35. And so I I always get frustrated when I'm driving behind a slow driver. And sometimes I'm I'm tempted to say uncouth Horrible things that you I'm not gonna tell you what I am tempted to say. And so my wife keeps telling me, Josiah, one of these days you can have rogue race. You need to calm down, you need to you you know you you you need to slow down and just you know keep at it, just follow them or pass them and forget about it And so I've been trying to work, or I've been trying to ask the Lord to work in my sa my sanctification, and He has been working in my sanctification. But one of the things that has actually helped me, you're not going to believe this Is my thought process as I am driving. And so I'm gonna share with you how the Lord has been sanctifying me. And it is this So I always imagine, especially on a Sunday morning, when I am in my suit and tie coming to church and I'm driving uh behind a slow driver, this is how it works I've been imagining what if I was to be behind a slow driver who is not keeping the speed limit And we keep driving and I cannot pass them because we're driving on a on a single lane uh road and they keep turning, making the very turn that I'm about to make. And all the way they drive and they make a left and a left and keep coming and Linden Lane and they park right at the visitor's parking spot And I've been driving behind this guy, I'm almost honking at them and um you know, whatever I'm doing, it's n it's not appropriate and they can tell from their side br you know, rear side mirror And they park right there and I park right next to them and I walk over to them and say, hey, my name is Josiah, and I'm the pastor. It sounds funny, but what would they say? First of all, they would look at me and think, this is completely inconsistent with who you are Not just the fact that you are a pastor, but that you are Christian. The things that I saw you doing in that car were completely un-Christian. They were unbecoming of your behavior, so to speak. Now I I know I'm not alone in terms of have you been in a situation where your actions or your attitudes or your thoughts betrayed you? When you're in a conversation and said something or did something and people looked around and they said, mm-hmm. I thought you were a Christian I thought you believed in the Bible. I thought you you believed in Jesus. I thought you you were one of those people that go to church every Sunday. How could you? How could you have done that? We've all been in that situation. And sometimes I think it's easy for us to just kind of move on from those incidences and think, oh what the what's the big deal? I really believe that the text we just read is one of those texts that we read and we say, what's the big deal? So we read James encouraging us and saying, do not discriminate, do not show favor, do not show favoritism. And we ask ourselves, what's the big deal about figurativism? That it becomes, or it's something that we ought to think about not only as individuals, but also as a church. Why do we need to think about it James says it's a big deal. And he says, church, don't let yourselves be fooled into being tempted to Show favor towards certain people because that is inconsistent with your faith. Show me your faith by how you treat one another. And why is it a big deal? As we shall see here, it it's a big deal of course because we said it's inconsistent with our faith But if you really think about it, if you've ever been a victim of discrimination, if you if you if you if you ever showed up at a place and and people looked down upon you because of the the level of education or because of your age or because of your gender or because of the the color of your skin, whatever it was That did not feel good. That did not feel good because someone was simply not looking at you as you are, as an image bearer. They were looking at you By looking at external considerations that disqualified you, so to speak, from what they wanted from you. And that felt bad So if you think that that angers us as human beings, just think about the nature and the character of God Himself. A God who says he shows no partiality, he takes no bribes, he's a just God in everything that he does. And so James wants us to look at this passage and realize two beautiful things, blessings that God has given to us as a church, and yet by showing favoritism, we're basically denying those truths. One of the truths is favoritism is a denial of the unity which must exist in the body of Christ. When we show favorite to them, we're denying the unity which must exist in the church. And secondly, when we show favorite to them, we're denying the love which must bind us together as God's people. Showing favor is a denial of unity. Showing favor is a denial of God's love. So first let's dig in through verses 1, because it's a beautiful verse. Just verse 1. We're going to spend some time on it And so James is actually using this language of showing figurativism, which is a a a really rare language used in the New Testament. Um and that word figurativism actually means to receive the face of someone. To receive the face, which means judging someone by basically looking at their, you know, external considerations, whether it's race, whether it's status, whether it's gender, whether whatever it is, you know, so we're gonna put it all together. And by the way, James is not he may give us an example of Showing favor to those who are wealthy. But the language he uses here actually and compasses every form of discrimination. So as much as I will make reference to race and status and all of that and then Poor and rich, don't just think that James is only talking about the difference between the poor and the and the wealthy, okay? It's it's all kinds of discrimination Okay. And so he he he uses that language of showing the face or considering someone because uh you know you're looking at how they they're dressed and you know the color of their skin or or how wealthy or not wealthy they are and all of those things. And and basically James is saying faith Or faith in Christ and favoritism, those two F's, are a contradiction. You can't have both You cannot have faith and yet continue to live in a way that shows um you know certain forms of discrimination And so he he begins by saying in in in verses one of chapter two, my brothers, that's what he calls them. And he here is the unity that we see. Show no partiality as you as you hold the faith. It's almost as you as you hold something. It's like you you're holding something in your hand in the Lord Jesus Christ. And I I just want to show you three things in this one verse actually and the the third thing comes from verse five and seven But in verses one, I want us to recognize that James doesn't basically want to tell us, hey, you are not supposed to discriminate And then stop there. But he actually wants to help us in terms of how to avoid sliding into that temptation and how to resist it. And the way he shows that to us is by one showing us or pointing to us to who we are. Our identity. And James wants us as a church to view our identity as in Christ. And that's what we believe in. You know, Paul talks about this over and over in the New Testament in Galatians. and elsewhere, there's now no Jew, no gentile, no female, no. All of us have our identity in Christ. It's not the stuff that we own that makes us who we are, or the stuff that we don't have. It's not the color of our skin that determines who we are. It's Christ. And so by James describing his audience and the people that he's speaking to by saying by brothers, which is Really, this idea of unity as he's united with them in Christ and their faith in him, he's reminding them of the high position that they hold by being identified with Christ And so when we view wealth, so to speak, as something that you know you're looking up to someone or you look you're looking favorably on someone because of their wealth, you are valuing something that is down here. While God's people hold the higher position in Christ. They belong to Christ, and that's their higher position. And I think James wants us to realize just how the idea that we're all saved by grace, whether poor or rich, whether white or black or yellow, whatever it is, we're all saved by the same grace, by the same God who's brought salvation to us. And so all these standards must never be the standard that we use when we judge people. And in fact, I would go ahead and say, can we really rightly judge people? Can we really rightly judge people? God is the judge of all peoples. He's the one who looks at the heart and not just our mere physical appearance or what we have or what we don't have. The second thing that James wants us to see again in verse 1 is pointing us to who Christ is. And so we are in Christ, but who is Christ? And so he uses that language of you know the Lord of glory or or Jesus the Lord of glory and therefore to treat other people as inferior because of the stuff they own James is basically saying you are valuing their wealth more than Christ's. And the idea comes in terms of if James is writing to believe If James is writing to people who have rested and put their faith in the glorious Jesus Christ, in the Lord of glory, if that's what they believe It is unthinkable for them to value or to use the sham, glory, or fame, power, and wealth, and whatever it is. Because think about it, who is Christ? Jesus Christ Paul tells us in 2 Corinthians chapter 8, he's the one who became poor for our six for our sakes, so that through his poverty we may become what? We may become rich. But think about it, what is the end goal of the Christian? What is the final thing that's gonna happen when Christ returns? Our glorification. That's our destiny. Our glorification. That one day we will rise again in a bodily form with Christ and be glorified with Him. The third thing that James is pointing to us, which we see in verses 5 and 7, is what we have. And what we have as God's. People, as one people of the body of Christ. We have faith. Faith is what unites us. And James is basically saying, you know, something that is greater than wealth, that is greater than the world's standards that people use to measure up or size people up. You have faith. In God. It is more valuable than anything. And so instead of looking to all this outward education or whatever it is, instead of looking to the outward things, we need to be looking to Christ. Saying we need to not entertain the evil thoughts that the poor have nothing to offer, that those who are different from us have nothing to offer. Because the the truth is, what when we have faith as believers of Jesus Christ, he is able to use Anybody. And he uses anybody. In fact, he uses the poor and the weak. And then we get into verses two and three where James is giving us this hypothetical situation that happens. And I actually think it's a wonderful example. And then just because it's hypothetical, by the way, doesn't mean that James was not dealing with these easy So they were happening even though he's giving us an illustration to kinda uh you know elaborate the point. And so he says um Two people walk into an assembly. We don't know whether it's uh it's a worship service or whether it's uh it's a court case, you know, theologians argue as to what kind of a uh situation it is. Regardless, it really doesn't f matter because that's not the point And so one guy has bling. Now do you think did you know that bling is not a modern thing? It was there even during the Roman times? They actually used to wear rings to show how we they were. Actually there's th there's an idea that goes into in the early churches, people were told Don't wear all of your rings to church. Just wear one. Don't come and show off. So you can imagine, so I you know, in terms of understanding this text for us, is you know, someone comes with their gold chains and you know You know what I'm describing, you know? They come in and and we see them and say, Oh whoa, look at this guy. So clean. That was actually called Pastor Smooth this morning by someone. I'm not gonna say who called me that, but just get up, I'm wearing a tie. And so this guy walks in and we tell them all yeah, man, this is this is where you this is the high chair. This is this is the VIP sitting that you ought to be. You you don't belong No offense to the people sitting on the back seat. But you don't belong in the back seat. And then the other guy would tell him, oh, you know what? Actually don't even deserve to sit in our pews, just sit under my feet Because they're wearing shabby clothing. They don't look as refined. They don't look as clean. They don't look as smooth as other people. And James is describing something that he was dealing with in the church. With people. Discrimination. And by the way, I w when you hear this story, when you hear this type of hypothetical example, I I want us to understand a couple of things. One of them James is not in any way saying that this is that we we you know he's not encouraging us to to to being polite and being nice in terms of oh yeah I'm not gonna show you that I I I like you more than I like someone else and so He just go ahead and sit no. He's not talking about some some polite ushering in the church. James is going deeper than that James is going deeper into the aspect of showing consistent love towards those who we may look down upon. James is calling us to be blind to economic preferences or differences. That the poor person Deserves equal treatment in the church. And as I think about this, I as a pastor, I mean, this is really for me, as a pastor Recognizing that each and every one of all of you deserves equal treatment in terms of how I listen to you. In terms of my pastoral care, in terms of my my encouragement, into in everything I do that I ought not to see your face, so to speak But I gotta understand that every single one of you is made in the image of God, and I must treat you exactly the same. Do you realize how hard that is? Do you realize how hard that is? Because my temptation is not to do that Because my temptation is to gravitate towards someone who I think is at my level. Whatever that means. Because I'm not that educated, so I'm not talking about education. But I will gravitate towards someone who can talk about soccer, because that's what I love. Simplistic, yes, but I'll gravitate towards someone who speaks my language. And I don't mean Swahili. And we gravitate towards that. We may not have reserved seats in this building. That's debatable. But you know the the idea of favoritism really has ha has to do with this. You know, every one of us covets a good place. Did you know that? Every single one of us covets a good place. And this is what I mean. You want your voice to be heard at the church. There's nothing wrong with that. But we want our voice to be the only voice that's heard at the church. My voice matters more than fill in the blanks. And by the way, I'm talking about myself here And here's a serious question that we gotta ask. While money and fame and power may not play as much, even though I think it does play in the church. Here's the question that we all of us have to ask ourselves. When we walk out of that door, we must ask ourselves: what place does money, fame, and power occupy in our hearts? You know how you know what place power and money occupies in your heart? It is by the way you treat Others. It is by the way you treat people with money and people without those things. It is the pla it is the things that you do in order to get people who have those things or don't have those things. The way you treat them, your thoughts about them, and the place you want them to occupy in your heart. I think James really wants us to have a theology of justice. That's what I would call it. A theology of justice. And we must ask ourselves: are we looking to the sham glory that power and money gives, or are we looking to the glory of Christ? Who really rules our heart? You know, and this plays out in the church in a in a different way, too. You may not realize how power and fame and and all those things play out, but even in terms of Positions in the church. What do we look for in an elder and a deacon? Or someone to chair a certain committee? What do we look for? Is it character and spirituality, or is it we're looking for people who can save our budget? What do we look for? When you get that nomination card, In September, and you're asked to fill out names of men that you think would be able to serve our church. What comes to your mind first as you put that name out Is it their character and spirituality, or is it because you think they're loaded Or because you think they're educated. Because they're the only ones who can bring something to the table. See far from being valuable, money can be dangerous if it's not checked. No wonder Jesus says it's easier for a camel to enter through the needle of an through through the eye of a needle than for A rich man to enter the kingdom of God. And I think James alludes to it here the power of money and and how he addresses and he says, you know, how can you be praising and glorifying these wealthy people that are oppressing you? That are doing persecuting the church and doing all these things. It's really kind of crazy here to realize that James is addressing these people as if they were Christians. And I believe they were Christians, wealthy Christians. That we're taking advantage of the poor. The Old Testament is filled with instances of how this happens. Now there is we could talk about so many examples of how this plays out, right? Oppression, inequality, injustice. We know our justice system. It's not perfect. No system can ever be perfect. We've seen it play out. If you have money to hire a lawyer, yes, you can get good, you can get something good. I've seen it happen to to someone I knew. I've sat in a court Where a friend of mine got a huge, huge, huge, huge sentence for a small crime. Not that they did not deserve to go to jail, they did, and they admitted that But I remember that day sitting in that court, and the lawyer shows up and she doesn't even know her last name. She couldn't even remember it. She had no clue what her case was all about. She was asking people what her case was all about Regardless of whether she was guilty or not, I questioned and I asked, how is that justice? And the judge went ahead and gave her 30 years for fraud. And we all looked at everybody in that even people do not know her. Everybody just gasped because they were shocked, to say the least. If you keep up with with with the news, you know what's been going on. We may again not have all the details but of celebrities cheating the system so that their children can get into elite schools. It happens. Again, money and fame and power. If those things are not checked Now I'm only talking about the church here, so in terms of policies out there, I'm not a politician. So I'll leave that to the politicians But I think James wants us to recognize that the church ought to be the one place where there are no distinctions. One pastor put it this way, he says there can be no distinctions of rank and prestige when we meet in the presence of the King of Glory. There can be no there cannot be distinctions of merit when we meet in the presence of the Supreme Holiness of God. In his presence all earthly distinctions are less than dust, and all earthly righteousness is as filthy rags, as Paul says, in the presence of God all are one See, I think it's the power of the gospel. The gospel is the leveling effect, so to speak. We've been saved by grace, and the gospel helps us to see as Jesus sees, to think of other people as Jesus would think of them. Because Jesus doesn't and is not impressed by our deep pockets or lack thereof, I should say. Jesus looks at our hearts The second thing as I mentioned is fabricism is a denial of the love which must exist in the church. And so I think it w we must be careful as we look at verses Verses two and three in this hypothetical example and only think that God is actually discriminating against the those who are rich. And and basically uh James is telling us, look Just go minister to those who are poor and those who are weak. That's all you gotta do. Leave. Reject those who have money, those who are wealthy. God does not love them. He doesn't care for them. And that's not true. We all know that And so that's why it continues in verses 8 through 13 and he shows us that there is actually another form of discrimination While people can favor those who have money because they have money, a failure to love your neighbor, as you're called, is also discrimination. Whether they are poor or rich, whatever they stand. And so he says that the person who favors the wealthy has failed to love his neighbor and therefore is a lawbreaker. Now we gotta pause here for one second and ask ourselves, well, aren't we saved by grace and so obedience to the law really Should it matter that much? What is it about this royal law that he talks about? And he calls it the law of liberty that he is calling us to obey. Because he's talking about the law, and because Jesus summarizes the law, loving the Lord your God with all your mind Heart and strength and loving your neighbors yourself. We've got to talk about the law for one second so that we can at least get a a bearing on what where James is going and where he's coming from Remember, we just studied the book of Deuteronomy and we saw as God was giving the law to his people. What happens before God gives the law to his people? What happens God declares his love for his people that he chose them not because there were many, not because they were righteous, not because they were perfect, but he chose them because of his love. And he tells them, reminds them of where he went. He went back into Egypt where they were in slavery and redeemed them and saved them for himself. And he brought them into the wilderness, into the place that he would give them the law. And so the law. Did not come before grace. Grace happened first. Grace came before the law. And the law becomes A loving thing that God has brought them and redeemed them so that they may be his people, but so that the law is supposed to be a guide to them, a loving guide on how they ought to live for him. And so the law is not or the obedience to the to the law is not meritorious. It is a response to God. It is a response with gratitude to a God who has rescued them, who has loved them, and who has Redeem their life. Grace comes before the law And so he says, faith must live in this true brotherly love, in this law of love, that we cannot combine faith in Christ with worship or social status or whatever favoritism we may have, because that is a breach of the law of love. Those two don't don't go together. And so I think the best way to think about it is this. So so the person who may be favoring another wealthy person Can claim that they're actually showing love to their neighbor, right? That the wealthy person is a neighbor, right? So I'm welcoming them and showing them favor because I'm loving them But to show contempt while still doing that is sin, and James would say it because your argument just falls apart. What you're really showing is not love to your neighbor. What you're really showing is your love for the wealth or the opportunity or whatever that person has. It's really not love for your neighbor. And so the poor person, the wealthy person, the weak person, whatever that person is, is your neighbor. That's how Jesus defines who our neighbor is, anyone who needs our help. And then James goes in to show us how the the law is is one, indivisible one, the law, the whole law. And then he talks about obedience to To the whole law, obedience to one one part. If you break part of the law, you broke in the whole commandment. And I think we're guilty of doing that doing this, aren't we? Sometimes we think, well, I haven't committed the big sins, right? I haven't committed adultery or murder or these things and all of that and this and that. And those are the bad people out there that should be looking at But did you lie this morning? The idea is you break one, you broke in all of it You're guilty of all of it. So the encouragement for us church is this: let's be careful how we live our life so that we we don't just focus on the big sins that we may call and fail in one thing that spoils everything. And by filling it out, what small thing is the small thing, or the small thing as we we may call it, that we're looking at this morning. Again, Jesus' summary of the law is you shall love the Lord your God and you shall love your neighbor as yourself. But I in the next couple of minutes I just want to spend time talking about What does it look like to look love your neighbor? Because I I think sometimes we we say things, right? We we talk about let's go and love our neighbors. What does that mean What does that tell me what does it mean to love my neighbor? So we're going to talk about it. Not exhaustively, but we're going to talk about it a little bit. One, I want to argue that to love your neighbor is to open yourself up for friendships with people that don't look like you. Loving your neighbor is opening yourself up for friendships with people that don't look like you. And I'm not talking about skin color. I'm talking about your neighbors. I'm talking about people who you may in a general sense not even get together, have fellowship with them. I'm talking about people who are in the in a different social Club, social status as you. But we must have a willingness to open ourselves up to those friendships. Otherwise that we're not showing our love to our neighbor. So whether it's race, whether it's status, whether it's the level of education, whether it's occupation You need a little bit of diversity in your life. If you're a teacher, don't just hang out with teachers. Get to know a doctor for a change. If you're a drummer, don't just hang out with drummers. Hang out with a bass guitarist or something He's the one who called me Mr. Smooth, so he deserves that. So here's a hard one for us to talk about. So we seem to be filtering everything these days through our political mind. So please get that and put it down here for one second. Can you put your political filters here? And let's talk scripture When we talk about racism, we have to be willing to ask the Lord to search our hearts. to expose if there's anything in us. And by the way, do you hear my words? I'm talking about us I am not speaking of any group of people. I am talking about every single one of us. Because the way some of those things come out, I'll tell you how, it's by how we respond to issues in life. Again, put your political filters right there. Do we often presume guilt of certain people because of how they dress? Because of how they talk? Because of the things that we we think Again, put your political filters away. We've got to do that. Every single one of us has got to do that. Because that's what James is talking about here. And when it comes to the poor, we must ask ourselves a very serious question. Do we view poor people as projects when we're trying to help them out? Because sometimes we do. We don't see them as image We view them as people we minister to, not people that are able to minister to us. A poor person. Especially those who are in faith can bless you and encourage you and do marvelous things that you could ever imagine. One of the greatest testimonies I ever heard from a missionary was they went into a poor village in my country and they went thinking, Oh, I'm going to spread the gospel out there, or I'm going to tell them about Jesus, or I'm going to help them with this and that. They came out crying. Because they couldn't believe the gospel that was preached to them by that little child that they were trying to minister to. Listen Just because someone is weak or looks down, children, does not mean that they are not made in God's image, that they are not valuable, that they don't have something to minister to us. Love demands. Resisting the temptation of what I call the lure of professionalism. I gotta explain that. The world teaches us self-reliance, success Self-motivation. You know, if you want to be successful, you gotta be you know you gotta be this superman or superwoman and all these things that they There's really nothing about about God, about the Holy Spirit, about encouragement one another, about building one another, uh, about relying on a God who is gracious and merciful to us. It's all about me, me, me, me, me, me. And you know that translates in our lives as well. We begin to size up people, even in the church. Again, I'm using specific examples, but you can fill in the gap, you know, the way they dress, the way they look, and the way they talk. And instead of love, a church becomes a place of competition. Because I'm driven by the world's standards of success and achievement and all these things So instead of seeing my my brother, my sister, and fellowshipping with them, I I sized them up. Instead of enjoying sweet fellowship with one another. We gotta run away from that. We gotta view one another as people loved by God. Show me your faith. Someone may ask How are you gonna show your faith to the world? How will the world know that you are different? How would the world know that you are a follower of Jesus Christ? How would the world know that you are not inconsistent with your faith? How will the world see that? What what do you have to show? What do you have? Do you have a card in your pocket that says, I'm a Christian? Do you have a mark on your face that says I'm a Christian? Is Christianity conformity to some pattern of religion showing up at church? Is that Christianity? Is it carrying a Bible around? On Sunday mornings? Is that Christianity? How are you gonna show your face? True religion. It's not conforming to some rituals Some pattern of laws which we can't even keep in the first place True religion is understanding what faith is all about. It's an expression of a heart relationship with God. True religion is how you live. True religion is how you treat one another You love God as He loves you, then love your neighbor as yourself Then love your neighbor as yourself. Father, we do thank you for your word this morning. That you've given to us and reminding us of the hard, difficult call that you you call us to. That you have loved us And you're calling us to not only love you, but to show that we love you by the way we love one another. So help us, Lord, in our endeavors to seek to honor you and To hear you, to be changed by you, to be encouraged by you, as we seek to become true followers of Jesus Christ. Forgive us what we failed, but encourage us through your Son Jesus Christ, who is able to work in our lives and in our hearts To mold us and to make us to be the people that you want us to be. In Jesus' name. Amen.