Well good morning. Good to be with you all. If you're joining us on the live stream, my name is Eric. I'm a pastor here at Grace. We're glad to have you with us this morning for worship It's a good time for us to spend time in prayer as you're able, and and even consider joining us. About a dozen or so of us get on every week to pray on Wednesday evenings, and we just would love to see more and more gather with us. us to seek the Lord in prayer. So just encourage you all to participate in that as you're able. We're going to continue on in our study of Paul's letter to the Ephesians. We're going to be looking at chapter 1, verses 11 through 14. We're going to be coming to the end of that dense, rich section of verses 15. three through fourteen of all the the the things, the blessings that are ours in Christ. We've seen that language over and over again. In Him, in Him. We're gonna continue on in that section and bring that section of the letter to a close this morning as we look at So if you have a Bible, I'd encourage you to open up so you can follow along as we read God's Word and invite all who are able to please stand as we honor the reading of God's Word together. In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him. Him who works all things according to the counsel of his will, so that we who were the first to hope in Christ, might be to the praise of his glory In him, you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him We're sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory. Let's pray together. Our Father, we come before you so grateful for the privilege of being your people, of having a rich inheritance in Christ. Christ and of being able to gather in your presence to hear your word, to hear you speak to us. And yet, Lord, we come so needy and and needing such help from you. We know we can't understand your word, we can't profit from your word as We ought, unless you help us, Holy Spirit, unless you open our eyes and open our ears that we might see and hear what it is you would say to us. Oh Lord, would you help us to understand Your word. Would you show us from your word who you are? Show us where we need you, where we need to turn from sin, where we need to rest in the promises of the gospel. Humble us in your presence and speak to us, O Lord, for your service. Servants are listening. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. Well I'm not sure if you've ever inherited anything from someone. I remember when I was when I was younger I had an uncle who passed away and uh he knew I like to collect pocket knives and so he He gave me some of his pocket knives that I inherited from him and I I I still have them and they're they're a neat thing to have and to remember him when I look at them. Inheritance can be a bittersweet kind of thing for us. Because we we enjoy the blessings and the gifts that remind us of our loved ones, and yet at the same time we we miss the loved one who's passed away. Can be a bittersweet thing. Inheritances can also complicate our lives sometimes. I remember recently reading a story of the Samsung family who's received a massive inheritance in South Korea and the taxes are such that their inheritance tax is ten And they're trying to figure out how they're going to pay the inheritance tax so they can inherit the rest of the money. It can be difficult to figure things out. Here are stories of people who inherit a large sum of money or get a large inheritance. and and waste it or it it gets lost in the stock market or other things like that. Most human inheritance that we can have, it's it's a good thing, but it's a it's an imperfect thing. It's something that can be fleeting. Well, Paul in this passage talks about an inheritance that we have as believers, an inheritance that makes all other inheritances pale in comparison. He talks about uh an inheritance that that no trust fund can hold a candle to it, to the inheritance that's promised to God's people in Christ. And he knows that when he talks about this inheritance, we're going to have all kinds of questions about it. And so above all, he wants to give us certainty that our inheritance is secure. And so he writes in these verses with a goal of encouraging us that we can confidently rejoice because we have a guaranteed inheritance. So since Paul is talking about this inheritance throughout this passage, we're going to look at at this text. We're going to go through these verses and see how it answers five questions uh related to our inheritance. I'm not going to lay them all out for you now but we'll we'll ask them as we go. The five questions related to our inheritance. So question number one, who gives the inheritance? Who gives the inheritance to us? Again, Paul starts off there in verse one saying it's it's in him, in Christ, that we've obtained This inheritance. He's been hitting on this theme over and over again in the first several verses. All spiritual blessings are ours in Christ. So our inheritance is in Christ, and yet he says it's given by God. Verse eleven he says, In him we've obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. Again there we have the language of predestination. We're not going to spend a lot of time because we've touched on it in in earlier verses, but it reminds us that salvation is God's work. going to save, and he does it not because of anything good in us, but because of his own purposes and his own will But Paul in this verse goes even farther than that. He describes God as the one who's not only in control of salvation, but the one who works all things. According to the counsel of his will. It's a striking statement about God's absolute control over everything. It's what the catechism talks about when it talks about God's providence, his most holy, wise, and powerful, preserving and governing all his creatures and all their actions. Notice what Paul says of God in this verse. He is in total control of everything. Full stop. Nothing, absolutely nothing, lies outside his control. Charles Spurgeon has has a beautiful quote on the extent of God's sovereignty. He says, I believe that every particle of dust that dances in the sunbeam does not move an atom more or less than God wishes. That every particle of spray that dashes against the steamboat has its orbit, as well as the sun in the heavens, that the chaff from the hand of the winnower is steered as the stars in their courses. The creeping of an aphid over the rosebud is as much fixed as the march of the devastating pestilence. The fall of withered leaves from a poplar is as fully ordained as the tumbling of an apple Avalanche. Everything is under God's control. See, he's not only saying that everything in this world is under the sovereign control of God, but he's also saying that God doesn't need any help. God God's not like the the president, a a powerful man who has uh uh a great deal of power and yet who must be constantly surrounded by advisors who who tell him what he needs to do, guiding him, giving him Not God. No, he determines all things by the counsel of his own will. Paul says in Romans 11, who has known the mind of the Lord? Who has been his counselor? No one. God needs no other counselors. Our God is in the heavens, and he does as he pleases. How does this tie in with our inheritance? I think Paul wants us to see here that God has the authority, God has the power to give this inheritance and to provide for it. You see, the same God who works all things according to the counsel of his will, the same God who works all things for his own glory. is the God who works all things for the good of those who love him, and who are called according to his purposes, for those who have been given an inheritance. Question two Who gets the inheritance? Who are the ones who receive the inheritance given by God? Interestingly, Paul points out two groups. He starts off there saying we. Later he elaborates, we who were the first to hope in Christ in verse 12. And then later, you also Two groups. Some say it's the apostles and those who heard the gospel from the apostles. But in any event, there's two groups. One includes Paul, and the other includes the Ephesians. I think probably the most likely way to take this is he's talking about Jewish and Gentile believers. I think there's two reasons for this. First, that language that Paul uses of being the first to hope in Christ, that language points to the Jews as the one who hoped Not all who were ethnically Jewish truly But all who hoped from the people of the Jews who had that hope in the Messiah are those who were the first to hope in the Christ. The second reason I think is that this is the same distinction that he's going to bring out later in chapter two, when he talks about the fact that Jews and Gentiles have been united In Christ, the wall of hostility has been torn down, God's making one new man in place of the two. Why is that significant at this stage? Why would he bring out two groups of people and mention Jews and Gentiles? I think the point that he wants you to see is that Jews and Gentiles share in the same inheritance. Think about what he's saying. The Jewish people were were richly blessed under the old covenant. They had the prophets, the priests, the kings. The sacrificial system with the temple and the tabernacle, they had the law. Right? What does Moses say? Who is a nation like yours with a God so great as yours and a law so great as the law given by your God? Romans 3, when when Paul's going through this whole litany of reasons why everyone is without excuse and without has fallen short, Jew and Gentile alike, he says, what advantage then has the Jew? His answer isn't nothing. No, much in every way. First of all, they were entrusted with the oracles of God, right? There was a great advantage And yet, in the same breath, Paul says, Gentile Christians, you're not in second place. No, you've been brought into the fold of God's people. You who were once far off have been brought near. What does Jesus say in John 10? I have other sheep that I must go and gather, so that there must be one flock, one shepherd, one people of God, because God is a God who has one plan. For one people to bring salvation through one Redeemer. And we share in the same inheritance. God's promise to Abraham included land, offspring, and blessing. It's a promise that's rehearsed throughout the Old Testament, over and over again, celebrated and and trusted in by God's people. Psalm 105 is a is a is a promise. He remembers his covenant forever, the word that he commanded for a thousand generations, the covenant that he made with Abraham, his sworn promise to Isaac, which he confirmed to Jacob as a statute. And yet the Bible makes clear that the land of Canaan, Canaan is just a shadow, pointing to something greater. Abraham did not merely look to a piece of land in Palestine. He looked far beyond that. Hebrews eleven says he was He was looking forward to the city that has foundations, whose designer and builder is God. He was looking forward to an eternal home. And Paul makes clear that you and I, and the Ephesians, as Gentile Christians, and the Galatians, and In Galatians 3, hope for the same inheritance. He says in Galatians 3, if you are Christ, then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs according to the promise, the same inheritance. First Peter echoes this when he says in 1 Peter 1, your inheritance is imperishable, undefiled, unfading, kept not in Canaan for you, kept in heaven for you. The inheritance that Abraham hoped for was the fullness of salvation. Begun now, yes, right? Not merely the forgiveness of the So Paul can say in First Corinthians fifteen about the gospel in which you are being saved. Continuing, ongoing. It includes our justification, being being declared righteous in God's sight, because Christ's righteousness is counted to us. God, being sanctified as we're renewed in the whole man after the image of Christ, able more and more to die unto sin and live to righteousness. And yet it culminates at Christ's return. It culminates when we will live forever with God Himself and be free from sin, not merely from the penalty of sin. Sin, not even just from the power of sin, but from the very presence of sin gone forever from our world. The promised land that Abraham hoped for finds fulfillment in the new heavens and the new earth. You see, what what Paul wants us to see in Ephesians is God is our inheritance. We saw that several weeks ago when we looked at Psalm 16. The psalmist there says, The Lord is my chosen portion and my cup. You hold my lot. The lines have fallen for me in pleasant places. Indeed, I have A beautiful inheritance. He's saying that what God said of the Levite priests is true for us in Christ when he said, I am their inheritance. I am their possession. You see, friends, the inheritance that we hope for is to live with God in a renewed world where we will see him face to face. See him as he is. You remember in Exodus, Moses asked to see God's glory, and he was told, Moses, no one can see my face. R. C. Sproull has a really helpful way of bringing out our inheritance. He says the final goal of every Christian is to be allowed to see what was denied to Moses. We want to see him face to face. We want to bask in the radiant glory of his divine countenance. This means that someday we will see God face to face. Face to face. We will not see the reflected glory of a burning bush or a pillar of cloud. We will see him as he is, as he is in his pure divine essence. So my friends, right after talking about in verse 10, uniting all things together in Christ, he reminds us of our inheritance because This is the inheritance of all God's people, Jew and Gentile alike. We are united together in Christ for a common salvation. Who receives it? Jews and Gentiles, all those who believe in Christ and are in Christ receive the same inheritance. Question number three: why do we get this inheritance? Why are we given? What's the reason that God gives us this inheritance? Paul says, to the praise of his glory. We reflected on this a little more last week, so we'll be a little briefer. But the goal of everything that God does is his own glory. Not it's not the only reason that God has in the ways that he works, but that is the supreme reason. That is the number one reason why God works as he does for his own. glory. That's the reason he created the world. That's the reason he sustains the world. That's the reason he redeemed you was for his own glory. I think one application for us as we consider that is that if the praise of his glory is the most important thing to God, then friends it should be the most important thing to Yes, in all of life, right? What does Paul say? Wherever you whatever whether you eat or drink, do all to the glory of God. Of course, in all of life, but supremely When we gather to sing his praises in corporate worship. This, friends, this now, what we are doing in this moment, in God's eyes, this is the most important thing you do in this life. I think the question for us is, do we really believe that? I hope we do. I sometimes think our calendars will tell a different story. I think if this is the most important thing we do in life, we rearrange our entire life so that we are here Lord's Day after Lord's Day. I understand with COVID there's some Some reasons why we might participate in the live stream as well, right? But the point being we set aside this time, a sacred time, to worship our God. Not letting anything else crowd in upon it and and take away from that focus. Our inheritance is for the praise of his glory. Because in his presence that's what we will do. The saints surrounded the throne in Revelation four, praising his glory, and we will join that never ending chorus for all eternity. Let's make sure we're practicing now. We're saved for the praise of his glory. Question four, how is the inheritance Given. How do people come to receive this inheritance that we're given by God? Verse thirteen makes it clear. We're told it's when you heard the word of truth. The gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, that you were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit. Notice it involves two things, hearing and believing. Hearing and believing. Let's look at both of those. What do you hear? He uses two roughly equivalent phrases here: the word of truth, the gospel of salvation. When he talks about the word of truth, he's not saying merely the word that happens to be true, but the word that is truth itself, the word that is supremely true, the word that reveals the one who is the truth. The way, the truth, and the life. It's what Jesus has in mind in John 17, where he says, Father, sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth. That's why Paul says in Romans 10: faith comes by hearing, hearing through the Word of Christ. The word of truth, the gospel of salvation. Paul says elsewhere: the gospel is the power of God. God for salvation for everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Gentile, tying in all his themes together. The gospel is powerful because the gospel, as God blesses it, when it goes forth, it can call a sinner out of death into life. First Corinthians says, This comes, the gospel of your salvation comes through the foolishness of preaching. It's as the word goes forth. Notice that. Don't miss that important point that's in Paul's argument here. Notice how it is through the Word that people come to faith. Right? Because friends, this isn't just any other book. This is God's word It's where the living God speaks to us through his word. Hebrews 4 tells us the word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword. Piercing to the division of soul and spirit, of joints and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart. Peter echoes a similar thought in first Peter one, he says, Since you have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable Through the living and abiding word of God. For all flesh is like grass, and its glory like the flower of grass. The grass withers, the flower falls. But the word of the Lord remains forever And this word is the good news that was preached to you. Friends, do you believe that God works through his word? Do you have confidence that the same God who created the world by speaking, let there be light? Still works through his word to call people out of darkness into his marvelous light. Working by his spirit through his word Word? Is that where our confidence is? Do we rest there, trusting that as God's word goes forth, whether from the pulpit or whether in personal conversations, that as God's word goes forth, his spirit works through his That he keeps his promise. He never sends his word out and has it returned to him void, but it always accomplishes the purpose for which he sends it. I love Luther's quote about the Reformation. He's talking about how how he had the impact that he had there in the Reformation. He said I simply taught, preached, wrote God's word. Otherwise, I did nothing. And while I slept or drank Wittenberg beer with my friends Philip and Amsdorf, the word so greatly weakened Weakened the papacy that no prince or emperor ever inflicted such losses upon it. I did nothing. The word did everything Friends, may we have such confidence in God's Word. And may we have the blessing of seeing Him work through it. Comes by hearing, the second is believe. What is it that we believe? Believe in Christ. Christ is the object of our faith. Our faith is directed towards Christ. It's centered on Christ, founded on Him. We believe in Him. This inheritance that Paul's promising us is only for those who come to Christ. No other way to receive it. No other religion has the answers. Not simply thinking that Jesus is a good guy is enough to get this inheritance. No. No, not even truly understanding who he is, if that's as far as it goes. No, it's a trusting, a believing in Christ, as the catechism says, a receiving and resting on him alone, as he's offered to us in the gospel. A knowing our need for Him, and then in turn casting all our hopes upon Him. Have you believed in Christ? Because if you don't, the only inheritance that God's word promises us is the bad inheritance we have in Adam. We've inherited his guilt, we've inherited his corruption, and unless we come to Christ, we'll inherit the judgment that's due for our sins. The good news of the gospel is that that we're promised that for all who believe in Christ, he gives us the right to become children of God. Oh friends, come to Him if you don't know Him. Come to Him. He promises never to turn away anyone who comes. He'll always receive us and give you the same inheritance. No matter what sin lies in your background, no matter how far you've fallen, you have the same inheritance with every other believer. If you're in Christ, I think the thing that this passage drives us to see is that every believer has an undeniable obligation towards Personal evangelism. It must happen. It's not optional to us as the people of God. Because what does Paul say in Romans 10? How can they believe in him of whom they've never heard? We've been called out of darkness into his marvelous light that we might proclaim his excellencies. We must eventu we we have the the burden, the the responsibility and the blessing and privilege to Speak to people about Christ. And this evangelism, I think the other thing it shows us, needs to be word-centered. God's word is a means of grace. It's a place where Christ promises to meet those who seek Him. His word is what has transforming power because his word is where God speaks. We talked about this a little bit in Sunday school. You Can't change someone's heart. I can't change someone's heart. But God can get people in the scriptures It needs to be word-centered. I think it also reminds us that you actually have to speak. And you have to speak about Jesus. Not just vague concepts about God, but there absolutely is a place for living a godly example. Peter, we're we're studying first Peter in Sunday school. That's that's a clear implication that he talks about. It's a clear component of our witness to live as a godly example. I was talking with someone even last week about the idea of a pre-evangelism, that we live in a world where our categories are so different from the world around us that you could talk about the gospel and it's not that they would disagree, they just wouldn't even Those are important things. Just don't confuse them. A farmer can till up the soil all day long, he can work hard in the fields, but unless he plants a seed, nothing's gonna grow. This inheritance is ours by faith when we respond to Christ in the gospel, because faith comes by hearing, and hearing through the Word of Christ. Last question, number five, who guarantees this inheritance? It's the Holy Spirit. We see that in verses thirteen and fourteen. In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee. Notice it's just in passing, the Spirit is given when you heard and believed He's not some second blessing that comes later. No, the Holy Spirit takes up permanent residence in the heart of every believer at the moment of conversion. And never leaves. There's many blessings, many things in the Bible that we can learn about the Holy Spirit. In this passage, the emphasis is on the Spirit as a seal and guarantee. It might remind you of of in ancient times the wax seal that would be put on a letter. The sealed letter bears the unique Unique seal of the sender. And so you could be sure when you get a sealed letter, A, it hasn't been open, and B, it was truly from the person who told you they were sending you the letter. It gives you authority, a security, verification. Sinclair Ferguson talks about it this way. He said that it's a confirmation of authenticity and ownership. This is what the Father and the Son give us in the Holy Spirit. He's given to us to assure us that God is our God and we are his people. Similar idea to what he says in Romans 8: for you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear. You've received the spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, Abba, Father, the Spirit Himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God. And if children, here it is again, then heirs Heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided that we suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified with him. You probably heard the song: Signed, Sealed, Delivered, I'm yours. By giving us friends, by giving us the Holy Spirit, God says to you, signed, sealed, delivered, I'm yours and you're mine. No take backs. The gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable. The Spirit is our down payment. He's our guarantee until we acquire the possession. Of our inheritance. It's the reminder and the confidence that we have that we will receive our inheritance in full. All spiritual blessings are ours in Christ. As we've said, you've already begun to enjoy it. And one day in fullness, we'll receive them all at Christ's return. We'll be with God forever, free from sin, made perfectly blessed to the full enjoying of God, to all eternity. We're sealed with the Spirit, but he says we're sealed with the promised Holy Spirit. Because the Spirit is the one who was promised in the Old Testament, and we see that fulfillment come in the day of Pentecost when the Spirit is given in all his fullness. to the believers. He's promised by Jesus in the upper room. He said, I'm not leaving you as orphans. I will come to you. And this is how he comes. The Father and the Son give the Spirit, and Christ is present with us by his Holy Spirit. And the astounding thing is Jesus says, it's actually better for you this way. It's to your advantage that I go, because until I go, the Holy Spirit isn't coming. The promise of the Holy Spirit is so important that Paul, in effect, says, Jesus died so that you could receive the promised Holy Spirit. Of Abraham might come to the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through faith. Why is the Holy Spirit such a blessing? Sometimes I think it's hard for us to fully wrap our minds around the blessing that the Spirit is in our lives. It's because He's the Spirit of Christ. In the same way that God's supreme goal is his own glory, all that the Spirit does is done for the glory of Christ. He's the one who makes Christ present to us. Think about it, if you're a believer, Jesus' body is in heaven, but his spirit is in you. What a comfort it should be Sinclair Ferguson, I was listening to him talk about the Holy Spirit this week, and he he made the point. He said, There's not not three Holy Spirits, not ten Holy Spirits, there's one Holy Spirit. And he said, think about what that means for you. That means The same spirit that rested upon the Lord Jesus for his 33 years of life, the same spirit that was with him from the moment of conception until the moment of his ascension, that same spirit now lives. in you. The Spirit who raised Christ from the dead, friends, dwells in you. If you have the Holy Spirit, you have assurance that God has indeed begun a good work in you. And you have the down payment and the guarantee that he will bring it to completion. lives. But no inheritance can come close to this. Friends, may this be the inheritance that you seek to pass on to your children. May this be the inheritance that you order your life around pursuing. So you can say, like Paul, indeed, I count everything as a loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish in order that I may gain Christ. One thing I do, forgetting what lies behind Straining forward to what lies ahead, I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. Press on for that inheritance, friends. Store up your treasure in heaven. Keep your eyes fixed on Christ and on the inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, unfading, kept in heaven for you. And friends, do so with confidence because you have been sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of your inheritance until you acquire the possession. Let's pray. Father, what a blessing it is that we have the Spirit of Christ living within us. Lord, may we be more aware of his presence. May it be we be more aware of the blessing that it is to have our Lord Jesus with us by his Spirit at all times, in every way. May we press on and strive for that inheritance with confidence, knowing that it is secured in Christ for us. May we have great joy as we we know our hope in you. We pray all this in Christ's name. Amen.