Good morning, good morning. It's good to be here. God's people. With lots of God's people. It's good to see everybody. And um we saw it last week, uh, sermon series from the book of Jonah, the Old Testament prophet Jonah And we have a longer passage today. We have three verses last week of a longer passage. Say turn there and stand up as you find it and he'll read it, ESV translation, and we will Hope you have something that will bless you and challenge you and encourage you to follow Jesus. It's good to know that you and you're watching online today. Okay. Why did it turn that so much different? Okay. ESE Translation. Verse 4. But the Lord hurled a great wind upon the sea, and there was a mighty tempest on the sea, so that the ship threatened to break up. Then the mariners were afraid, and each cried out to his God, and they hurled the cargo that was in the ship into the sea to lighten it for them. But Jonah had gone down into the inner part of the ship and had laid down and was fast asleep. So the captain came and said to him, What do you mean, you sleeper? Arise Call out to your God. Perhaps the God will give a thought to us that we may not perish. And they said to one another, Come, let us cast lots that we may know. This evil has come upon us. So they cast lots, and the lot fell on Jonah. Then they said to him, On whose account this evil has come upon us What is your occupation? Where do you come from? What's your country? And what people are you? Of what people are you? And he said to them, I am a Hebrew, and I fear the Lord, the God of heaven, who made the sea in the dry land. Then the men were exceedingly afraid and said to him, What is this that you have done? Well the men knew that he was fleeing from the presence of the Lord because he had told them Then they said to him, What shall we do to you, that the sea may quiet down for us? For the sea grew more and more tempestuous He said to them, Pick me up and hurl me into the sea. And then the sea will quiet down for you. For I know it is because of me that this great tempest has come upon you. Nevertheless, the men rode hard to get back to dry land, but they could not, for the sea grew more and more tempestuous against them. Therefore, they called out to the Lord, O Lord, let us not perish for this man's life, and lay not on us innocent blood, for you, O Lord, have done as it pleased you. So they picked up Jonah and hurled him into the sea, and the sea ceased from its raging Then the men feared the Lord exceedingly. They offered a sacrifice to the Lord. They made vows. God bless the hearing of those words. Let's pray Well thank you for this portion of your word, Lord. Speak to us, do it. Thank you that that there's things here for us to understand and learn. Prepare our hearts to for for the supper that we'll partake together Bless us, bless us these moments in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Sleeping through the storm, sleeping through the storm is my title. But Thursday night I stayed up to rewatch the presidential debates. There were it was a kind of a it was kind of a crazy thing. There was a breakfast I think I watched that again. So I stayed up late to watch it And uh turned it off a little after one o'clock and uh and happened to find out before going to bed that a lot had happened. The president was positive with COVID And and already at one o'clock in the morning, one thirty in the morning, the the news coverage was beginning. There was a lot going on Thursday morning, one o'clock, two o'clock, three o'clock. I went to bed of course, but um a lot was going on and you probably most of you on the east coast. We're asleep. You were asleep and all this stuff was beginning to happen. A a great political storm had begun and you the last couple of days you you know of all that Um it reminded me though of Jonah, who was asleep, but all this kind of activity was going on around him. A different kind of a storm, a literal storm of activity was going on, sleeping through the storm. God calls us to trust Him, to have an active trust in Him, even during times of storm, so we can survive the storms like Life has storms, amen. There are storms through life. And we have to trust God. It's an act of trust that He calls us to have. We did the first three verses last week as we began. We talked about uh Shona the runaway prophet, the running away from God, thinking that she can quote run away from the presence of the Lord. Foolish. Folly. But he was a prophet in rebellion. He ran away It God said go this way, he said no, he went that way. But try to go as far as away as he could. He's on the oh he's on a ship. On the way to Tarshus, over there near Spain Today we're going to look at three movements in this passage, this story. First movement is Jonah is asleep. And then Jonah is interrogated. And then Jonah is hurled. He's asleep, asleep on the boat, verses four to six. Now we s we see there there's a there's a there's a tempest there There's a a storm and but the storm was no accident. We we we find it out uh that it says but the Lord hurled a great wind upon the sea. This is of the Lord, the the sovereign God has has m has done something. He has hurled a storm there. And and we see in verse five, the mariners, the sailors, are afraid, and they cry out to their God, various gods, apparently. And so they did some hurling. They hurled cargo that was in the sea to lighten to lighten the boat a little bit. Um did we see Jonah. And where's Jonah? With all this activity going on. Where's Jonah? He's asleep He's asleep. He says, but Jonah went down to the inner part of the deck of the ship and he laid down. He was fast asleep. What's going on with Jonah? Here's a profound statement. When your eyes are closed, you cannot see. Real profound statement there isn't it. When your eyes are closed you cannot see. But the same is true in the spiritual realm. When you're when your eyes are closed, when you're napping, when you're asleep, you have no spiritual perception, you have no spiritual discernment, you don't have spiritual wisdom. Jesus in John chapter 9 talked about the spiritual leaders of his day. Jesus had healed the blind men in that chapter And Jesus said to the religious leaders that they were blind. He said, You guys think you can see, but you're blind. This blind man, he can now see Spiritual perception. Spiritual perception. Ephesians chapter 5, verse 14. Paul said, Awake, O sleeper, and arise from the dead And Christ will shine on you. He's not talking about literal sleep, he's talking about those who are spiritually asleep. Wake up. Christ will shine on you Jonah is a prophet. He's a leader, but he's in rebellion against God. He's asleep. He's a preacher out of God's will, trying to sleep away a guilty conscience. When the preacher is running from God, you have a serious spiritual leadership problem, don't you? That's a crisis when the leader, the prophet, the preacher, is running from God We're seeing leadership crisis in our day in the church. Just I was just thinking about this as I thought about this this this concept of this of Jonah and a leadership crisis. You may not know, well you probably do know that many pastors are about my age and think about retirement. And that's become that's becoming a crisis in the church Because we're finding that there's a dramatic decline in younger leaders who want to fill that void. The number of of Openings is becoming more higher than those who want to fill those openings. Um one thing, you know, we're involved in in Metro Baltimore Seminary, this new seminary in the last couple years. It's very ironic that we're having some success Because most seminaries to train pastors are struggling to even find enough people to to to fill tuitions. They're having to lay people off Our seminary is very creative. It's it's local. We don't have buildings when professors don't get paid regular. So it's it's very accessible, very local And uh we're seeing that it seems like a model that's happening. But there's a dramatic decline in young people who want to fill that void that's there Another thing that's why there's a spiritual reason why there's a spiritual crisis is because many who have served well and served long and have retired, who can give wisdom to the church are passing away. You notice that the last several years? We've lost Billy Graham, we've lost uh Spoke, we've lost uh J. R. Pack, we've lost Ralphie Zacharias. Just in the last couple of years. Last couple years Now those things are tough enough, but but there's also something else going on that that while there's a leadership crisis. We're seeing very high-profile pastors and leaders involved in scandals. Reminds me of the late 80s. Scandals because of toxic culture in their churches, scandals because of the immorality of their life, scandals because of plagiarism All kinds of scandals are beginning are are are starting to happen. That's a very, very, very, very much of the concern. That's the scandal, the scandal of the high co-call scandal even this weekend that emerged But also, pastors are getting stressed out and burnt out. Be alert to that Pastors are leaving the ministry because they can't take it, or their wives can't take it. There's even some a couple of high-profile pastors that have committed suicide in the last couple years, and maybe you don't know that. It's tough on pastors right now. Here's a thought for us as a church. When you think about hiring a pastor, which is At some point in the next few months, you know, we'll we'll research committee as we this process. One, um, theology is very important, the theology of the man His preaching and teaching skills, very important. His ability to relate, very important. But all these take a back seat To the most important criteria. The ability to walk with Jesus. Amen? The ability to commune with God. The ability to handle the storms of life I I mentioned to someone this morning that um they said how you doing? Well I've had two crazy things happen this week. One, I gotta have dental surgery, the dental problems are still continuing. And two, yesterday my computer crashed But I'm okay! Because, you know, those are what they call third world problems. First world problems, you know. You know, we ought to make it. You know, Jesus is still Lord. Amen We need men who have who can walk with Jesus, who live a life of integrity, a life that depicts the transforming reality of what Jesus Christ could do in a life. Nothing, nothing is more important than that In the Gospels, uh Mark chapter 4, and in the other gospels too, um, Jesus was asleep In the middle of a storm. You remember that story, the Galilee Sea of Galilee? Jesus had just done, he'd just been preaching. He was tired. He said, let's go to the other side, tell us the disciples, the fishermen. And um he's asleep, but the storm comes and they're haul they're looking for buckets to haul water to get the water out of the boat. The the boat's supposed to be in the water, the water's not supposed to be in the boat, this is the problem Okay? Jesus is asleep. They say, come on, Jesus, help us, come on, do something. Jesus wakes up, he says, peace be still, and the the the storm just stopped. And then he said, and then they were afraid. They're afraid of whoa! Then they were afraid. Jesus slept in the boat because it was the rest of a weary Savior. But Jonah As a sleep in the boat, it's the rest of a wayward prophet trying to sneak away his sorrow, his his regard Jonah's asleep. Second. Jonah is interrogated on the boat. He's interrogated. Verses 7 to 11. Verse 7. So they say to one another, they say elders, come, let us cast lots that we may know on whose account this evil has come upon us. They want to say, let's figure this thing out. What's going on? So they cast lots. And Eureka, the lot falls on Jonah. Jonah is trying to sleep and trying not to know that anyone knows that he was a prophet on rebellion against God. So in verse 8, they confront Jonah With five rapid-fire questions. I love the way this reads. Tell us on whose account this evil has come upon us. What's your occupation? Where do you come from? What's your country? Of what people are you That the prior question's coming, Jonah, because he's waking up and he's feeling guilty, convicted by God, because he's a rebellious prophet You know what what what's your what what what's what's your job? What's your occupation? You know. He didn't answer that one by the way. You notice that The the questions got kind of more specific. That's where you're from, then you got what what what what nation are you from? And then what your people, your tribe or family. You got sort of specific Then in verse 9 he he he he he answers, I am a Hebrew, and I fear the Lord. Oh you do? You do? I fear the Lord God of heaven and made the ceiling. You know sometimes even w in our rebellion we know our theology, don't we? We know what's right. We're just not doing it. I'm a Hebrew. He doesn't say I'm the I'm a he doesn't say I'm the the a Hebrew prophet You know, you ever notice that when you're walking away you're walk walking in rebellion against God, you don't want people to know you're a Christian. You ever notice that? You don't you know at least you know enough that you don't want to shame the name of God Maybe this is some of you I shouldn't say this, but I was saying it anyway. You ever uh been driving and you see someone's got a Jesus sticker and they're going eighty miles an hour? What kind of witness is that? Of course. Unless the speed limits eight eight, and that's not around here that doesn't happen too often. But he's a prophet of God, but he doesn't say that. So I'm just I'm a Hebrew. He gives he gives his ethnicity. Verse 10. Then the men were exceedingly afraid. So they said to him, What is this you have done? Because he he he had told them that he was fleeing for the presence of the Lord. So he's fleeing from the presence of the Lord. He told him that in their discussion And he's saying it's because I'm fleeing from the presence of the Lord that the Lord, the God of heaven, has brought this disaster upon you, upon all of us. So he owns up Their fear has increased. They're frustrated. They're fearful. And I bet they're a little bit angry at Shona. First let me ask one more question. It's a big question. Okay, what are we going to do? What are we going to do? Yeah, you know God. You say your God's brought this. What are we supposed to do now? That the sea may quiet down for us. Not for you, for us. But she grew more and more tempesters. The storm is getting worse. It's getting bigger and bigger. So Joan Joan is interrogated and tough questions come. COVID-19 crisis has been a wake-up call for Christians, for many Christians. It has led to some tough questions. You wake up and it's tough questions like Here's some tough questions. Some basic questions, but some tough questions. What is the church? What constitutes worship? What is a sacrament? Can you do a sacrament virtually? What is the role of God's people in society during this time? Those are questions that Christian churches, those basic questions, the most basic questions that we're hearing from many people in our world and many In in Christian families and many Christian believers are asking this final question, what happens when people die? Because people are dying Even in a post-Christian world, many people are asking questions Dr. Eric Mason is a is a pastor in Philadelphia. He wrote a book called Loke Christian. Loke Christian. It's an urgent call for Christians in America to confront racism and injustice. Woke is a word that you may not know. Here's from that book. Here's some uh his definition Woke is a word commonly used by those in the black community as a term for being socially aware of issues that have systematic impact. This social awareness doesn't come from just watching news or reading history through the traditional lens, but being awoke has to do with seeing all the issues and being able to connect cultural, social, economic, philosophical, historical, and ethical doctrines. Mason talks about uh the historic writer W. E. B. DeBeau see who's here's my verse. Get that. I need my Bible text W. D. Du Bois. Um you spoke of double consciousness. Well wokeness. Uh you didn't use the w the wok woke's a new term, but Du Bois years ago, a hundred years ago talked about consciousness He said, quote, one ever feels his two-ness, an American, a Negro or African-American. In other words, the reality of nationality and ethnicity is what he's talking about And Mason posits that for the believer, there's a third consciousness. Being woke to a third reality, one's relationship with God, his theology, the understanding of God. Our plea is that we understand and embrace the priority of our Christian identity, is not abolishing those other two, but acting as a governor for them Everybody has some sort of ethnic heritage. Everybody's part of a nation, but those are secondary saints. Nationality is not Lord. Ethnicity is not Lord. Jesus is Lord. Mason also he says this. Um he says uh but but he he's looking at um This whole issue of embracing the world, how we connect with the world. He said, but the evangelical church seems to be asleep to the hotbed of tensions that threatens to overflow into communities across America Scripture makes it clear that we're supposed to be totally awake to what's happening in our world and steadfast in our commitment to the Great Commandment. Jesus fulfilled the law by calling for a love of God and of neighbor Although this is supposed to be a lifestyle that characterizes all Christians, we have to be called to this over and over again as a prophetic Ephesians chapter 5. And then he says, What Paul is saying is that the gospel strengthens us through the Spirit to see things in our society that others do not We're called as the people of God to wake up, to see what others don't, and call it out. The church in America is not awake to the reality of what's happening in communities across this nation, and we're missing out on calling When our calling to shine the light into those places of darkness for Christ's glory. The church is called to be light and called to be solved. In the world. But often we're asleep, unaware of the times in which we live. So God uses others sometimes To do the work that needs to be done. Just as in this passage, he's using the pagan sailors to do some things that need to be done. God uses sometimes others To do what we should be doing. Some illustrations come to my mind. What? This is a story. Back in in the civil rights era, Martin Luther King, many people see him today as a hero. Many see Martin Luther King as a hero, right? Well, back in the day, and some of us were live during that time, when he was marching in the streets, the Bible-believing evangelical church was quick To call him a troublemaker, a liberal, anti-American, a communist? What was happening? The Bible-believing church was asleep, not in tune with what the Holy Spirit was doing Through the black church in the midst of a storming battle and legal segregation in our country. Another example. Years ago we persist we participated in uh in pro-life marches When we were younger and could walk long distances. Where was the Bible-believing evangelical believers? Where were they? See that that silent storm still continues. Some friends I know who are younger and do march still They say that very little has changed. They go and they say, where are the Bible-believing evangelicals who are marching? Well the unborn. Third example. Pastor friend, PCA pastor in St. Louis, Mike Higgins He and his daughter Michelle were imprisoned alongside many others in Ferguson, Missouri, years ago, several years ago, when the uh protesting in this in Ferguson uh broke out They were marching against police brutality and legal injustice. They participated despite the fact that the leaders of the march were not Christians. But the cause was correct in their minds And their faith motivated them to action and to pay the price of being misunderstood even by fellow believers And one fourth example, last example, is the the more recent the Me Too movement. Women have certainly been abused and oppressed by men in our countries historically and even in the recent history. And and the church did not take the lead in raising that issue Sadly, the church and church leaders were often the prime creditors, perpetuators of the problem. Again, the church is what? Asleep during the storm. Sometimes people who know the Word of God, the people who should be taking the lead, are asleep So God uses others to do what needs to be done because God is sovereign and will get done what needs to be done John is asleep. Joan is interrogated. Lastly, John is hurled from the boat. He's hurled from the boat. Verses 12 to 16. He said to them, Take me up and hurl me into the sea. Then the sea will quiet down for you. For I know it's because of me that this great tempest has come upon you. Jonah says, okay, I'm the problem. I know I'm the problem. Toss me into the sea. Notice their reaction. Verse 13. Nevertheless. The men rode hard to get back to dry land, but they could not, for the sea grew more and more tempestuous against them. What's going on there? They're hesitant to do this That hasn't to do with joy. It's gotta be let's just work hard. They try growing harder and faster. Solving the solution that way. The problem that way, finding a solution But didn't work. So finally verse 14, they call out to the Lord, O Lord, Let us not perish for this man's life. Because they realized, they assumed, that tossing this man aside, Jonah would die. That's why they hesitated. That's why they didn't want to do it. So they said, Lord, okay, if he's right, then that's the way that forgive us, Lord, for what we're about to do. Let us not perish for this man's life, and lay not on us innocent blood, for you, O Lord, have done as it pleased you. Notice the heart of these sailors. Notice the heart of this. Notice what they say. Three times they say Lord. But it says they called out to Lord, it is O Lord, let's not perish. Oh Lord, have done so twice they they use they call the God of the Hebrews Lord. They're not calling on their own gods anymore. They begin to understand that Jonah's God, the God of the Hebrews, is Lord. Okay? And so they prayed and then they picked up Jonah and hurled him into the sea. And the sea ceased, trumpets raging. Wow. The raging of the sea stopped. And so verse 16. They feared the Lord exceedingly. They offered a sacrifice to the Lord. They made vows. Now that's kind of Old Testament language saying they got saved. They got converted. They had a come to Jesus experience here. They feared the Lord, they offered a sacrifice, they made vows. I want you to notice this very important part of this passage. There is no deliverance that came through their human effort. They tried and they tried and it was unsuccessful. They could not be delivered by their own effort. Deliverance came from the symbolic death of Jonah. They thought Jonah was going to die. They thought that if he sacrificed, maybe the the God of this God will be propitiated. Maybe his anger will be appeased if we sacrifice Jonah into the sea No deliverance from human effort. Deliverance because of the death of Jonah. The obvious contrast is with Jesus and Jonah. Jesus delighted in doing the Father's will. The Father Told Jesus the Son, second person trending, go down on earth. There's a mission for you to deliver a fallen race Did Jesus flee and go to Tarshish? No. Jesus delighted in doing the Father's will. It was a little tough one at Garden of Gethsemane, wasn't it? He said, Lord, if there's another way for me not to do this, I don't want to drink this cup. If there's another way, but your will be done. He actively lived a life for us. He actively came to this world. He actively faced the cross. So yes, Jesus became our sacrifice, just as Jonah was in one sense our sacrifice But Jesus was the perfect, unblemished sacrifice, the perfect Lamb of God. The New Testament uses the word propitiation. It's a big fancy theological word. Propitiation means that the wrath of God is satisfied by what Jesus did for us. Jesus is our substitute. Jesus experienced God's wrath, the wrath that we deserve. He's our propitiation. Couple verses. Romans chapter 3 The righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the law of the prophets would bear witness to it. The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus for all who believe But there is no distinction, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God and are justified by his grace as a gift. Through the redemption that's in Christ Jesus Whom God put forward as a propitiation by His blood to be received by faith. There to my heart was His blood applied Glory to his name is what we sing. The blood of Christ propitiates us to a holy God. And in 2 John chapter 2, my little children, I'm writing these things to you so that you may not sin. But If anyone sins, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ, the righteous one. He is the propitiation for our sins. Not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. Jesus Christ, the propitiation. For all his people, and for anyone in the world who trusts in the blood of Christ, Jesus propitiates the wrath of the Father, and we go free. How are you doing spiritually? Are you asleep? Are you asleep? Have you been running away and therefore Trying to ignore the Holy Spirit's promptings in your life, hoping they'll go away. We see in this passage and in first chapter of Jonah that God finds ways of stirring us from those kinds of things. God stirs us. He calls us to trust him. To trust him. To actively take steps to trust him. We close with a passage before we go to the Lord's Supper. From Romans chapter 13. By this you know the time That the hour has come for you to wake up from sleep. Romans 13, 11, 4. So Vash is nearer to us now than when you're first believed The night is far gone. The day is at hand. So then, let us cast off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light Let us walk properly as in the daytime, not in orgies and drunkenness, not in sexual immorality and sensuality, not in quarreling and jealousy. But put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh to gratify his desires. Let's bow for prayer. So as we come to you, we ask you to prepare our hearts, Lord, to receive this supper. You come to us in grace, as those who need your grace. You have done all that is necessary. We might be saved. We have in our hearts confessed that, profess that, and yet in our hearts we don't always do that We thank you that even then you you come to us by your Holy Spirit, giving us the cleansing power that comes from the cross. But I pray each one of us, Lord, as we commune with you, we would know that you cause to be alert, to be alive, to be awake That others might see the light that's within us and be pointed to you, the true light. But use these moments in our church life, Lord, after many, many months of not celebrating together the supper, use this to strengthen our faith To unite us more as your people, to give us a deeper commitment to you, to one another, and to the mission you called us to, to be light and salt in this world. We will give you thanks in Jesus. Amen.