Last week we remembered that he's risen. And he's still risen. The question and the challenge for us is uh as we walk along the road of our lives, whether we are a bit like the people who the men that walked along the road towards the Mayus. And that's what we're going to look at for the next few weeks as we lead into uh the ascension uh of Jesus, usually about 40 days uh beyond his resurrection. direction. And and I'm going to take this um opportunities over these next few weeks just to look uh at the walk on the Emmaus. Road. We're not going to look at the whole thing today. We're just going to look at a part of it. Part of it next time, not next week. There's Pastor Doug will preaching next week, but uh two weeks hence we'll look at The next part and then finally at the last part. So I want to ask that you would stand and I want to read together uh from Luke chapter twenty four. Uh that's where the account on the road to Emmaus occurs. And it starts with that very day. And remember that very day was the day of the resurrection. So last week we sort of took the whole period of time from the resurrection to the ascendant Condensed it into one. Now we're going to come back, take just one piece. We're going back to that very day. That very day of the resurrection. On that very day, two of them were going to a village named Emma. About seven miles from Jerusalem, and they were talking with each other about all these things that had happened. While they were talking and discussing together, Jesus himself drew near. And went with them. But their eyes were kept from recognizing him. And he said to them, What is this conversation that you're holding with each other as you walk? And they stood still, looking at Sad. And then one of them, named Cleopas, answered him, Are you the only visitor to Jerusalem who does not know the things that have happened there in these last days? And he said to them, What things? They said to him, concerning Jesus of Nazareth, a man who was a prophet, mighty and deep Deed and word before God and all the people. Now our chief priests and rulers delivered him up to be condemned to death and crucified him. but would hope that he was the one to redeem Israel. Yes, and besides all this, it's now the third day since these things happened Moreover, some women of our company amazed us. They were at the tomb early in the morning. And when they didn't find us His body they came back saying that they'd even seen a vision of angels who said that he was alive. Some of those who were with us even went to the tomb and found it just as the women had said. But him they didn't see. He said to them, O foolish ones, slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken Was it not necessary that the Christ should suffer these things and enter into his glory? Beginning with Moses and the prophets. interpreted to them all the scriptures, the things concerning himself. It's the word of the Lord. Let's pray. Father, this morning Allow us to walk with you. Open the eyes of our heart. That we might not just see the outside of the story, but that we might taste and see. And know. That you are good. In Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. As we enter into the road to Emmaus, I want you to sort of see clearly what's happening Um and there's sort of a little logic. I'm not gonna um uh take this passage as I many times do, uh but I want to begin with the sort of what happens. What happens when we come on the road to Emmaus? The first issue is what when we can't see. When we can't see what God wants us to see, when we can't see the events that are before us, what then? Well often we see certain facts. We can describe them. Just, you know, kids could describe an orange. You can describe an orange. Orange, orange. It's round, it's this big, it's that big, it's but I know what it looks like inside, I know what it tastes like. We can describe the whole thing. We see facts, but often we don't see or feel And because we haven't tasted it, we think others can't see it either. And when others can't see it It seems like we can't really experience the meaning of what the story is about. the meaning of what we can't see. And that is the story of the men on the road to Emmaus. Let's back up and take a look at it Verse sixteen tells us their eyes were kept from recognizing it And before that, it simply is, it was Resurrection Day. Jesus was not in the tomb. The disciples had gone, that looked, they came back, the women had come. And now these two men are reflecting on the events of the day as they walked a journey of success. or seven miles. I don't suppose that they were walking fast that six or seven miles. It takes me about an hour to walk three miles. So if they were walking six or seven miles and doing it slowly, I'm gonna guess it was a several hour conversation as they went along. Maybe they're faster walkers than I am. But uh anyway, it wasn't a a little ten minute ri uh you know walk. It it was a good walk And they were reviewing these facts. They were talking with each other about the things that had happened. And as they were talking, this man comes up, this man that they should have known, they should have seen The very man they were talking about. And he draws near to them. They couldn't see him. Their eyes were kept from recognizing him. And he says to them, what's this conversation that you have? What's the meaning of it? What's it all about? So he begins with the understanding of what we see, what we don't see. And these two gentlemen couldn't see what was right in front of their eyes. Uh we understand that there are different kinds of blindness, right? So let's think about the kind of blindness that they had. There is a uh physical blindness. There's a partial blindness. Um some of us have these things to take care of the partial blindness that we have. But even if you don't wear glasses, or if you do wear glasses you might have only partial vision. Uh my father before he died, uh his vision was reduced to sort of one little hole in one eye and it was blurry at that. So you know, he had lost his vision. Uh his blindness uh was a growing, increasing kind of thing. We can talk about a partial, a total, a congenital blindness that just sort of every think is fuzzy. But that's not the blindness that these men had. They had a different kind of blindness. They could see with their eyes fine, but they couldn't see with their heart. The eyes of their heart were blinded. The eyes of their heart were blind to the presence of Christ. And the disciples, not only these disciples, but the other disciples were also blinded, just like we are blinded. Now why is it that we're blinded. We're unable to sense Christ walking with us. Go through your life. And see if you can't identify times where you simply have felt like you were completely alone. That Christ was not walking with you They're dark times. But they're blind times. They're times when the eyes of our heart are simply covered. Call them with scales, call them with whatever you want, but we don't see. They're not open. We don't see the reality of Jesus walking with us. And so we think we're walking alone. We're blind to the power of the gospel when we don't see Jesus with us. When we don't have that sense of God is walking with me on my journey Through my day, through this darkness, through that darkness, through the uncertainty that I have, I'm blind to the power of the resurrection. I'm blind to the reality of the resurrection because I don't see Jesus. I'm not able to perceive. I'm not able to understand. I'm not able to live in the resurrection. So what does it mean to live in the resurrection? We are. Like what the children saw this morning. Afraid of a mouse trap. We don't want to get our fingers too close to it. I The other thing that I might have done, but I don't I didn't want to seduct the kids to it. Imagine I had a mouse in there. That would have gotten a certain response from all of us. We not only there's something about the resurrection that that holds us back a little bit. We're we're we're hesitant about it. We're hesitant about walking in it We're hesitant about it just like it was a mouse as if it were a mouse and a mouse trap. We've missed the power of Christ in our lives. lives because we are heart blinded. And and what the two men on the road to Emmaus needed to see is they needed to see that they were walking with Jesus. Jesus could actually explain the things that were inexplicable. Jesus could actually help them understand, and that's actually what happens is The story goes on, Jesus says, uh look listen, let me tell you about it. Let me explain everything that has happened. So Jesus Does that. He explains what it was that had happened. Now they knew what had happened. They had lived through what had happened. It was all a part of who they were. So they saw the facts. Children saw the outside of the orange. You saw the outside of the orange. It's an orange, right? I know the orange. So we can describe in every story, your story, the gospel story, we can describe the facts of the story. The facts is And that's what these disciples walking along were doing. They were constantly going over the facts, the things that they had seen, the things that had happened That the the things that they'd experienced. They went over those facts again and again. Is there something we missed? When Jesus stands and uh says and asks them that The question what things? And and they give me back this question Are you the only visitor in verse eighteen to Jerusalem who doesn't know the things that have happened in these days. Uh you know, they didn't use the stupid word, but they just as well have. So how stupid can you be? Are you the only one? No. Jesus of Nazareth, a man who was mighty prophet and deed and word before God and all the people. They're describing the orange, right? And how our chief priests and rulers delivered him, up cut him, to be condemned to death, crucified him. But we had hoped. We had hoped. It's a dead giveaway to the fact that they not only didn't see, but they didn't feel what had happened. They didn't understand the power of the resurrection. We too, we may know the facts of Jesus. We may celebrate the facts. We may s we did last week, the empty grave. We sang about it. It's a great tradition. Wonderful tradition. Why why do we celebrate the resurrection every year? Why don't we do it every month? You know, it's like well well well because it's in our tradition we do it once a year. It's like Christmas and Easter and you know, it's a great tradition, so we have a great tradition. Is it any more than that? Maybe we ought to be celebrating the resurrection every day Maybe we ought to be walking with Jesus every day. So we have this celebration, this tradition, this solidarity. You know, our families have traditions. Some of our families have special meals, special events. I'd like to do this, I like to do that, I celebrate it. It's all good. It's all good. We're happy to belong. We're happy to have an identity with others. But we may not have a feeling. We may not feel the story. of the resurrection. There's no amazement. I you felt, I think, maybe you couldn't experience this as I did. When I cut into that second blood orange and the kid saw it, it's like, oh, what is that There was a sense of amazement, not the same kind of amazement that maybe we ought to have when we come to the resurrection, but an amazement. That's not what I thought. It's different, it looks different. Is it an orange? Well maybe. But I don't know until I taste it. Taste it. Only one of the kids wanted to taste it. it. A little bit of a paradigm of church and of life and of people, isn't it? Everybody can describe the orange. Even people that know nothing about Christianity can talk about the resurrection. They use bunnies and eggs to talk about it Uh it beats me, but that's how we talk about it. But few are willing to say, Let me eat it Let me put it into my mouth and taste it and know the sweetness of the flavor. So, without any amazement. We simply look. It's just a resurrection. That's what happened to these men. They just talked about it And as they talked about it, because their eyes were blind, because they hadn't yet experienced the meaning, the fullness of the meaning. They thought others couldn't see it either. They couldn't see, they saw the same. That's what they thought. They said, Well, listen, some of the disciples went down to the grave to the tomb, but him they didn't see And the women came back with these crazy ideas that they had visions of an angel. We don't understand It was a great mystery. So if I don't understand, I don't think you can understand either. I don't think other people can understand. I haven't seen. I haven't experienced I have a sense, we have some children today that have learned, if they've never seen a blood orange, that they've learned that oranges can be very different. They can be Really red or not? Which one do I like? Have I ever eaten it? Have I ever experienced it. But we tend to think that others have experienced just like we have. They've only looked at the outside. They assume they know what's on the inside. And that's what we attribute to them. And so the disciples walking on the road, attributed to the women, attributed to the other disciples, they are as dumb as we are. Dumbfounded. And Jesus simply says in verse twenty five, Oh foolish ones. It wasn't an angry discharge. It was a compassionate sense of you, our friend Foolish, slow of heart to believe. Your eyes are dim. Your hearts are dim Believe what the prophets have spoken. You can do it. And he begins to explain, to talk about the things that he had talked about throughout his ministry. What the prophets talk about concerning the coming of Jesus, concerning his death, concerning his resurrection, concerning the meaning of that death, and of that resurrection for everyone who trusted. Who believes? In other words, who has experienced it? Who has tasted of the sweetness? There are three Latin words. I'm sorry for boring you with Latin. I don't usually bore you with Latin. So Um and they've been a little classic in our world in our world of theology. The first is uh the word notetia Uh it simply means knowledge. So you can look at the orange and have knowledge of it. You have exper the kids have all experienced an orange Uh they have they know what it looks like, they know what it feels like, they know what it tastes like, it's all in their experience. They have a knowledge of it. And that's why they could confidently say, it is an orange. But there's another Latin word that's ascensus, and that's simply, the meaning is simply ascent. I agree. And not only do I know that it's an orange, but I agree, actually, I like oranges. I heard him say that. And when I cut it and I said, You want to eat it? Nope. Nope, don't want to eat it. I can know. I can assent. But if I have not yet Had that fiducia, that entrusting faith that says, I will consume that which I know is good. It does me no good. And so the disciples were given this. There's an illustration. We have artists that illustrate. Do I have the do we get a slide up uh on uh uh okay, give it to me. Uh that's a classic slide, uh classic picture, I should say. It's a Norman Rockwell if you're not deeply immersed in art. Norman Wa Rockwell was a a well well known American artist and illustrator. He had this to say about illustration Pictures. Many illustrators, he said, of fiction, look through a story to find the most dominant or dramatic incident and illustrate that. I prefer to discover the atmosphere of a story, the feeling behind it, and then to express the basic quality. So the name of this picture is Freedom from Freedom from fear. Take a look at it. Well, my apologies. The the the father, watching his sleeping and almost sleeping children, is holding a newspaper, and uh i if you could s See the headline on the newspaper, it is about bombings. So the fear of what was happening in the world. Was in the newspaper, but the children were sleeping, oblivious to what was happening in the world So it becomes an illustration of how do we manage fear? How do we manage our world? In light of the resurrection. And I want you to ask that question of yourself. Ask yourself that question for your journey. Because Because you two are on a journey this week. You've been journeying last week. You're going to journey next week. You're going to school, you're gonna think the journey of school will never end. You're in a tough spot right now. As you journey. Is Jesus journeying with you? That's the question I ask. It's a chair. Looks like it's been around a long time. Looks sturdy, a little tippy right there on the floor, but I can move it so it's not. If I'm exhausted, what will I do? I just look at it. It's a strong chair. It's good for somebody else, but it's not good for me. Or will I sit in it? Will I just lean on it? Will I rest in it? If Jesus walks with you, the question is not, can I describe it? Can I describe the four legs? Can I describe the type of wood? Maple, I don't know. Stained water. It's been around a long time. Doesn't even matter, does it? The point is it looks sturdy enough to hold me. But in my spiritual exhaustion, will I rest in it? Will you rest in Jesus? You know the story. If you felt the power of the resurrection, go walk with it. Eat the orange and share it. Let's pray. Father, forgive us, for we live in a world of fear. And yet We know that in you, our lives, our hope, our journey is secure. Sometimes we amaze ourselves, Lord. We don't understand why we don't rest in you. Why we haven't trusted you. Why the eyes of our heart are still dark. Work in us. Help us this week, Lord Jesus, to trust you. To rest in you and to share our hope with those Those that are in darkness, those that are confused, those that are uncertain, those that are weak. The like us. Open our eyes, Father. In Jesus' name. Amen