Good morning. As John mentioned, uh the church officers this weekend were able to enjoy some time together and I'm almost losing my voice because I was screaming at him to run faster while playing basketball so that the elders wouldn't lose against the deacons. It was a great time We uh so pray for me. I so that I can I can make it all to the all the way to the end before losing my voice. We're continuing our study in the book of First Corinthians and we're almost there, almost done. We're considering chapter fourteen this morning and we'll just read the first part of it, verses one through twenty-five. So if Abel would you please stand as we read God's holy word given for us this morning Pursue love and earnestly desire the spiritual gifts, especially that you may prophesy. For one who speaks in a tongue speaks not to men but to God. For no one understands him, but he utters mysteries in the spirit. On the other hand, the one who prophesies speaks to people for their upbuilding and encouragement and consolation The one who speaks in the tongue builds up himself, but the one who prophesies builds up the church. Now I want you all to speak in tongues, but even more. to prophesy. The one who prophesies is greater than the one who speaks in tongues unless someone interprets, so that the church may be built up. Now brothers, if I come to you speaking in tongues, how will I benefit you unless I bring you some revelation or knowledge or prophecy or teaching? If even lifeless instruments such as the flute or the harp do not give distinct notes, how will anyone know what is played? And if the bugle gives an indistinct sound, who will get ready for battle? So with yourselves, if with your tongue you utter speech that is not intelligible, how will anyone know what is said? For you will be sticking into air There are doubtless many different languages in the world, and none is without meaning. But if I do not know the meaning of the language, I will be a foreigner to the speaker, and the speaker a foreigner to me. So, with yourselves, since you are eager for manifestations of the Spirit, strive to excel in building up the church. Therefore, the one who speaks in the tongue should pray that he may interpret. For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays, but my mind is unfruitful. What am I to do? I will pray with my spirit, but I will pray with my mind also. I will sing praise with my spirit, but I will sing with my mind also. Otherwise, if you give thanks to the Spirit, how can anyone in the position of an outsider say amen to your thanksgiving when he does not know what you're saying? You may be giving thanks well enough, but the other person is not being built up. I thank God that I speak in tongues more than all of you. Nevertheless, in church I would rather speak five words with my mind in order to instruct others than 10,000 words in a tongue. Brothers, do not be children in your thinking. Be infants in evil, but in your thinking be immature. In the Lord is written By people of strange tongues and by the lips of foreigners I will speak to this people, and even then they will not listen to me, says the Lord. As tongues are a sign not to believers for but for unbelievers, or prophecy Is a sign not for unbelievers but for believers. If therefore the whole church comes together and all speaking tongues and outsiders or unbelievers enter, will they not say that you are out of your minds? But if all prophecy all prophesy, and an unbeliever or outsider, enters, he is convicted by all. He is called to account by all the secrets of his heart are disclosed, and so falling on his place He will worship God and declare that God is really among you. The word of the Lord this morning. Father, we ask That by the Spirit who gives us all these gifts, so that we may benefit your church, would lead us this morning and allow us to understand to believe and to walk in light of what you are teaching us this morning. We pray in the mighty name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Please be seated. So I'd like to start by asking you a question or several questions for us to consider this morning. What kind of this spiritual gifts do you desire? What kinds of gifts would you like to ask the Lord to give to you? Or even ask the question in a different way. How are you practicing or how are you using the spiritual gifts that Christ has given to you in his church? See, most of the times our preferences are to have those things or to have those gifts that make us feel important Our preferences are to have those spiritual gifts that make us be noticed by other people so that they may know how valuable we are in Christ's church. And many times we forget to think about asking for those gifts, not that we may gain something in and of ourselves, but so that we may gain something for the whole, for the Church of Jesus Christ. See the discussion here that we're looking at of Paul talking to the church and writing back to the church in Corinth and deciding to focus on these two distinct spiritual gifts of prophecy and speaking in tongues Tells us that there was something that was wrong in the church in Corinth. And as we've been talking through chapter 12, we saw that they were elevating the gifts of tongues. That in fact they were telling Paul, if you want to be spiritually mature, if you really want to show that you are the one who is filled with the Spirit, so to speak, then you've got to speak in some strange tongues. And Paul all along has been, as I've been saying since we looked at chapter twelve, putting the gifts of tongues all the way to the bottom of the list. And down here he says, I want you not to desire those gifts that are just for your own benefit, but I want you to desire to desire to prophesy. Because that gift is what benefits the church. And so Paul's encouragement to this church that is struggling to understand the the importance and the and and and the way to desire spiritual gifts in the church and how to use those spiritual gifts is this. And that encouragement is not just for the church in Corinth, but it is for the church today, now, that we must desire those gifts. That are geared towards building up the Church of Jesus Christ. Why? In verses 1 through 12, he shows us, as he has been talking, and as I gave an example, a perfect example of a sandwich. That what's in the in between the sandwich is what is important. And so we will not be able to hear what Paul is saying in chapter 14 unless we understand what chapter 13 says. Why? Look at verses 1. Paul is telling us through verses 1 through 12 that I want you to let love be the guide to your desire and to your pursuit of spiritual gifts. So, unless love guides you to pursue spiritual gifts, you will fail. And Paul here is actually using the strongest of any verb that you could ever think of. That verb pursue in in Greek is The strongest verb that you can ever think of. He's basically saying I want you to pursue love with intensity, with determination I want love to be the priority, and only after seeking to love one another, only after seeking to follow after what love tells you to do. And we looked at it last week: patience, kindness, and and all those things. Only then. Will you be able to rightly seek after spiritual gifts? That has to be your guide. In short, put the practice of chapter 13 Put chapter 13 into practice and then you will know how to act in the church when it comes to spiritual gifts. Paul has already shown us and he has already told us that all spiritual gifts, not just the speaking tongues or prophecy, must be exercised in love. But he is actually telling us, even though he said that all spiritual gifts are the same, they're equal We shouldn't look down upon some that are gifted in different ways because we we feel like they should be gifted as we are. But here he's actually saying that there's a preference. Saying I actually want you to pray that you may not speak in tongues, but that you may prophesy. Why? Because prophesying to him, to scripture, is what edifies the church. Whereas speaking in tongues unless there's an interpretation, unless I know what you're saying, unless you know what I'm saying, I'm not gonna be benefiting you. And we know that the church in Corinth, and there's many churches even today, that most of the times when we are driven by selfishness, when we're driven by Again for the self and and wanting to speak in tongues so that we may look like we're spiritually mature than everybody else. And most of the times we get to a place of pride, to a place of feeling that we are better than anybody else Prophecy is not merely here as Paul is describing it, as we might think of it, is not merely delivering carefully prepared sermons. But I think what Leon Morris notes on prophecy is really right. He actually says that prophecy as Paul is writing here has to do with uttering words that are actually inspired by God Himself. Not that you're writing scripture. But you remember when we were talking about spiritual gifts, we defined what prophecy is all about and we said prophecy has to do with giving a message On a time where someone hears and they're about to be encouraged and comforted and strengthened right exactly where they are. It's a timely message that comes from God. Because we tend to think of prophecy as foretelling, right? Someone forecasting the future. But he said it's forthelling the will and the message of God for his people So Paul here is that he's not denying that tongues have a value in the church. He's not saying that don't speak in tongues. He actually tells us here: I desire that you may speak in tongues, but even more that you would prophesy. Because speaking in tongues, when you're speaking to God and praying in your in your own language or in a language that is foreign to others, you're having communion your communion with God. It's just between you and God. It's a private communication with God and not benefiting the church of Christ. So prophecy therefore is a means for building up the church of Christ. For building each what each each other in our character, in our life as believers, encouraging and strengthening us. It is a means of giving us comfort. It is the way that God speaks to us and comforts our lives Paul says, if I come to you and speak in tongues, if I was to say one as the fiwe, what would you say? You have no idea what I just said, because I just spoke in Swahili. But it does it does sound like a foreign tongue and so Paul is saying, what if I was to come to you and speak in foreign tongues? How would you know what I just said? How will you understand what I just said? Verse 6. So prophecy is more in light with the mark of true love. Why? Because prophecy does not look to the self Prophecy does does not look to speak to the self and say, Well this is what I'm gonna gain for myself and and hear and be encouraged and strengthened. Yes, it does work in In a way, that way, but prophecy is more geared towards giving a message that goes to others, that others are able to be built up by what you say. It amplifies edification of the church Something that we all need desperately. So by its nature it's it it flows from a deep concern for others Prophecy flows from a deep concern for others. Especially, and here Paul is describing for us what exactly prophecy does, right? Encouraging, comforting, strengthening. And it's not just mere cold communication of theological categories and truth. Because sometimes we can prophesy, we can preach, but only preach cold and kind. Difficult, hard to understand theological truth. It is driven by compassion and commitment to other members of the covenant community. That is the power of prophecy. So our preaching must be that which builds up and teaches the truths of the gospel of Jesus Christ. But our preaching and and sharing of the gospel and encouraging one another must must be something that is geared towards reaching out to those that are brokenhearted. To those that here sit needing to be reminded of God's faithfulness, that God is faithful to you. That what we preach and speak to one another in prophecy must be what points us to our own sin, our brokenness, and our failure to sort our lives out, and that there's only one who can sort our lives out. But it must also be the one that gives us hope and certainty for the future, a grace that gives us cheerfulness in the message of the gospel. It must comfort those that are feeling that they are uh down and they need to see their ashes in the beauty that Christ provides for us in his gospel. Those that are hurting Paul gives us some vivid illustrations here in verses 7 through 9 of musical instruments. What if, as the kids were playing so well this morning, they were just about to produce one tone? uh uh just one tone and and and no melody in it. We would all be saying, Oh goodness, what are you all doing? Scratching our heads That all those instruments have to produce melody for us to appreciate the beauty of music. And it is the same thing. That mere sound of speaking is not important. What is important is that the ones that you're trying to communicate actually understand and hear the message that you are trying to communicate. Likewise he gives an example of a bugle if you were a trumpet What if a trumpet that was used in battle was to communicate something that it wasn't supposed to? What if you communicated the wrong thing and instead of c want if you wanted to communicate that you're supposed to advance you told your soldiers to retreat? What would happen Or if you're supposed to tell them to go and attack and they heard a message of you're supposed to be sleeping and they slept, you lose the battle. So, unless there's intelligibility, unless there's clarity of that message, you're gonna lose the purpose of that message. That's what prophecy does. Speech understood is effective communication. Verses eleven. Then Paul uses this interesting word in verses twelve. Look at it. What he says, foreigner. That word in Greek is actually not a very nice word. It's the word we get barbaric. It's a derogatory term And so he's basically saying when you speak a language that I don't understand, it sounds like bar bar. I don't understand what you're saying. And so those who are being cried for by speaking in tongues in the church and saying I am more spiritually mature or spiritually superior than others by speaking in all these tongues, you actually end up becoming like a barbaric person, an uncivilized person. Because all that strange all that stuff that you're saying sounds so strange to me, for I do not understand what you say. That's why Paul is encouraging the Corinthians, the church, to focus on those gifts that will strengthen the church. He's saying excel in spiritual gifts that will build up the church of Jesus Christ. I think this is such a great reminder for us because I know we can focus on these two gifts, on the on tongues and and prophecy, and this is what Paul is focusing on, but remember what chapter 14 is all about, right? It's about public, corporate assembly of God's people, it's about worship. So instead of just thinking about the two gifts, we must ask ourselves and be reminded what worship is all about when we gather together in the house of the Lord. That it's not about me experiencing an individual uh worship experience. It actually is not Worship is not about me showing up and trying to think about what am I going to gain out of this experience that I'm coming to But there's a communal experience that we need to be looking at in our congreg in our worship together. That our focus has to be on Jesus, but our focus is actually also on one another. Did you know that before there was Adam, there was a community? Did you know that before there was a you, a one person, a singularity, there was a community? God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit existed in all eternity in communion with one another. That's the fellowship that Christ brings together when his church is gathering for worship. So we gather to honor God, but we gather to fellowship with one another. You cannot separate the two. And so worship can never be selfish for us. What we do must be for the sake of all, not just for myself, not just what I like. Shouldn't be directed towards my own personal preferences. But towards what will build one another. And secondly, Paul says, Let love be your guide to the pursuit of spiritual gifts. But look at verses 13 to 19, which is closely related. You must strive for clarity. In your message, that Paul would actually ask the church, if you speak in tongues, he says, if you have that spiritual gift of speaking tongues, you need to ask and pray, God, that you would be able to interpret. That Paul would ask them to do that is a clear indication of what spiritual gifts are supposed to be and what they're supposed to be used for. They're supposed to be used for the concern of one another, for the building of the church. Because through interpretation, you will be able to understand for yourself what you are saying. It will be clear for the individual that speaks, but it will also be clear and be beneficial to the ones that are listening to your message. The point of everything in our worship, as I said, because that's where we really need to focus our attention on on corporate worship. Again, it's not personal experience of the spirit, but building up of one another. See, sometimes we we focus too much on on the things that we like and and on our preferences, on the things that we want to gain from a from a worship experience. As opposed to, what does my participation in this worship, what does it do for my brother, for my sister that is sitting right next to me What does it do for my brother, for my sister that is sitting next to me? And I like the way Paul uses the the idea of the mind and the spirit together working in tandem. Remember, in Greek philosophy, the mind was was more valued than anything else. And you're saying no, no, no, no, no. If you want your worship to be clear, not just to one another, but to God, your mind and your spirit must be together. They must understand each other, so to speak. That there should be a complete blessing both in your spirit and in your mind. Paul is saying that tongues are limited in their value, that the one who speaks in tongues should also pray for the gift of interpretation that whatever you speak with your mind, if it's with your mouth what is coming from your understanding but also make sense in terms of how you actually manifest that gift in your life But the mind and the spirit are important. And God wants us, I mean we look at scripture, what does God tell us to do? Love him with what? Just our mind Loving with just our soul? Loving with just our heart? No. Just love God with all of your heart. With your mind. And so. Elsewhere in Romans 12, 2, what does Paul say? That we're being transformed by the renewing, by path, by pathing our mind in some sense? No. says, be transformed by the renewing of your mind. And Paul here gives us elements that we use in our worship services, praying and singing in the spirit and mind. That when we do so, we're not just doing so in an isolated manner That my mind is engaged, my spirit is engaged in my worship. That all those all those things have to be clear, they have to be coherent for me to understand what I'm doing in my worship. Why Because if people don't understand, if the message that I'm saying is not clear, if I pray in some strange tongues, how is someone going to agree and confirm that message and say amen to what I just said? And you shouldn't agree if you don't know what I said. Because you have no idea what it means. Then verses 16 and 17, Paul says that the outsider or the inquirer, that language there is not really of a person who is so foreign or so uh outside of the church. It's actually a language that we we would use of someone who is a seeker. Someone who is sitting in our congregation, they're not really believing, but they actually are interested in the things of God. That we should actually care for them. That we should actually seek that they may understand that the things that we are saying So again if I stand here and preach in Swahili, how are you gonna get anything that I say Paul's caution is not here out of sour grapes. He's not telling the church don't speak in tongues because he he fee he feels if they do so then you know He is lower than them. Paul says I speak in more tongues than it than than you could. But Paul says, but I choose not to use my tongues in corporate worship I will not speak a word. How would I speak five words, five intelligible words, and use myriads and tens of thousands of words that you do not understand that do not make sense to you? That clarity is better than brilliance. And finally, Paul says, I need you to cultivate an attitude, a behavior. Towards spiritual gifts. So love, let love be the guide to your pursuit of spiritual gifts. Strive for clarity in your messages to speak to one another But finally, you must desire to be mature as you speak spirit as you as you seek spiritual gifts. Maturity. Paul says be adults In Christ, don't be controlled by evil motives in your appraisal of tongues. Be childish when it comes to evil, but be adults when it comes to your mind, when it comes to understanding spiritual gifts. What do children prefer? Children prefer what's amusing to what's useful. My son, even though he's not old enough, he would rather be amused than for me to give him something that's more important. They would rather be entertained in the short run, but being helped in the long run. See, folks, God doesn't give us spiritual gifts to be like toys for us to be entertained and to play with. God gives us spiritual gifts as tools for the content of God's communication and his ministry to one another. They are not things, spiritual gifts are not things for us to just toy around with. And feel important and things that will make us feel like we we're valued in any way. See you I think when the church in Corinth was actually asking for for this gift of spiritual spiritually speaking in tongues They were doing exactly what we do when we try to add some incentives on the gospel. Because we somehow don't believe that the gospel is enough. We don't believe that the gifts that God has given for his church are actually enough for his church. And so I need to speak in tongues so that I may show the people that are coming to a congregation that I'm actually spirit-filled. That the proclamation of God's word is not enough to show that God is present here among us. But we need something strange, something spectacular, something That makes us feel, I don't know, what an incentive. That's what we need to show people that the presence of God is here. What a lie. Paul is saying God's word, prophecy, speaking to one another is enough. He actually goes on to quote Isaiah 28. You know what happened in Isaiah 28? God is actually punishing his rebellious people and saying, I have spoken to you through my servants, through Isaiah, to give you a message that you need to repent, that you need to turn to the Lord, and you have refused to listen. I am going to punish you using the Assyrians. They will come to you. They don't speak your language. They will speak in a foreign language. But even then, you will not hear it. That's why tongues are a sign, not for believers, but for unbelievers. It aliens alienates us from the message. If you don't know what is spoken, you will not believe. See, I'm not saying that tongues cannot be used in a powerful way. You only need to go to Acts chapter 2 and be reminded of what happened when the disciples were filled with the Holy Spirit and started speaking in tongues. But what really happened after they started speaking in these strange tongues? Peter stood up and what did he do? He preached one of the most powerful sermons you'll ever see anywhere. That is what convinced people that God was truly at work. Because they were able to hear God's word proclaimed in the language of the understood And so Paul is reminding us that it is the proclamation of God's word that is powerful, that gives us the divine message, that the the the the that the listener is able to hear and be convicted of their sin. John 18, 16, 8 And it is because of this conviction of our sin that one's heart is searched out. That God's word is what searches our hearts and and shows us that we have the unbelief in our hearts. And then we recognize God's presence, his activity in our own lives. It is prophecy that leads us to worship God. It is prophecy that leads us to God. And the Samaritan woman, when Jesus speaks to her and shows us, should shows her her sin, what does she say? She says, Come, see a man who told me all that I ever did. Her sin is exposed for all to see. It is God's word that brings men and women under judgment. That when we're convicted of our sin, we realize that we need God. To act on our behalf. When our secrets are exposed, we realize that we need the gospel of Jesus Christ that will lead us to a place of honesty so that we may face ourselves, so that we may face God. Who is holy and righteous. And you know what happens when our sins are exposed when we realize that there's no other place for us to go other than other than to God? We cry out to him and we say, God, have mercy on me, a sinner. We cry, Kiri Elizon, Lord have mercy, Chrise Elizon, Christ, have mercy. See, like I said, we need to apply this text to more than just speaking tongues and prophecy. Because I think Paul would want us to do so. This passage really reminds us of the things that we may want to do in public worship that are beneficial and spiritually satisfying to us, but not necessarily beneficial and satisfying to our brothers and sisters. Even worse, that we need to reconsider our worship, our attitudes when we show up to worship God. Are there things that we are doing that are actually distracting to others? That are sitting here that would want to worship God. But our actions, our practice, our exercise of skills and things that we're doing are actually becoming a distraction for them to worship. Love calls us to exercise discernment in our use of spiritual gifts in the church. But God wants you to prefer those gifts that benefit your brother and sister. You're called to build up the church of Christ. That's why you're here. And your presence is important. Your gifting is important. But if Jesus who laid down his life for this church, asks us to have his attitude. And to ask for those things that will benefit his church. Any claim from us. Any claim from us of speaking or seeking spiritual gifts that are geared towards self-enhancement Towards our own gain. Go completely against what Christ has done for his church, laying down his life for us. So I pray that we would all prefer gifts that build up Christ's church. Let us pray Father, we come to you this morning and we we thank you for your word and your reminder to us that you have gifted us all as a congregation, as a people that belong to you. But that you would want us to seek and desire to have gifts that build up your church. Because that is what you are doing in our lives. Building up your kingdom here on earth, so that when you return, we may be ready to be received by you, O Lord, so that we may worship with you and be with you forever and ever. We thank you for your word this morning in Christ's name. Amen