It may be seated. I have uh memories of my mother speaking to me when I come to this text, and uh when I tell you her words, you'll probably know something She would look at me and say, Carl, if you can't say something good, don't say it at all. So I've just revealed to you a part of my life, a part of my reality that I labor with. Speaking good things, speaking hopeful things. And I guess my mother looked at that. So as I look at this text, I might camp out on one verse, but the one verse is in the middle of the context. And it is speaking the truth in love. That's all. But there's a lot there. Speaking, speaking the truth, and speaking Speaking the truth in love. So let's back up a little bit. First is speaking. My mother wanted to say if you don't have something good to say, don't say it The problem is if we don't speak, nobody has any way of knowing what we're thinking. You can frown You can scrowl, you can stomp your feet, but without speaking, we don't know what the matter is. The problem The problem is, when you speak the way I spoke as a child and sometimes now speak too often, and we speak mean words. We speak dividing words. we speak harmful words, then we tear, we pull apart each other. So Paul is starting us out by simply understanding something about speaking. speaking. We do actually have to speak. But there's the speaking without interruption. And that's another Peace that I I struggle with. Sometimes it's my ears. I'm not sure when to get into a conversation. Uh I'm not sure when there's a lull in the conversation and when it's appropriate to get in in. So I'm guilty often of interrupting. And when I interrupt somebody, it's not that I want to stop their speech and not that I want don't want to listen to them, but sometimes I'm too eager to say what it is that's on my mind. We sometimes interrupt in other ways. This last week we were uh with our grandchildren, uh another one of my grandsons uh and he's uh uh has has his birthday today. His his uh sister who's just two years older than he is uh had a list that she loves to make charts. So she made this chart of Ada's commitments. That's a pretty heavy, heavy chart, right? So she wrote down all these commitments that she was going to make. And I noticed some writing on one of the columns that was not exactly like the rest of the writing. It was similar, but not exactly the same. And on that was written, I commit to not bossing my little brother. And I said, um hmm, Damien, would that be your words? Or was that your sister's words? Oh, mine So he interrupted her thoughts. He wrote over her thoughts, his thoughts. He wanted to put his thoughts into her commitment chart. I'm sure he found the other things that she was committing to very important. But there was something she left out, so he wanted to put that in there. Don't boss me around The thing with words is that we can not only interrupt, but let's keep going on this. We can speak words that actually hide the truth. They hide the truth. They take the truth and and they put it under a cloak of some other words. So instead of understanding the truth, we actually hide it. We have the scripture, don't we? God found Cain. And he said, Cain, where is your brother Abel? Cain said, Am I my brother's keeper? True words, right? Words that hid the truth. God said, The blood of your brother is calling to me, trying to me from the earth. Ultimately we can't hide truth And so when the Russian troops were assembled on the northern on the eastern edge of Ukraine and all the world heard we're going to have An exercise, a military exercise, is a pretty good illustration of words that hide the truth And we can be guilty of hiding truth in the words that we use. Truth that's harmful or truth that's helpful. Because We've hidden it. It doesn't come out. People don't actually understand what it is that we're trying to say. I want to turn to and that's uh words that are twisted. They become cruel. Uh Satan did that in the garden. Uh he looks at Adam, he looks at Eve, Eve first, and he said, Did God Really say that you shouldn't eat or even touch the fruit? That was partly true, wasn't it? God said, Don't eat it. But he twisted it. It. He twisted it. Did God really say you shouldn't touch it either? No, God didn't say that. So we can use our words to twist the truth. And when we twist Twisted, it becomes an untruth. A twisted truth is an untruth. We could also use our words to Untwist the twist. And that's part of what God calls us to in this passage. There is truth that's partial truth. Part truth. May not be twisted, it's just part. So you remember Paul. Paul stood in the Areopagus. There were all these altars to all kinds of God. As he walks among them, he stands up and he says, Men I and women, I see that you are a religious people. You have faithfully made an altar to all the gods you can think of. In fact, you even have an altar to the unknown God. It's that one I want to tell you about. In other words, they said, You've got a partial truth, but you don't have complete truth. I want to talk to you about the one you don't know. Partial truth. But there's also a redemptive truth. And when we speak a truth redemptively, it's um reminds us maybe of the story of Hannah uh in First Samuel chapter one. Um I'm just gonna read that because i it's a it's a very poignant. In fact we're gonna look a little bit at uh at the story of Hannah as we move forward. Chapter one of 1 Samuel verse 10. This is the description of Hannah. She was deeply distressed and prayed to the Lord and wept bitterly. Deeply distressed. She wept bitterly. Her mouth moved, and no words came out. But you know the rest of the story, don't you? God granted her a child. A child that she only got to bring up for a few years. And then she released that child. We'll look at that story some more. But that was redemptive truth. So speaking can have this huge range from not speaking at all to speaking redemptively. Uh it uh just speaking in itself doesn't tell us enough. Uh it could be twisted It could be right, it could be wrong, it could be covering. There's a lot of things about our speech that might be both good and bad. Adequate and inadequate. So fortunately, Paul puts some of these things together. It's not just about speaking. It's not about how much we speak or how little we speak, but it's about speaking. Truth. I want you to look at that for me as well with me. Truth that helps. It explains, it integrates, it pulls together our lives, it helps us to understand, and in that support it might prop us up, it might encourage us to take the next step forward. Verse two of our text today talks about that. Look at that if you're uh Don't have your Bibles open, open them up again. With all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love. So somehow our words are supposed to not only convey humility and gentleness They convey gentleness to others. That's what they're for. They're patience. Our words convey patience. Yes, I can wait for for you. Yes, I want to encourage you. Yes, I want to be with you. We bear with each other. And so our words are the things that do that. We may physically do it, but our words do it. Our words are truth. that we speak encourages and helps. That's what it's intended to be. And again, I go back to the story of Hannah In the book of Samuel, she prayed that her misery might be removed. It's very clear. She needed God's speaking back to her. She wanted that misery removed. Did she hear? Well What we know is uh what Eli actually told her. And uh and I want to read that. If you're in the moment in the story of Hannah, you feel the pain, her pain, that she was trying to express to the Lord. As she continued praying before the Lord, Eli observed her mouth. Hannah was speaking in her heart, only her lips moved, and her voice wasn't heard. Therefore Eli took her to be A drunken woman. And Eli said to her, How long will you go on being drunk? Put your wine away from you. Can you imagine the pain that that must have cut into her heart? She was pouring herself out before God, and the priest comes and says, stop your drunkenness. I the It just absolutely stops your own heart and your own mind to think of the pain that that extra uh word delivered to her. And so she absolutely And she answered, No, my lord, I'm neither I am a woman troubled in spirit. I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink, but I've been pouring out my soul. before the Lord. So um priest Eli recognized that he hadn't exactly said what he needed to say. He said the very wrong thing. His words were rough. They were cruel. They were cutting. Hannah goes on, she says, Don't regard your servant as a worthless woman, for all along I've been speaking out of my great anxiety and vexation. And then Eli They answered, Oh, go in peace. And the God of Israel, may he grant your petition that you have made to him. You hear that speaking? It was rough, it was hurtful, and then it came back and said, Yes, God has hurt you. I didn't hear you right. God has hurt you. Go in peace. And so our words, and that's what Paul's trying to help us understand here in the book of Ephesians. fourth chapter. Our words are words that are to help and they're to grow, they're to expand our understanding of who God is. is uh and of what God wants us to be. They they add to the unity. They're intended to add to the unity that God has given to us. That God wants to make God to mature manhood or womanhood to mature us. We see that incredibly difficult story of Hannah praying out to God. Eli's words had to turn to her and speak God's hope and God's grace to her. But it wasn't ultimately Eli's voice. It was God's voice. It was God speaking to her. But God used Eli, first wrong and now right. And that ought to help us understand what Paul's trying to say here. There is something in our words when we speak the truth that draw each other into the presence of Christ. Christ and to understanding that now it's not just that He's going to give us what we want, but He will go with us He will receive the vexation of our heart, the struggle of our spirit. That's what we speak to each other. Yes, God hears you. Go in peace. And we grow to be the man, to be the woman, to be the young person that God wants us to be. It holds us. It keeps us. It keeps us connected to God. You know, Hannah returned to the temple. And as she returned to the temple, she reminded Eli that she was a saint. I'm sure Eli remembered her. I'm sure he remembered his failure. And now he sees the product. Samuel. So as she returns, we recognize that our speaking, our speaking the truth is ultimately what holds us together. It's the connection that God gives us To us. Silence doesn't give us connection. Speaking wrongly doesn't give us connection. It's when we speak in a way that draws a person back to the presentation. presence of Christ. Eli said, Go in peace. May God grant you. The God who hears your prayer, who hears the cry of your heart, may He grant you. The wishes of your heart. Sometimes when we speak with each other, we don't have the right words. We get it wrong. It's not that we want to, but we got it wrong. But God's words penetrate into us and he calls us as much as we can. can to speak truth that brings love, that brings binding and unity together in the body. And when we get it wrong, and we will. You will. I do many times. Our hope is that God's word will override our words And he will gentle them. He will sand them out. And he will let us see his love and his grace. Instead of our failures. That's the love that binds. So if they're speaking, and if they're speaking truth, they're speaking Truth in love. Look at that last part. Love is that which holds us together again. Verse four of our uh broader text and and you've got to read this m through many times uh to pull all of these things out of the There's one body, one spirit, just as you were called to one hope that belongs to your call. One body that's us, the Church of Jesus Christ. One calling, one hope. Uh it uh we don't have a lot yes, we have individual hopes. I have a hope, you have a hope. have a hope, we all have a hope. But together our hope is in Christ. Our hope is at all of my rough edges. Even when I'm rough with you, even when I'm rough with myself, God takes that roughness, He smooths it out in Jesus, and He gives us the hope of being useful. In his kingdom. There's no greater hope than that. There's no greater hope than knowing not only now, but into eternity. I And God's child. I am a part of his body. It's that hope. It's that truth in love. And it turns our hearts and our minds to say, oh It's not me. It's not about me. It's about Christ in me. Sometimes we just need to focus on the fact that love equips us to be in Christ. Look at verse 13. Again, we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Spirit. Son of God. It equips us. Speaking the truth in love is to equip each other. So you ask the question if I'm going to speak something, and if it's spoken truthfully, What is the intended impact? The intended impact is to build the body together. So if I have something to speak to you, may that something be Something that builds you, that encourages you, that turns your focus and your eyes to Christ Himself. Turns it away from us, turns it away from the struggles, turns it away from the problems, and it turns us onto the presence of Christ. It allows me to see him. The uh thing that's amazing in the story of Samuel uh is that God raised Samuel up in a very He he gave Samuel words. And you remember when he came to Samuel at night and he simply spoke his name Samuel Samuel three times Samuel hops up goes to Eli and says Yes you called me now I'm I didn't call you. Well finally Eli, old Eli begins to recognize, wait a minute, I should know the voice of the Lord. That's God calling. So he Samuel pops up the third time and says, I'm here, you called me. No, no, go back. Tell me. It's God calling It's God's word speaking to you. God has something to say to you. Listen. The same goes back. God speaks to you. They weren't easy words. They were hard words. God said to Samuel, That man that's been mentoring you, Eli The priest? He hasn't been taking care of his family. I told him. And the end of his family will come. It was a judgment. Samuel had to receive the judgment of God for Eli. The next morning Eli comes to him and says, Samuel, what did God say? I'm eager to know. You can only Only imagine Samuel thinking, I don't think you're so eager. I will tell you. No, Eli said, speak all that God has said. And Samuel did. He had to deliver a difficult message. And he delivered that difficult message. It was truth. It was loving truth. And what we find in the life of Samuel is that God began speaking directly into his life. He used the word. In a later chapter, we read the actual words that God did not allow the word, His Word, to fall to the ground Instead, he put it into Samuel. He guided Samuel. He directed Samuel. And in that direction, Samuel grew. And he flourished. And he became the man that God wanted him to become. And that's where we stand. God says, I will speak my truth, my love to you. And I want you to speak my truth and my love to each other. So we speak, according as the text tells us, to the measure of Christ. And you might read that and think, well, I didn't get a very big measure. So that means I don't have very great responsibility. Well, you missed the text. The measure of Christ isn't how much my little cup holds. The measure of Christ is what he gives. It's his greatness, it's his glory, it's the greatness of his forgiveness, it's the greatness of his transformation. I might only hold a little piece of that. That's my problem. It's not God's. God poured it out in abundance. He gave to me and he gives to you the abundant assurance. Of his transformation, of his love. That's the truth. Sometimes we just hold that truth. And we offer wet hands to each other instead of a big cup. Instead of a big bowl, instead of a fire hose God says, according to the measure of Christ, and that measure of Christ is infinite. And how it heals us, how it helps us, how it holds us is infinite. It doesn't matter what we bring. It doesn't matter our failures. It doesn't matter our rough edges. God says, I will smooth those. And I want your words to speak into each other's lives. Speak the truth in the love of God. Of Christ, equipping, building, accomplishing. That same man That same man, Samuel, came to Jesse's house many years later. It was his to appoint a king, the next king. God had passed over. God had already judged Saul. Now he's supposed to, in his old age, perhaps As Eli had been to him when he was young. He was now old. And he comes to the house of Jesse and he says, God has sent me here to anoint one of your sons. So one by one they pass through. No, God says. No, God says. No, God says. No, God says. I can only imagine Samuel wondering, Lord, when are you going to speak? Why the silence? Why the nose? He comes to the end after seven had passed by and he said, Have you nobody else? God didn't send me here for nothing Oh Jesse said, yeah, there's one more. He's out watching the sheep. He's not much, he's just a kid. Bringing. Samuel said. Listening, speaking, hearing is what What God calls us to do. Samuel went to anoint a king. He spoke and he listened. And God calls us here in Ephesians to listen, to speak to each other in light of what He says to us. You are on a journey of identifying a pastor. You have got to speak to each other. You have got to speak truth. To each other. You've got to speak truth in love to each other so that God will speak to you and through you, and you will know. Not your king, but your pastor. That's just a practical application of this text. Speak to each other In love. The truth. And God will walk before you. He will show you. He will bring you To his choice. It's his truth. Hear it. Walk in it. And enjoy his love. Let's pray. Father, thank you for speaking to us. Thank you for giving us voices to speak to each other. Would you give to us, Lord God, words, words for each other, words that would come from you? Words that truly reflect your hope, the hope that we have in Christ, the hope that holds us when we can't hold ourselves. The hope that comforts us when we are in distress, when we don't know the pathway that's coming. Allow your words to come to us and to each other because as a body we're listening and we bring your Hope the measure of Christ, which is great. Father, send us out this week For we know that there are some seated, there are some watching, there are some that are neither seated nor watching, that need your words of hope from Us. So would you give to us those words? Lord Jesus, we pray. Show us the one that you want us to see. Speak to and give to us your words of hope, of truth, of healing, of mercy, of forgiveness That we might be bound up with your presence and with your glory. Take us now. In Jesus' name. Amen.