Almost morning Stand as the disciples, as the guards, as the women. Did they stood in front of an empty grave? And there's a reflection that each of us need to do as we stand before. I'm going to ask that you stand and I will read scripture this morning found in Matthew chapter 28. And we will listen and watch as they stood and as they watched. This is the word of the Lord. Now after the Sabbath, toward the dawn of the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to see the tomb. And behold, there was a great earthquake. For an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone and sat it. His appearance was like lightning, his clothing white as snow, and for fear of him the guards trembled. And became like dead men. But the angel said to the women, Don't be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who is crucified. He is not here, for he has risen. As he said, now come, see the place where he lay. And then go quickly and tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead, and behold, he is going before you to Galilee. There you will see him. See? I've told you. And so they departed quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy. And they ran to tell his disciples, and behold, Jesus met them and said, Greetings And they came up and took hold of his feet and worshipped him. And Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid. Go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee, and there they will see me. And while they were going, behold, some of the guard went into the city and told the chief priests. all that had taken place. And when they had assembled with the elders and had taken counsel, they gave sufficient sum of money to the soldiers, and said, Tell the people His disciples came by night and stole him away while we slept. And if this comes to the governor's ears, we'll satisfy him and keep you out of trouble. And so So they took the money and did as they were directed. And the story has been spread among the Jews to this day. Now the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain to which Jesus said Had directed them. And when they saw him, they worshiped him. But some doubted. And Jesus came and said to them: All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I've commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, even to the end of the day. Let's pray. Father, we stand before you, aware of the empty tomb. Now would you work in our hearts that that awareness might turn to worship? Thank you, Father, for all you have done for us. Take our hearts, empty them of ourselves, and fill with them with Jesus. In His name we pray. Amen. And you may be seated. This uh this chapter, this twenty-eighth chapter, uh does some things that uh uh we don't usually put together, but it's a short chapter, uh and it actually compresses about forty days of time. into one small chapter. And so I want to take the opportunity to take a look at those 40 days compressed. Because in a sense they form one story, one narrative And it's simple. Uh it when you think of uh your experiences of surprise, your experience Experiences of finding things that you didn't expect to find, that is the beginning that we find in this chapter with the beginning of the of the Sabbath towards the dawn of the first day of the week. A lot earlier than most of us get up in the morning. Some of you do before dawn, I know that Uh but the women apparently wanted to make sure they were there early and uh and they got up. But there was this great surprise. And I want to start with that understanding of surprise because Because what we don't know often surprises us. Mary and Mary went to the two. Now, what Mary? And actually the interesting thing about this particular chapter is that there are a lot of Marys. Uh and if you're not sure which Mary it might have been, that's okay. I'm not sure either Nobody's quite sure. Some of them are given a second name, but other than that, we just have Mary and Mary and Mary. We know Mary Magdalene, she was called out as a Mary Magdalene, but then we have Mary and Mary and Mary. So we had two Marys that went to the tomb early in the morning. They were surprised. They were surprised by the earthquake. Uh if you've ever been in an earthquake, you know that there is a Surprise and we've had those earthquakes that have uh rattled across our world in this last year, and you know the immensity of the surprise and the terror that comes We don't know when you start to feel the building shake, and especially if you're multiple stories up, uh will this building come down with me in it? Let me get out of it. And that certainly has been the story uh in our world uh and and the fear that comes with it. And if you've been in an earthquake, especially destructive earthquake, Then the next time you start to feel something shaking under your feet, there's not only the shock and the surprise, but there's a I want to get out of here. I want to be safe. And so it wasn't a surprise that the two women as they came and they felt the earthquake and they see the tomb, it wasn't what they expected. It was not what they expected We know that they were wondering, oh, actually what can we do? We're coming to see the body, to anoint the body, but there's a heavy stone. How are we going to get into this well secured And to their surprise, not only the earthquake, but the empty, open too. And so it was with surprise. But it wasn't just the women either. It was guards. And I think the same thing was true of the the guards. They felt the earthquake. And they see the stone move. And they see the angels there. And they were like men struck dead in fear. There are a lot of different ways you can describe Fear. Uh soldiers. Uh there were women walking up, but the soldiers were flat on their faces with fear. The women had a good deal more uh you know, sense of who they were and and sense Of security than the soldiers did. But there they were. Well, what else might have been the cause of fear? If I was a soldier. I would know that actually placelf in front and having the responsibility to guard that empty tom that tomb meant that it would not be Empty. Meant that nobody would get there. It was my life if I failed. So there wasn't just the shock for the guards of seeing The stone move, of feeling the earthquake, maybe being able to explain the fact that the the stone was moving because of the earthquake, but to recognize that indeed The grave was empty. They had failed. They had failed their job. And uh for a guard to have failed his job would have been his life We too tend to come at this day, this morning, every year, Easter sunrise Easter Day. And what does it do to us? What does it do to you? Well, we try and tend to think it's it's sort of normal. It's part of the calendar. Right? Um the calendars are printed uh with Easter Sunday written on it. So somehow somebody knew a long time ahead that it was going to be printed there and you're gonna be able to read it and put it in your calendar and note Alright, it's there. So it feels normal. Actually it wasn't. And it shouldn't be. Even when it's on the county. We think it's safe. It wasn't safe for the women. It wasn't safe for the guards. And actually it's not safe for us. Why isn't it safe? Because if we believe in the resurrection, it changes our lives. It calls us to do something different. Different, to be somebody different, we have to change. That change is scary. We can put it away and not be afraid by it, but in which case we have not really stood In front of that empty tomb. We think it's under our control because it's on our calendars. But what God does in the resurrection is to take the control out of our hands. And keeps it in his. So if it's not safe, if it's not under our control, then where does it go? Well, um I had to keep it Going through my notes here. I didn't get them print off very well. The the women that were there, let's take another look at them. Because when they came, just like you know, we can imagine, we We come to the tomb, there is a we come to this day, and while there is immediately a sense of fear that happened to them, and there ought to be a fear that comes to them It was. But it's also mixed with a sense of disappointment, and it's perhaps that disappointment that you and I experience even more strongly. And the disappointment that comes with it is this. Why isn't there more? Why isn't there more? Why is it that Easter Sunday seems to come and go and it makes absolutely no difference. So there's disappointment. Let me back up and take a look more deeply at the fear because I want to move from just the surprise to the fear The fear was this. Not only did the soldiers fear for the lives, but the fe the and and not only did the women fear just to see the angel They didn't just come afraid of the dead, but actually there might have been more fear of the living than there was of the dead. But deeper in their mind was a sense of chaos. And deeper in the mind even of the of the guards was a sense of chaos. Chaos of what was going to happen to the followers of Jesus They were aware, the women were fully aware of the plots that had been brewing and growing. They were aware of the other disciples that had fled in fear, not in fear of Jesus, but in fear of what would happen to them. Uh because they were they were the wrong people. They were following the wrong man. Fear. What would life be like? without Jesus for the women. Uh they were used to experiencing his presence. They were used to hearing his teaching voice. They were used to seeing his miracles and raising people. Healing people, comforting people. They were used to those things. What would now life be like without Jesus? And now there there is Jesus Is he or isn't he? So there was a sense of confusion, the sense of fear of the unknown. We too often fear What we don't know. So if you stand this morning in front of the empty tomb, as it were, and you're not sure about your life. You don't know what's coming. You simply have joined all the rest of us. I don't know what's coming. I don't know what's coming in my life. Sometimes it's simply the fear. Of the unknown. Maybe we fear death. Maybe we fear our future. Maybe the resurrection actually simply seems clear. Quaint like I don't know some strange religious happening that some people believe in, but surely I don't need to believe in it. He may have friends. I have friends. They don't want to talk about death. That's the unknown. You can get sick. And you know everybody's gonna die. You're gonna die. I'm gonna die. But we don't talk about it. It's as if it's not really there. We can just brush it away. I've neighbors, friends. And talk about that stuff. I don't want to talk about that. I'll just be missing an action. And where are you going to be? What's going to happen? Well, I don't know. I don't believe in that. Why don't we Wanna believe because we're actually afraid of what it might be. Of what it might be. What's it like? We fear that our faith isn't real. I believe in Jesus. In the resurrection? After all, I'm a Christian. But is my faith real? Is it sufficient to hold me in difficult times? When I don't understand what's coming next? Is my faith sufficient? And I actually fear it is not. It's not able to hold me. And so, like Mary, and we don't know if this is the Mary that was Jesus' mother or the other Mary, but we only know it wasn't Mary Magdalene who was Rose But like Mary, we tend to simply grip, hold on. The scripture says clasping Jesus' feet. Because we cannot fathom what might not be known. know what the next step is. What the rest of our journey might look like. What the rest of my life I can't fathom it. So let me just hold on to what I have. Let me hold on to the To the salary that I have, for example, because I'm afraid of changing a job. Let me hold on to my children in the way that they were. Those of us that have watched our children grow and grow and grow, we think, well, when they were young, we struggled with them trying, tumbling When they grow up, sometimes our str our children's struggles are greater than just crying and stubbing their toes or Banging their nose. And we're afraid of letting that go. We can't hold it. So our fear of the unknown. is simply to ask myself the question. And I want you to ask, I think you've already asked it, is indeed Jesus. Evil. Maybe just hold on to it. Maybe just hold on to your children. Just hold on to where they are. Just hold on to a memory. But what God says No, there's more. There's more trust me for what's more. Trust me for what's next. The women came with fear. They also came with doubt. And if you were to look at some of these verses, you would see the doubt that comes Again and again. Verse eleven certainly picks that up. While they were going, behold, some of the guard went into the city, told the chief priests all that had taken place. So actually the soldiers doubted. They doubted, I think, the excuse that they were being given. The excuse was, well listen, just tell everybody that that you fell asleep. And while you fell asleep, the dis Jesus' disciples came, rolled the stone away, and took his body away. Well, the problem with that story was it would cost them their lives. So No, I I doubt that that story is going to help me. Well the chief priest said, well let's don't worry about it. We'll pay off The governor. We'll make sure that you're okay, that you're covered. We'll pay them off if we need just like we'll pay you off. So they receive their money, the governor gets his money, everybody's happy But there's this lingering doubt, is it really enough? Are the chief priests really going to help? I think actually the soldiers just doubted The women doubted too. The women doubted one actually stays back. Why run and tell the rest of the disciples that Jesus has risen? I'm not sure he has. I just see an empty grave. I don't see a loving Jesus. And so Mary, one of the Marys, stays back Doubting. Doubting what they saw was true. The disciples doubted. Once the women reached them, In fact, Scripture tells us in Luke chapter 12 that when the disciples heard it, they said, it's just an idle tale. It's not true. It can't be true. Jesus cannot be alive. We saw his body. We know he's dead. What kind of a conspiracy theory is this that you're cooking up? No, they doubt. They doubt. You know, uh many of us live on this um sort of saying, and I confess I'm one of them. If something is too good to be true, It helps me navigate uh all of the crazy things that go on. It's like, you know, I can make you rich. Yeah, right, you're gonna make me rich I don't think so. So I I not only doubt those things, uh but I'm pretty sure that it's not gonna happen. Here we are with the disciples. Here we are with Mary. And we doubt. So we have our And I think one of the things that we struggle with and that people in our lives and our friends, our family, maybe, maybe yourself, have struggled with the most is simply doubting. Like the disciples. Is it true? Is it really true? And if it's true, what difference does it make? So what That so what is a so what of doubt. I don't think the resurrection really makes a difference. It's not really sufficient. It doesn't seem hopeful. Doesn't seem practical. It just seems like it's a religious teaching, thought, not hopeful. for my life. I'm going to doubt it. I'm going to sort of place it, the idea of a resurrection, the idea of God living with me. I'll place that Alongside of cute little bunnies and colored eggs. I don't have to believe any of it. So I package it all into one place and I put doubt But that's not the only place that we find ourselves standing. And so I want you to also peer with With me at what verse 17 says. Jesus comes, the eleven disciples go to Galilee to the mountain where Jesus addressed. Later and they see him. They'd seen him before, but now they see him again. So we're condensing these these forty days. And they worshipped him. But if you look Look at that a little just a little more closely, verse seventeen. They worshiped him, but some doubted. Now the soldiers didn't doubt, actually. They um didn't doubt at this point they forty days later hadn't been any consequences. They had their money, right? They got paid off. That's what they were there for. They got paid off. And in that payoff, there was certainly no worship. But the disciples were different. Now, what is worship? What is worship? There's at least one definition of the uh comes to me uh comes to us I want to bring it to you from John MacArthur. I like his definitions. It's a little uh a little lacking, but I want to add something to To it. But his definition is that true worship is any expression of obedience, of praise, of honor, of adoration, of gratitude offered to the true God. God by a regenerate soul that knows the truth about Jesus, about God, and loves him. Think about that. Any word, any action, uh any praise, any honor, So there was Mary. Mary falls at Jesus' feet. But the other Mary runs back to the disciples. One looked to be worship, the other seemed to be Well, what was it? It was also worship. She ran in obedience. That's what the angels had said. Go! Don't stay. Go. Sometimes we have this idea that worship is uh something that I cook up inside of myself. Uh it's something that uh somehow uh i is just a an emotion of feeling and it is I emote I feel. I feel God's presence. I feel God's certainty. But it's also obedience. And it's that obedience that we often need to see. So it wasn't just You know, Mary's clasping at Jesus' feet, unless the moment pass, and the other Mary disobey or o obeys. It wasn't that one had disobeyed and one obeyed. They were both obeying, both worshiping. And the disciples worshiped too, but they had doubts. Even though Jesus met with them for forty days You may have come through some religious experience in which you feel like God has met with you. Maybe in some aw Maybe you've seen God do something. Maybe he's answered prayer. He does. That experience It's to say, well then maybe I've worshipped God, but I'm not sure. I'm not sure if I really believe. If I really can believe. I still have my doubts Well the disciples doubted the authority. Maybe they also doubted the commission when Jesus said, listen Go, just like the angels had told Mary, go and make disciples. Oh, well, going and telling the disciples is one thing, but making disciples is something else. How can I begin to believe that the authority of Jesus Christ is going to bring about the effectiveness of my making disciples? And I will ensure you that um actually you cannot make anyone follow or obey You can tell them the news. Just like Mary went and told the disciples the news. He is alive, he's risen. Kept right. Two of them said, Well, at least we want to go see. So Peter and John run down. Also amazed. Because what The women said is true. But they still didn't fully comprehend. Meanwhile, there were other disciples that couldn't believe it, and you know that story It was Thomas who said, I won't believe, I cannot believe, unless I can put my finger into the nail hole, my my hand into the wound of his side. I can't believe it. I have to see it. Touch it with my own experience. So our worship is not going to be measured. Even in the clasping of feet, or in amazement, or just in understanding the authority of God. Mental understanding. Our worship happens when we obey. I can't make you do it, and you can't make anybody else do it. But obedience comes from our heart. It was the disciples who had to say, I will follow. So his authority, his authority Was sufficient. It was enough for every need, for every circumstance. You can be sure But you can also be sure that God will be with you That Jesus will remain with you. He will find you. It doesn't matter if it's a shadow of your life. It doesn't matter if it's a sorrow. It doesn't matter if it's a sadness. It doesn't matter if it's a searching, gripping doubt that you hold. Doesn't matter if it's a suffering. It doesn't matter if it is the sobbing of your heart. Know that Jesus will be with you. And you say, well, why is that so important? Because I am living, you are living, and we need to know that in our suffering, in our sorrow, in our sadness We have one who accompanies us who will say, I will always be with you. The sorrow, the sadness will not overwhelm you. The doubt does not need to drive your day. Maybe you've never trusted Maybe you have lapsed in your trust, in your faith. When was the last time I actually thought about walking with Jesus? Jesus. It's been a long time. And so you look at it and you think, well, maybe it's been a long too long. Maybe the doubt, the fear, the uncertainties, maybe those are the things that I'm more in touch with The fear of what's going to happen to me, the fear of what's going to happen to my children, the fear of what's going to happen to my friends, the fear of what's going to hap The fear of what's going to I did I sometimes I just get overwhelmed as it might with my own fears. So if you've lapsed, if you've weakened in your trust, if you're like the disciples, if you're like Mary, this is a Mary saw a man in the garden, thought of So she falls down at his feet and grasps, clasps his feet and said, Please tell me. Please tell me where he is. Where's Jesus? Jesus simply looks at her and says, Her name, Mary. Today. Hear your name. Hear your name. Hear Jesus speak your name And speak to him now. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, this morning Before an open tomb and the story of the open tomb, we confess our sin of unbelief. Lord Jesus, would you receive now me and my doubts and my faith? Make me to know you, to feel your presence, to know your forgiveness. So Lord. Jesus this morning I want to surrender back to you. The things that I've had held as my rights, my authority. I give them back to you, Lord Jesus, to your authority. Take my sorrow, take my sin, take my sadness, take my What I feel is suffering. Take the doubts that search my heart and empty it. Take the things that seem So uncertain and fill them with your presence. Receive us into That presence, Lord Jesus. That we might know you, and that we might know the power of the resurrection. Christ in us. In his name we pray. Amen.