I want to base say a special thanks for the bulletin cover. It reminded me of another purpose of stones in my life That's a picture of a Karen. The Karen that has guided me in many mountain journeys. A stack of stones. Sometimes you would lose the way if it weren't for one A stack of stones along the way. Stones have an important place. And this morning we're going to read Joshua IV And it gives to us some important questions. And I want you to wade through that chapter, this chapter, with me and think about the questions. that are raised in this particular text. So let me read. Look with me if you have it. And please stand as we read. I think yep, we're on the screen, so that's good Uh let's read as we uh let me read as you look at it and uh read along, think along with me. When all the nation had finished passing over the Jordan, the Lord said to Joshua, Take twelve men from the And command them, saying, Take twelve stones from here, out of the midst of the Jordan, from the very place where the priests feed And bring them over with you and lay them down in the place where you lodge tonight. Then Joshua called the twelve men from the people of Israel whom he had appointed. A man from each tribe. And Joshua said to them, Pass on before the ark of the Lord your God, into the midst of the Jordan, and take up each of you a stone upon his shoulder, according to the number of the tribes of the people of Israel. That this might be a sign among you. When your children ask in time to come, what do these stones mean to you? Then you shall tell them that the waters of the Jordan were cut off before the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord when it passed over the Jordan. The waters of the Jordan were cut off. So these stones shall be to the people of Israel a memorial forever. And the people of Israel did just as Joshua commanded, and took up twelve stones out of the midst of the Jordan, according to the number of the tribes of the people of Israel. And they carried them over with them to the place where they lodged and laid them down there. And Joshua set up twelve stones in the midst of the Jordan, in the place where the feet of the priest Bearing the Ark of the Covenant had stood, and they are there to this day. For the priests bearing the ark stood in the midst of the Jordan until everything was finished that the Lord commanded Joshua to tell the people. According to all that Moses had commanded Joshua. The people passed over in haste. And when all the people had finished passing over, the ark of the Lord and the priests passed over before the people. The sons of Reuben, the sons of Gad, and the half tribe of Manasseh passed over, armed before the people of Israel, as Moses told them. About forty thousand ready for war passed over before the Lord for battle to the plains of Jericho. On that day the Lord exalted Joshua in the sight of all Israel. And they stood in awe of him, just as they had stood in awe of Moses all the days of his life. And the Lord said to Joshua, Command the priests, bearing the ark of the testimony, to come up out of the Jordan. So Joshua commanded the priests, Come up out of the Jordan. When the priest bearing the ark of the covenant of the Lord came from the midst of the Jordan And the soles of the priests' feet were lifted up on dry ground, then the waters of the Jordan returned to their place and overwhelmed its banks as before. And the people came up out of the Jordan on the tenth day of the first month, and they encamped at Gilgal on the east border of Jericho. And those twelve stones which they took out of the Jordan, Joshua set up at Gilgal. And he said to the people of Israel, When your children ask their fathers in times to come, what do these stones mean? Then you shall let your children know. Israel passed over this Jordan on dry ground. For the Lord your God dried up the waters of the Jordan For you until you pass over, as the Lord your God did to the Red Sea, which he dried up for us until we passed over. So that all the peoples of the earth might know that the hand of the Lord is mighty, that you may fear the Lord your God forever. Let's pray. Lord God, you are mighty forever. Yesterday, today. Tomorrow. Today we ask, as we have heard your word, impress it upon our hearts. That we might not just be hearers of the word, but activators, doers. For there are many things in our lives, and we need now to see your face We need to see Jesus, to know his mercy, to know his grace, to know the certainty of your presence. We give ourselves to you. In Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. No, I've had the joy of walking with you for a long time. And uh So I know some of the stones that your feet have turned on. The struggles in your families. The struggles in the church. That's I guess one of the things that happens when you walk together. You know them. And as I thought of this text and prayed through it It gave me an opportunity to pray through each one of your lives. You've got stones. I've got stones. There have been floods. A lot of floods. And we need to hear what it is. Now this passage actually has a parallel passage. If you want to read it later, you're welcome to. And Deuteronomy 27 actually gives us a sense that that when God called them to set up an altar, they actually set up two altars on two different mountains. There was a valley in between. And it's said that probably not in today's world, but in that time A person who was speaking as they would speak then without a PA system could be heard from one side and the other. And so these two mountains When the covenant of God was spoken and read, the blessings and the curses of God were heard by the people. And we walk as the people of God and we hold to the blessings, but we know That there's a flip side in the coin. And we watch that flip side. And it often happens. Sometimes it happens in our families. And it creates pain for us, for others. So there were these two mountains, Mount Gerizim and Mount Ebel. Ebel was actually in Samaria. Think about history. Samaria is where the Samaritans were, the hated people Scripture has always been about the division of peoples. So we just had this presidential election. The division of peoples is not new It's been with us all through humanity, all through history. And the division of God's people isn't new It's been with us all through history. And so the fact that one mountain was in the middle of where people were hated by the other people, and hated the other people, by the way. It was a part of the curse, not the blessing, but the curse. The failure to hold the blessing of God and the covenant of God. So this passage fundamentally is about stones of memory. Stones of memory. This uh this week has been sort of the last couple weeks have been a little bit crazy for us. I'm gonna head down to Florida uh as soon as we're done But I have extended family like some of you have extended family that are estranged And uh hopefully we're gonna go back uh we're gonna go down and see a nephew that I haven't seen in I don't know, fifteen years. Estranged. It's part of what happens in our families. It's not the way we'd like to see covenant faithfulness. So the pain of loss the pain of the loss of fellowship, the pain of the loss of of relationships. All of these things fit into our stories. And here you have the Israelites who had left a country and wandered around the wilderness. Because God promised them there's something better. But they couldn't believe it. They couldn't hold it And so because they couldn't believe that they couldn't hold it, God let them wander around the wilderness for 40 years And at the end, even Moses didn't get to go into the promised land. Why? Because he too couldn't believe God He only got to see it. Now if you get a map out that actually traces where the Israelites went, it's a crazy map. That little red line sort of wanders all over the place. So when you come to this place in Joshua chapter 4 You have got to ask yourself the question, was this really necessary? Couldn't God have found a shorter way? Well, of course he could have He knew the map. Couldn't the Israelites have found a shorter way? Well, Moses knew the wilderness very well. He could have found a shorter way. So that's the first question that we have to ask, and that this text asks of us: Is God's way necessary? Now think about your own life. Think about the stones, the stumbles, the problems, the pains. And surely you're asking yourself that same question. Is God's way necessary? Did I have to have this happen? Well, no. And well yes. Why yes, if it's no. Am I talking on the two sides of my mouth? You know where I'm going. Well, no, it wasn't really necessary, but yes, it really was. And it really was because God needed the Israelites to see him do a great thing. They'd seen him do great things before, and they forgot them. So they needed to see him do a great thing again. Understand the great thing. There was enormous danger in crossing where they did. As you read the text, if you got a little bit confused about how many times they crossed and how many times God told them to do this, and uh you know it seems like we repeated it about three times as we read the text. Sometimes the Hebrew storytelling is doing that just to make a point It's not really to confuse us, it's to make the point. And the point is, y'all are going to cross this river at its flood stage. Yes, you could have crossed around the bottom of the Dead Sea where there was no river at all, but you're going to go across the top where the river is in its flood stage. It's overflowing the banks. Some scholars have guessed that the stopping so that a couple million people could pass Created a wall of water that was perhaps two miles wide, 120 feet tall. That compare that to a dam. Right? Boom. And you're gonna walk with your children in front of that You're gonna walk slow? No. You're gonna double tie. That's the picture. Was it necessary? It was necessary to see God's power. God said, I am with you, because where you're going requires my presence, and it requires your trust. Do you get it, Israel? And he's telling you this morning, where you're going Requires my power and my presence and your trust. Do you get it, people of grace? That's the first question. Second question. When retrieving the stones The question is, is God enough? There's a little Hebrew confusion. uh if you don't mind me saying so in this text. I don't mean the confusion of the Israelites, I mean the confusion of the words It's not clear, it is clear, first of all, that the people passed over in haste. So we've got that that sense. But we don't know if the words that are used mean they passed on And these twelve men had to go back. Everybody went. And now Joshua says, now go back and get the twelve stones. Or whether what actually was happening was that the the ark comes in the middle, stands in the middle, we n we've got that one, and whether the twelve men hung back And when all of the people had gone, then they picked up their stones and followed them, or they followed the ark, the actual process isn't completely clear from the text. So, you know, this go back, go forward, that word can be translated and is translated in scripture differently It doesn't actually matter. Because the point is that Ark was not where It might have been if the ark was what was holding the water back when those men carried those stones. And get it, everybody else was going in haste. But the twelve men who were told to carry the stones on their shoulder might guess is that the shouldering of them was not like this. It was probably wrapped in a goat rope. I don't know, almost a duck a desk And strapped that over their shoulder and the boulder would have been probably as big as a man could have held. Or carried. Alright? You don't run with it. You struggle with it. So you got here's the picture. This mass of people have gone across The Ark of the Covenant follows them, and you got twelve guys coming along behind. Laboring with her boulder. Is God still enough To hold that mountain of water that is getting taller and bigger is God enough Often we look to human interventions, to circumstances Rather than to God. The ark is going to hold it back. God is somehow magically in the ark. Well, the ark did represent the presence of God, indeed. But the Ark didn't hold it back. God held the waters back. And we look to the circumstances around us, we look to somebody, and we think Surely, this has been my salvation. Maybe you look in the mirror and say, I need to be the salvation of this situation. In my family, in my home, in my life. I need to do it. I um I've even prayed for that. When Debbie was kidnapped now more than fifty years ago And uh I thought I could carry not just a boulder on my shoulders, but the weight of the world I remember praying that she would be released in a way that it was impossible for anybody to claim that they had brought that release. To pass. But in my heart I thought, Lord, that's okay for everybody else, but make me important. You get it, don't you? I want to be the center. Well, if you've read the story, you know what happened. God didn't answer my heart desire, he answered my prayer. And he said I'm gonna move you out of the way, Carl. Because if I don't, then I don't get the glory. So we want the glory. And the question is, is God enough? Not am I enough? Not can God somehow help me see where other circumstances have changed and that, oh, aren't these circumstances wonderful? Didn't the vote work out wonderfully? Didn't this happen wonderfully, just the way I wanted it to happen What God's trying to help us see is He is enough. And in the Israelites' lives and journey, they had to see God is enough. Not only is it necessary, but God is enough. Well, there's a third question. And the third question, when they were setting up the stones by the edge of the river, and then later set up the stone, set up more stones. At the other mountain is this will we remember God? Will we remember God? So the text tells us, you know, in times to come your children will see this pile of stones. And so what do these mean? What's the meaning of these things? And the answer will be a rehearsal of the struggles. In our lives and in our families, we do rehearse struggles That's the story. And we tell that story. And it's actually okay to tell the story of when I failed, of when we failed. Of wishing man, I wish I hadn't done that. Although often we don't ever put that in there, we just say, I wish he wouldn't have done that done that. I wish she wouldn't have done that. You know it's like no, I wish I wouldn't have done, but I did We tell the story, but the point of the stones was to say that's the story, but God But God, God delivered us on dry ground, impossible, but He did it Yes, we must remember God. At the moment when the nation got on the other side, when Israel got on the other side, In fact, you could even back it up and say, well, as they were rushing across and they see the ark and they see the stones, maybe that they're going to be chosen. What they could remember was their fear, what they could see was their fear. Fear, fear, fear. Sounds sort of like what we've been hearing the last couple weeks about what's going to happen in our nation, right? Fear, fear, fear. Remember fear. So we remember fear. And then they got to the other side What do they immediately think and see? Relief, right? We made it. And and here come these twelve guys slowly walking, bearing their burden. And when they hit the side, and the text says, immediately the Jordan River began to return to its course. They all breathed a deep sigh of relief. We were not in it. We are beyond it. Amazing. Relief. No. It's not about remembering fear. It's not about remembering relief Although often when we tell our stories of pain, of loss, of conflict, of failure, what we remember is the fear of the relief. What God gives us these things for is to remember God. That's why He gives them. But God, God Delivered me on dry ground This is a transition, this moment in Israel's history. It was a transition to the promised land. It was led by Joshua. We know that. Today, you and I are led by a greater Yeshua, Jesus Christ. He leads us that we might remember his salvation. His presence. And he calls us to follow, he calls us to trust. He calls us to remember that redemption. You know, it brings us finally to the last question. The question was: what was God's purpose? Because when we remember, when we remember God, when we remember God's promises and that God is leading us forward, not back, but forward. Uh no matter how many times we sometimes think, we're taking a step backwards. We love our children when they're babies, and then They grow and they sometimes do dumb things and sometimes they do dumber things. I'm going down to my grandson who Likes to do dumb things and suffers from it. I wish he didn't. But then I wish I didn't do dumb things too God's purpose is to lead us forward. His covenant is still ahead of us, but it also holds us. His promises are not yet finished. That Yeshua Jesus Christ is still walking ahead of us. So the purpose of the stones is to remember that we might worship. That's why they got the stones. It wasn't just to empty out the bottom of the river It wasn't just to create a burden for twelve men to get across. It wasn't just to do a feat of saying, look what we did. It was that when they got on the other side, they could worship the Lord their God. And in that worship, that they might Remember. They would worship a God who sees his people through trouble. They would worship a God who redeems his people through failure. That they would worship a God who accompanies his people in pain. So when you recall the stones, You, where Christ has redeemed you, where Christ has given you what you could not give or grant or buy or secure for yourself. That which is impossible for you, he has done for you. And he has said It's not just for you. It's for the nations. It's that all might see. And so we do it in community. We encourage each other, but this is what God has done. It's an incredible thing. This was a nation, twelve tribes. And that we are a church. God's actually given us his table. Isn't that amazing? Jesus was led up on a mountain. In the spirit. And Satan tempted him. He said, You see these stones? Turn them to bread. Stones. Again, stones. Remember them. You remember Jesus' words. No, it's not stones. It's the bread of life. It's the word of God that dwells in us. So God gives us the memory of his word, his living word, his presence with us, Christ crucified. Christ risen For me, for you, and we do it together, it is our Stones of memory. It is our altar of sacrifice. Beloved in Jesus Christ I know your lives. I know I don't know all of your lives. And I don't know all of the details. Aren't you glad? But I know enough of them to know a lot of the pain. And I know enough of the journey of this congregation to know the pain. But I also know the Savior. And I know that together we may remember who God is. That He is enough. And that we may worship at His feet. He brings us this way So we might see him. I want to pray. As I pray, I want you to silently confess. Bring maybe some of the rocks, some of the hard places of your journey before the Lord. Remember them. It's good to do. Father, we bring our hearts to you. We bring our lives to you. We bring our journeys to you. And when we look back, we sometimes wonder how we've arrived where we are. But then we lift up our eyes and we see you. We see Christ Jesus, our Savior. Who has brought us to this place, who has given to us grace That's not only been sufficient, but abundant. And we know that going forward, even though the burdens may still be heavy. That we don't walk alone. We walk by your grace in your presence And we walk with your people. And your covenant promises keep us. We don't know how long you tarry. But we know that until you do, you will hold Because you are faithful. You are enough And you bring these things into our lives that we might learn to trust you again and again. And again. Would you fill our hearts with a deep sense that we have walked in your presence? We have walked with your people. To another side, and have worshipped at the rock of remembrance. Jesus Christ. We bring all of our lives before you In Jesus name. Amen.