Who alone has immortality, who dwells in unapproachable light, whom no one has ever seen or can see, to him be honor and eternal dominion, amen. As for the rich in this present age, charge them not to be haughty, nor to set their hopes on the uncertainty of riches, but on God who richly provides us with everything to enjoy. They are to do good, to be rich in good works, to be generous and ready to share, thus storing up treasures for themselves as a good foundation for the future. So that they may take hold of what rich is of what of that which is truly life. Amen. Thanks, Angie. Please be seated. You've heard um this before, I'm sure. If you think that nobody cares about you, just miss a payment or two. Right, um someone asked why I didn't report my credit card when it was stolen because the thief was spending less Okay, so we're talking about money again. We've talked about money a lot. Jesus talks about money a lot. We're talking this is in some sense the last week, but then next week we're going to talk about how there's hope for the church. Or doing anchor of hope. The resurrection of Jesus is our sure and steady anchor of hope, and it uh connects us to our life's issue. And so today we're looking at how the gospel applies the resources, material things, and it and how it uh shows our relationship to those things. Our love for the gospel, our love for Jesus. Our our faith has an impact on what we would do with our stuff. Just imagine if you actually did win the power Powerball. What would you do with the money? What would you do with the money? Um 20 million, 30 million, 50 million, 100 million dollars, what boat would you buy for me to run? What luxury apartment would you stay in? What vacations would you go in? Would you be tempted to buy for yourself an actual Iron Man suit Or you could fly and zap people or a Batman mobile. Yes. Would you want to go to space? But you can do now. Or would you Feed the hungry, right? Get clean water for the world, which of course we should do, right? Um Wealth doesn't last forever, of course. Empires rise and empires fall. Wealth can come through a ton of hard work or can come in a flash You can lose your wealth overnight, or you can squander it away over time Whether we have a lot or a little, the point that Paul is making here is that we can have hope in Christ and we should not put our hope in money. Now these are easy things Things to listen to. We all can nod our heads. Yes, we know this, we've heard this. It's still hard to do. And so it's a reminder. Even though we know it, it's a reminder for us That we should not put our hope in money. Of course, we can't take it with us. And there's always a risk that we might think we can when we put our trust in it. A husband was noticing that his wife wasn't paying uh that much attention to him in the last few years, so he he said, Honey, I sort of feel like you only married me because my grandfather gave me ten million dollars. And she said, Oh sweetie, it doesn't matter to me. Me who gave you the money. Okay, our first point is true hope. Paul contrasts hope in money versus hope in God, and we know that hope in wealth is dangerous because it creates uncertainty, right? But here we are in twenty twenty four just like Paul was in sixty fifty sixty AD with economic downturns Of course we've gone through as a nation the Great Depression, the Great Recession, the housing markets, inflation. Um We've been hearing a lot about the price of eggs and gas and tariffs And four oh one K's and and policies affect these things, right? And then our own personal, we have job losses or hits on our portfolios or whatever. We didn't get the bonus, there are financial squeezes And it sure seems like money makes the world go round. This is something that we talk about all the time in our homes, in our relationships as a nation. on the news as we think about inflation and power as money gives influence and gives advantages. I was reading this week about um you know that Harvard's been in the news a lot and the this conflict with Trump and of course Harvard has like a trillion dollars in its bankroll And um Harvard purport purportedly uh is all about academics. Um and Harvard only allows three point five of applicants get into Harvard unless you're an athlete. Okay, so they have special rules for athletes. But the thing about the special rules for athletes is like for example the tennis You don't just show up to Harvard and get on the tennis team. You have to have had invested hundreds of thousands in tennis lessons, right? To get to be good enough to be on a college tenth scene doesn't mean you just play. high school tennis. So most of the time the tennis players you know went to a school in Florida. So in other words, they're allowing maybe the not the academically But people who have influence and power and those families. Those are the people that are making the rules, loosening the rules to get in. The Bible does not teach that wealth is bad, right? Abraham was wealthy, David was wealthy, Solomon was wealthy, but the people that buried Jesus were wealthy. In the epistles, Lydia was a merchant. She was wealthy. But the Bible does teach that money can be dangerous And seductive, right? Enslaving, destructive. The rich young ruler wouldn't give it up to follow Jesus. We talked about this before that we can be tempted when we have money to think that we're self-sufficient. You can say, I've done this. I made this happen. Even though I might have inherited a long line, right? I got to where I am because it didn't just show up out of nowhere. But it's me. And and when we think that way It blinds ourselves to the true nature of ourselves, it blinds ourselves to the gospel. And in a sense, that self-sufficiency is the enemy of the gospel. Right? I did it my way, Frank Sinatra, can lead to misery. in our passage it says, as for the rich in this present age, charge them not to be haughty. In first Timothy, where is First Timothy? Six, ten First Timothy six ten says But those who devo desire to be rich fall in temptation into a snare into many senseless and harmful desires that plunge people into ruin For the love of money is the root of all kinds of evil. It is through this craving that some have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many griefs. In Matthew six twenty four we read No one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. Matthew thirteen twenty two says as for what was sown on the good soil oh twenty two As for what was sown among thorns, this is the one who hears the word, but the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and it proves Unfruitful, right? The Bible says true hope only comes in Christ alone. Amen. The Bible says that Jesus became poor so that we can be rich. Amen. Wealth is a temptation But Jesus all Jesus has for us is forever. Wealth is a rusty unsure faulty anchor that we shouldn't attach our lives to, but Jesus is There's a whole uh happiness research field, which sounds like a fun job. Right? Research happiness and they they don't have you know there's a lot of different ways to do it, but one just simple one is to look on the internet searches and typing in iPhone plus happy in the same sense right? Or money plus happy or millions plus happy and you don't find it. What you find for happiness researchers is we know this Relationships, friends, family, pets, community, God. So whether we're rich or middle class or poor, it's not our portfolio Our pedigrees or our incomes that bring us ultimate happiness. It's each other. The world isn't so sure Don Draper has this quote: Happiness is the smell of a new car. It's freedom from fear. It's a billboard on the side of the road that screams reassurance that whatever you're doing is okay. But Jesus says, come The world says greed is good. Jesus says, be on your guard against all greed for one's life. Does not consist in the abundance of possessions. So grace offers freedom from the treadmill where we always have to have And achieve and get and obtain more and more. Because Jesus says we have his inheritance. And he is the true hope. As for the rich in this present age, charge them not to be haughty, nor to set their hopes on the uncertainty of riches, but on God, who richly provides us everything to enjoy. Set your hope on on the Lord who richly provides us with everything to enjoy. One day a man came to his pastor and he said, Pastor I I have a problem. When I made twenty thousand dollars a year, I was able to tithe two thousand dollars on my twenty. But now I make five hundred thousand dollars a year and there's no way I can tithe fifty on that five hundred. So the pastor said, Yes, let's pray. That is a problem. So we prayed and he said, Dear Lord, this man has a problem True problem. I pray that you would reduce his salary to twenty thousand dollars so he could give his tithe the way he should. So we have a true hope, but we also have a true future. Our true hope is in the Lord, right? It's not in money. Our true hope is in the Lord. And we know that. Again, we say that and I I struggle with this. So so when we put our hope not in riches but in God, Paul says when you understand that, when we understand the gospel, when you understand those riches, that's our hope, that's our treasure, it sets you on a future. We've heard this And it's probably because uh the churches he was in care of or was writing letters to were poor for the most part. And Christians In this day and age in the Roman world were despised and marginalized and cast out. And they encountered great hardships, but some did have money. How should they use it? And Paul says, you have the opportunity to do good. You can be rich in good works. You can share with others. This is in 618. Start at seventeen again. They are to do good, to be rich in good works, to be generous and ready to share. To do good, to be rich in good works, and to share with with others. And you know, there's not a lot of real qualifiers here. Like to whom? Christians? Non-Christians? Are they included? Um you know, obviously they didn't have immigrants in the way we think of it because they don't have borders and border crossings and passports and driver's licenses and stuff Like that. But it wasn't like there weren't obvious borders. There were people groups. Like you're not from around here. Where did you come from? You don't talk like us. You don't look like us So there are movements of people that come into them. How does this work with races and ethnicities, Jews and Gentiles? Paul certainly doesn't suggest that every Christian should go into the woods or go into the desert and give everything, single thing away and live as hermits. Right? God does Paul doesn't and God doesn't and Jesus doesn't say you should hate money. Doesn't say that It says, love your neighbor as yourself. Serve. Bless others. This what we have becomes an outflowing of the gospel. And so we're free to love others in service. Because God is generous with us, we can be generous. generous with each other, right? With those who don't have what we have. So of course how we live doesn't give us Grace, uh how we live doesn't give us hope or faith, but because we have grace and hope and faith in It affects how we live. It affects our spirit empowered lives. The fruit of the spirit comes out of the spirit. The good works that we have come out of the good work that God has done in our lives in Christ. In some sense, so that we can uh better see the kingdom of God in our midst. Right? What what we are going to get in the future, we bring in some to the present. I talk about how so we can be trying our best to present Jesus as more believable and beautiful. Jesus is believable, yes. It's true, but he's also beautiful because he's doing things, he's making all things new. And we all have wealth, some amount of wealth. We may give away thousands or millions, or we may give away tens Um we can also use our money to help generate money for others. Julie and I both have been to Peru, involved in uh there's a great work on their called Peru Mission. And they don't only plant churches. They do plant churches and it's a wonderful I've been to their church plants before, Julia has too, but they also make schools and clinics Right? They teach uh jobs. But one of the coolest things they do is they do small loans. Small business loans. And when I'm talking small business loans, I'm talking $200. Right? And so if if two hundred dollars and the the way they do it is they get like three people together and they give the loan to the group And then the group has to pay the loan back. So it's not just one person defaulting. So there's sort of a group dynamic to it all. And sometimes what we're talking about is like a little food truck. I mean not a food truck. You know they have chips and sodas. And then they can fill that for two hundred dollars and sell it and make two hundred dollars. Now we're now we're rolling on this. But you could never get started. And it's a beautiful little thing to give people an agency by using a little bit of money to give them a a small business that they have to run. It creates wealth for them. It's a way to um bless people and show them that it's because we care because we know there's a future for And that's what Paul's talking about in nineteen. Thus storing up treasure for themselves as a good foundation for the future So that they may take hold of that which is truly life. We're looking forward to the new heavens and the new earth and pulling some of that to now. I was just in New Orleans for a little bit and my friend Ray Canada planted a church in New Orleans after Katrina. And so he's been there twenty twenty or so years and he He talks about how New Orleans is the closest place he's been to heaven. And he said it's it's it's that way so that you can get a little taste of what's to come. In the here and now, he said, but it's also the place he's been to that's the closest to hell. And he said, That's true because we need stuff to work on. There's stuff to do because we are not to the heaven yet. And so he feels like you're living in this tension all the time. He said, But you know what? This is his opinion. Not mine, that most of us live in purgatory. Neither heaven nor hell, we never get a taste of either. It's blander than that I don't think he's exactly right. But when we can taste that heaven and show it to others, it's a beautiful thing. It's something to hope for, something to look forward to. Um and we have a present and future hope and Christians have been known for this throughout the ages, right And around nine in around eighty ninety the Didiche was written and it says this share everything with your brother Do not say it is private property. If you share what is everlasting, you should be that much more willing to share things which do not last It's a non-Christian who is reflecting on Christians, and he said that Christians love one another, and from widows they do not turn away their esteem. And did they deliver the orphan from him who treats him harshly, and he who has gives to him who has not without boasting. And when they see a stranger, they take him in their homes and rejoice over him as a very brother For they do not call them brethren after the flesh, but brethren after the Spirit and in God. There's another pagan writer, Lucian, who wrote, Christians despite And Basil the Great, who lived in the fourth century, said it is absurd and disgraceful for one to live magnificently and luxuriously When so many are hungry. This has been a Christian staple. Um that that Christians throughout time have been known for starting hospitals Look at all the hospitals around there. A Baptist hospital, Presbyterian hospital. There's tons of them. Christians are known for starting schools. Harvard was a Christian school. Started to educate ministers. John Knox in Scotland reformed all of the Scottish school systems because no one could read. And eventually Scotland became one of the great places for scholars to grow up because he cared about reading the word of God, teaching people how to read. Schools and colleges and orphanages Taking care of the elderly, adopting people, being on the front of human right issues. Because we know that people have dignity and honor And there is a world to come. Amen. There's a world to come. A world to come without class and inequity. Inequality, injustice, pain, no more sin, no more suffering. Amen And that can take hold of us now. So that we can have solidarity with those who suffer, with those who are poor, with those who are oppressed So our future life directs our present now, so we can give But again, as we talked about, that takes wisdom. How do I know how much or who to whom? Or where we have to pray. There's no formula exactly for this, is there? There's a important book called When Helping Hurts You can help someone so much that they hurt. It goes the wrong direction. So that takes wisdom. And of course, there's still a place for beauty. One way you can start moving is like everything happens To be super efficient. Like I need to know my return on investment for everything. I I I'm gonna think through with my money only in spreadsheets and budgets But Jesus also, when Judas complained about spending too much money, he got rebuked. Think about how awesome the temple was. It took tons of time and money and effort, and the reason was this pictures where the Lord dwells Now the Lord can dwell in a simple tabernacle and in a magnificent temple. So there is definitely still a place for beauty. Remember when the woman wasted her perfume on him He took that as a great honor of love and care. So when we think about that imagine back or think about maybe you're in that place is when you're in your twenties or thirties and you uh understand that you should be investing for your seventies? So you're making decisions in your twenties for a a future that you haven't got yet, but you know is coming Right? We understand this concept. Whether you did it or not, you understand the concept. I want to go back and restart, right? But then imagine your whole life. Same concept. For a heavenly future. Same concept. We're investing to something, this little treasure box The heavenly treasure box. What's going in there for a future that is going to happen? How is that going to affect my Now, how does that change my use of research Ecclesiastes five ten says, He who loves money will not be satisfied with money, nor he who loves wealth with his income. This is all Also vanity. in January and on her fridge I saw my dad's handwriting. I see my dad's handwriting it's like oh wow and I could tell it was it was late in life because it was all sort of It's Scraggly. Um and it was the John Wesley quote Make as much as you can, save as much as you can Give as much as you can. John Wesley. Um that's something that he embodied and passed down to his granddaughter daughter in actual writing and I I wanted to take it for myself and put it on my fridge. Oh she can have it. She can have it. What did Jim Elliott say Famous quote He is no fool who gives what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. The rules of the Lord are true and righteous altogether, more to be desired than they are gold, even much fine. Gold. Sweeter also than honey the dripping of the comb. Moreover, by them is your servant worn, and keeping them there is great reward. More desired are they than gold, even much finer And Jesus says, Come to me who all you rest, for I will give give all you who are weary, for I will give you rest. Jesus also says, I am the way The truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. Money says that too. Come to me. And I will give you rest. Money says, I am the way and the truth and the life. So we need to decide which mask. Enter will follow today. And then and then