We are going to be continuing our series in Paul's letter to the Ephesians. We've been in it for several months now, and next week Pastor Stan is going to close it out for us, but uh this week we're going to be looking at the first At Ephesians 6, verses 10 through 20. And so if you have a Bible, I encourage you to open it up so you can follow along. If you don't have one, a few Bibles, you can find it there on page 1246. And you can follow along as we read God's Word. So I'll give you a moment to find it, and once you do, I'll invite you to please stand as we honor the reading of God's Word together this morning. Hear now God's word from Ephesians six, starting in verse ten. Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against Against the schemes of the devil. Therefore, take up the whole armor of God that you may be able to withstand in the evil For your feet, having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace. one and take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, praying at all times in the Spirit. Spirit, with all prayer and supplication. To that end, keep alert with all perseverance, making supplication for all the saints. And also for me, that words may be given to me in opening my mouth boldly to proclaim the mystery of the gospel, for which I am an ambassador in chains. That I may declare it boldly as I ought to speak the word of the Lord this morning. Let's pray to the Lord together. Father, we need you every hour. More than that, Lord, we need you moment by moment. Yet so often the the busyness of life crowds out our focus and we forget just how desperately we We depend upon you, how uh how truly and deeply we need you. I pray, Lord, that you would pull the curtain back this morning for us and let us see the reality of our spiritual life as we consider this armor of God and the spiritual warfare. Remind us, Lord, that we need a strong Savior to fight a strong enemy. And we pray that you would help us to cling to you. And we pray all this, Lord Jesus, in your name. Amen. Please be seated. Well I would imagine if you've been a Christian for any number of years, this might be a m one of the more familiar passages to you that you You may not have studied it before, but maybe the armor of God is a familiar concept. One of the more uh well-known depictions of this comes to us from The Pilgrim's Progress, where Christian is outfitted with this armor on his journey and he goes on and meets Apollyon who fights him and he he wards him off with these weapons that he's been given. Vivid depiction of spiritual warfare in the reality of spiritual attack that we face in this life This is a well-known passage in Ephesians, and it reminds us of the reality of spiritual warfare and of our need for protection. But at the same time, this passage seems a little bit oddly placed if you think about the overall structure of Ephesians. Right, we've we've said several times that Ephesians kind of breaks in half. The first three chapters emphasize who we are in Christ, and the last three chapters, chapters four through six, focus on how we live in Christ. And Paul starts out there really general. We walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which we've been called. And then he begins to get more and more specific. And in the last few weeks We've been looking at these household codes where Paul tells these Ephesian believers how to live for Christ in the three most basic roles they would have found themselves in in first century life: husband and wife. Parent and child and slave and master. He's going through the this mundane realities of life in many ways, and then all of a sudden he changes course and focuses on the armor of God and spiritual warfare. Much of the focus of chapters five and six are on those mundane things, serving Christ in daily, ordinary life, right? They're not flashy, they're not spectacular. And I think it's helpful for us to remember that that's really most of our lives, isn't it? When we look back on our lives, there are certain high points that stand out, but the vast majority of our days just kind of blur together with the mundane realities of life. I think because most days are rather ordinary, if we're not careful, we might be tempted to think that because they feel so mundane, they might not be as significant. I think that's why Paul focuses on the armor of God here towards the end of the letter where he does. Because he wants you to see that ordinary life is not insignificant. Nothing could be farther from the truth. Every day matters, and we're called to live for Christ in all circumstances. C. S. Lewis wrote a book called The Screwtape Letters, which is a a really vivid depiction of spiritual warfare written from the perspective of a more senior demon, Screwtape, writing to his nephew Wormwood, teaching Wormwood how he ought to tempt his patient. as they call it, the the man that he's charged with keeping from knowing God and and following Christ. And in one letter in particular, he emphasizes this reality that that often subtle temptations are the most effective. Rather than spectacular sins. He says, it doesn't matter how small the sins are, provided that their cumulative effect is to edge the man away from the light and out into the nothing. Murder is no better than cards if cards will do the trick. Indeed, the safest road to hell is the gradual one, the gentle slope. soft underfoot, without sudden turnings, without milestones, without signposts. You see, friends, Lewis there hits on an important point that even the sea seemingly most insignificant things, like the ins and outs and day-to-day of family life, of work, of your time with your friends, they are spiritually significant, either for good or for bad. That's the lesson we really need to see in this pastor this morning. The entire Christian life is a spiritual battle, and so we must equip ourselves with spiritual armor. We're just going to look at three three things in this passage this morning. We're going to look first at why we need the armor, second, what we need to wear, and third, how we are to wear the armor. So let's look first at why we need The armor in verses 10 to 13. He urges them to be strong there. But notice he says, be strong in the Lord. He says, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. Right? There's a spiritual battle to be fought. And they are not strong enough on their own. They need to rely on Christ's strength in order to fight. That's why they need the armor. That's why we need this armor that He's going to lay out for us. We need spiritual armor to fight a spiritual battle. Two times there in that that section in verses eleven and thirteen he says, Put on the whole armor and stand against the devil. It's the Lord who equips us so that we can live for him. He's the one who supplies the weapons that we need. He says we need this because we have such a powerful enemy. You see that come out in verse 12 there He says, we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil. Clearly, this is referring to demonic activity, to Satan and his demons. He wants them to see clearly that there really is an unseen Views of the world and different opinions. They're the enemy is not other people. Don't just look to the symptoms and problems in life, because behind every evil in this world, Satan and his demons are at work. We see glimpses of this in the Old Testament, don't we? We see it with Job as Satan is given permission in order to afflict him We see it in the New Testament. As you read through the book of Revelation, it becomes pretty clear that the conflict between the world and the church is really a picture of the conflict between Satan and Christ. It's true with major things in life, but it's also true of small things of daily life. Every day of our lives is a spiritual battle. Where you have the question, will you faithfully live for Christ, or will Satan successfully tempt you to sin? When you feel disrespected at work, when your kids disobey again and try your patience. When you have an argument with your spouse, when you're hurt by a friend. Friends, the the Christian life is a spiritual battle. Just like Satan fought with Michael over the body of Moses, he fights to get you to turn away from Christ. Just like Satan wanted to sift Peter like wheat, he wants to destroy your soul. Now you and I can never use the excuse when we sin that the devil made me do it. But it really is an important reality that he and his Demons are at work to steal and kill and destroy. The scriptures tell us that he prowls around like a roaring lion seeking who he might devour. There are no insignificant moments In your life. Every moment, the world, the flesh, and the devil are at work like a current to make you drift imperceptibly away from Christ until all of a sudden you can't really see the shore anymore. Paul's warnings here in this passage are like throwing cold water in your face and saying, Wake up! You have to pay attention to what's going on. You have to get ready to fight. Notice the structure here in verses 10 to 13. I think it's really helpful to see. Verses 11 and 13 Basically repeat the same thing. Right? 11 says, put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. And thirteen goes on and says, Therefore take up the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand firm. Right? I think the fact that verses eleven and thirteen repeat the same ideas makes verses ten and twelve stand out even more clearly. Right, verse 10 says, Be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. Because verse 12 says, We do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers and against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness. against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. Do you see the point that he's making there? The enemy is vicious and strong, far more powerful than you realize, and far more powerful than you can handle. But your Lord is stronger. You rely on his strength, and he will see you safely through. And so he's saying, make use of the things That he gives you, put on the whole armor, and he will help you to withstand the devil's attacks. Because Christ is able to save to the uttermost all who draw near to God through him. None can snatch you out of his hand, not even Satan himself. You see, he's making the point that Satan really is strong and powerful, but Christ has bound the strong man. He is the one who first wore this armor. Right? The Old Testament makes this clear in Isaiah as describing the Lord Himself as the one who puts on armor and defeats his enemies. Sinclair Ferguson in his commentary brings that out. He says, these words find their real fulfillment in the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the one who has proved the reliability of God forged armor in the conflict against Satan. Throughout Jesus' life, but especially in the wilderness temptations and in his passion, the armor was tested to the limit. Right? He goes on to say that Jesus is the one who has proved that this armor works. So look to him, rely on his strength, and then put on the armor that he gives you. A few weeks ago we celebrated Reformation Day and we sang a mighty fortress, that great hymn that we love to sing as we remember the Protestant Reformation. And the words just so clearly depict the reality of what Paul is talking about here. He says, For still our ancient foe does seek to work us woe. His craft and power are great, and armed with cruel hate. On earth is not his equal Did we in our own strength confide, our striving would be losing. We're not the right man on our side, the man of God's own choosing. Thoth asked who that may be, Christ Jesus, it is he He, Lord Sabaoth, Lord of hosts is his name, from age to age the same. And he must win the battle And though this world with devils filled should threaten to undo us, we will not fear, for God has willed His truth to triumph through us. The prince of darkness grim, we tremble not for him. His rage we can endure, for lo, his doom is sure, one little word shall fell him. You see, if we're left to fight Satan on our own, we're in deep trouble. But friends, we have Christ. And as long as we find our strength in him, we have nothing to fear, because though we are weak, he is strong. So we need to find strength in Christ, and that means we need to put on the spiritual armor that He gives us. So what is it that we put on? Paul starts by telling them why they need the armor. Because we have a strong enemy in Satan who's far stronger than us, but we also have a strong Savior who equips us with all that we need to resist and withstand the devil, and Satan is no match for him. That's the first thing he tells us. But the second thing he says is what we need to wear in verses 14 to 17. He's already said to put on the whole armor. Now he gives us a list of what we should put on. He starts there with the belt of truth. Mike Allen in his commentary says it this way. He says, truth may not seem expedient or even strategic, but it is to be worn as a belt so that the Christian is bounded by a commitment. to the truth. Truth is fastened and thus not at all a luxury or nonessential. We are to be people of truth, because our God never lies, because his word is truth. And as we live for him, as we serve him in the world, we must be committed to truth and honesty and integrity. A belt may not seem to be that important of armor. But you can imagine how hard it would be to fight if your pants kept falling down. I think that's the imagery we're meant to see here. In in the same way, if you're not living truly Truthfully, if you're not living with integrity, it undercuts any ability you have to resist Satan. It gives him all kinds of extra ammunition to fire at you. You need to wear the belt of truth, and then he says the breastplate of righteousness. Any soldier in battle needs to protect their core. Right? In the past it was the breastplate in the ancient world. Now we might think of a bulletproof vest that needs to be worn. It's easy to see why a breastplate is important armor, but it might not be as readily clear why it needs to be the breastplate of righteousness. Remember, Satan is the accused. Right? He wants to accuse us of sin and to show us that we are unworthy of Christ's love, of his grace, of his salvation. And so it's important to see here that we're not talking about our own righteousness. We need to be covered with the righteousness of Christ. There is a perfect righteousness that can protect us from all of Satan's blows. So that when Satan accuses, you can say, Yeah, you're right. I'm a sinner. I don't stand before God, though, in my own righteousness, but only in Christ's righteousness that's been counted to me. Friends, a breastplate made out of your own righteousness would be so brittle that it would crack at the first hit. But Christ's righteousness is perfect, and it can withstand anything that Satan throws. Next he goes on and talks about the shoes That are the readiness that's given by the gospel of peace. And I think his point there is that that when we have peace in Christ, the peace that passes understanding, that's given to us As we grab hold of Christ and rest upon him alone as he's offered to us in the gospel. When we hold on to Christ and have the peace that he brings, it means we're ready to go wherever he sends us and to do whatever he calls us. He's the shoes. And then he says the shield of faith. Faith is like a shield. Paul says in 2 Timothy, he says, I know whom I have believed. And I am convinced that he is able to guard until that day what has been entrusted to me. You see, he could go on to face suffering and persecution and to face the attacks of Satan because he trusted in Christ to preserve him. Faith is what shields us from Satan's attacks. You can imagine, maybe if you've seen it in in a movie, the massive shield that would have been used in this time period. Many commentators make the point that it's really like carrying around a door. Because of the size of it. It covers your entire body, offers full protection to the body so that no matter what the enemy threw or shot at you, whether spears or arrows or whatever, the shield was strong enough to resist. But there's a really important point that comes into play here. You're not meant to picture this as a lone soldier fighting by himself. Right? In the ancient world often soldiers would fight side by side, so all the shields together would make a wall. You would protect and support one another. And that's how it works in the church. If you're fighting Satan, you're not supposed to fight. Just on your own. You stand shoulder to shoulder with your brothers and sisters to fight together and support one another. So when your faith is weak, they can hold you up. See, this is yet another place in the scriptures that emphasize the importance that you can't live the Christian life on your own. You need to belong to a local church so that you can help them and they can help you. When that happens, friends, you can withstand Satan's attack. By looking to Christ in faith, by trusting Him for help, you can extinguish all His flaming darts. Because the promise is that Christ will build his church and the gates of hell will not prevail against it. Next piece of armor he emphasizes is the helmet of salvation. Right? Helmets obviously are are worn to protect our heads. Some parts of the armor are just meant to keep you from getting injured. But the helmet keeps you from getting killed. I think that's why it's fitting that it's called the helmet of salvation, because our salvation in Christ is like a helmet that protects you. Protects you. No matter what damage Satan might be able to do to you, he cannot rob you of eternal life. The gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable, and none can snatch you out of his hand. Even if he kills the body, he cannot kill the soul. It's having the helmet of salvation that enables us to say, like Paul, who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword? As it's written, For your sake we're being killed all the day long, we're regarded as sheep No in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. Nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Friends, if you're here this morning and you never turned from your sin and trusted in Christ, this is a hope that's held out to you this morning. Morning by Christ Himself. That though God created all things and He made you to live for Him, you turned against Him just like all of us did. We turned to live for ourselves instead of living for Him. He could have left us like that and yet he didn't. He sent his son to come. The Son of God became man to live in our place, perfectly obeying his Father in everything. from their sins and trust in Christ will be saved. If you come to him, he will never cast you out. Come to Christ and have this helmet of salvation that protects you from anything Satan can throw at you. The helmet of salvation. Next he goes on to the sword of the spirit. If you've noticed everything he's listed so far is the armor that he's given us to defend us. Right now he describes the weapon. The sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. It's Scripture. It's God's word. Christ is going to use this sword to defeat his enemies. Right? He did this in the wilderness when Satan tempted him to sin every single time. Jesus answered over and over again, it is written. And eventually Satan left. It's true that when you resist the devil, he will flee from you, and if you fight with God's word, he has nothing to throw at you. This is what Satan what Jesus has already used to defeat his enemies, and when he returns, he's pictured as having a two-edged sword to defeat his enemies. On the last day, God's word will leave all without an excuse. And even now, friends, he subdues us to himself by his word. Because his word is a living and active, it's sharper than any double-edged sword, able to pierce to the division of soul and spirit. of joint and marrow, leaving us all naked and exposed before the eyes of him to whom we will give an account. Friends, there is power in God's Word. It is no ordinary book. It is a lamp to our feet. It is a light to our path. The psalmist asks, how can a young man keep his way pure? Answer, by guarding it upon According to your word. I've stored up my your word in my heart that I might not sin against you. Friends, we are called as God's people to let the word of Christ dwell in us richly. Jesus prayed that we would be sanctified in the truth and then goes on to say, God's word is truth. It's astounding to me how many people call themselves Christians and let their Bibles collect dust on the shelves. You claim to believe in God, you claim to trust Christ, and yet don't seem to care, don't seem to have time to hear what he wants to say to you. We need to read our Bibles. God gave it to you because you need it. People died so that you could read it in English. They weren't burned at the stake so it could sit on your shelf. They were burned because they knew that this book has the power to transform your life if you read it. It is the most important weapon that Christ gives us in the battle against the world, the flesh, and the devil. Don't raise your hands, but I wonder if I were to ask everyone who's read their Bible in the last week to raise their hands, I wonder how many wouldn't be able to put their hands We call ourselves Christians and live like atheists. We need to read God's word When someone loses their appetite for food and stops eating, it's a sign that they're close to death. I think the same is true spiritually. If we stop having an appetite for God's word, It's a sign that there might not be much in the way of spiritual life. If you have no appetite for scripture, friends, ask yourselves if you really know Christ. We know the saying not to bring a knife to a gunfight, but by not spending time in God's word, it's like showing up empty-handed. We must be people of the book. And like any good weapon, we need to train and practice with it so that we know how to use it. We're to do the same with Scripture, to hear it in worship, to read it privately, to read it with your family, to read it with one another. To store it up in your heart so that when the time comes, you won't be empty-handed in battle. And we need the whole armor. Right, Calvin says we we ought to be prepared on all sides so as to want nothing. The Lord offers to us arms for repelling every kind of attack. It remains for us to apply them to use and not to leave them hanging on the wall. Put on the whole armor. Don't be content with just bits and pieces. We need to clothe ourselves with all of it so that we can be people of truth, covered by the perfect righteousness of Christ. Let the gospel give you peace and make you ready for whatever Christ calls you to do. Have your shoes on and ready to go. And grow in faith together and then use it like a shield. Wear salvation like a helmet on your head to protect you from danger and bring your sword to the fight. Don't leave Because Satan's gonna attack without warning, and often his attacks are really subtle, and you don't know you're fighting until you're halfway through the battle. Paul says why we need the armor, and then he tells them what to wear, and we wear the whole armor. And now in verses 18 through 20, he tells us how to wear the armor. And the short answer is this: wear it prayerfully. Pray at all times in the Spirit. Right? We come to the Father in the name of the Son by the power of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is the one who intercedes Seeds with us with groanings that are too deep for words. We pray in the Spirit. And we're told to pray always. We pray without ceasing. If you need to breathe, you need to pray. We're to pray all kinds of prayers, but particularly focused here is prayers of supplication, prayers where we ask God to give us the help that we need. Just notice here, this is a really tangible, practical way that we become strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might by actively depending on him in prayer, knowing our own helplessness and our own weakness. and looking to him to help us, to guide us, to defend us and protect us. It's as if Paul says, get dressed in the armor and then fight on your knees. As we pray, we're to keep alert and to persevere. We've said already, Satan attacks in subtle ways. He's one who dis disguises himself as an angel of light. And so Paul says, now is not the time to kick back and relax. Now is the time to be vigilant, to be alert, to be watchful, to be always ready because all of life is a spiritual battle. And he calls us to pray not just for ourselves, but for all the saints. Right? Not only do we fight together, but we pray for each other that Christ would keep us I just I love how Paul asks for prayer here. I don't tend to think of Paul as someone who needs help to preach. Or as someone who's lacking in boldness. But that's what he prays for. He's been called by Christ to be an apostle, to make Christ known, and he needs the church to pray for him. I was thinking about Paul's relationship with the Ephesians a little bit. this week. You may be familiar that this is a church that he spent probably more time in in the Ephesian church than maybe with any other church that he had planted and and established. He had spent much time with them there, and now he's not with them, but he still needs their prayers for his ministry. Their relationship looks different. But it still continues as he ministers to them through this letter and as they minister to him through prayer. I think it's fitting that this passage would be the last one I preach here as one of your pastors. Because friends, I need you to pray for me. As we go to a new field of ministry, pray for me that the Lord would keep me faithful, that He would give me boldness to make him known. And know that I'm praying for you. That He would do the same for you. That many in Relay and Arbutus and Hail Thorpe would come to know Christ because you are here. And many of you are already doing this, but commit now to praying for your next pastor already, that the Lord would keep him faithful. Give him boldness to proclaim the word freely and faithfully. And let's pray for ourselves and for one another that Christ would help us to stand against Satan and to boldly serve him. Christian life is a spiritual battle. We depend on Christ. We're only strong in Him. Notice there, Paul is winding down the letter just as he started, reminding us that all that we have is only ours in Christ. You can trust that he's going to preserve you and defend you. That the armor that he gives you really works because he himself used it. He's the one who wore that armor as he overcame sin. Sin and death and Satan. The same rulers and authorities and spiritual powers that you and I fight were already defeated by Christ. He disarmed them and put them to open shame by triumphing over them at the cross. Friends, the good news of the gospel is that Satan has been defeated. Yes, he's going down swinging, and every once in a while he lands a painful hit. But he is going down. The outcome has already been decided. Christ is victorious, and we are more than conquerors in him. Let's pray. My Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that your word is living and active and sharper than any two-edged sword. Lord, would you use your word in our lives to sanctify us and make us people of your word that we would carry it with us in our hearts, storing it up in our hearts and practicing it in our lives. That we might be able to faithfully live for you and resist all the temptations that Satan brings our way. Above all, let us cling to Christ and find our strength only in him. We pray this in your name. Amen. Let's stand and sing our closing hymn, O Church arise