Good morning. I honestly do not say this much enough, and I realize that I do not. So this morning I want to begin by saying this. It is such a great honor and privilege to stand on this pulpit to bring God's word to you. Because I realize that sometimes I do take it for granted, but it truly is. And the reason why I say that is because The passage that we're looking at this morning is a difficult and challenging passage. At least in my own life, it's been convicting my own heart. And so God gives us the privilege to look into His word, and sometimes it is challenging to us, and that's okay. Because He gives us the strength. He's the one who allows us to believe it. So let us honor his reading of God's Word as we read from 1 Corinthians chapter 4, verses 6 to the end. Would you please stand if you're able as we honor the reading of God's word? So Paul has talked about Judgment. Don't judge one another. And so he continues as he finishes up on this theme on unity. He says, Have applied all these things to myself and Apollos for your benefit, brothers. That you may learn by us not to go beyond what is written, that none of you may be puffed up in favor of one against another. For who sees anything different in you? What do you have that you did not receive? If then you received it, why do you boast as if you did not receive it? Already you have all you want. Already you have become rich. Without us, you have become kings. And would that you did you did reign so that we might share the rule with you. For I think that God has exhibited us as apostles as last of all, like men sentenced to death, because we have become a spectacle to the world, to angels, and to men. We are fools for Christ's sake, but you are wise in Christ. We are weak, but you are strong. You are held in honor, but we in disrepute. To the present hour we we we we hunger and thirst. We are poorly dressed and buffeted and homeless and we labor, working with our own hands. When reviled we bless, when persecuted we endure, when slandered we entreat. We have become and are still like the scum of the world, the refuse of all things. I do not write these things to make you ashamed, but to admonish you as my beloved children For though you have countless guides in Christ, you do not have many fathers. For I became your father in Christ Jesus through the gospel. I urge you then To be imitators of me. That is why I sent you Timothy, my beloved and faithful child, in the Lord, to remind thee of my ways in Christ as I teach them everywhere in every church. Some are arrogant, and as though I were not coming to you. But I will come to you soon if the Lord wills, and I will find out not the talk of these arrogant people for their power. For the kingdom of God does not consist in talk, but in power. What do you wish? Shall I come to you with a rod? Or with love in a spirit of gentleness. Father, we ask this morning that you, only you, would open our hearts and our minds. By the power of your Holy Spirit, help us to believe your word that you've given to us, preserved for us, for our living. In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, we pray. Amen. Please be seated. What is the fundamental problem of the twenty-first century If we were to ask that that that language, if we were to ask that that question this morning, many would give a lot of questions or a lot of answers to that particular question. We could come up with a list of what is wrong with us, what is wrong with others, what is wrong with the world. But I can tell you one thing that a majority, a vast majority of people in the world might answer that question question this way. They will tell us that the fundamental problem with people in the world in the twenty-first century is self-esteem That we don't love ourselves as we ought to. That we have a problem looking down upon ourselves. And so the solution to that problem is this. You've got to love yourself more. You've got to keep loving yourself more. Why? So that other people may see that you truly can love yourself and they will in turn love you. Now if we go to the Bible and look at scripture and what it says about self-esteem, you'll realize that there's not quite much there. That the Bible does not really emphasize on self-esteem. I'm not preaching a sermon on self-esteem, but I'm getting to a point. Paul in in the in the book of 2 Timothy chapter 3 verses 2 tells us of what the problem will be in the end times, which is where we're living now. And he gives a list of things that will become a problem to all of us. And the first thing that Paul lists is this, that be aware that in the end times people will become lovers of themselves. And so it seems like Paul is turning the table around and basically saying what you might be thinking is the problem with the world could be the solution to your problem. Ironic, isn't it? And then we remember the great book written by C. S. Lewis, a man that I I love so dearly, in mere Christianity. C. S. Lewis captures our problem in a very serious way and says these words, and I quote, he says, according to Christian teachers, the essential vibes The utmost evil is pride. And chastity, anger, greed, drunkenness, and all of that are mere flea bites in comparison. It was through pride that the devil became the devil. Pride leads to every other vice. It is the complete anti-God state of mind. Pride, he continues, which has been the chief cause of misery in every nation and every family since the beginning of the world C. S. Lewis would not agree with that in terms of thinking about what the fundamental problem with the world is In fact, Paul is dealing with that particular problem of people not thinking lowly about themselves, but thinking too highly of themselves in the church in Corinth. And so we're reminded that things haven't changed much as I always like to start off by reminding us that the same problems that the church in Corinth is dealing with of thinking too highly of themselves is the same issue that we have to deal with. in our own churches, in our own lives. And so how do we know that we are struggling with thinking too highly of ourselves? I'll give you a list. It is long, but just a short one When we begin to think that we do not need anybody to teach us, when we begin to think that we do not need anyone to lead us When we begin to think that we do not need to be corrected of our sins and our mistakes, when we begin thinking that we have clearly arrived, that we are mature and we do not need to grow in our faith, when we begin to think that we can rule. We can be in control of our own lives, but do not need to serve one another. When we begin to think that no one should challenge us of our opinions and ideas that we hold so dearly, whatever those may be, Then we are thinking too highly of ourselves. And so Paul is giving a stern warning to the church, and he's saying this: since everything that you have is a gift from God. Since everything you have is a gift from God, there is no place for pride in the church. So Paul begins by being an example. Paul is not just giving them practical things that they can learn and understand. Paul is saying, I want to step up and and practice that which I preach. I want to show you through my own example, as your pastor, as your spiritual father, as your apostle. So I want to remind you as a church, believers are called to boast only in Jesus Christ. Verses 6. That's what Paul wants the church to hear him say. Look at the words that he says, I've applied all these things to myself. And so we begin to ask ourselves What are the things that Paul is saying he's applied to himself and to Apollos? What is he referring to? Remember in chapter three we talked about it. He was using metaphors to describe the church of Christ, the gardener uh the church as as as the field and as a building and all these things and as apostles as servants and and and stewards of Jesus Christ So Paul is saying I've applied all these metaphors of the church to myself, to Apollos, as a gardener, as a builder, as a steward, as a servant. So that you may benefit from that. I want to be an example to you. Now it's it's difficult for us to understand what this word in verse 6 really means when he says, I want you to learn by us not to go beyond that which is written. What is it? What is Paul referring to? It's a classic way that Paul uses to quote an Old Testament passage, but here Paul is not quoting any passage So we wonder what he's saying. Maybe it's a proverb that was known to the to the people in Corinth, but most likely it's a reference to the Old Testament He might be referring to the Old Testament as a whole. We know what scripture teaches about pride and being puffed up and arrogance. The book of Proverbs is filled with so much that we can learn from And so Paul is basically admonishing the church and saying, listen, if you pay attention and not go beyond the boundaries of Scripture, beyond what the Old Testament, beyond what God is teaching you, then maybe you will begin to have an attitude. of humility and not pride. He wants them to learn from the apostles that which is good, that which is which has to do with humility, so that they may not be divided. aligning themselves to one lead over the other. And so he does so by asking three simple questions. Not really simple, but they they seem to be simplistic. questions. Look at verse seven. What is the first question he asks him? He says, what makes you different from anyone else? Or in other words, he he's asking Who do you think has given you the ranks that you are so claiming for yourselves and for Apollos or for me? Who gave it to you? Certainly not me. It is not Apollos. The second question he's asking, what do you have that you did not receive? In other words, he's wanting to point them to acknowledge that God is the source of all things that they have: material wealth and benefits and spiritual uh uh gifts that they have received He wants them to understand that we all are indebted to God and must give praise to Him for all the things that He has done and that the gifts that He's given us are not grounds for arrogance and pride. And finally, following the two questions, it's a logical explanation. He says, if indeed you received it, then why do you boast as if you did not receive it? In other words Why are you not expressing gratitude to the giver of all these things that you have received? Because you are not the rightful owner. God is the rightful owner of all the things that you have The questions here are meant to help the Corinthian church to humble themselves and not to be puffed up, not to favor one lead over the other. Because everything the church has belongs to God. Truth be told, it is our arrogance, it is our our pride, it is our being puffed up that blinds us. That blinds us from seeing that everything that we are and everything that we have is from God Himself And as the church in Corinth was being prideful of their leaders that they they saw said, Well Apollos is better than Paul and or Peter is better than Paul and the others. In the same way, the temptation for us as God's people is this It is to stand in a place of boastfulness and I I boast of my own talents and what I have and I boast of my position, whatever that may be, and I boast of My parties, whatever those parties or cliques they may be. And Paul is saying, you do not have the right to brag on those things because they are not from you. They are from God. So church, why has God given us gifts? We all sit here and we are greatly, greatly gifted. Each one of us here is greatly gifted. Given so many gifts by God. Why has God gifted us so much? And Paul will get back to this topic. And he will talk about spiritual gifts being for the edification of the church. And so Paul is Paul is here reminding the church to know and understand that our gifts are not given to individuals for our own individual egos. But we are given gifts by God so that we may express them in love in the community of believers. I am gifted differently than you are. Most of you are probably gifted more than I am, and praise God for that. But you know what? My different gifts are not meant for me They are meant for the benefit of you all. And so is your gift. And so Paul is saying, listen, you may be gifted than someone else, but that's not your responsibility to stand at a place and say, well You are not as good as I am because I'm more gifted than you are. And so I look down upon you because you are not as special as I am And Paul is saying, you should never do that. You should rather use your giftedness as an opportunity to serve one another. How can we ever think that we are superior than someone else when there is absolutely nothing that you have to do with where you were born or who your parents were You never had a choice in any of that. Paul is saying, we are nothing. We have nothing without God. We owe everything to God's grace, and that is reason for you to only boast in Jesus Christ. You know, we talk about pride and sometimes we don't realize what it really means. What it what what does it really mean to be propped up, to be prideful? See that word scripture uses it always in many instances in a very negative way. Because it means to be puffed up with hot air. That's really what it means, literally. And so Paul is saying, by being prideful, you are being puffed up with self-centeredness hot air To put it in biblical terms, it is this: it is shifting your confidence from your from God to yourself. And so pride affects our relationship with God because who needs God when they feel they are self-sufficient? It affects our relationship with one another because who needs friends when they're independent? It affects our relationship with ourselves, with the self Because how can you really self-evaluate yourself, rightly self-evaluate, if you think you're all that and much more? But it also affects our relationship, or rather, affects our service to God. We cannot serve God when we're prideful. That's why God repeats time and time again, He hates pride. But the church here is actually acting more than that. They are in fact, as Paul uses this irony and harsh sarcasm, look at verses 8. Paul is saying, you are saying that you've already arrived You are actually in heaven reigning with Jesus Christ and not being subjects of the king, but actually being kings and princes It's it's the idea of an over-realized eschatology. The already in the not yet not recognizing that yes, the kingdom of God has come, but it's not consummated until Jesus Christ returns And Paul is saying you are thinking of yourselves as, oh man, the kingdom has already come, we are reigning, we are kings and having dominion, and the apostles are somewhere out there, they're not even joining us and taking part in the party They are emphasizing on the already, not knowing that it's not yet there. Self-sufficiency, church, deludes us. You know, Paul wrote somewhere in Revelation chapter 3 verse 17 as a warning to the church in Laodicea. Do you know what he tells them? He says this You say I am rich. You say I indeed have acquired wealth and do not need a thing. But do you not realize that you are wretched, pitiful, poor, blind, and naked? Satisfied people don't need self-satisfied people don't need counsel from anyone. They don't need to learn because they've already arrived. Self-sufficient people don't need anyone or anything or anybody to bring their help to them. Self-supreme people don't need to submit to anybody. They are there to rule, not to turn. See, I think Paul is really using this harsh sarcasm to shake the people up. We need to be shaken sometimes so that we're not too comfortable. He's shaking up the shaking them up and saying, don't get too comfortable thinking that you have arrived Thinking that you're mature, thinking that you're already reigning and ruling, instead of walking humbly with the Lord. How about you consider walking humbly with the Lord instead of thinking about reigning and ruling and all these things. Church, we must be careful. Careful that we do not start at any moment start thinking that we don't need to grow. That we don't need the gospel of Jesus Christ every single day of our lives because that will be the moment we start going down. Secondly, Paul continues to show them as an example, the example of true humility. Look at verses 9 through 13. He's saying believers are called to a life of humility. See, Paul is showing this great example of the demands of preaching Christ crucified and only Him and how great those demands are. That it's actually taking a toll on the apostle. Because it is very different from the the easy life that the world and human wisdom is calling people to. And you're saying, I'm I want to demonstrate to you just how difficult it's been for me And for the other apostles, what is he saying? He's saying I've been hungry, I've been thirsty, I've been beaten, I've had poor clothing, I've c I've been constantly on the move and not knowing where my my own home was gonna be. I have had to labor and work with my own hands. Why? Because I am impelled by the master that has called me to preach The good news of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles and to all of you, so that I may not be a burden to you, but so that I may present that gospel for free. You know, Paul is writing this letters, this letter in Ephesus. And if you read Acts chapter 19, there's something that is going on there. There's riot in Ephesus. And Paul is actually stopped by Gaiath and one of the other guys that I cannot pronounce his name from going and participating in those riots. Maybe that's what Paul is referring to here. We don't know. Maybe Paul is saying I've been subject to ridicule, to hatred, to physical and verbal abuse, even the possibility of death itself. He's saying his apostles will become a spectacle and the Greek word there is for is the word from which we get the word theater. That we are actually like the people, uh the gladiators, if you think about it, that movie which is a movie that I really like where the public was free to come and watch the execution of slaves and criminals. And so Paul is saying we become like those gladiators Men that were being sent out into the arena and shedding their own blood for the amusement of the public. And it's really harsh that Paul would say this because he's almost saying Church in Corinth, are you standing and taking your seats on the front row of the arena and watching either to applaud or to boo as the apostles are right there with animals being released to kill them? Harsh words. And then he continues. He doesn't stop there. Look at verses ten. He says we are fools. As apostles, we are fools for the sake of Christ. But you, you, you, you are wise. Why? Because How in your right mind would you risk your life as the lions and the leopards and the cheetahs are being led out to come and destroy you for the sake of the gospel? In the eyes of the world you must be a fool. But even more, he's saying, in the eyes of the church in current, we are fools. He continues with the irony. He says, but not only that, we are weak. You, you are strong. Because remember, human wisdom prides itself in strength. Weakness is always looked down upon, but we know that weakness is a mark of a true believer of Jesus Christ, isn't it? Because that's what the Bible tells us, because it is not us, but Christ who gives us strength. It is in his power that we are made perfect when we are weak. For so it says elsewhere in 2 Corinthians, by contrast The Corinthians are saying, no, we are the ones who are strong, but they really are weak because they're not relying on Jesus Christ. See, Paul is not seeking pity. Paul is not saying, you know I want you to see how I've been abused and hungry and all of those things that you can just say, oh poor Paul. Paul is wanting to be a true servant, to be an example of what it means to be a servant of Jesus Christ. Someone who is enduring uh affliction and all kinds of things, even lowering down his his own status By working as a tent maker. A job that was only reserved for slaves, so that he may present the gospel of Jesus Christ. See, when we seek to be honored by the world and not by Christ, we bring shame to ourselves. If you read the story, you probably have heard it so many times and it's anonymous, nobody knows who wrote it. It's about President Theodore Roosevelt when he returned from Uganda or Canada somewhere there. From a uh uh A hunting ex expedition. And on the ship that he was in there was a missionary that was in there, a missionary couple that was coming from Uganda. And so when the ship docks, as the president is coming out, you know everybody's you know applauding and yeah president is back, he's killed the lion and all the line let's sing songs and Praise him and and the missionary couple is thinking, man, there's nobody here to receive us or to honor us. And so the president of course goes his way and the missionary couple goes to a motel. And so the man walks to his wife and he says, I'm so sad and broken. All the work of ministry that we've done out there and nobody honors that. Nobody's here to welcome us. What are we even gonna do with our lives now now that we're done? And the wife says, well I don't have an answer for you. And so he goes into one room and he comes out joyful and happy and rejoicing. And the wife says, like what just happened? He says You know, I I I feel like I heard God remind me and tell me, you are not home yet See the apostles might be mocked and ridiculed and laughed at and weak and all of that, but you see, they are not home yet. Because they are heaping up honor before God for the work that they are doing. And Paul is here showing us just what a Christ-like attitude is having. I mean, look at verses uh uh 11 through 13. When he's talking about being persecuted and he he's enduring when he's being vilified and all this and he's speaking gently and being kind I mean, almost, almost going to the point of what Christ is saying in Luke 23 as he's on that cross and he says, Father, please forgive them because they do not know what they are doing. That is Paul's attitude. And one commentator says this, which I found really interesting. There is no power so apparently weak. And yet in reality, so strong is the power shown in forgiving those who have done wrong to us. Lord help us to have that attitude. See, Paul is taking Jesus' teaching really seriously. Loving the enemy. Loving those who mistreat us. It's all about humility. Let me ask you a question. How is it that the Church of Jesus Christ continues to grow in places where Christians are persecuted? And the Church of Jesus Christ continues to decline in places where there's comfort and affluence. Why is that? South Korea became one of the leading Christian nations right after the war when there was poverty. And sickness and brokenness. The leaders of Christian Christianity today is not the West. It is Africa, Sub-Saharan Africa, China. And South America. What do we find in those countries? Corruption. Sickness. Poverty, persecution. Why? Should we be seeking persecution? Absolutely no Should we be seeking corruption and bad government and all of that? Absolutely no. But here is the truth, folks. The message of the gospel of Jesus Christ, when it is preached faithfully, will always set us against what the world believes. And we will be rejected. Henry Light, one of my favorite hymn writers, who did not write a whole lot of hymns. captures this idea in a poetic manner when he writes in one of my favorite but one of the most difficult hymns to sing. Jesus, I my cross have taken And he says, Jesus, on my cross I've taken all to leave and follow thee. Destitute, despised, forsaken, thou hence for my all shall be Perish every fond ambition, all have sought or hoped or known, yet how rich is my condition, God, and heaven is still mine. What is our understanding of affliction and suffering? Because I think sometimes we lose it. Do we ever understand that suffering precedes our glory? What path did Jesus take for us? See, there's something for us to always learn when we are persecuted and when when we are suffering. Lessons in life that we can learn nowhere else. And Jesus tells us, if he's taken the path, yes, he's made the ultimate sacrifice so that we don't have to, but if he has taken that path, there is hardly any other path for us as Christians to take. And yes, our theology cannot condemn suffering, but it cannot also glorify suffering and affliction. And I hope that that's not what you're hearing me say. But look at verse 13. Look at the climax of what Paul is talking about in terms of humility. What is he saying? Paul is saying, Do you consider any status in life? Consider my status. What am I? The scum and refuse of this world. Paul? Really? And yes, he's being right. He's being regarded as contemptible to be thrown away. Trash. What has no status whatsoever and he's saying that is our status right now as apostles See the image that Paul is giving here is a powerful image, brothers and sisters. Imagine being in an arena and animals being released upon you. So Paul is saying for him as an apostle, that has been his life or following Jesus. And he's saying that that can sometimes lead into physical pain and trials, even death at some point. And other times becoming a spectacle to the world. So here's my question. Where are we as believers? Are we sitting comfortable in our box seat and watching? Or are we willing, if ever God was to call us to it, are we willing to become a spectacle so that when the world watches us, what's what they see is they see Jesus. Are we willing to put ourselves in places where we're going to be called fools and weak people? Are we We must ask ourselves this question, be included. What does it mean to follow Jesus personally and corporately on a day-to-day basis? What does it mean for you? What cost have you paid? Christ paid it all. But what cost are you paying on a daily basis? In following Jesus Christ. Finally, Paul in verses 14 through 21, which I'm just going to summarize real quick. Our boast is only in Jesus Christ, because He has given us all things. We're called to a life of humility, whatever that means for us. But we're also called to a a life of genuine community of believers. That's what we're called for. It's a challenge for Paul to the church saying the church is you're called to spiritually humble yourself. But see how, just like my tone has changed, see how Paul's tone has completely changed from verses 14 through 21. He's not being harsh anymore. See how he's saying, I'm not trying to ashamed you in any way. We know what shame does to us, right? Shame puts an indelible mark on all of us. And Paul doesn't want to do that to his church. He's saying, I'm not trying to shame you. I'm trying to admonish you. I want you to imitate me. I want you to imitate Christ. I want you to listen. Please, church, listen. For your benefit. I want you to know this. I want to know that love always expresses concern. But I also want you to know that love sometimes when it's appropriate It's all about a warning. Warning because you've taken a path that is not right. A warning because you you you are on a path that's gonna that's gonna lead to destruction. And then he talks about, again he's exaggerating the the scenario here in verses 15. He says, you have many instructors, many leads, many, many guides for you. But you don't have many fathers, or rather you only have one father. And who is that? It's Paul himself. Basically saying, I've earned the right to tell you what you should do. as your spiritual father. He's a spiritual father that loves them. He loves them because he brought them to Christ. He shared the gospel with them And he did not leave them there. He continues to teach them God's word. But not that, not just that. But he continues to be an example to them, an example that they would imitate. He's a good parent. Then he says, I'm gonna send you Timothy. Why is he sending Timothy? Is he sending Timothy to remind them of the gospel of Jesus Christ that they they are not living according to what he taught them? Timothy is a faithful servant. Paul has taught them about preaching the gospel and building the church of Jesus Christ. You know what's interesting about that history? When Timothy arrives, the church is in a bad shape. And Timothy actually ends up leaving and going to Ephesus. By the time Paul arrives in Corinth, things are so bad, so bad that he's having a hard time resolving the problems. Hence the writing of the book of Second Corinthians, which Paul wrote in tears. When Scripture warns us about something in our lives that we need to work on, brothers and sisters, we must listen. Because when we take it for granted and are not aware that we're struggling with pride and disunity and all manner of if they get out of control It becomes really difficult. See even the proper people are thinking He ain't coming. Paul is not going to show up. That's what they were saying, right? We can teach anything we want. We can do anything we want. Paul is not coming. So Paul says, I don't even care what they're saying. I don't want to know what they're saying. All I want to know is if they have power. Because the kingdom of God is all about power, isn't it? Notice how verses 21. Notice how Paul is not saying the people who share the guilt are the arrogance ones. Who shares the blame? Everyone. I'm saying you all share the blame. So he's saying, how do you want me to come to you then? Justice Him? Or to come lovingly? I'm sure Paul would have wanted to come lovingly. Church Jesus never said it would be easy, did he? He said whoever wants to come and follow me, Lord, must take their cross. Daily, not just once, daily. And follow me. Putting on the mind of Christ is not an easy thing. Getting pride out of our lives is not easy. But Jesus promises to be with us. And this is what he wants us as a church to do as we wait for him. Jesus wants us to boast in him because he has given us all things. He wants us to humble ourselves before him. Why? Because we cannot, we have nothing to boast about other than in him. No, there's a time that's coming when we will truly say we are strong. We are not weak anymore. There's a time that's coming when we will say we are rich. There's a time that will come when we will say, we are ruling with Christ in heaven. But that time has not come yet. But it is coming. So if we truly want to declare those words and rejoice when that time comes, we begin now. Saying, Lord, have mercy upon us. Lord, help us every day to lay aside every attitude of thinking too highly of ourselves. Help us to humble ourselves before you Help us to be to have the humility that even when you call us to persecution I pray he doesn't. But even if if you ever will, that we will still have the same attitude. In the name of the Father, love the Son of the Holy Spirit. Amen.