Good morning, good morning. As we um continue in our series in the Gospel of John. Today's passage is John twelve, twenty to thirty-six. John chapter twelve verses twenty through thirty-six. And if You can as you find that you can stand. Listen to God's Word with ESV translation of the scriptures. Now, among those who went up to worship at the feast were some Greeks. So these came to Philip, who was from Bethsaeda in Galilee, and asked him, Sir, we wish to see Jesus. Philip went and told Andrew. Andrew and Philip went and told Jesus. Jesus answered them, The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit. Whoever loses his life Excuse me, whoever loves his life loses it. And whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. If anyone serves me, he must swallow me. And where I am, there will my servant be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him honor him. Now is my soul troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour But for this purpose I have come to this hour. Father, glorify your name. Then her voice came from heaven. I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again. The crowd that stood there, the crowd that stood there and heard it said that it had thundered. And others said, an angel has spoken to him. Jesus answered, This voice has come for your sake, not mine. Now is the judgment of this world, now will the ruler of this world be cast out, and I When I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself. He said this to show by what kind of death he was going to die. So the crowd answered him, We have heard from the law that the Christ remains forever. How can you say that the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man? So Jesus said to them, The light is among you for a little while longer. Walk while you while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you. The one who walks in the darkness does not know where he's going While you have the light, believe in the light, that you may become sons of light. When Jesus heard these things, he departed and hid himself from them. God's word, let's pray. Father God, I thank you that you are the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. And as we open up this portion of your word, Lord, teach us. And Motivate us, motivate our hearts to know you more deeply and to serve you with the heart you've given us. We'll give you thanks for what you do in Jesus' name. Amen. May be seated. The glory of Jesus. The glory of Jesus. It's no gospel song, Glory to His Name. How many know that song? Glory to His Name Revival of this song. Down at the cross where my Savior died, down where from cleansing from sin I cried, there to my heart was the blood applied. Glory! to his name. Glory to his name. A name. Have you ever thought about names, the significance of names? A person's name points to the person's character, their deeds, their personality, their culture, their ethnicity. A name can point to many things. Sometimes names produce reactions. If you were like me uh months months ago you heard that at the Super Bowl they'd have a halftime show and there'd be two people. One of the names I knew, the other name I had no idea of. The first name was um J-Lo. I knew that name. I knew what she stands for. The other name was Shakira. I had no idea who that is. Again, that shows my age, right? I'm for sure for some of the younger people it's the exact opposite. They know Shakira, but who's just J-Lo? Whatever. Well after I watched the show the halftime last week I said, well they're the same Uh that's my that's all the commentary I'll give on that right now. But names bring reactions, don't they? Just think of the last election, the name of Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton. Instant reactions, right? Names bring reactions. If you know something about the person's name What names do you associate with God? What names do you associate with God? How about the name of Jesus? What does that name mean? In John's gospel, he begins the gospel that Jesus is the Word, the Logos in the Greek, the Logos, the Word, who became flesh and dwelt among us. What actually does that name do for you? What does it bring to you? Think about the book of Isaiah, the gospel, the prophecy of Isaiah in the Old Testament. He has several names for God. Think of that book if you've read it. You know, Isaiah, he's the Holy One of Israel, the Holy One of Israel. He's the righteous branch. He's the wonderful counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. In Isaiah chapter 45, we're told about Yahweh, the Lord, that every knee shall bow and confess his name. Paul picks up on that later in Philippians, doesn't he? Because he's the one who's exalted. He's the one who is glorious. And John in our passage today points us to the glory of Jesus Christ. We worship Jesus, and Jesus comes to us as the King of Glow. The King of Glory. We need to understand and to understand that He's the King of Glory and live for Him. Live for the glory of Jesus Christ. That's what we're called to do. We're going to look at this passage and look at a few things. We're going to see the glory of Christ and we're going to see His loving heart. His loving heart towards all people. We're going to see his living and his dying for the glory of God. He lived and died for God's glory. So should we. And we're going to see that We don't see that he was lifted up for us and for all the world. Okay? His loving heart, his living and dying, and his being lifted up. First, verses 20 to 22. We see the glory of God in his loving heart, which it was a heart that was inclusive of people. Where did I see that? Look at these first two verses. Now among those who went up to worship at the feast, this is the Passover feast, were some Greeks. Greats. Now John tells a thing we preach. The Gospel of John. He talks a lot about the Jews, and sometimes he has he has Samaritans a little bit, but the Greeks or Gentiles and in in in the categories, uh the Jews are the ones who who know the Word of God. They're the people of the covenant, people of the book, the Old Testament, people of God. And and those who aren't are the Gentiles or the Greeks. And so here's some Greeks from the Greek culture. And and and they've heard something about Jesus, right? And they're they're at the Passover. So maybe they're God fearers. Maybe they're people who are somewhat interested In the God of Israel. And they've heard something about Jesus, the Messiah of the God of Israel. And so they're inquirers. And so they find Philip. And Philip is a Greek name. And say, we want to see Jesus. So Philip gets Andrew. Now maybe, now again, Philip. Maybe he wasn't sure that Jesus was ready to receive Greeks at that point. Maybe, you know, he was Jewish. He was a Jewish disciple. And you need to know what I'm saying about the Jews, the 12 disciples. They were more like Jonah than Jesus. You know Jonah. Remember Jonah in the Old Testament? He didn't want to do anything with those other people. And the scribes and Pharisees and the religious leaders of the of Jesus' day, they were more like Jonah than Jesus. But what about the twelve disciples? Let me tell you. They were more like Jonah than Jesus. When Jesus, when Jesus, when when when the Samaritans were doing some good things. Um uh uh uh when when they reje when the surface rejected Jesus a little bit, they heard some things. They said, Lord, do you want us to bring down fire from heaven on those guys? Remember that? And Jesus said, no, no, let's just go on to next challenge. The disciples are more like Jonah than Jesus. And so Andrew comes and says, hmm, well, let me go to To Andrew. Philip goes to Andrew, because may maybe Andrew knows a little bit more of the heart of Jesus. He's a little closer to Jesus, because I mean, you know, Peter was right right beside, you know, Jesus' right-hand man in one sense, and and Andrew's his brother. And so Andrew, what do you mean? And so we don't go right now it doesn't tell us a lot, but we know that John now, years later, tells us that this of this encounter. that even at the Jewish Passover season, there were some Greeks who were beginning to want to see Jesus. And that's important. John is reminding us of something that of the inclusion part of Jesus here. Now in Luke's Gospel, it's really emphasized a lot. Luke, of course, wrote the gospel of Luke and the Book of Acts, and it's really about the inclusion of Jesus to bring the world, the nations. Took before him and actually profiles that. And even Matthew, the Jewish tax collector, in his gospel He's written to the Jews, he's Jewish, but he's trying to tell the Jews, this thing isn't just for us folks, it's for all people. That's that's what Matthew's trying to do in his gospel. So he ends his gospel that all authority is given to me, go and preach the the uh the the uh the the the gospel to the ends of the earth. It's for the nations, not just for the Jews But starting in Jerusalem, but to the nation. So but John doesn't emphasize it yet in his gospel. He'll do that later. But here there's a little glimpse. Greeks want to see Jesus. You know, there's a challenge to the church of our world in this 21st century. Our society talks a lot about inclusion, doesn't it? You hear that word a lot. Inclusion. We have to include everybody and everything, no matter who they are, no matter what they believe. You know that. Those in who would exclude for anybody for any reason are considered to be um narrow or dogmatic or racist or homophobic or whatever phrase of the day it is. And then so the question that we have as followers of Christ is how do we reflect the heart of Jesus How do we, who believe the Word of God, how do we reflect his heart? And you know, there's really three responses we can have. The first two are bad. The first two are extreme. The first response we can have is to say we're going to make sure we that we under that we understand and explain the truth. We're not going to worry about love. We're not going to worry about compassion. We're not going to worry about kindness. We're not going to worry about the tone in which we communicate. We're going to make sure that they hear the truth. Okay? The the the the second response is, you know, you know, they already know the truth. We want to make sure that that that they understand that we love them. That we're compassionate, that we're kind, that we treat them with the human dignity that they deserve. So we're not going to worry about truth. So some compromise love, others compromise truth. What does love we what the third response is to not go to either of those extremes, but to reflect the heart of Jesus. To reflect the heart, the inclusive heart of Jesus, who's King of kings and Lord of Lords. We're called to do what Paul says, to speak the truth in love. Ephesians chapter 4. Speak the truth in love. It's the phrase we have to keep in our minds. But what does love and truth look like? What does love and truth look like in our world? That's really the challenge for the church To walk that line, to not move from one direction to the other. One thing you'll know about me is I'm I'm a great sports, a big sports fan, and um two weeks ago Um Kobe, you all know about the tragic death of Kobe Bryant. And uh so I was listening to I listened to podcasts a lot. I'm a big NBA fan. I listened to podcasts, and one of them gripped me. Um the um The podcast, the one the person interview is was uh is uh Ben Golliver, who is the um Washington Post reporter, but he lives on the West Coast, lives in the LA area. And he he a and he was in this interview talk the person interviewed him was just talking about well t give us a sense of what's happening in LA this week. 'Cause it was like three days afterwards And as I listened to that podcast, I said, this is amazing. Because this because Ben Gulliver was he he he he immediately began to talk about the fact that across from that uh uh uh uh hillside was a church. And the church was having a Sunday school. And that Sunday school class was interrupted by the people in the church, he goes to the people in the church who who who somewhere outside in the park line and they saw what happened. They were the first ones to call 911. And he talked, but then he talked about Pastor Bob. And he just said, this Pastor Bob was quite a man. And he he talked about, I'm going to read you in a second what he wrote in the Washington. post. But it he he couldn't stop talking about Pastor Bob and how Pastor Bob had ministered to people in the LA in in in the LA area. The church is called the Church in the Canyon This was no so I now here's what happened. I heard that and I was gripped by it. I said, wow, I wonder what kind of church that was. It was c it was called Church of the Canyon And so then this week, I think Tuesday, I got my denominational newsletter and and it said it was it it had an article from the New York Times about this church, which is a PCA church Then I really got interested. Okay, I gotta dig into this. What's going on here? I'm the PC church that was talking about. And so then I okay here's Gulliver's Washington Post article, the first few paragraphs Ben Gulliver. Um the church in the canyon was holding its standard Sunday school program this week when the shocking sound of a helicopter crashing into the hillside directly across the street pierced the still morning Bob Jarkas, pastor at the small Presbyterian church in Calabasas, California, immediately surmised that the accident was fatal and led his 75-member congregation in a parking lot prayer. First responders and firefighters quickly arrived, seeking to extinguish a quarter acre blaze and search for survivors. LA Lake historic Kobe Bryant, his thirteen year old daughter Gian Gianna, and seven other passengers were later found to be the victims in the Crash. That prompted dozens of reporters, including news crews representing TV stations in China, Japan, Mexico, hundreds of fans to descend on the church in the days that followed. Imagine. 75 people in a church have a Sunday school class and the world begins to focus its light on you. What do you do? Jargis and his staff were unprepared for the impromptu vigils crowd, crowd, the vigils crowds, which were still present Tuesday afternoon, but they quickly made arrangements. Water, coffee, and fruit were made available to mourners. The church opened its restrooms, provided power strips to recharge cell phones, and welcomed grieving visitors for prayer services Bjargist council of fans who wept openly and a makeshift shrine was erected near the roadside. Rest in peace, Kobe and GG, was written across a black Lakers hat that rested atop a pile of candles. and purple and gold flowers. And then uh just quoting Jar Jar Jark Jarkas. His name's kind of strange. The Bible says we're to practice hospitality, said Jarkis, who has been at the church for 13 years. So that's what we did. We prayed with people who were mostly overwhelmed in tears and in open grief. Sometimes all people need is a hug, a God bless you, a short prayer, and a cup of water. I've always believed more good is done in this life if you can get close to the ground and share life with the people around you Truth and love. Gulliver was was gripped as he talked in that interview about the brevery of life and that it could end any time And that that there was a church that knew that and served him and many other reporters and and others fans in LA. True fellow. What does it look like? I don't know, but that's another example of how the church needs to be people who express the inclusive heart of Jesus Christ, to love people, because that's what Jesus calls us to do. The second thing is uh we see the glory of Jesus not just in his exclusive part, but in his living and dying for us Is living in dying for us and for the glory of his Father's name. Verses 23 to 29. Verse 23. Jesus answered them: the hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. The hour has come Jesus' hour to be glorified had come. Now that's a phrase that's been used in the Gospel of John. In John chapter 2, John chapter 4, John chapter 7, John chapter 8. Talks about his hour. There he said his hour is not yet come. His hour is not time yet. Here he says the hour is come. John is saying that Jesus passion His suffering, his dying, the world is behind him. It was pending. It was about to happen. It was right around the corner. The triumph entry, which we looked at last week with Eric, that was behind them. The cries of Hosanna. For the multitudes that were heard on Sunday would turn quickly on Friday to the cries of, crucify him, crucify him. The hour had come for the Son of Man to be glorified. The Son of Man is the name that Jesus used for himself, see? Comes from the book of Daniel. Daniel's prophecy, chapter 7. Made news for himself. The Jews had agreed that the Son of Man in Daniel the w the the the ancient of days seated upon the throne and reigning with glory was the Messiah who was to come, the one they anticipated, the one they waited for Because he was going to come and rule gloriously. This was Israel's hope. The earth shall be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the words of the sea, the prophet said. And yet, verse 24, truly I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit. This reigning Messiah was gonna die. This reigning Messiah was gonna die. Whoever loves his life loses it. Whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. The name Jesus, Savior, Deliverer. You come to save, deliver. And how is his name manifested? By delivering them from the Roman oppression? Saving them from the evil oppressive Romans? Is that why he came in his first coming? No That's what they thought. He came to save them from a deeper problem. Now the problem wasn't out there. The problem was in here. He came to save them from their sins. That's why he came. Savior, deliverer, Jesus. Like the grain of wheat, there will be no fruit until his death There'll be no salvation for you and for me until there's his death, his unique death. Jesus could reign as king, even then is there But we wouldn't be able to be part of that kingdom. If Jesus reigned as king, we would instantly be judged and put away from him He's holy. We are not. Had to be addressed before we could be part of the kingdom. His death and only his death made our participation in the kingdom possible That's why the the the the the the ironic s story in the three gospels, uh John doesn't give it, but the other three gospels, they have this Great scene. Jesus says, Who do people say do I am? He's talking to the disciples. Remember that thing? And they say, maybe John the Baptist, maybe Jerry. I want to the prophets. No, but who do you say do I am? He said, and Peter stands, you are those you're the Christ, you're the Messiah, you're the Son of the Living God. And Jesus says, You're right, Peter. Blessed, you son of uh Peter, son of of John Peter. So Peter's feeling real good, right? And then Jesus then says, Okay, now you understand I'm Messiah, let me tell you what that means. It doesn't mean I'm going to Jerusalem to to reign It means the the son he began to teach that the son of man will suffer, to go to Jerusalem to suffer, and to be beaten and mocked, and he will die for sin. And do you remember what happened when he said that? Peter said No! No, Jesus says not that the Bible says. You know what Jesus said right then? Get behind me, Satan! Peter, you know what you're talking about. You understand? If I rain, you ain't gonna be part of it The dream of we must die. We are that fruit. The fruit of his passion. Commentator Milney says faith in Jesus involves dying to all the blandishments and attractions of this passing world order. To follow Jesus as king as Lord and King means ceasing to follow the Lords and Kings of this world. Like John the Baptist before him Jesus plainly informs us that without repentance from sin, and in particular the sin that overvalues the world and is the cross, there can be no salvation. We must take up our cross and follow Jesus' saints. It must be death for us if we want to follow Jesus. It was death for him. Paul says in Corinthians, he says, always carrying in the body the death of Jesus. So that the life of Jesus may be manifested in our bodies. For we who live are always given over to death for Jesus' sake, so that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh. So death is at work within us. But life in you. This week at uh seminary I was uh teaching on um the the early church. One of the things about the early church Um during those days, is it was great persecution. The stories of persecution in our church are in are incredible. The courage and faith that the Spirit of God gave those early believers. One of the principles is that uh the the throughout church history is no matter how much the church was persecuted, it couldn't kill it. It couldn't kill the church. In fact the slogan is that the blood of the largers is the seed of the church. It's the blood of the law. The more they tried to kill Christians, the more the Christian church survives. And uh kind of reminds me of uh you know when you go to the carnival or the county fair and you have those little pop-up things And you kind of pop it down, another one pops up. You pop that one down and it pops up. That's what happened in the early church. You know what? It's still happening today. Think of the church in China How you know 50-67 years ago they they they tried to to to crush the Christian state from China in the underground And then when some more freedom came, we found not only was the church there, it was thriving. There were mature believers who were standing firm for Jesus Christ. Because the gates of hell can't prevail against the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Verse 27. He says, Now is my soul troubled. What shall I say, Father? Save me from this hour. But for this purpose I've come to this hour. Jerome says this. In his death, he must not only face the reality of human infinitude the ending of his mission, the mockery of his enemies, in whose eyes he will die of failure, in addition, the appalling physical and mental sufferings of death by crucifixion But beyond all that, he must face the Father Himself, the one to whom he has been inseparably bound for all eternity, not in the embrace of his everlasting love Through the terror of his holy and righteous wrath, he must in fact become the object of divine rejection The bearer of the implacable antipathy to sin and evil of the ever living God. He was troubled indeed. He had meeting. to be. Unquote. Jesus says he's been glorified to glorifying the Father saying. He says, I've been doing that and I'm going to continue to do it. How? By fulfilling righteousness. It says in Matthew. He fulfilled the will of God in his life. He was sinless. He's a perfect spotless slam of God. He fulfilled righteousness. He glorified God in that way. And by pointing other people to trust in his Father, His Heavenly Father. He says, I will glorify you to name and continue to glorify your name. How? Here is points specifically to his dying and his rising. His dying and his rising. Again, commentator says, He whom the Father had contemplated and sent to the world, whose food is doing the will of him who sent him And finishing his work, he now brings final glory to the Father in a supreme act of obedience unto death. In this action, the Father will reciprocally crown the Son with glory God's glory is a manifestation of his divine majesty. The this glory was revealed in Jesus' ministry, not least. in his acts of power. I think he only gives a great definition of glorifying God. To glorify God is therefore to so relate to him that he is afforded the honor due to him as God. To glorify God is to relate to him so that he is afforded the honor that's due to him as God. See, to be glorified, hence simply means to be honored. Referred to here as to hear Jesus. It implies the renouncing of any independent glory on his part. Of any independent glory on his part. His honor is attained only in the context of his utter submission to his zeal for the Father's glory through him. And thus he glorifies the Father by becoming personally transparent, like a window or lens through which the Father's glory is seen in focus. Jesus Christ is Living and dying for the Father. Living and the Father's glory is what he did. That's what we're called to do as well. To live for the glory of God. Thirdly, lastly, we see the glory of God in His being lifted up. We lift it up in verses 29 to 36. As we see the glory of Jesus, we have the privilege of of lifting him up, and that involves proclaiming good news to the lost. But it involves a little bit more than that. In verse 29, we see the thunder. They heard this voice, thunder. It's the voice of the Father. He says this was done not just for me, but for the crowd, for you. They need to hear that voice. You know, it reminds us of the of the baptism of Jesus, right? Remember the baptism of Jesus? That same voice? John is, you know, baptizing all these people, and then Jesus is in line to get baptized. And John looks at Jesus and he says, You don't need you're not the only people confessing sin. Why are you in line, Jesus? I know you. And this is this he said something else is going to be still alright. So he was baptized and and and just so everybody else knew that something special was happening a voice Came down. Remember that? This is my beloved son. This is not a sinner. This is my beloved son, says that voice. Listen to him A voice can happen. Nearly that we don't stop. Here, this is the point. This is a dramatic point. I'm not under voice. Son of being lift it up. Let's face it, stuff in it. In Isaiah chapter 52 it says, Behold, my servant shall act wisely. He shall be high and lifted up and shall be exalted. To lift somebody up is to raise them up above all other people, right? You lift him up above all the common people, you lift him up to be exalted, to be special, to be a glorious one, to be honored above others. And certainly that's what we do for Jesus. And that's what the Father is doing for Jesus. But again, there's a double meaning, particularly in the Gospel of John. We heard a verse earlier. John three. Verse um starts with verse fourteen to fifteen As Moses lifts up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whoever believes in him may have eternal life Moses lifted up a serpent, the people who were who did not receive the poison and die because they looked at the pole, looked at the serpent on the pole, and they were spared. That's what happened in Numbers chapter 21. You can read it for yourself. And Jesus says that was not that was a prophecy of what was going to happen to him. The one lifted up, not on a pole, but on a tree, on a cross. And all who would look to him Would not have the cur the the the poison of sin kill them eternally. They'd be free. They'd be released for what they deserve And so the lifting up of Jesus points not just to him being raised above other people. It also points to his death on the cross. He was lifted up for us. Lily says his death will achieve four things. Verse 31: Jesus will pass judgment on the world. judgment upon the world. You know, on the cross, Jesus experienced the judgment that you and I deserve. The world is divine justice here. Second, Jesus' death will drive out the prince of this world. You know, Satan did a lot of things to try to keep Jesus from the cross. A lot of things. You can go touch But the cross, Satan was hidden. Amen? Thirdly, Jesus' death will exalt him. He's exalted and exactly. Even today, 2,000 years later, people were things on the crosses. Reminding him of Jesus Christ, that the carpenter from Nazareth. He's exalted. But most of all, the death of Christ will draw people. To the gospel. Withdraw men to myself. There's a draw. There's something that happens that people see this innocent man dying on the cross Not because he deserves it, but because we deserve it. That message will draw people to the true living God. Verses thirty-five and thirty-six is the passage one and light is among you. A little light little longer Well you have the light. This darkness overtakes you. So the doctor, John, there's a lot about light. Chapter 1 at the end of the there's a light that shines on the ends come through the world of light The the world darkest can't distinguish that light, John says in chapter one. Chapter eight, chapter nine, Jesus says, I am the light of the world. He proves it by healing a blind man, the condemned sea A lot about light in the gospel of John. He comes back to here in chapter uh in chapter twelve, verses uh thirty-five and the following. You know, don't don't Don't make a separation between the word light and this idea of glory. They're very much connected. Glory. Um You can talk about the transfiguration where the the where Jesus was glorified. There was a brilliance there, a light spare. You can look at Jesus chapter 1. The sun is the radiance of God's glory. He's the light You can think of Revelation, which was studying in Sunday school. This revelation of Jesus Christ, the the his glory, his brilliance Those who believe become sons of light. While you have the light, believe in the light that you may become sons of light. Rather than those who are walking in light We're called to reflect his glory. We're called to live his sons and daughters of the light. You probably have heard the Western Confessionist case is with the w the purpose of life. The main goal of life, the chief end of man, is to glorify God and enjoy him forever. John Piper says, we glorify God by enjoying him forever. Glorify, to live for his glory, to so relate to him that he is a food of the honor that's due to him and point others to that honor. But last night at at Faith we had an appreciation And uh celebration program that was for me after twenty twenty years there. It was it was very very humbling and very hard to hear things who say great things about you. I said, please don't give my wife the microphone to say the other side of it, but you know, whatever. But she did say something and she was nice. He was nice. But I shared this verse, the verse I was thinking about the last couple of days. It's Psalm 115, verse 1. Not to us, O Lord. Not to us, but to you. Your name. Give glory. For the sake of your steadfast love and your faithfulness. You see Use it, that's done, but it's not about. It's the mean to glorify his mean. Jesus' glory was manifested at the cross. But one way that we live for his glory is by taking up our cross. In following him, living for him. Another way we glorify him is by lifting up his name, proclaiming him, declaring to others that he is Jesus, Savior. So that will save you and share that with others Don't wallow in guilt and shame. His name is Jesus. He is deliverer. Let him be your deliverance in shame. Trust him in all your situations. That he's the deliverer. His name Jesus means deliver. He is Lord. He's Lord. Share that He is Lord. Live as He is Lord. Submit to His Lordship in your life. His name is above every other name. Paul said there. That he died, and because he he was obedient unto death, therefore God has given him a name that's above every name That at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow in heaven and earth and other than earth, and every tongue confess, quoting Isaiah, that Jesus is Christ as Lord to the glory of God our Father. Glorify God. By living for Jesus. By listening for Jesus in your life. Thanks. Let's do that. Let's live for him. Let's live to him. Let's listen to him up by by sharing him with truth in love to a world that needs Jesus pray Father God, I thank you for this portion of your word, Lord. I pray you seek deep into our hearts and lives as we seek to worship you, Jesus, the Lord of glory. And thank you then. If if we believe in you, we we we we get that job decision of living for your glory and sharing that glory. So I would afraid anyone who's here today is to think about what that looks like in their own lives. Let me know that you are not a big heart who's calling into your side. inviting them to just believe, trust, and be transformed by the Spirit of God. Lord use this message in our lives this week. Help us to meditate upon it and help us to be your people to provoke the part of Jesus.