Good morning. Hope you uh had a wonderful Thanksgiving and shopping on Friday and You are ready to hear God's word this morning. We are reading chapter 28 of Deuteronomy and verses 15 all the way to the end. And uh I mean this this morning. If you're able, would you please stand as we hear the reading of God's Word? This is a long one for us. Verse 15. But if you will not obey the voice of the Lord your God or be careful to do all his commandments and his statutes that I command you today. Then all the curses shall come upon you and overtake you. Cursed shall you be in the city, and cursed shall you be in the field. Cursed shall be the basket of your need and your kneading bowl Cursed shall be the fruit of your womb and the fruit of your ground, the increase of your herds and the young of your flock. Cursed shall you be when you come in, and cursed shall you be when you go out The Lord will send on you curses, confusion, and frustration in all that you undertake to do until you are destroyed and perish quickly on account of the evil of your deeds, because you have forsaken me The Lord will make the pestilence stick to you until he has consumed you off the land that you are entering to take possession of it. The Lord will strike you with wasting disease and with fever, inflammation and fiery heat, and with drought and with blight and with mildew. They shall pursue you until you perish, and the heavens over your head shall be bronze, and the earth under you shall be iron. The Lord will t make the rain of your land powder. From heaven dust shall come down on you until you are destroyed The Lord will cause you to be defeated before your enemies. You shall go out one way against them and flee seven ways before them. And you shall be a horror to all the kingdoms of the earth. And your dead body shall be food for all birds of the air and for the beasts of the earth, and there shall be no one to frighten them away. The Lord will strike you with boils of Egypt and with tumours and scabs and itch of which you cannot be healed The Lord will struck you with madness and blindness and confusion of mind, and you shall grope at noonday as as the blind grope in darkness, and you shall not prosper in your ways, and you shall be only oppressed and robbed continually And there shall be no one to help you. You shall betroth a wife, but a m another man shall ravish her. You shall build a house, but you shall not dwell in it. You shall plant a vineyard, but you shall not enjoy its fruit. Your ark shall be slaughtered before your eyes, but you shall not eat any of it. Your donkey shall be seized before your face, but shall not be restored to you Your sheep shall be given to your enemies, but there shall be no one to help you. Your sons and your daughters shall be given to another people, while your eyes look on and fill with longing for them all day long, but you shall be helpless A nation that you have not known shall eat up the fruit of your ground and all of all of your labors, and you shall only be oppressed and crushed continu continually so that you are driven mad by the sights that you your eyes see. The Lord will strike you on your knees and on the legs with grievous bores of which you cannot be healed, from the sole of your foot to the crown of your head The Lord will bring you and your king, whom you set over you, to a nation that neither you nor your fathers have known, and there you shall serve other gods of wood and stone. And you shall become a horror, a proverb, and a byword among all the peoples where the Lord will lead you away. You shall carry much seed into the field and you shall gather in little, for the locust shall consume it You shall plant vineyards and dress them, but you shall neither drink of the wine nor gather the grapes, for the worms shall eat them. You shall have olive trees throughout all your territory But you shall not anoint yourself with oil, for your olives shall drop off. You shall father sons and daughters But they shall not be yours, for they shall go into captivity. The cricket shall possess all your trees and the fruit of your ground. The sergeant who is among you shall rise higher and high above you, and you shall come down lower and lower He shall lend to you and you shall not lend to him. He shall be the head and you shall be the tail. All these curses shall come upon you and pursue you and overtake you till you are destroyed because you do not obey the voice of the Lord your God To keep his commandments and his statutes that he has commanded you. They shall be a sign and a wonder against you and your offspring forever, because you did not serve the Lord your God with joyfulness and gladness of heart, because of the abundance of all things Therefore you shall serve your enemies whom the Lord will send against you in hunger and thirsty nakedness and lacking everything. And he will put a yoke of iron on your neck until he has destroyed you The Lord will bring a nation against you from afar, uh from the end of the earth, swooping down like the eagle, a nation whose language you do not understand, a hard-faced nation who who shall not respect the old or show mercy to the young It shall eat the offspring of your cattle and the fruit of your ground until you are destroyed. It shall not leave you grain, wine, or oil, the increase of your herds, or the young of your flock, until they have caused you to perish They shall besiege you in all your towns until your high and fortified walls in which you trusted come down throughout all your land. And they shall besiege you in all your towns throughout all your land, which the Lord your God has given you. And you shall eat the fruit of your womb and the flesh of your sons and daughters, whom the Lord your God has given you in the siege and in the distress with which your enemies shall distress you. The man who is most tender and refined among you shall begrudge food to his brother, to his wife, he embraces and to the last of the children whom he has left, so that he will not give to give to any of them any of the flesh of his children whom he is eating, because he has nothing else left in the siege and in the distress with which your enemy shall distress you in all your town the most tender and refined woman among you. You who would not venture to set the sole of her foot on the ground because she is so delicate and tender will begrudge the husband she embraces To her son and to her daughter, her afterbirth that comes out of between her feet and her children whom she bears, because lacking everything she will eat them secretly in the siege and in the distress with which your enemy shall distress you in your town If you are not careful to do all these words of the law that are written in this book, that you may fear the glorious and awesome name of the Lord your God. Then the Lord will bring on you and your offspring extraordinary afflictions, afflictions severe and lasting, and sicknesses gravest and lasting. And he will bring upon you again all the diseases of Egypt of which you are afraid, and they shall cling to you. Every sickness also and every affliction that is not recorded in the book of this law, the Lord will bring upon you until you are destroyed Whereas you were as numerous as the stars of heaven, you shall be left few in number because you did not obey the voice of the Lord your God, and as the Lord God took delight in doing you good and multiplying you so So the Lord will take delight in bringing ruin upon you and destroying you. And you shall be flocked off the land that you are entering to take possession of it. And the Lord will scatter you among all the peoples, from one end of the earth to the other. And there you shall serve other gods of wood and stone, which neither you nor your fathers have known. And among these nations you shall find no respite, and there shall be no resting place for the soul of your fruit. But the Lord will give you there trembling heart and failing eyes and a languishing soul. For your life shall hang in doubt before you. Night and day you shall be in dread and have no assurance of your life. In the morning you shall say if only it were evening. And at evening you shall say if only it were morning. Because of the dread your heart shall feel, and the sights that your eyes shall see, and the Lord will bring you back in in ships to Israel A journey that I promised you should never make again, and there you shall offer yourselves for sale to your enemies as male and female slaves. But there will be no buyer The word of the Lord this morning. Lord, by the power of your Holy Spirit, we seek understanding. In Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated Quite a text. Quite a chapter. It may not seem like it. It may not sound like it, it may not read like it, but this is in fact a merciful warning. This is a kind warning to God's people, which says Do not let this happen to you. Simply says, do not let this happen to you because the choices you make matter. See, it's so interesting as we read a couple of weeks ago the first fourteen chapter verses of chapter twenty-eight where uh in in very simple terms God gives his blessings he declares his blessings to his people and what is going to happen if they obey him And then here we have this long, long litany, this long, long list of all the curses that are going to come upon these people. Now the reality is God knew and God knows, of course, God is in control and this is sovereign of all things. That when he blessed his people, that there would always be a temptation for them to enjoy the blessings that God had given to them and then begin to forget who he was. And then forget to uh to to to praise him, forget to honor him, and to forget to glorify him. And I believe it is true of Israel, it was true of Israel, a and that it is it is also true of us as as the church today. That it's so easy for us to enjoy God's blessings and to know what God has done for us and then stop there. And then completely forget who he is. And then forget to honor him and then forget to obey him. The truth of the matter is we learn Better, the lessons that we learn and keep in our hearts and never forget are not lessons that are learned in prosperity. They are lessons that are learned in affliction, in trial. It was Dietrich Bonhoeffer who wrote during the Nazi regime in Germany. He wrote a letter to his friend and confessed him and said, when all is said and done. I believe it takes trouble to drive us to prayer. It takes trouble to drive us to prayer. And every time I think about it, I'm ashamed of it, he said. Because affliction is such a persuasive teacher, isn't it? That the lessons we learn in affliction, in trial, in hard times are lessons that we can never forget. No wonder this section is so long of this crisis that God is speaking to his people mercifully, as I mentioned, warning them that if they continue to rebel against God, the consequences Will follow them. Now, to put this in perspective, we need to understand a couple of things. One of them is Moses is about to die, and I've mentioned this before. Moses is about to die. But we also know that the people are on the plains of Moab about to possess the land that God has graciously given to them. They've been waiting for this day. It's finally come. And here Moses is offering this final incentive, so to speak, and reminding God's people that they have a relationship with God. They have a covenant with God. And that the only way they're going to survive and to make it in the new land is if they have a wholehearted commitment and obedience and faithfulness to God. So this is important. It's extremely important. Because unless they hear what God is saying as they're about to enter this land with that flows with milk and honey, this promise that God has given to them They're not gonna survive. And I think we can hear that as a as church today. I mean, reading some of this person we're gonna see more of it and and and and go like, well, this was for them and it's a done deal and it happened and blah blah and so this Has nothing to do with us. But I want us to really think seriously about these things and understand that God does give us warnings in His Word About how we ought to live so that we may survive, so that we may live a life that is honoring to him. And the reason why God gives us warnings is because he loves us The reason why God gives us his warnings is because he loves us. Again, as I mentioned in verses 1 through 6, we saw in chapter 48 the blessings that were given there with conditions. This is what the conditions as to how you're going to gain these blessings. And here in verses 15 through 19, this is the introductory part of this section. And here again we come upon a condition. How is it that you are going to be cursed if you disobey the word of the Lord? Now as I read through you would you probably notice that there is no logical order in this crisis, right? It's just going back and forth and coming back We are not going to to to address all these curses by by by taking every section and talking about it and and and asking what does this mean and and when was it fulfilled and all of those things. We're just gonna take the whole chapter together. All of it. Because it's a whole lot. We'll be here for five hours if we're to do that, right? Every little section But there's one thing that we saw in here: it's reputation. Repetition of you're gonna be destroyed. God is gonna destroy you, you're gonna perish, you're gonna experience this and that. That's being repeated throughout. This section. Why? Because it's important. Because it is very serious. Because God's people must pay attention to what the Lord is saying. Now, the truth of the matter is, Israel did in fact experience all of these calamities. They came to pass. Every one of them came to pass. 6th century. Judah is taken into captivity. Exile So the idea of being taken back to slavery. It happened. And we also know how the prophets speak about God's judgment. And the trials that God's people face. I mean, Amos talks about it and other prophets, and they when they talk about it, they mention that you are experiencing these trials and you're being punished because you have forsaken the Lord your God Because you have sinned. And the truth of the matter here is that Israel must understand that disobedience will lead to inverted history. You're changing things by acting in rebellion. The fact that God has rescued you from Egypt from slavery so that you may be his people set apart for himself. You are basically going back, enslaving yourself and and and and and bringing disaster upon yourself But there is a question that we must ask ourselves, and I think it's important. What is the cardinal sin that Israel is here committing that they are being told and given all these curses? Is it simply because they've disregarded God's word and they're not obeying what he says? Is it because uh you have not honored your mother, you haven't kept the Sabbath and all these things? Is that it? See, the primary reason here is not just some moral disobedience. Their cardinal sin is spiritual. As verse 20 says, look at it. It's because you have forsaken the Lord your God. You are breaking a covenant relationship. You are breaking apart from the God who is your God, who's declared his love for you, and for you not to fellowship with him and to be with him. You are abandoning. Your God. That's their cardinal sin. Yet, throughout in this section, God still remains the generous and merciful God towards his people. He's warning them again as I mentioned because he loves them. And we know for us that's true, right? God disciplines those whom he loves, right? He doesn't want them to suffer. But we must also look at all these curses in the context of um the land that they're about to enter, the land of Canaan. Where people worship Bell. You know, this this God that was capricious, this God that was volatile, that God, this God that was vindictive and unpredictable. There was really no knowing How this God would act with his subject. In fact, he had to be coaxed and cajoled for him to act in favor. He had to be offered sacrifices for him to be nice to his people, so to speak. God of fertility and victory and all these things. But the God of Israel is presenting himself as a totally different God. He's neither vindictive or capricious or volatile Even in these curses, God is still saying, I am still the God who slowed to anger and abounding in steadfast love. And that never changes. And that the people who have a covenant with this God who is faithful, then they must not rebel against him. They must not live in in a way that is going to destroy that relationship. Because doing so will bring upon consequences. And here they are so many, we cannot again go through each one of them, but verses 20 through 22, there will be plagues Verse 23, drought, invasion 25 through 35, exile, 36 through 52, famine, 53-57, sickness, desolation, verse 62 through 68. Disobeying the living God would reverse God's covenant love to his people. Yet these curses are not some mindless acts of a capricious and mindless God, a God who cannot be known by His. He has made himself known to his people. These are just our acts of a righteous God whose covenant love demands obedience Obedience demands for them to act right. I think it's interesting as we read the last verse, 68. God warning his people that they will be taken back into captivity as slaves. And the utter and abject misery that is depicted in that picture. That they will take themselves back to try and sell themselves as slaves and there will be no one to buy them. It doesn't get any worse than that, does it? That is utter and abject misery. It's just contempt, utter contempt. And God's people are basically being warned. That God has chosen to love you and to bless you and to do all these things. That to act in a way that brings about all these curses, to act in disobedience, to act in rebellion. Is to take yourself to a horrible place. The writing is on the wall, so to speak. God is saying Don't be surprised if any of these things happen to you because you have been warned. You know, as I was thinking about this section, I kept thinking to myself. Whenever I find myself going astray, whenever I find myself going in a direction that I ought not to be going, What kinds of signs do I see before me that tell me, Josiah, stop? Don't go there. Don't do that. Don't think that way. Don't feel that way. Don't let temptation lead you this way. And the question is, do I listen? Do I pay attention? Do I hear? Or do I simply keep walking? See the extensiveness of these curses that are given here, and they're pretty extensive. I think reminds us of God's grace that cannot be earned. What do I mean by that? God's grace is free, right? But the truth of the matter is we would love to have a God that we can put in our pockets We would love to have a God that we can manipulate and control and bribe. We would love to have this kind of a God, and you know what I'm talking about. We would love to have this God that I say God so-and-so is such a sinful person. Would you go and punish them because they are these horrible people? But treat me with an exception. I am the exception. How are God's people able to possess the land of Canaan? Do you remember? What did God do? What is God doing for the people to possess the land in Canaan? What is he doing? Who is he destroying? The Canaanites. Why? Because he hates them? Because of their wickedness. See, I'm reminded that the holy, righteous, perfect God sees it all. And that he sees my secret sins. And that there's nowhere for a rebel to hide. Because he sees our every action. And the truth of the matter is, in essence, we cannot hope to live without God and experience life in all its wholeness. We really cannot. Some people think they can, but we cannot hope to live without God and experience life in all its fullness. We were made by God. We were made for God. And that's how we ought to live. Rebelling against God and living in disobedience is, in fact, inviting And denying ourselves the blessings that come from him, one commentator puts it. And that's what disobedience does. Disobedience separates us from God. It breaks that covenant that we have before with God. And Israel is here with if we inviting all these curses and and They're doing that because they're w as we we read time and time again, you know, God is gonna let you go and worship. You know, God's made out of wood and stone. They they are inviting trouble for themselves and seeking blessings and seeking those things that they ought to be seeking from God, seeking blessings from idols. Seeking blessings from things that will not deliver. Because what they really want is what the living God offers to them. Isn't that the story of our lives? Where do we looking for answers and solutions to this wall's problems? Most of the times it's not by looking at what God tells us, unfortunately. Most of the time we are tempted to look for solutions and answers in our idols. You may not have a shrine in your room. You may not have a tiny little idol that you bow down to. But we know what our idols are. Materialism. Yay for Good Friday. No not Good Friday. Black Friday. Good Friday is good. Individualism, politics, whatever it is that you think satisfies you more than God The truth of the matter is that these things will only lead us deeper and deeper into the realms of, did you hear as we read, frustration. Confusion, sadness, grief We may use the old British exclamation, all our gods have failed. Because they do fail if we're not looking to God. See, we're talking about God warning his people because he loves them, but I think if you're really thinking seriously about this chapter, this section You would say that they it's really hard to reconcile that and then read verse 63 Let's read it. And as as the Lord took delight in doing you good and multiplying you, so the Lord will take delight in bringing you ruin, in bringing ruin upon you and destroying you. What is that? God delights in blessing his people. We talked about last time. And now God delights in destroying his people. See, I think we must remember that the holiness of God, God's love demands his punishment and destruction of those who despise the riches of his goodness. Do you know how God's glory is displayed? God's glory can be displayed in his punishment. And judgment, his just act of destroying sinfulness as much as it is displayed in him blessing his own people Now, as much as we may have a hard time reconciling that a and and and then maybe even some people asking, how can a gracious and loving and good God even say that he would take delight in destroying his his people? How is that even possible? Some great theologians said this: if you are tempted to stagger at the justice of God and the fact that God can punish sin, you must be willing to stagger at the cross. Because I think that's more beautiful. Because it's at the cross that the perfect Son of God It's that the cross of the perfect Son of God bore our sin, our punishment. He took upon the punishment the wrath of God that we fully deserved upon himself And what is the cross? The cross is is a is an instrument of brutality. It's a physical torture. As Jesus goes to the cross to die for you, to take upon God's curse, upon God. Himself to die for you. That's where we must stagger. That's where we must be astounded. That's where the awe is By looking at the cross. That the cross is a signal of a loving and gracious God. It's an act of substitution, it's an act of satisfaction. But Jesus died for you. He endured the cross, the wrath of God, the wrath that your sins deserved for you. God warns us against disobedience because what we do matters. Our actions matter. See, there's really nothing inevitable in this chapter, is there? The point in this chapter is in fact to warn the people of the consequences that will come upon them if they disobey, so that they may avoid it. That's the point. So that they may avoid it. That only their persistent rebellion and disobedience is going to against God's grace and blessing would they experience all these curses that are given here? And this is not a portrayal of this horrific God Lean God who is just seeking to come and pounce on you and destroy you. This is in fact a powerful appeal to a legitimate consequentialism. Which says, think what will happen if you continue, if you deliberately choose the path of rebellion and disobedience. Choices matter Judgment is not unavoidable. I mean judgment is avoidable, sorry. If the people choose to live and to keep the covenant that God has given to them. It's not inevitable. Now, I didn't mention that all these things come to pass in Israel, but that's because they did exactly what they were told not to do. But there's forgiveness. That's what God is saying. If my people will hear my voice, I will hear. I will heal them. I'll come and heal them and heal their land. If the people repent and turn to God, these curses will disappear. Choices have repercussions. And I think even for Israel as they hear these words, it's not just the sicknesses, it's not just the the diseases and the blindness and And the loss of family and the cannibalism and the defeat in war and all this thing, there's something that's going on here. Remember the the memory of their Slavery in Egypt is so fresh in their minds. Their fathers and mothers were in slavery. And so God is saying, let that memory, let that reminder of your servitude in Egypt serve to conjure up the horrors that your people experience in Egypt, and let that help you to turn away from your sin. It's a dark picture. A dark picture that's being painted you of the curses. But I think if we only look at it as such and just think about, oh yeah, this was such a horrible thing that that happened to God's people, oh yeah, and that's all gone and You know, we're we're now in the twenty-first century. I think we missed the point. The truth of the matter is this is a dark picture that is a reflection, a true reflection of what happens when people live in sin. This is what happens when people live in sin, when people live in utter disregard of God. Instead of enjoying God's blessings, they are so depraved that they engage in all manner of evil things and we have a New Testament text that tells us so. Romans chapter 1 It's not just true of the Old Testament, but it's true of the New Testament. That when we live without Christ, when people live without Christ, they are the blind. The lost beggars, the weak, the sad victims of the ravages of sin, the bereft prisoners and helpless refugees. Do you want to know why there's so much hatred and suffering in this world? Just think about how much we've forgotten God. When we live in sin, we cannot enjoy God's blessings. And we cannot enjoy God's blessings with joy. In fact, everything's everything becomes bitter. Everything just becomes Terrible. It's not comfortable. There is no peace. There is no joy. Because true peace and joy can only come not when we search for answers elsewhere, but when we have a real and permanent relationship with Jesus Christ. It's the only way. It's the only way for joy. See this dark picture of the curses that we see here should compel us to pay attention. To pay attention to what we do. Are we going to live in fear of God? It's glorious, God who has loved us, seeking to be faithful to Him in every way, or are we going to plunge ourselves in disobedience? And suffer the consequences. See again, people wonder why God Who is just and holy, a loving God, would want to punish People that he has made in his own image. That may not be a bad question to ask. It may also not be a question that you are asking. But it's a question so many people ask. Why can't he just forgive if he's so loving? But you know when we ask that question we forget. We forget our own lives, our own sin. We forget who we really are. We forget about the bad choices that we make in life. We forget that God is just yes, but that we actually invite disaster upon ourselves when we choose to live. The way we want. When we sin, when we disobey God, when we rebel against God, even in the slightest manner. As we confess our sin this morning, we break all of the law that God has given to us. And you know what happens when we disobey? You know what we're saying to God, to the maker of the universe, to the God who made us, to the God who controls us, to the sovereign God who controls all things. You know what we're saying? We're basically saying, you holy, majestic, and glorious God who made all things and made me for yourself, you are absolutely wrong, and I am right. We are saying I reject everything that you have done, I reject your righteousness, I I reject all the laws that you have given to govern my life, and I choose my own way. I choose my own path. I choose my own That's intentionally what we're saying. I choose my way. Your blessing that you kind of yeah. No. I choose my own way of providing for myself. Where does that lead us? Where does that lead us? See, the good news is, as God's people, we are in the hands of a gracious God. We're helpless sinners that can only survive by God's grace. That He alone has the power to rescue us from distraction. But we must also be careful, however, because again thinking about well we gotta obey, we know all these things, sometimes we tend to think that we prosper because we obey, right? Or people suffer because they've sinned. You know, we always say, what someone is not doing well, yeah, they must have sinned so bad. Um And and that cannot be far you know farther from the truth. You know the story of Job, right? What did Job do that God was trying to punish him His friends were wrong. It doesn't always follow that way. In fact, the book of Job starts by reminding us that Job was a righteous man, but he suffered a great deal. See the God's people were given the law that was supposed to lead them to a place. But they were given a standard that they were supposed to obey without the means to do it. They just kidding. They were incapable of keep keeping the old Sinai covenant And that's why Jeremiah comes into picture in Jeremiah chapter thirty-one and talks about this this new covenant that God would have with his people. But then what's the difference? What what would make a difference in this new covenant New covenant that God was was giving to his people. Oh, it's it's a big difference. And Jeremiah says, God will give you a heart and a mind. He will change your whole life so that you are in fact able To do that which is pleasing to God, but you can only do it through the one who is coming, and we get in the into the New Testament. And Jesus comes And he fulfills the Father's requirements, his demands. He perfectly keeps the law. So that we may have a changed heart. So that we may be able to obey him. Without Christ's perfect sacrifice, we cannot live See, knowing Israel's history, we can assume such an awful inevitability. just in history in general, right? And and we know what happened to them. But but you see Israel was not a exceptional Israel's story reflected the wickedness and the truth about us, the nature of a sinful man. And so the inevitability of this curses should weigh weigh on us equally as as God's people. And you may say that doesn't sound like good news. But I say that's actually where the good news is, because that's where the gospel of Jesus Christ cast light into the darkness that is evoked by the curse. So the great, if you know this man, the great William Blake, a British poet, penned down a wonderful poem. I'm not gonna read the whole of it because it's as long as the chapter we read this morning I'm only gonna read four lines. It's a picture of the law and grace. It's a picture of the adulterous woman that came to Jesus. Hear these words. Jesus was sitting in Moses' chair. They brought the trembling woman there. Moses commands she be stoned to death. What was the sound of Jesus' breath? He laid his hand on Moses' law, the ancient heavens in silent awe, writ with curses from Paul to Paul. All the way began to roll. What a beautiful picture that we have hope through Jesus Christ That he is the only one who can remove the inevitability of the curse. Do you know what it costs for your disobedience? It costs Jesus his life. That Jesus redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse himself, that we were the blind, the broken, the lost, the hopeless refugees, but Christ taking upon himself humanity as the perfect Son of God Jesus invaded this dark world of powerless offenders. Jesus invaded your dark, cursed hearts. Bearing the judgment and wrath that we deserved. By God's grace. By his grace alone, the worst of things can always be different. Because Jesus has come to make his blessings flow far as the curse is found. Thank you, Lord Jesus, for your word this morning. That you have invaded my dark, cursed heart. That you have given me true life, eternal life. You have given us, those who believe in you, a new and fresh beginning. Father, we pray that you would allow us to honor you, to glorify you, to worship you, to adore you And to be motivated to live for you because of how much you've loved us. Pray all this in Christ's name. Amen.