Good morning. We have just finished our study Or 1 Corinthians, and we on this for just this one month, we're going to be looking at the Psalms of Ascent, and we'll not look at all of the 15 of them. But we'll just be looking at uh a few of them. So I hope it's uh it's a wonderful time and it's a sweet time for us to consider these psalms. So we're beginning with Psalm 121. this morning and if you're able I would ask that you will please stand as we read and as we honor and read God's word from Psalm 121. A song of ascents. I lift up my eyes to the hills. From where does my help come? My help comes from the Lord who made heaven and earth. He will not let your fruit be moved. He who keeps you will not slumber. Behold, he who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep. The Lord is your keeper The Lord is your shade on your right hand. The sun shall not strike you by day, nor the moon by night. The Lord will keep you from all evil. He will keep your life. The Lord will keep your going out and your coming in from this time forth. And forevermore. This is the word of the Lord. Father, how often do we hear your word and yet doubt it? How often do we hear you speak to us and yet not truly believe that you are our keeper, that you are our helper Well, there's only one way that we can understand these words that you've spoken to us and preserved for us. It's only by the power of your Holy Spirit. So would you now, Lord, we pray, illumine our hearts and our minds so that we may hear you speak to us. In Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated. As I mentioned, we're beginning a study in the Psalms of Ascens, and these Psalms are called the Psalms of Ascent because they were songs that were sang by God's people by the Israelites As they were on a pilgrimage or they're on their way to Jerusalem to worship God, to perform certain festivals And they were a constant reminder to God's people every time they joined together in these wonderful hymns or songs, if you will. That God's people were united together in joy. They were united together in sorrow. They were united together in their purpose. As God's people. And in particular, the Psalm that we just read this morning, and beginning of Psalm 120 to 134, which is those are all the uh the Psalms of Ascent, but you will see this trajection where the psalmist begins by talking about his journey. That is kind of fearful not knowing where they're going it i i it ends up to a climax where the psalmist gets to the end of the psalm in Psalm 134 And is able to enjoy the blessings of God, is able to look upon all the promises that God has accomplished. And so this particular one that we read this morning is a pilgrim that he's on a on a journey to Jerusalem and he needs protection on his journey. He's asking God for help to guide him on his journey to Jerusalem. It is a a a psalm about God's divine care for his people. Now you may know every time I preach, I like to begin our time of looking at God's word with a short story or an illustration or something like that. But you know, this week has really been a reminder for Grace Reform Presbyterian Church of how much we need God's help every day. We have all been united together as God's people, not just as a congregation, but we've been united in sorrow We have cried together. We have embraced one another more than ever this week. And the one thing that stood out for me during this trial in this week has been one thing in particular That all of our conversations were centered upon Jesus Christ. That we were pointing one another to a God who is the source of all of our help and not to anything else. That our prayers were centered on sending our brothers and sisters in Christ to look upon the cross of Christ, to look upon God. Who is our helper? Because you see in times of trouble there is no any other place for us to look into, is there The only place for us to go is to go to the Lord who is our keeper. And I think one the other one other thing that I was reminded of and as we're reading through this psalm kind of comes out of this is this But the Christian life is not a is not an easy life. And in fact, sometimes the Christian life is very, very difficult. It's extremely hard to navigate. But here's the hope for us. And through the psalmist, he's telling us that, brothers and sisters, be reminded that there is no tragedy. There is no difficulty, there is no trial, a loss of a loved one, a loss of a job, a loss of anything else that you have a struggle with the besetting sin. There is no tragedy that we face as God's people that is beyond God's help. And that's a good thing for us to be reminded of. So the psalmist begins in verses 1 through 4. He says, I want you to understand that your God who is your keeper is an ever-present help. See we don't know if the shamist was actually here being tempted to look to the hills or to the mountains to go and take refuge there, or whether the hills themselves, as he saw them, this majestic mountains stood for him as a menace. Maybe he was tempted like David was in Psalm 11:1 when David says I I feel like I want to like a bird to the mountains. I want to fly to the mountains like a bird We don't know. But the Psalmist look seems to be looking with great anxiety and longing to the hills and he's asking, where where does my help come from? See we also we can think of it this way that the h the hills may have provided cover. Remember the travelers back in the ancient times were always attacked by robbers that sought to steal, to get stuff from them. So maybe he's looking to the hills and thinking I might find refuge there in the hills from all the people that might be trying to attack me on my journey to to Jerusalem. But He could also have been looking to the hills because you know hidden beside those hills is the holy city of Jerusalem. In fact, some commentators argue that this psalm was sung at night in the evening when there was only a day's Time left on their journey. And so they were able to get there and look beyond the mountains and see the holy city and say, oh wow, we are just about to get there. Maybe that's what he was thinking. Either way, we don't know. The psalmist seems to be filled with anxiety and anticipation that may have occupied his heart and mind. And so he says, I'm gonna gaze my eyes, I'm gonna lift my eyes to the pathway, to the road that will lead me to my destination. But the psalmist is worried, he is fearful. How am I gonna get there? He knows that there are difficulties that lie ahead on his journey, and so he asks: Who is going to help me? Who is going to assist me? What does he need help from? What kind of help is he looking for? This travel on his journey needs protection from everything that surrounds him. This travel on his journey needs guidance. He knows how to, he wants to know how he's gonna get there. He also needs blessings. He's saying I need to succeed, not just for me to get there, but also to be able to enjoy the blessings that God has stored for me. Have you heard this when people normally say when they face a difficult situation, people say, Help me God. Lord have mercy. And sometimes people make that cry even when they don't believe in God. And for those of us that believe in God, we've been there. We Have faced a situation that we have never faced before, and we get to a place where we're clueless as to what to what to do, and so we cry out, like the psalmist, and say, Who will help me? Now the temptation is that sometimes when we get to places that we've never been before and we cannot find a solution to our problems, is that we seek to find answers elsewhere than God. And the psalmist is saying you go on your way at your own risk. But the psalmist is wise. He does not hesitate to keep thinking about this question that is on his mind. He knows better. He looks beyond the hills. He looks beyond the universe. He says, I'm gonna look to the God. Who made the hills and who made the heavens and the earth? That is my living help. That is the wise, immeasurable personal help that I need. He finds comfort in Yahweh. He finds comfort in the covenantal God who has committed himself to helping his people. The language of a covenantal God is a God who stands. Mighty and powerful over us. He is the one who initiates the the relationship that we have with him, and he's the one who determines and says, You are mine, and I will provide for you. It is not the other way, it is not us seeking his help and saying, Well, God might even look upon me. No, it is God Himself declaring and saying to you, You are mine, and I will be your helper. See this lifting up has a lot to do, you know, when you lift something up, you're trying to put it in a higher level, right, so that you may see clearly. And most of the times we lift our eyes of flesh, trying to see where we may find the hell, and we miss the point. Instead of gazing up with our eyes of faith. Eyes that trust in the Lord that is able to give us confidence to trust in Him. Instead of looking and gazing our eyes to the God who spoke creation into being. That our help does not come from mountains, our help does not come from anything else. In fact, the mountains and the hills receive what they have from God who made them. And so our hope has to be the one who has created all things. See, the psalmist is really clever here. By using that language of God being creator, the psalmist does not just want us to see the creator as a mere title. God the creator. That's about it I think the psalmist wants us to go deeper into it, to see a God who not only creates all things, but sustains, governs. All of things that he holds the world together in his own hand, he governs everything that comes to pass as he sees fit, all powerful, all-wise, all knowing. Like I mentioned, when we face imminent danger, our temptation is to run up and down looking for help, looking for assistance, quick solutions from other things lesser than God. And why do we neglect God's help? Oh Lord, you are taking too long. I cannot believe that you've made me wait for 10 years. Oh Lord, I feel like you don't care. Now that you're not here, you do not hear me. You do not listen to me I cannot wait any longer. But even the greatest of helps Even the greatest of helps will provide the security that we need, the security that we desire. The security that is enough for us. See the mountains here to me represent all the things that are great and majestic. All wealth Our fame, our power, and all those things are nothing compared to the help that we get from God They are temporary. They are made by the one whom we're supposed to be looking to for help. Then the psalmist uses this creative power of God to demonstrate God's ability to help us. God is a God of infinite power. But you know what? Sometimes we tend to look at God and say, Well, I know that I believe in a God of infinite power. But we forget that it's not just God's infinite, infinite power that we need to be looking at. That in fact it is God's infinite love and tender care for us. A God who continues to pursue us even when we try to run away. I love the language here in verse 4. That the psalmist is actually crying out and saying, the God of Israel Why? Because we know that the people of God were fickle people. God loved them, He provided for them, and yet they would always be rebellious. They would always want to run away and and seek help in the gods that they created and carved images and all those things. And we know something about that, don't we? But this is the God of infinite tender love and care who pursues us even when we do not want to seek help from him. He says, I'm still going to pursue you I'm gonna love you. I'm gonna care for you. I'm gonna provide for you. See, God, my God. The God that I believe my help comes from is not a God who just rules the nations with in a general sense. He's not a remote, distance God, is he? He's a God who takes intimate interest in my welfare. He's a God who cares and cherishes each and every one of us and he says, I am your provider. I am your keeper. I am the one who holds you together. Not even a piece of hair falls from your head that I do not know that that has happened And the language he uses here that we our foot will not be moved is the language of staggering, that we will always stagger, whether in our faith, whether we in our trials, whether in troubles, we will always stagger. We will always be tempted To fall. And he says, but I will not let you fall. And when you do, I am there to pick you up. I am there to hold you up together. See, none of us here does not struggle in this life. We are united in our struggles in life. We are united in our struggles with anxiety. In life. We do not know what's gonna come tomorrow, do we? Not even in the next second. We do not know. And yet God says he's our faithful keeper. He says, I am the one who watches over you unceasingly. See, when he asked the question Or when he answers the question that God does not slumber or sleep, pagan gods were known to sleep. They were known to take a break from all the badgering from people. It was time for them to take a break. Not so with our God. He does not grow weary, not even from all the needs that we bring to him. His eyes of providence are always upon You upon me. He is the shepherd of his people as we sang the special music this morning from Psalm 23. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not be in want. See, there were so many times we read the Old Testament and God's people would question whether God was there. We read them throughout scripture. God's people get into trouble and they go like God, where are you? Why are you sleeping? Why are you not hearing us as we call out on your name for you to come and rescue us? Then in the New Testament we read of Jesus being in a boat and the disciples are about to sink and they're in a storm and they're asking the question, God, don't Jesus, don't you care that we're in trouble? Where are you? What are you gonna do about it? You are just in there sleeping and here we are, we're about to drown. And yet with God's people, with the disciples, and with all of us, we must be reminded that even at those moments that God is always in perfect control. The disciples never realized that as long as Jesus was on the boat with them, they were safe. He did not have to do a thing, they were safe. I find it so easy for me to say that I accept God's help when I'm in trouble. But when the tough or when the the going gets tough This is what I normally say. Yes, God, you are my help, but God, you are my help, but We panic inwardly. I love soccer. It's like watching my favorite team, and did that make mention that my team is the reigning champions, by the way. That was just for Greg and Warren It's like watching my favorite team about to score a magnificent goal. And I watch the opponent goalkeeper that has what we call battery fingers. He sees this menacing striker coming towards him and about to strike the ball, and he should be able to catch it. But he grabs it and gets scared somehow, panics, and he drops the ball and it goes right in. Or like watching football, a nice perfect throw from the quarterback and the wide receiver just goes, oh there's a defender around me and battery fingers, let's it drop, fumbles the ball I'm so glad that that's me and it's not God. Secondly, the psalmist says that he not only watches, he's not an ever-present help for us, but he's also Watching us, not just in the now, but forever. Look at verses 5 through 8. Some it says that he stands by your right at your right hand. This is really language that means that our God is not far off for us to reach out to him It is closer than the brothers, closer than the mountains, he's closer than you think. He's with us. He's ready to help us. I love what Calvin says. Calvin describing, remember when Jesus ascended into heaven, what did he say What did Jesus leave to us to be our helper and our comforter? He left us the Holy Spirit to be the one who comforts us, to be our constant helper. All the time, every time that there's a continual guidance of his people, that God is the one who stretches out his hand and leads us accordingly. from the time we are born to the time that we die and to the time we rise again to be with them forever. And he continues to say that the cold Of the night and the heat of the day will not even strike you. Metaphors of all kinds of trials and inconveniences that you will face in life. That having God with you, present with you in your trials You have the confidence that he will defend you from such trials. And the truth is, as I mentioned, we're all going to face the miseries of this life. We're all going to face the miseries that this life has to offer, but God says, I will be your shadow. I will be your shade from all these trials. But you see, the psalmist is now promising a life of comfort and smooth sailing. That's not what the psalmist is saying. He's not saying that you're not going to get sunburned when you stand in the sun But the psalmist is promising a life that is secure in God despite the sorrows of this life He's saying, yes, you will go through a hard time, but God is your security. You know what's even more here? When he mentioned the sun in the day. And the moon by night is that God is actually able to protect us from things that are unseen. Do you ever think about it? How many times you have escaped danger that you did not even know was there? How many times you should have died? And yet God saw it and He protected you And you're going through life as if nothing ever happened because you have no clue. Because he was always there. Watching you. I love the uh the climax of this Psalm. Look at Psalm seven verse seven and eight. But he's saying that his promise of covering us exists not just for the psalmist, but it's actually It goes beyond the present to the future. It covers all things. You're going in and you're coming, going in and out And we are short of God's help in everything that we do, and not just now, but tomorrow and the day to come. Deuteronomy 28, 6 says, Blessed shall you be when you come in, and blessed shall you be when you go out. That's how God cares for us. In verse 7 he says that there's no evil that is going to befall upon us. None. Now again, the psalmist is not saying that We're living a Christian life that oh man, we don't get to face any evil, no temptation, no, nothing horrible ever happens to us. No, no, no, no, no. He's saying this is living a life that is well armed Like a soldier. That you are ready to face any evil that comes by your side, any trial that comes by you, because you know you're protected, you know that you're covered. Scripture tells us consider it pure joy, brothers and sisters, when you go through what? Joy? When you go through great things? When you go through happiness? When what does Scripture say? When you go through what? Go through trials. Because God is faithful That once we enter into trouble, he's able to provide the way for us. And we were we've been studying the book of First Corinthians and we saw what that means. But it doesn't mean that God rescuing us or getting us out of trouble is not just taking us out of where we are and just placing us placing us in a safe place. We are already in a safe place. But it means this. It means that God is able to give us strength to endure our suffering. We can actually endure our suffering knowing that we're secure in Christ. But it's not just that, as Sinclair Ferguson says, it's God's help, his care is without limitation. He's not limited in how much he can care for us. And we have confidence in him both now and forevermore. So you you ask me, how is this possible? How can we be assured that God is truly and really protecting us, that the Lord is truly our keeper, that the Lord is truly our helper? There's no better place for us to go other than to go to God's Son Himself, Jesus Christ. What was the purpose of the incarnation? Why did Jesus Christ have to become man? Jesus Christ became man, took on flesh and bone like we are. He took all of that so that he could endure temptation. Just like we and we're told he endured every temptation, yet he was without sin. So he knows so that he may know our struggle with sin. So whenever you're struggling with the with the besetting sin or anything like that, God knows how it feels like But Jesus also was despised. He was hated. He was betrayed with a kiss by his own friend. He had enemies that he had to conquer, and yet by his death and resurrection, he conquered. He overcame his enemies. He even took the sting of death itself. He says, I went to the darkest of all places than you have ever been. I've been there. I understand. He did all this so that he could sympathize with us. And he promises to be with you. He promises to be with us till the end of the age. That's the purpose of the whole book of Hebrews, and that's why he says, let us now, with the confidence, draw near. to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy and find grace in time of need Our life is not easy. It will not be easy. But it is safe It is safe when we know that we have Paul Lord who is our keeper. Is he your keeper this morning? Do you believe it? Father, we thank you that you truly are our keeper, that you promise That in all the tragedies and all the struggles of this life that we may endure, you are with us. You can sympathize with us. So may our souls truly find rest in Christ alone. And may we be encouraged as we go through this week to know that you are here, you are there, with us. Pray all this in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen.