I had a a wonderful opportunity to pray for you as we traveled uh down south and back up and um Just seeing your face is a reminder of the prayer uh that I've been able to put miles on Uh, it has been fun. Uh one of the things that I did as we went down uh for my mother's hundredth birthday was to also make some contacts with uh various churches and friends and people uh along the way. And I want to encourage all of you to uh begin uh thinking in this direction as well. Um my understanding is that the search Committee has sort of come through most of the names that they have had. And so uh th that leaves an empty slate right now. And that's one of the discouragements. You know, how how do we take the next step? One of the important steps is when we sort of shake the connections that we have as a congregation And say to somebody else, do you know anybody who? And uh we begin to bring that. So I've been doing some of that. Do you know anybody who's uh amongst uh the elders and pastors that I have known down south. Uh and so I've started to shake my network a lot more na knowing that their the search committee needs some additional people to look at. I I would encourage the the uh committee to be looking at. But all of us can do we all have connections. So I want to encourage encourage you to be asking those questions. Who do I know? Who do I know that may actually be presently pastoring, but m actually maybe Who do I know that may be um uh assisting in a in a congregation and may be ready uh to come in here? Uh there may be a lot of ways of doing this. I just want to encourage It has certainly been on my prayer list uh through these uh days, hours of travel. We have to do something besides look at travel So uh it's a it's a time to be able to pray and seek God's face, uh and God is faithful to us. Uh this next uh five weeks, and I'm I'm looking forward to being with you throughout the Christmas season, our our travel's actually done for a while Uh that's nice to know for us. We got home and Debbie said, Boy, it's nice to finally be home and not have another trip, you know, planned. We don't have another one planned. But what I want to do in these next five weeks is to look at the Old Testament prophets and ask the question, how does the Old Testament look forward to to the coming of the Christ. What are the themes that come out of the Old Testament prophets? Uh many of them, if you read the gospels, you know that the gospel accounts actually quote uh a number of portions in the Old Testament. Isaiah is of course one of those uh prophets that gets quoted a lot. I might or I might not cover Isaiah Because he's going to be covered all. But all of the prophets speak of the coming of the Messiah. And it's a wonderful treasure that we have. to begin to grasp that the Old Testament and the New Testament actually fit together. We've been studying and learning about that in our Sunday school class. If you've missed it, you've missed some good conversations. But I I want to take a walk into that place this morning. So I'm going to ask you to stand and I'm going Going to read from the book of Zephaniah. When was the last time you looked at the book of Zephaniah? I'm not going to ask you to actually confess when you last read the book of Zephaniah. You might not even be able to find it very quickly. easily but it's there and it's there so I'm going to read and uh uh uh allow your hearts to join you Verse nine, Zephaniah chapter three, for at that time I will change the speech of the peoples to the eye. From beyond the rivers of Cush, my worshippers, the daughter of my dispersed ones, shall be a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of I'll bring my offering on that day. You shall not be put to shame, because of the deeds by which you have rebelled against me. For then I will remove from your midst your proud And proudly exalted ones, and you shall no longer be haughty in my holy mountain. But I will leave in your midst Speak no lies, nor shall there be found in their mouth a deceitful tongue, for they shall graze and lie down, and none shall make Sing aloud, O daughter of Zion, shout, O Israel, rejoice and exult with all your heart, O daughter of Jerusalem. The Lord has taken away the judgment. Judgments against you. He has cleared away your enemies. The King of Israel, the Lord is in your midst, and you shall Shall never again fear evil on that day. It shall be said to Jerusalem, Fear not, O Zion, let your hands let not your hands grow weak. The Lord your God is in your midst. A mighty Behold, at that time I will deal with your oppressors, and I will save the lame, and gather other the outcast, I will change their shame into praise and renown in all the earth At that time. I will bring you in. At that time, when I gather you together, for I will make you renowned and praised among all the peoples of the earth, when I restore your fortunes before your eyes, says the Lord. Let's pray. Father, take this your word. We live by your word alone There is no other hope that we have than your word. So take your words and push them into our heart. Push them into our lives that we might live before you as open books of your truth and of your own praise. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. And you may be seated. Now the question that this passage and that our theme for the day raises for us is what is it that brings joy into our world? Um one of you asked me this morning already What's the difference between joy and happiness? Uh is joy something that's different or is it alike? Well I asked the kids what would make them happier Uh you know, at least part of it was, well, I wanted a different color, and that makes me happier. Change makes us happier. But the question is what really brings us joy? And what brings joy to the world? I I enjoyed you couldn't see it. But I enjoyed seeing the children's faces this morning when all of a sudden everybody serenaded them. Their their mouth was Or their body was full of breath, but you released the breath and brought them joy. So the question is, and and this is the question that the Old Testament prophets and that hang that Zephaniah especially is asking and addresses what brings joy to a world in pain? We have a world in which Hated and hatred speech seems to be something that we flourish with. I I don't understand it. It's a political trademark now, uh where we can badmouth anybody we like, especially an opponent. What brings joy into that world That world where we've become so used to bashing somebody else. What brings joy? Well, the prophet Zephaniah was prophesying 600 years before Christ. And he was prophesying and wrote this book for us at a time where there was a good king who actually wanted to restore worship. To Israel. True worship. Josiah. And King Josiah was in this process of trying to bring about a deepening Of God's people in worship. And yet the nation was turning away. And so Zephaniah brings his prophet Prophecy at a point where the king was saying, No, look to God. But the people were saying, Ah, don't want to do that. And their speech was full of anger, both against God. And the outcome of Zephaniah's prophecy really is to say God's judgment is going to come It's going to come on us, but it will lead to renewal. It will lead to renewal for Judah. It will lead to the renewal of other peoples. And That's the hope that we have when we light this Christmas candle and as we stand forward and move forward into the Christmas season. It's the joy that God God calls us to give, to have, and to bring. says, I will change the speech of the peoples to a pure speech. I read that and I thought, Lord May it be in twenty twenty-two and twenty twenty-three that the speech of a nation that has become so Angry, so filled with vile and and violence. May our speech be turned to something pure. May our speech be Well, it's God's people, you and me. And it's God's promise to you and to me. It's God's promise in the gospel to you and to me. That he says, I will redeem history. And so you have your place. We have our place, just like Zephaniah had his place. Looking forward to the redemption of the world. Bear that in mind as we go through this text. Zephaniah stood In a very unique place. So what is joy? Well, there's a sense in which joy is the reversal of what we might normally expect. And that's really what Zephaniah says. Look at verse eleven. On that day you will not be put to shame because of the deeds by which you have rebelled against you. For then I will remove from your midst your proudly exaltant ones. So God's going to take something out. We're not going to be put to shame. We might expect to be shamed because of what we've done, what we've said. God says, I'm going to reverse it. I'm going to take the proud and remove the pride and put in gentleness. Wouldn't that be a wonderful outcome for our Nation. Wouldn't it be a wonderful outcome for us? Lord, surprise me with joy. Actually, there's an author, C. S. Lewis, that wrote a book by that name, Surprised by Joy. If you've probably read At that or you at least know the title. You want to know what C. S. Lewis thought joy was? I'll give you his definition. Or his opinion. He said, real joy seems to me almost as unlike security or prosperity as it is unlike agony. So he's contrasting agony on the one hand, security and prosperity on the other hand. He says, joy is not either one of those. It's unlike all of them. And he writes, it jumps under your ribs, it tickles down your back, it makes you forget meals, and it keeps you delightedly sleepless at night. It shocks you awake when others put you to sleep. He said, my private table or comparison is one second of joy is worth 12 hours of pleasure. Now think about that. We seek pleasure. We are a pleasure seeking people. It just comes naturally to find something. It is pleasure. And if a blue straw or a green straw is more pleasurable than a yellow straw, we will pick the one that's more pleasurable. That's the way we are. And I think C. S. Lewis has touched it correctly. Joy is something that wells up within us. It reminds us of something that we hadn't seen. It's a contrast. So verse 13 opens that just a little bit more, and I want you to look at Verse thirteen. Those that are left in Israel, they shall do no injustice, speak no lies. There should be found in their mouth no deceitful tongue, for they shall gay graze and light So pride turned to humility, gentle fearlessness is the outcome of Christ It's the presence of God in us that changes. So joy is the reversal of what we might expect. I might expect my circumstances will give me fear, will give me uh something that contains me. And God surprises and says, No You don't have to be contained by fear. You don't have to have your mouths filled with ugly thoughts and words. Pride. And gentle fearlessness becomes what Christ leaves us with. So joy is the reversal of our normal expectation. But joy is not just that. So secondly, I want you to see that joy is actually an emotional response. And sometimes we're afraid of thinking, well, I don't want to just be emotional. There are a lot of emotions. Fear is an emotion. Anger is an emotion. Joy is an emotion. God gives us emotions. That's one way that He made us. He created these, I want to call them visceral or gut responses. Uh if if you stub your toe, uh if you're like me, and I did that this week, uh you don't immediately say, Oh, that feels so good. I think I'll do it again. No, there's this sort of visceral response of You know, your mouth, your body, everything just sort of seizes up. You didn't think about it. It is simply A response to the stimulus. And joy is a response, and the question is what's a stimulus? And so there's another author that I have great appreciation. For John Piper. He writes this. He says, Christian joy is a good feeling. And by that I mean it's not an idea. It's not a conviction. It's not a persuasion or a decision. It's a feeling. Or, and I use the words in ex interchangeable. And decide to feel something. So it's back to the question What is the stimulus that brings about Joy. Because if God has said, I want to put my joy in the world through you, you say, well how do I do that? Do I think about it about it? Uh do I uh I I'm thankful that Bethany thinks about the songs we're gonna sing. And hopefully those songs draw us into the presence of Christ and draw us with joy. So we think about it. It's not that we don't think about it, but there's something that happens that's beyond our reasoning. If stubbing my toe is a negative event, what is the positive event that just says, yes, God? Is present. And it gives us a joy. Look at verse 15. The Lord has taken away the judgments against you, He's cleared away your enemies The King of Israel, the Lord, is in your midst, and you shall never again fear Evil. Evil. So joy is the response to knowing that the judgment has been removed. I know none of you have ever gotten that speeding Ticket. Right? Um you've never been stopped by a policeman for doing something I don't know what I did. Was it speeding? Was it a red light? Was it a stop sign? Was it a I remember once I was in um in Florida actually visiting my mother and there was Were two school zones that were right next to each other. I saw the first one and I slowed down from thirty five miles an hour to fifteen. Uh please car was right there waiting for me. I slowed down, so okay I got through that one and there was a sign that said end of school zone so I sped back up to 35. And about a half block later that little s that little flash Flashing light uh was not a specialty at Kmart, it was a specialty behind me. And um he said, uh you're a school zone So I just came through it. There was a sign that said I was through it. He said there's a second one. I didn't see that one But he said um he looked at my license, it was obvious I was from out of town. He said, I'll let you go this time. There was an immediate sense of relief, not complete joy, but it sort of moved in that direction a little bit. I hadn't you know I had avoided it that moment Well, that's really what these verses are telling us. Joy is the response to the removal of judgment. I deserve the ticket. I was in a school zone. I didn't know it, but I was. And sometimes our failure, God says, you have not only failed, but you deserve the judgment. And he says. I'm going to keep a judgment for myself. I will bear it. You don't have to. And there's this sense of joy, of relief. It's not mine. And my heart may be full of fear. God says, I will remove the fear. When that fear Fear of the future, fear of the present, fear of people, fear of what's going to happen. When God removes that fear, there is a profound sense of relief. and joy. Joy that God promises. Redemptive joy that God gives. But I want to go a little bit farther because Zephaniah goes a little bit farther as well as we look at the question: Joy is celebrating Christ in our gathered midst. Look at verse 17. The Lord your God is in your midst, a mighty one who will save. So We asked the I asked the question a few minutes ago. What is the trigger event that gives us joy? What's the circumstance that gives us joy? Not just gives us pleasure, not just gives us a nice time. Not just gives us something to amuse ourselves, but what is the event that triggers joy? And this is the verse that really describes it. Verse 17. It is that the Lord our God is in our midst. Our midst, not just my midst. This is a collective thing It's in our midst, a mighty one who will save. So joy is celebrating Christ. Christmas. We celebrate Christmas, but we celebrate Christ, I hope, all year. But joy is celebrating Christ in our gathered midst. We are gathered this morning. I was gathered with you even while I drove along I-95. We weren't in the same building. We weren't in the same car. But we were In my heart gathered, I could gather with you. When we gather, when we have this sense of belonging to each other, joy celebrates Christ in our midst. I don't need to tell you, but I'm just going to say I join you. Most families have both happy and sad times. I can't think of any family that hasn't had both those times. Happy times, sad times. Sometimes we remember the sad times more than we remember The happy times. But every family goes through those things. This last few weeks as we gathered in Jacksonville, um we gathered with a no And each member had dealt with painful divorces, either in their family, immediately, in their past, some More than one. Uh we talked about children. My sister is estranged from two of her children Enormous pain. I watched as she saw her grandson that she hadn't seen in ten years be twenty-five feet away from her and His father wouldn't allow her to touch it, to embrace it. So deep was the anger and the pain. And I just, and I watched her sob why? Why do we have all this brokenness? It's in our family. It's in my family. It's in your Your family. We we recognize that brokenness is a part of our family experience. And we reflected on the pain of distant But at the same time we relished what God had done in our family. We relished that yes it It has not been all painful. There are some moments of hope and of joy. And it brought us again to celebrate the presence of Christ in history, in our family. Still have mysteries. I'll tell you more about this. One of my cousins brought a whole box of treasures, of records of my grandfather grandfather and grandmother that stories I didn't even know about. Stories my father didn't know about. My mother's a hundred years old. How long do these secrets go? How many more generations are going to keep the secrets But here's what here's Zephaniah's point. And he was writing to a people that had been wandering from from God's promises. And he and he was speaking in the presence of a king who said, Now come gather. Let's gather together before God. And Zephaniah writes to his people, and he writes to you, and he writes to me, and he says, Christ is the mighty to save He is the one in our midst. That's what God was saying. I will gather those of you who mourn, because the Lord, your God, is in your midst. Was the Lord? It was Jesus Christ. And God knew from the beginning that He was going to place Christ to be the one who would walk in our midst. So Christ is the mighty one to save. It's not me. It's not what I'm gonna do. It's not my family. It's not your family. It's not the events that you do. As much as we want to do it, it's not gonna be a straw, it's not gonna be a balloon. It might not even be a whole congregation breaking out in joy to the world, but it might be that we remind each other that Christ is In our midst. And Christ is strong to save. He is the one that is mighty to save. And he rejoices, and this is a this is a piece I don't understand. I just have to tell you. But verse seventeen says it. It says The Lord your God is in your midst, a mighty one who will save you. He will rejoice over you with glory So, what Zephaniah is saying is that the message of Christ is that God will rejoice over you. What is there I'm having trouble rejoicing about my life right now. So what is it that God is rejoicing about if I don't even know what to re Rejoice in. But there it is. God rejoices over you in Christ because He knows that He is working in you. He Is in your presence. It signals the end of pain, the end of sadness. Not the end of consequences, but the end of the causes. That God in Christ will be strong. He quiets us. That's what verse 17 says. He will quiet you by his love. Do you feel unsafe? Do you feel anxious? Find your quiet. Christ. That's joy. It's an immediate response to the quieting of your heart. Never Christ does. He says, I will quiet you. Christ exalts us with singing. So he doesn't just quiet us. He doesn't just rejoice, but he exalts. Christ exalts with singing. Do you have that? He, verse 17, will exalt over you with loud singing. It's not the congregation singing over the children, it's Christ. God Himself singing over us. Be lover, there's nothing greater than to be in that place. Presence, and to be surprised by that joy. Christ gathers us Out of mourning, out of disease, out of brokenness, out of pain, out of sorrow. Zephaniah says he So we are the gathered ones. We are gathered here. But He gathers us. It's not us that just gather ourselves together and decide, I'm gonna come. I'm going to invite somebody else to come. But God Himself gathers us to Himself. And in Christ, we are in the process of being gathered. God is gathering you in his presence Uh one of the things that um probably some of you did, I didn't do. I didn't watch an American football game this weekend. Uh I know it seems almost un American, right? Um instead we watch the World Cup. That's that's a reflection. So I have a uh a relative who who came in and we happen to be watching the Japan versus Germany game, but it was recorded, so you know. And I I made a stupid comment and uh he said um Do you know how the game ends? I said, no. He said, then I won't tell you, because I've already seen it Oh, come on. Tell me how it ends. At that point, Japan was doing very badly. They were being played over and played over and they couldn't move. And it felt like everything was gone. Well, if you followed the World Cup at all, you know they won. So this is what I want you to know. I've seen the end of the movie I've seen the end of your game, and I know who wins. That's what Zephaniah says. Your life turns in Christ. In him you will have victory. Victory Victory over pain, victory over sorrow, victory over sadness, in Christ you are held Let me pray. Father, surprise us with the judgment Joy of our lives. Just to see who you are and what you do. Sometimes in our lives it feels like there's nothing but pain, and we can't see joy And we look around our world and we feel we we we find there only pain, only anger But we hear your word. And your word is to us precious this morning. Surprise us with a joy. Of Christ before us, of Christ in us, of Christ holding us, of Christ around us. Almighty God, give us an outpouring of joy. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen