Good morning. Hope you all had a happy Thanksgiving. Before we turn our attention to God's word this morning, just want to put in a quick shameless plug for Sunday school as but John said we have a guest speaker coming, uh Pastor Matt Bowling, and I I got the chance to hear him. teach at a at a pastor's retreat that I went to about a month ago and it was a really impactful time. And so I encourage you, if you're able, plan on coming to Sunday school. I don't think you'll be disappointed. I think you'll be glad you did. So well as you no doubt have picked up one with the lighting of the candles, it's now December first and it's the first Sunday of Advent, uh the time where we take several weeks out of the year to reflect on Christ's coming and the significance of of Christmas and all that it means for us. And You'll see on the front of your bulletin the theme for Advent this year is Emmanuel, the God who dwells with his people. And I just want us to consider over a few of the next several weeks, this theme of understanding Christmas from the perspective of God's presence with his people and his desire to dwell with his people. And so we're just going to start all the way at the beginning and In Genesis chapter three, and we're going to pick up on just a few high notes, if you will, throughout Scripture of uh this plan of God to dwell with his people and how it centers around Christ and His coming in His incarnation at Christmas. So we'll begin with Genesis three, verses eight through fifteen. We'll be p picking up in in the middle of a scene right after the fall. God's created the world and and humankind in Genesis one and two, and in the beginning of chapter three we read the story of the fall into sin. And we pick up right after that in Genesis 3, verse 8. I'll ask if you're able, would you please stand as we honor the reading of God's Word this morning Hear now the word of the Lord. And they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day. And the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. But the Lord God called to the man and said to him, Where are you? And he said, I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked, and I hid myself. He said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree of which I commanded you not to eat? The man said, The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me fruit of the tree, and I ate. Then the Lord God said to the woman, What is this that you have done? The woman said, The serpent deceived me, and I ate. The Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this. Cursed are you above all livestock and above all the beasts of the field. On your belly you shall go, and dust you shall eat all the days of your life I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring. He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. This is the word of the Lord this morning. Let's pray together. Our Father, we thank you that you are a God who has spoken, who has revealed yourself to us in your word, that we might know you and follow you, and we confess our deep need for you. Lord, we need you not just every week, not just every day, we need you every hour And Lord, we need you to speak to us through your word. We know, Holy Spirit, that we cannot rightly make use of your word, rightly understand it, apart from your work in our lives. Unless you show up and work in our hearts, all that we're about to do is in vain. And so we ask the Holy Spirit that you would work in our hearts. We trust in your promise that your word never goes out in vain, but always returns to you, accomplishing the purposes for which you appointed. And we pray, Lord, that you would speak now. For your servants are listening. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. Well I've been seeing all all kinds of articles in in recent weeks with with themes and titles Somewhat related to how to navigate awkward and difficult relationships with families during the holidays No doubt this is not any kind of new phenomenon, but it it seems that it's been talked about more and more each year. And The reality is holidays are a time when we gather together with family, friends, and the strains in some of our relationships begin to show themselves maybe a little more clearly. The the sad reality in in a broken, sinful, fallen world is that we have broken and strained relationships. The fall affected our relationships in a number of ways. We have broken relationships with other people. Maybe it's a father or a mother, a spouse, a child, a friend, an extended family member. We all have these broken and strained relationships to some degree or another. But it's not limited to our relationship with other people. The fall into sin has broken our relationship with ourselves as we begin to to deceive ourselves and our sin and and lie to ourselves in so many ways and have so many difficult problems in our lives just centered around the the brokenness that we have in ourselves. And even beyond that, it extends into distorting our relationship with all of creation as work now becomes toilsome. And we have all kinds of difficulty and natural disasters and calamities in the world that we live in, reminding us that everything around us is broken. Just those three areas alone, relationships with others, relationship with ourselves, and relationship with creation, just those three alone would be enough to make life pretty difficult. But the reality is that there's even one more relationship that is broken, one that's more profound and more significant than all others. Ultimately, the deepest problem is that our relationship with God has been broken by our sin. And in the same way that many of us can't get through the holidays without the awkwardness and the pain associated with broken relationships, we cannot fully understand Christmas. And so we see it within the context of our broken relationship with God. And that's what this passage provides for us this morning as we consider it. This passage teaches us that sin is a curse that separates us from God. And that this Christmas we must put our hope in the God who brings blessing out of the curse. I just want us briefly to look at two things this morning. I want us to look at this passage and see first the results of sin. And second, to see the response to sin. So let's look first at the results of sin in verses 8 to 13. We see that sin destroys our ability to dwell in God's presence. I think it's helpful for us to maybe step back and look at the background. As we said, we're kind of picking up in the middle of a scene here. God created Everything, out of nothing, by the by the word of his power, and it was all very good. As you read through the first two chapters of Genesis, it's God created this, and it was God created this and it was good. God created this and it was good. After God had created everything, he stepped back and rested, and it was good. Chapter 2 shows that the creation of God culminates in the creation of humanity. The ones who are to be created to be made in the image of God, the ones who are to have dominion over the creation, representing God in all that we do, living to serve Him and work for Him in His presence. He created the man and planted him in the garden to work it and to keep it. And eventually, when no suitable helper was found for the man, he created the woman. And they're presented to each other at the end of chapter two in what amounts to the first wedding ceremony, the the first example of Hebrew poetry that we get in the Bible. This at last is bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman because she was taken out of man. And the passage ends by telling us that the man and his wife were both naked and were not ashamed. Chapter 2 ends on perfect bliss and harmony, and everything being right. in God's good world. But oh how things change when we turn just one verse to chapter three. As we read that the the serpent, who is more crafty than any other beast of the field, came in and undermined the teaching of God's word, saying to the woman, Did God really say you couldn't eat of any tree in the garden? Deceiving her ultimately into eating, violating the one command that God had given in Genesis 2. 17, not to eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. After the fall, we see there in chapter 3, verse 7, the immediate response. It doesn't take time for them to realize that something's broken. We're told right there, then the eyes of both were opened, and they knew that they were naked. And they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loincloths to cover themselves up. This is exactly where our passage picks up right in verse eight. As the man and his wife hear God walking in the garden. This seems actually to have been a common thing, a common occurrence, as God would walk with them and spend time with them. On a regular basis, maybe even uh accommodating himself to a way that they could grasp him and taking the form of a man The theological term for this would be a theophany, an appearance of God, right? God might take the form of a man and walk with them, so that he might have fellowship with them, that to enjoy a close relationship with his people, to dwell with them. as he desired to do. It's th the image of a father going for a walk with his young children. Delight and closeness in the relationship. You see, this is the reason that Adam and Eve existed. This was their chief end, to use the words of our shorter catechism, their primary purpose, that they might glorify God and enjoy Him. forever. They were to delight in God, to delight in being in his presence, in in walking with him, and having fellowship with him, talking with him about their day, hearing from him about who they are in his eyes and all that they can do to serve him And you can imagine the scene day after day as God would come into the garden and walk with them, as if they would have big smiles on their face and get up and run to God and embrace Him each day, the high point of their day. But this time, everything's different. Instead of running to him, they now instinctively run from him. Seeking to flee from the presence of the Lord by hiding among the trees in the garden. Notice they they didn't even see God. They merely heard the sound of him They've begun to see their sin and his holiness and recognize that God is so holy that the very sound of him is enough to terrify them. God draws near and comes to them and asks, Where are you? It's not as if God doesn't know. Right? Psalm 139 God is present everywhere. There's nowhere you can go to be away from God's presence. Even if you go to the ends of the earth or the depths of the sea, there He is And he knows where his people are. He knows all things. He knows where they are, and yet he still wants to hear it from them. Isn't that a good reminder for us as we think about just even though something as simple as our prayer life. God knows everything you need before He even knows what you don't know you need. And yet He still wants you to come to Him and make your request known to Him because He cares for you. Even beyond that, we can draw out some significant applications for confessing our sins. God knows what I do and what I think and what I say. He knows what you do and what you think and what you say. And yet he doesn't want us to come to him with a a general way of saying, God, please forgive me for all my sins. No, he wants us to confess our particular sins. Particularly. He wants us to understand what we've done in his sight. He wants us to come before him and say, Lord, I have done this. God, I sinned against you when I said or when I thought that. Please forgive me. He knows where they are. He knows what they've done, and yet he's inviting them into a dialogue with him that they might acknowledge it. He says, Where are you? And Adam answers. He says, I heard you. And I was afraid because I was naked. Adam knows something is very wrong He says he knows that he's naked, and because of that, he's overcome with fear and shame as a result. But I think it's important to see here the fear and shame is not merely tied to the fact that he's physically naked. See, his physical nakedness is merely a symptom of the deep spiritual nakedness that he's now being faced with. It's the nakedness of having his sin exposed before God. It's the nakedness we read about in Hebrews 4, verses 12 and 13, where we're told the word of God is living and active, sharper than any double-edged sword. Piercing to the division of soul and of spirit, of joints and of marrow, and every and no creature is hidden From his sight. It discerns all the thoughts and intentions of his heart, and all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give an account. This is the nakedness that the man and his wife have come to feel. And they feel the weight of this nakedness. They see the sinfulness of their sin. In light of the holiness of God. They're like Isaiah, as he has this vision of himself before the throne of God in chapter 6, and he says, Woe is me, for I am undone. I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, and my eyes have seen the king, the Lord of hosts. He sees his sin in light of the holiness of God and realizes, I'm toast. If the sound of God is terrifying, it's because the sight of God will strike him dead. I'm convinced that that one of the key problems that we deal with in the modern Western church today is that we don't see sin the way God does. I know that's my struggle. We must we we we so often want to characterize our sin as as just weakness. As something we we just fall short. We're we're not being or doing our best It's just a mistake. I mean, it happens to all of us, right? No, the Bible says sin is lawlessness. Rebellion against the God who made us. Think about it for a moment. But what God had done for them. He created them, gave them life, and then blessed them by planting them in the garden, giving them an abundance of good things, saying, You can eat whatever you want. Just not this one tree. Anything else, enjoy it to the fullest, it's yours He created them in his image, giving them the task of serving him. They were to represent his authority in the world by exercising dominion over the creatures, an extension of his rule. But when they turned to eat from the tree, it shows how ungrateful they were. The one thing that God had withheld from them was the one thing they couldn't tolerate. Instead of serving God, they wanted to be God. Eating the fruit was no small thing. It was an act of rebellion, an act of treason. It was siding with the enemy. And spitting in the face of the one who gave them everything, including their very lives. Friends, that's your sin. That's my sin. Even the things we do that we think are the most insignificant, the things that everyone else does that we get so used to. Even the smallest things are an attempt to cast God down from his throne and to sit on it in his place. It might be what everyone else does. It might be so common that we begin to think that it's normal. But the Bible tells us that God still hates it. You see, this is what they came to see. This is the nakedness that they feel. They feel the weight of it. They're trying to cover up and to hide. We all do that to some extent. We instinctively do it. We know deep down that it won't work, and yet we can't help ourselves. How how are you trying to cover up and hide this morning? Are you seeking to impress God with your church attendance? Consistently here, week after week, hoping that God will take notice of your regularity. Maybe it's with your understanding of theology, thinking if we just know all the right answers, we'll be able to give a good answer to any question He might ask of us. Maybe we just simply want to want to do good things, our charity work and and service in the community, thinking that let me just leave the world a little bit better than I found it. Just do enough good things to balance out all the mistakes that I make. Maybe it's through our giving, thinking that just our generosity will catch God's attention. On the other hand, maybe in instead of seeking to impress God, We seek to distract ourselves from the reality of our nakedness. We pour ourselves into our work Spend all of our free hours through our social engagements, our kids' activities, and any free time that's left we devote to our screens so that we don't have any time to think about eternal things. Amusing ourselves to death. You see, friend, all of these are good things in and of themselves. None of them are inherently bad. But when we use them to impress God or to distract ourselves, we see the sinfulness in them. Between our iPhones and our busy schedules, the reality is we make Satan's job pretty easy for him. I'm reminded of a quote from C. S. Lewis as he writes in the Screwtape Letters, a fictional book of letters written by ScrewTape, a senior demon. to his nephew Wormwood. And he's he's trying to instruct him how to be a most effective demon to make sure that the patient he's been given to to oversee doesn't find salvation. And there's all kinds of fascinating dialogue and discussion in these in these letters. But at one point Screwtape tells his His nephew, he says, it doesn't matter how small the sins are, provided that their cumulative effect is to edge the man away from the light and out into the nothing. Murder is no better than cards if cards will do the trick. Indeed, the safest road to hell is a gradual one. The gentle slope, soft underfoot, without sudden turnings, without milestones, without signposts See the whole point there is Satan doesn't even have to distract us with something sinful, if he can distract us with something good that we will fall in love with and forget about God. You don't have to commit a heinous sin if you can just be distracted all the way to hell. Friends, where are you this morning? Are you seeking to hide from God? Are you seeking to hide your nakedness from Him or from yourself? The Bible teaches that in our natural state every single one of us is separated from God, alienated from him, cut off, strangers to his promise, and as Paul would say, having no hope and without God in the world. The truth of the gospel is that we can only be brought near by the blood of Christ. Friends, nothing else works. Trying to cover our nakedness any other way, trying to hide any other way is simply like putting a band-aid on a bullet wound. It might appear to work for a second, but it's going to become pretty obvious how futile it is. Our God is a consuming fire, and the only thing that can keep you from being burned is to be clothed in the righteousness of Christ To wear the robe that has been washed white in the blood of the Lamb. We must come to see our sin as it is, to turn from it in repentance. And to look to Christ in faith, trusting in his perfect life on our behalf, his death in our place, his resurrection and victory over sin and death and Satan and his ascension to the right hand of God, where he rules and reigns over all things. Knowing that he has done everything we couldn't do. God says, Where are you? Adam answers, he said, I heard you. I was scared to death because I was naked, and so I hid. God picks up on him and he says, wait a second, who told you you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree that I told you not to eat? Again, God knows. He just wants to hear him say it. He wants to hear him own up to it. And notice the response. Nothing but blame shifting. Adam says, Don't look at me, it was the woman she made me. Men, just a piece of unsolicited advice. Not cool. Adam was sleeping on the couch that night, and he was right to On a more serious note, notice what happens here. Adam blames his wife. His wife blames the serpent. It's a complete reversal of the created order. The man and his wife were created to have dominion over the creatures. And while men and women are equal in God's sight, equally deserving of value and respect and worth and dignity, God had assigned roles that the man was to be the head of his wife and the wife was to be her wife. his helper. In the fall, we see a complete reversal of that. The serpent deceives the woman and the woman leads the man into sin. It's a failure to lead and a failure to exercise dominion as they've been called to. And that continues as God confronts them. They just pass the blame down and down the ladder until they can't go any further Refusing to own up to their own sin. But it's it's much worse than that. Because he doesn't just blame his wife. He actually blames God. Did you see it? The woman whom you gave to be with me. Don't look at me, you made her. What a wicked thing it is to blame God for our sin. Friends, the thing that we need to recognize is that our situation, no matter what it is, is never an excuse for sin. We have no right to blame God for our unfaithfulness. He never puts us in a place where sin is the only way out, but promises that in every temptation there is always a way of escape. Adam points to his wife. Eve points to the serpent. You see, it's the complete undoing of the relationships God had established before the fall. God created a perfect world desiring mankind to dwell with him in perfect communion and fellowship. And sin distorts and in and damages that relationship. Damages the relationship between the two of them and their relationship with God as well. And instead of running to him, they flee from his presence. But the good news for us is that the passage doesn't end there. We get to go on to verse 14 and see the results of sin. And we'll see how God responds. We see that in verses 14 and 15, God responds to sin by promising to restore our broken relationship with Him. See, God speaks to the serpent and says, Because you have done this, you're cursed. Above all livestock, above every other animal in the world, you have a special curse upon you. Now it's it's important to pause and and see there's there's two levels that are going on here. It's not just that he's cursing the serpent, but he's also cursing Satan as the one who worked through the serpent. But at the same time, we don't want to be too quick. to jump just to Satan. We need to also see what what goes on here and see the effect that this has on the serpent. The serpent is just an animal. He's the instrument that the devil uses. The devil is the one who's morally responsible for this sin, not the serpent. And yet the snake is being cursed. I think one of the things we need to see here is that the fact that the snake is cursed shows how great the sin is Several old commentators use the example of the picture of a father destroying the sword that's been used to kill his son. Matthew Henry, one theologian, says, the point that's going on here is that the devil's instruments must share in his punishment because the sin is so great. The curse works on these two levels, the serpent, Satan. The serpent, we're told, is cursed above all other animals. He's told he's going to crawl on his belly and eat dust. Now some, especially the the older scholars, have pointed out that they they believe that the serpent, his form somehow changed as a result of the fall. Some have suggested that maybe the serpent had legs at one point and would walk, and as a result, God has taken them away, and now he's supposed to slither on his belly That's certainly one interpretation. God has the power to do those kinds of things. And so we don't want to say that that's not in the realm of possibility. But remember what we said about the reversal of the created order. In the fall the serpent had exalted itself above mankind. And so I think this language of saying he's going to crawl on his belly and eat dust, while it's true, that's how a snake moves It's almost as God saying, get back down where you belong. Do not exalt yourself over people. See, that language of crawling on your belly and eating dust, it's language associated with utter humiliation and judgment. Isaiah sixty five points this out, that the promise of the new heavens and the new earth, of everything going to be set right. We're told that the wolf and the lamb shall graze together, the lion shall eat straw like the ox, and dust shall be the serpent's food. They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain, says the Lord God. You see, even when everything is set right, the serpent still has this curse upon him. They'll never come back in the garden again and undo what God has restored. They won't hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain. There's a picture of God speaking to the enemies of his people in judgment, describing them as serpents. The nation shall see and be destroyed, Micah 7, and be ashamed of all their might. They shall lay their hands on their mouths, their ears shall be deaf. They shall lick the dust as a serpent, like the crawling things of the earth. They shall come trembling out of their strongholds. They shall turn in dread to the Lord our God, and they shall be in fear of you It's a picture of the serpent being humiliated and cast back down to his rightful place. Beyond this, we see in verse 15 there's going to be enmity established between the serpent and the woman, and between her offspring and the serpent's offspring. We're going to dig into all this in a moment, but at least at a surface level, one of the things we see here is that in general there's hostility between people and snakes. There are definitely exceptions to this, but I think it's fair to say, as a general rule, people don't like snakes and snakes don't like people. I would imagine if we surveyed all of you, many more of you have owned a dog than a snake. People don't like snakes. But we can't limit this to just simply looking at the curse upon the snake, because the deeper and more significant thing is that everything said about the serpent finds deeper fulfillment in Satan. He is the one who ultimately tried to exalt himself over God, tried to destroy God's good creation, and because of that, the promise of this curse is that he will be destroyed. He will be brought low and humiliated. He will be bound so that he can't thwart God's purposes in the world. Ultimately, he'll be destroyed in the lake of fire where there will be eternal suffering and torment for all time. And this is where we actually begin to see the blessing in the curse. Yes, that there will be a curse for the man and for the woman and and all creation. All kinds of things, from the ground now having thistles and thorns, to pain and childbearing, to all kinds of things. That are associated with the fall. But the promise there of enity is actually a great blessing. You see, there's a promise that there's going to be war between the offspring of the woman and the offspring of the serpent. And the reason that's a good thing is because war means fighting. It means you won't be blindly following him like Eve did. And the gracious promise is given to her as the one who was deceived to comfort her and restore her. There's the promise of struggle between the people of God and between Satan and his followers. You see this play out as you read the unfolding chapters of Genesis, you find out there's there's only two groups of people in the world, the seed of the woman and the seed of the serpent. In a general sense, we can separate that into believers and unbelievers. We see this as in the story of Cain and Abel. Abel offers a right sacrifice, showing that he is part of the seed or the woman, and Cain rises up and murders him, showing that he belongs to the seed of the serpent. Later, they have another son, Seth, who is the seed of the woman that the offspring continues through. seed of the serpent, while Shem is the seed of the woman. It's interesting that the Hebrew people and other people in that region were called Semitic languages, Semitic people, because of descending from Shem. We see this play out with Isaac and Ishmael. Isaac alone is the son of the promise. We see it play out with Jacob and Esau. Ultimately, Christ brings this out in John chapter 8. Everyone who rejects Christ is of their father the devil. But remember, it's not just the promise of war. It goes much better than that. It's the promise of victory. It's a promise that though he will bruise your heel, you will bruise and crush his head. That the serpent will do damage. But he will be defeated and killed. And ultimately, this promise finds one level of fulfillment, as Paul brings out in Romans 16:20. The God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. What a beautiful promise for the church. Though you struggle, though it looks really bad and really dark at times, though it seems like there's no light at the end of the tunnel, though there's persecution and suffering, complacency and difficulty. God will soon crush Satan under your feet. He will do it because he has promised. You might feel like Paul in Romans 7. There's a battle waging war inside me. I don't do the things that I want to do, and the things that I don't want to do are the things I keep doing. I I I have the spirit lusting against the flesh and the flesh waging war against the spirit I can't do what I want to do. I can't follow God the way that I want. But the day is coming when God will make his people victorious. And that's because there's an even greater promise in verse 15. You see, that word offspring or seed is a word that can be taken either in the singular or in the plural. And so there's an interesting shift that takes place. We're talking about the offspring in general of the woman and the offspring in general of the serpent. That there will be enmity between these two groups of people, but then it changes. It's not just they will crush your offspring's head. No, he A single individual will crush not the head of the serpent's offspring, but the head of the serpent himself. The promise in view is one individual who will defeat the devil once for all. Genesis 3. 15 has the theological name of the proto-evangelium because it's the first glimpse of the gospel that we find in all of Scripture. It's a promise of Christ. It's a promise that Paul brings out in our scripture verse for the day, Galatians 4, 4 and 5. When the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his Son, born of who? Born of a woman. The offspring of the woman. Born under the law to redeem those who were under the law, so that we might receive the adoption as sons Christ is the true seed of the woman. Through his life and his death and his resurrection, he defeated Satan. His heel was bruised as he was nailed to the cross. But he crushed the serpent's head as he rolled the stone away from the empty tomb. He's the one who died, and behold, is alive forevermore, the one who has the keys to death and Hades. He says he saw Satan fall like lightning. He says he's the one that bound Satan the way you bind a strong man, that he has been put on a leash. He can do some damage, but he can't ultimately stop God's purposes. We fell in Adam, and his sin was counted to us, but in Christ we have been reconciled to God through his death. Because he has made peace by the blood of his cross. Our guilt was counted to him, and his righteousness has been counted to us. Can you just consider for a moment God's response to sin? How amazing is this! God could have simply destroyed his people. He could have simply just wiped us out and started over. We went from being his friends to being his enemies. And yet he didn't just wipe us out. Instead, as Romans 5 tells us, it's while we were still his enemies that Christ died for us. We hated him and wanted nothing to do with him, and yet he didn't spare his own son, but gave him up for us all. This passage should call you to be in awe of the grace and the patience. And the mercy of God that's shown to us in Christ. Friends, we don't deserve it. And so take comfort when you sin. Because if you are in Christ, you have a great gracious God and your sin has already been paid for in Jesus Christ. He knows everything about you. He knows all your sin, all your brokenness, all your shame He knows everything you've done, said, and thought, and guess what? He went to the cross anyway. Through sin, we broke our relationship with God, but God desires to dwell with his people. And he responds to our sin by sending his son. To obey in our place and to cover our sin by dying for his people and satisfying us from God, satisfying God's wrath The holidays, especially Christmas, can remind us of many broken relationships. Most significant is our relationship with God that's been broken because of our sin. That's our greatest problem. That we flee from the presence of God, trying to cover up with anything we can, but nothing will work. Friend, I have good news for you this morning. Sin might make us run from God, but sin makes God run to us. By sending his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's what we celebrate this Christmas, that the baby that was laying in a manger was there in order that one day he might be hung on a cross. That God has kept his promises, though we were lost and far off and alienated from him, that he sent his son to seek and save the lost. Friends, this Christmas, look to him. Believe in him, trust in him, turn away from living for yourself and put your hope in him and rest and rejoice in the blessings of his salvation. Let's pray together. Our Father, we thank you for the salvation that you offer to us in Christ. That though We have sinned against you, broken our relationship with you, that you did not leave us, did not forsake us. So that you promise to bring a blessing out of the curse, to send your son to restore all things, to make your blessing flow as far as the curse is found, and to restore us to a right relationship with you. We thank you, Lord Jesus, that you came and we long for you to come again, and we pray, oh Lord, come quickly. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.