When the day of Pentecost arrived, they were all together in one place, and there came from heaven a Sound like a mighty rushing wind, and it filled the entire house where they were sitting. And divided tongues of fire appeared to them, and rested on each one of them. They were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. Now there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men from every nation under heaven. And at this sound the multitude came together, and they were bewildered, because each one was hearing them speak in his own language. And they were amazed and astonished, saying, Are not all these who are speaking Galileans? And how is this that we hear each of us in his own native language? Parthians and Medes and Elamites and the residents of Mesopotamia, Judea, Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia, Phrygia and Tempilea Egypt and the parts of Libya belonging to Cyrene, and visitors from Rome, both Jews and proselytes, Cretans and Arabians, we hear them telling in our own tongues the mighty works of God And all were amazed and were perplexed, saying to one another, What does this mean? But others mocking said, They are filled with new wine. But Peter, standing with the eleven, lifted up his voice and addressed them. Men of Judea and all who dwell in Jerusalem, let this be known to you and give ear to my words For these people are not drunk, as you suppose, since it is only the third hour of the day. But this is what was uttered through the prophet Joel And in the last days it shall be, God declares, that I will pour out my spirit on all flesh, and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams Even on my male servants and female servants in those days I will pour out my spirit, and they shall prophesy, and I will show wonders in the heavens above, and signs on the earth below, blood and fire and vapor and smoke. The sun shall be turned to darkness and the moon to blood, before the day of the Lord comes, the great and magnificent day. And it shall come to pass that everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And when they heard this, they were cut to the heart, and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Brothers, what shall we do? And Peter said to them, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ. for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. For the promise is for you and for your children and for all who are in your or far off. Everyone whom the Lord our God calls to Himself. And with many other words he bore witness and continued to exhort them, saying, Save yourselves from this crooked generation. So those who received the word were baptized, and there were added that day about three thousand souls. One debate we need to settle is how do you say this food item, G, Y, R, O? We're gonna say euro, which I think is good. I think that's right. But this is a debate in the world, right? Okay, I want to talk about overhyping Overhyping. I I remember uh Ruth and I, oldest daughter, went on a campus tour at Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, Oklahoma. And in Stillwater, Oklahoma, one of the restaurants said Home of the Euro. In Stillwater, Oklahoma? I don't think so. That's not the home of the Euro, is it? Oh overhyping. The best cup of coffee you've ever had is right here, right? Now the the other side is downplaying. Downplaying. I might have said this, but when someone visits church, I usually say to them, How did it go? The first step is we want to be non-terrible. We're trying to get over non-terrible. You don't have to tell me it was great. That's the bar can be low at first, right? And so is the church oversold or undersold? I don't know. It depends, right? Is the church going to solve all of our problems? Is it the place to be? On the other hand, I know so many people that don't care at all Zero care. Sometimes they'll ask me, I'm around the fellows, they'll say, what are you preaching on? They don't care what I say after that. It's just an interesting little conversation that they want to have with me. What are we preaching on this Sunday? Acts 2. Come here. Acts 2. We are talking about the unhindered church. The very end of Acts, it says the word of God went out unhindered. Wow. So we've come back, doubling back to Acts 2, and then next week we'll start with some So in Acts 1, remember, what's amazing about Acts is we go through Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, and then in Acts we sort of turn the page. No more gospels, and we have red letters. Jesus is alive and talking and teaching It's truly remarkable, right? There are verifiable sightings. This happened. Then he ascends into heaven, right? He seated at the right hand of God the Father Almighty to judge the living and the dead. He leaves them with Acts 18 But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and all Judea and Samaria until the ends of the earth And when he had said these things that they were looking on, he was lifted up and a cloud took him out of their sight. Wow. It's sort of hard to imagine, isn't it? They wait. They elect Matthias to replace Judas And then we get chapter two. When the day of Pentecost arrived, they were all together in one place. So this is important because Pentecost doesn't start Here in Acts 2. Pentecost was already a thing, right? So Pentecost was 50 days after the Passover. And it was a great feast. Celebrated payments of sins, atoning sacrifices, and fifty days after the Passover, now Passover lamb is Jesus. He is the Passover lamb. So we still have a Passover. It's celebrating the first fruits of the harvest. It's right around this time of year. So now we're getting our first harvest. We are going to give back to the Lord and have a great gathering feast together. God's all about the parties. Loves parties. They also celebrate the law. Pentecost is about when Moses got the law, the Ten Commandments. About after 50 days after the first Passover, right? So this is now 50 days after Jesus' resurrection, and what happens? A mighty wind. Verse 2, and suddenly there came from heaven a sound like a mighty rushing wind, and it filled the entire house where they were sitting. I was in Missouri, where I grew up, and um in my hometown and it was tornado warnings. Tornado warnings. And so I'm at this restaurant because we were about to meet my friends. No one else is there. I'm the only person. Everyone else is freaked out Um I mean, I was the only patron. They were workers. So I go out and I'm like I've been in Oklahoma tw twenty plus years. I know my tornadoes. And so I go back and say, listen, I think what what we're gonna get here is a strong s windy storm. That's not a tornado. There can be storms and wind, right? So they're like, oh yeah, yeah. Um but I also had this rental car and I wasn't sure the policies on rental car because it was gonna hail Like I don't want my car to get hailed on, but a rental car, I don't know. So I so I drove it, you know, not too far, and put it underneath a bank awning, right? and then ran back in the hail, took my shirt off because I don't want to have a wet shirt. It was like I got paintball scars. So now I'm in the restaurant without a shirt on, with paint with hail. Anyway, it wasn't a tornado. It was a it was a mighty wind. It's still exciting, right? So so so there's this mighty wind comes on. Something's gonna happen. And then divided tongues of fire And divided tongues as a fire appeared to them and rested on each one of them, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. Wind, fire, languages. This is important. These are languages, right? But but church, right? This is an open-handed issue. We have closed-handed issues. We are going to fight about the Trinity. That is for sure. Speaking in tongues, ah I'm not gonna fight about that. Right? Presbyterians, we can listen. But I think this is like a UN meeting where everyone has on their head And they're hearing whatever's happening in their own language. These are known languages. And also it's important to realize when people start talking to you about all this stuff, this is not normal. You know, when when they when people try to normalize what happens in Acts, you're like, Yo, Jesus was just Alive, right? In Acts 1, he was alive, walking around. He got to send that like we can't just say whatever happens in Acts 2 is what we gotta do. This is a very unusual time And Peter seizes the day. I think We have the disciples. We have Peter, James, and John, and I think we have Peter. I think Peter and Jesus are best friends. We love Peter because he says what he's thinking. So we know what's going on in his brain, because it comes out of his mouth, right? And and and Judas doesn't say much at all. And he betrays Jesus, and so does Peter, doesn't he? Different. But this is the his dark night of the soul. Is that night at that fire with those three betrayals? Is Peter's worst? moments. And what did he hear? The rooster. He heard the fear the rooster. He hears the rooster. He's like, ah Just as he said, did the very same the very thing I said I would never do. But remember also, at that moment he turned and looked and saw Jesus too. And Jesus loved him still. Jesus loves betrayers, deniers. Because he loves Peter. And Peter holds on to that cross. That's why a rooster holds a cross. Holds on to that cross. He clings to the crucified, and the crucified clings to him, doesn't he? He's restored, he's emboldened, he's changed, and now he can say, Be thou my vision. I am going to talk about Jesus. I denied this man 50 days ago. 50 days ago. Now I'm going to stand up and be a witness and tell you all the things that are happening. And I'm going to preach from the book of Joel. And so he talks about Joel and he says, this is all happening. This is all happening right now. Things that we waited for all these centuries, it's coming to pass. People thought he was crazy, didn't he? Two, fourteen and fifteen And they were all amazed and perplexed, saying to one another, What does this mean? But others mocking said they were filled with new wine. And Peter stands up and says, Men of Judea and all who dwell in Jerusalem, let this It's always good when you have to say that, right? It's five o'clock somewhere, but not here, right? It's ten forty-eight, people of grace. We are not drunk Not yet anyway. We get a little buzz down here sometimes, alright? But he preaches this great sermon, doesn't he? Most of the time, honestly, they're not great sermons. They're serviceable sermons. But that's okay because uh one thing that's important is We subsist on regular meals. Not every meal has to be a gourmet feast. We have normal, normal, normal, I cannot tell you what I ate two weeks ago. I know it was fine, but it wasn't a feast. Sometimes though you do get to go feast. Sometimes you do get that meal that you remember forever. And this time right here, in this meal, this sermon, way more than amen. A stirring of their heart. Sometimes when we hear a sermon, it feeds us. Sometimes it changes. Sometimes it cuts us to the quick. Sometimes we are overwhelmed by God and His presence And we expect God to work in both ways, sometimes the normal way. Sometimes it's something else. So I mean we have wind, we have fire, we have languages, and you know the wind moves where it wants to. That's what Jesus told Nicodemus in John John three. The wind, the spirit, pneuma, spirit goes where it wishes. Sometimes it's a gentle breeze. Sometimes it gets A tornado, a hurricane. Fire. God has shown up as fire before. Doesn't he? The burning bush, leading his people. Fires are beautiful, they give warmth, and they will destroy anything Languages. A lot of people, you probably heard this, feel like this is the reversal of the Tower of Babel. The Tower of Babel, God dispersed all the people and gave them different languages. Here, he's bringing the people together so they can understand each other. They had been scattered. Now they're unified. And God is the God of the harvest, the bounty. The things. God is the God of our souls. After all, what are we fishing for? Not people. Souls. And so all these Parthians, Medes, Elamites, Catonsville, Elkott City, Baltimore, all types of people, all types of people, young and old Boys and girls, men and women, tall and short, got stuff, ain't got nothing. Bringing together The Holy Spirit is at work. The Holy Spirit is at work. God is at work. We have to remember God is at work. He has not stopped doing these things. Doesn't look this way all the time, but God is at work. And then Peter says something interesting. In 223, this Jesus delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God, you crucified And killed by the hands of lawless men. You did it. He said this, he's gonna say this several times. We we've heard him say this in chapter three and four and five. Did they do that? Were these people the ones that nailed him to the cross? Did they turn him in? Did they flog him Jesus was always going to die, wasn't he? That's God's sovereign plan. From the very foundation of the universe, Jesus was going to come to save his people. And they did it, didn't they? And we did it. All of us did it There's a hymn, Behold the man upon the cross, my sin upon his shoulders. Ashamed I hear my mocking voice call out among the scoffers. It was my sin that left him there until it was accomplished. His dying life has brought me life. I know that it is finished. It's interesting to read the Bible that way. You know, like it's easy to read the Bible and think I would never be a fairy Pharisee. Those Pharisees, oh what terrible people they are Those Egyptians enslaving people, I would never do that So we place ourselves as the hero of every single story, don't we? Oh, I would totally Help the Samaritan. Hundred percent I would help the Samaritan. Or the I would be the Samaritan that would help. I wouldn't pass by this guy. I put him there. You put him there And what happens when God is at work? Verse thirty-seven. Now when they heard this, they were cut to the heart. Heart surgery happened that day. Cut to the heart. Something is different. And my contention today is when you get cut to the heart It's not because you heard a new rule to follow. No. Rule number 502. Oh yeah, that's going to change my life. That's not what changes your life Cutting to the heart is not a new morality. It's a new experience that you see something you've never seen before, or hear something you've never heard before. It could be music, it could be a place, it could be an experience, a trip. Oh wow I didn't know that existed. It could be a new food. It's like, whoa, that tastes like that? And what do you want? You want more. I want more of that. I got cut to the heart. I want more. And here's the problem is I'm not talking spiritually, I'm making an application spiritually. But in the in the not spiritually way, we're never fully satisfied with that, are we? We want more. It's how we're made Because our hearts have these huge holes in them. We were made for something More than all of this. And when we taste a little bit of it, oh, it's so beautiful. And so definitely Devastating because you can't always have it. Because our hearts were made for something else. Now I am talking about spirituality. Our hearts were made for more than food Trips, music, learning. And so we keep at it, we keep searching, we keep filling. And Jesus said, Your heart is made for me. grace. And when you taste grace like that, it cuts you to the heart. I can be forgiven like that I mean, don't you know what I've done? Peter knows Peter, you just denied this guy. We all know you did. We all know you did. That's not grace is bigger than that Isn't it? Oh man. Jesus takes rebels Jesus makes beautiful things out of the dust. Jesus gives us gifts. Jesus gives us himself. And that cuts us to the heart. And when you see that or hear that, you ask a very good question. What shall we do? That is a great question. What shall we do? And we've heard this now in Japanese and Swedish of all things. Spanish and French. Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins. And you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. For the promise is for you And for your children, and for all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord our God calls to himself Brothers, sisters, I'm holding God to this promise. He put it in here. I have children that do not love the Lord right now. But the promise is for you and for your children and for all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord calls Himself. And then there were three thousand more people in the church Holy, holy, wow, three thousand people. I started our UF in two thousand and one. We started with twenty people. The end of my first year There was another ministry that called themselves Yahweh. You're gonna name your ministry after the unspeakable name of God? What in the world decision is that? So they were leaving and they asked me to join together. So we called ourselves Are You Yahweh? Because I just I don't know what to call this thing. So in the first Wednesday of the second my second year, I had two hundred and fifty college students My twenty and their two hundred and thirty. And then this big megachurch started their college ministry. So the second week of the year I had twenty again. I remember going to bed the first after the first night going, oh my gosh, what am I going to do? It's a lot of college students, and then that was completely solved. It was amazing. I had the largest RUF group in the nation for one week. This is not like that. This is actual cut to the heart. Three thousand people. Oh my goodness. And then we've already talked about this. W what's the last thing in this chapter? The last thing in this chapter is what we talked about like three weeks ago And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers, and awe came upon every soul And there were wonders and signs being done, and all who believed were together, and they had all things in common, and they were selling their possessions and belongings and distributing to the proceeds to all And day by day, attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they received their food with glad and generous hearts, praising God, having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to their number day by day those who were being saved. Wow. That is an amazing church. A non-boring church. There's a lot of non-boring things happening in Acts, aren't there? They were devoted to each other, devoted to the Lord, submitting to the Lord, submitting to each other. They were loving each other. They listened to each other. They cared for each They wanted to be together They took the supper together. They prayed together They were nourished. They were generous. They were people of the book. They worshipped. They were a haven for the brokenhearted. The bereaved, the lonely, people with longings. They preach the resurrection. Of their Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. I got to meet Chuck Colson one time. Before he died, of course. Chuck Colson just reminder um he was really Nixon's hatchet man. Right? He did all the dirty work. And he went to jail. And in jail, he found the Lord. And he would say many times, um, you know, he wrote a book, he was known for his faith in a very dark place. And um he would say, I'm so thankful I went to jail because I met the Lord there. Jesus is drawing the loss to himself. I hope that's not overhyping. Jesus is drawing the laws to himself. He did it then, he's still doing it now. God is at work. The Holy Spirit moves Gets in, changes people, whole lives. And then then we join the church. We work this out together.