Well good morning. Josiah forgot to tell you that he was only seventeen when I met him. I was only eighteen. So you can see how hard his friendship has been on me, right? Okay. Let's stand and read God's word. In John chapter ten, verses one through eleven. The Lord Jesus Christ says, Truly, truly I say unto you He who does not enter the sheepfold by the door, but climbs in by another way, that man is a thief and a robber. But he who comes by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. To him the gatekeeper opens The sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. When he has brought them out, all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. A stranger they will not follow, but they will flee from him, for they do not know the voice of strangers. This figure of speech Jesus used with them, but they did not understand what he was saying to them. So Jesus again said to them Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. All who come before me are thieves and robbers. But the sheep did not listen to them. I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and will go in and out and find pasture. The thief comes only to steal and to kill and to destroy. I came that they might have life. And have it more abundantly. I am the Good Shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. Let's pray. Father, you are the God Almighty creator and maker of heaven and earth, and you have sent us Jesus Christ, your Son, only begotten, born of a virgin. Who kept the law for us. And you have made him the shepherd of your people, the shepherd of your sheep. And we are eternally grateful that through him and his person and his work and what he has accomplished on our behalf as our substitute That we have life, eternal life, abundant life, full life in Him. And we give you the honor and the glory In your name, and in the name of Jesus Christ, and through the Holy Spirit, we ask all of these things. Amen. You may be seated. Well, the first thing I want to say is Happy Easter. You know, typically we we think about Easter as a day in the year. But on the Christian calendar, Easter is not just one day. out of the year. It's actually a season. This is actually the fourth Sunday of Easter. And on the fourth Sunday of Easter, it's a special day because that is sometimes called Good Shepherd Sunday. And so I think God is really amazing in His providence that on the day that we honor um Pastor Dan for finding for founding this church and for pastoring it for 38 years. And on the same day that we are honoring Josiah As the incoming senior pastor of this church, God in his providence, right, has allowed all of this to happen on Good Shepherd Sunday. So as we remember them in our prayers and in our thoughts right now for all the work that has gone uh before and all the work that will come after this Sunday, I wanted to turn our attention to what John and to what Jesus himself calls the Good Shepherd. Jesus is the good shepherd. Now it's interesting. We were in Sunday school class. I was in David and Vito's class this morning, the adult Sunday school class, and you know what we talked about? Right? We talked about sheep. and shepherds. We sang about sheep and shepherds. We prayed about sheep and shepherds today. So that's the underlying theme of all that's going on here right now. And so I I wanted our passage here, and I didn't choose this passage. This is the standard reading for the fourth Sunday of Easter. Every fourth Sunday of Easter, the liturgy picks a passage from John chapter 10. This Sunday is verses 1 through 11. And so that's why I'm preaching from this. And it coincides perfectly, I think, in God's providence for what you are going to as a church right now. So it's Easter, it's the season of Easter, which is really a beautiful thing because if you think about, if you look at Easter as a season What you see is that there's a certain rhythm to the church calendar. And that rhythm goes something like this: it's preparation on the one hand and fulfillment on the other hand. So there's always this rhythm of preparation and fulfillment. So before Easter, we have Lent. Lent is the great fast That's the time of preparation. Then that fulfillment comes in on Easter Sunday. You know, in the ancient church and some of the Orthodox churches during the season of Lent They won't even utter the words hallelujah. Not until dawn on Easter morning is the first Hallelujah spoken. in the church. And then they say, hallelujah. Christ has risen. He has risen indeed. Hallelujah. And that's a season now. We are in this season. And this is important. It's a feast season. So we are in a season of feasting. Preparation, fasting. Fulfillment, feasting. So we're in a season of feasting right now. And then to top it off, it's Good Shepherd Sunday, where you are going to install your new senior pastor. And we pray that God's Holy Spirit would fill him and fill this church and that the grace of God and the gospel of God, the gospel of Jesus Christ, would uh encourage us and inspire us so that we can take the gospel all around the world. Now, what exactly does it mean when we say Jesus is the Good Shepherd? What does it mean when he calls himself the Good Shepherd? I am the Good Shepherd. What does that mean? I want to explore that just a little bit over the next few minutes with you. So often what I hear people say about this idea of the Good Shepherd, that Jesus is the Good Shepherd We might say they ascribe to it a kind of therapeutic meaning to it. In other words, from that point of view, from the therapeutic point of view, Jesus is the loving caring, kind, considerate, and most importantly, sensitive shepherd Now, that's probably all true, right? Jesus is loving. He is certainly kind, compassionate, caring, and sensitive. And that's all true, but I don't think that's the point of this passage. In other words, this the point of this passage, when Jesus calls himself the Good Shepherd, He's not trying to make us think about how kind, caring, and sensitive he is. Those of us In America right now, may be suffering from what Philip Reef calls the triumph of the therapeutic. That is, that the therapeutic has invaded absolutely every arena of our lives Right? Every area, every mediating institution, our schools, our courts, right? Our government Even our churches have been conquered, triumphed over by the therapeutic. And that whole idea that we should all be nice and loving and caring and compassionate and that we want a pastor who's going to mirror these different kinds of therapeutic overtones. Now, to be sure, we should be loving and kind and caring and compassionate and sensitive and nice. But that's not really, I don't think, at all what Jesus is talking about in this passage. The other way that we kind of look at this is what I call the moralistic. So first the therapeutic, then the moralistic, right? Jesus is the good shepherd. Right, with a moral connotation, an ethical connotation, what philosophers call axiology. Right? So it has a is a moral ethical connotation. So Jesus is the good shepherd Over and against all the bad shepherds. And to be sure, right, there are a lot of bad shepherds Lots of them. Unfortunately, that's true. And Jesus is the good shepherd, right? Morally, ethically, okay, Jesus is the good shepherd. And while that's true, right, true, Jesus is loving, kind, caring, compassionate, sensitive, true, but that's not what this passage is really talking about. Also true, Jesus is good over and against the abundance of bad shepherds. But I don't think that's what this passage is talking about either. So you have this kind of therapeutic idea of what it means to be a shepherd. You have the moralistic idea of what it means to be a shepherd. And then you have what I call the monarchic view of being a shepherd. The word good Can actually have several meanings. And the translators know this, right? When they translate this, that Jesus is the good shepherd, there are there are options that they have to choose other words, but they chose this word good intentionally. But that's not the only meaning of the word, the Greek word here. Uh that's not the only way that it can be translated It also means noble, that Jesus is the noble shepherd. Now, the word noble has monarchic connotations to it. That is to say that Jesus is the royal shepherd, the reigning shepherd, the ruling shepherd. That this shepherd is king. He is the shepherd king of his people. Now that gives you a whole different way of looking at this, right? Rather than the therapeutic or the moralistic. What Jesus is saying about himself is that he is the shepherd king. He is the king of his sheep. He is the king of his people. Now, also we find out later in John in verse 22 that this that Jesus spoke these words at the time of the feast. Of dedication. And at each now, by the way, this is the only intertestamental feast that's mentioned in the Bible. Okay, uh at all. This feast, the feast of dedication, is not part of the Old Testament. It takes place after the completion of the Old Testament. This takes place in second century BC, when um Antiochus Epiphanes was in control of Jerusalem, defiled the temple and sacrificed pigs on the altar, and was persecuting And abusing the people of God in Israel. And this was the this was celebrating the feast Of rededication of the temple. That's what the feast of dedication is. The feast of the rededication of the temple under the rebellion or the revolt of Judas Maccabees. Maccabees meaning the hammer. Judas, the hammer. And so in commemoration of that, they had the feast of dedication. We know it by another name. It's called Hanukkah. And so this, what Jesus is saying about himself being the Buddhe Shepherd takes place under that context. Now in every Jewish feast There were certain readings that they read in order to commemorate that feast. And you know what they read on Hanukkah, on the Feast of Dedication? You know what scriptures they read? Right. They read Ezekiel thirty-four, where the prophet says Son of man. The Lord said unto me, Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds. Because the shepherds were abusing their power. The shepherds were the rulers. They were abusing their power, they were abusing their position, they were abusing their office, and they were stealing and robbing their people. And God had had enough. So he says to Ezekiel, Son of Man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel. Because the day is coming when I myself will be their shepherd. And this shepherd, Ezekiel says, right, is going to be from the line of David. And what does he call this shepherd? A prince or a king, which is a royal title. So there's a relationship between shepherd and king. This is the monarchic statement that Jesus is making when he says, I am the good shepherd. We might better read it. I am the royal shepherd. And then you remember what we read in the beginning? Truly, truly I say to you, verse one He who does he who does not enter by the sheepfold by the door, but climbs in another way, that man is a what? A thief and a robber. You know what the Greek word is there for thief? Klepto. You recognize that word? Right? You ever hear the word klepto-maniac? Right? Well, this this is the kleptocratic class Have you heard that have you heard that term kleptocratic? It ri it's it's a political term. It refers to those who abuse their power and abuse their position and abuse their I'm surprised you haven't heard of it. You don't live very far from this. place. These are the kleptocrats, right? They use their power, they use their office, they use their position to steal. To abuse the people. And so, really, this has political overtones Not political overtones in terms of the politics of the world, but political overtones and the church. God is saying, I'm tired of these shepherds stealing, robbing my people. And I will be their shepherd. I am the good shepherd. I am the royal shepherd. I am the shepherd king, the ruling, reigning, majestic shepherd. Now that puts a whole different spin on this passage, doesn't it? Over and against the therapeutic model or the moralistic model. But there is another way that the word good can be used It can mean noble. I mean it can mean good. That's an alternative. That's a word-for-word translation from the Greek, right? Good is an alternative that the translators had. Noble is also an option that they had. But that word also has a third different meaning. And that meaning Is beautiful. Jesus is the beautiful Shepherd Now that changes everything, doesn't it? Jesus is the beautiful shadow. You know, so often we, especially those who come from Reformed and Presbyterian traditions, as this church does and as my church does. I'm an ordained minister in the Presbyterian Church. I studied at Reformed Theological Seminary. So often we focus on the truth. We want we we believe that we have the best system of doctrine, and I believe we do. We believe that we have the best theology, the deepest theology, the purest theology, dating back from the and we are in the 500th-year anniversary of the Reformed faith. 1517, Martin Luther nailed the 95 theses on the church door at Wittenberg. Okay? 500 years ago. We have a rich heritage We have a great legacy. Luther, Calvin, Zwingli, right, are heroes of the faith. Who are attempting to reform the church and bring it back to its apostolic roots After shepherds, bad ones. After shepherds, the kleptocrats Had corrupted the church, right? These reformers were trying to bring it back to its apostolic roots And so they focused on doctrine, they focused on theology, they focused on right translation, accurate. Accurate to the nth degree, technical, technically right, technically correct, to fit every almost legal definition Of truth. And I'm grateful for that. But there's been a price that we paid. There's been a cost. And that cost is that we have sacrificed something of the beauty of our faith. We've so sterilized it We've made it so precise. We've tried to take out every mystery from it So that there's that there's it's even hard to find any mystery left because we can explain everything. And we've lost the beauty of Christianity, the beauty of our shepherd. Because we focused on the two, another part of the church, the pietistic part of the church, also coming out of the Reformation. Right? What did they focus on? They focused on the moral aspect, right? How to be good, how to live your life, how to have practical Christianity. You know, do this, don't do that. Right? There's a the morality, the ethical part of our faith. And they focus purely on that. So Christianity is basically reduced to something like right behavior And with respect to the truth, right, the whole thing is: if we can just get everybody to believe the right things and say the right things and think the right thoughts, then their behavior will change and the culture will change and the whole world, right, will come along with us. How does that work for us? Or if we can just get people to act the right way Right? Behave the right way. Conduct their lives in a moral, ethical way. Then surely everybody will see the light and everybody will come along and everybody will follow Jesus No. It doesn't work that way. This was Immanuel Kant's way of thinking, right? That focusing on the truth first, then focusing on the ethical second. Then finally getting around to aesthetics or the category of beauty. And theologians followed that order. First the truth, then the morality, the ethical, then beauty. Beauty is always last In the 20th century, there was a theologian, philosopher, German, whose name was Hans Erz von Balthasar. And he was kind of playing with Luther a little bit. He said, you know, Luther said, you know, you can't see the glory, the radiance of God. you know, except through the cross. No glory without cross. Balthasar said, let me show you how. Not that he was avoiding the cross, but he was just trying to say that philosophy doesn't necessarily have to start with the true or the good. It can start with the beautiful. And he he inverted the order, starting with the beautiful. And let me tell you why that's attractive. to me. One, because this passage calls Jesus the beautiful shepherd That word means good. It means noble, but it also means beautiful. And I think we should include all of those meanings into this word. We should unpack all those meanings out of that word good. Well let me tell you why I'm intrigued by the concept of starting with beauty. One, because we've lost it. But two, because the beautiful does something to us that the true and the good does not The beautiful stops you in your tracks Philosophers call this aesthetic arrest. When you see the beautiful, it stops you. Have you ever seen a beautiful sunset or a beautiful sunrise? Right? It stops you. Have you ever seen a beautiful man or a beautiful woman? What does it do to you? It stops you. A beautiful child, right? Can you walk by it? Can you walk by a beautiful baby, a beautiful child? No. It's stops you. It's aesthetic arrest. It stops you in your tracks. The truth you can walk right on by. The the ethical you can keep on going. But the beautiful, you can't. It stops you. The second thing that the beautiful does is it name, it claims you, it owns you. You become the object, if you will, of the beautiful, a servant, if you will, of the beautiful. It owns you, it claims you, and then it names you. Now let me ask you something. Any of you ever have a nickname? Do you remember what your mother used to call you? Do you remember what your father used to call you? Your brother, your sister, your friends? Right? These little special names. Right? It names us. When you see the beautiful, and I don't mean something that's just externally beautiful, I mean something that's intrinsically beautiful. It names you. And those are the most precious names that we have. We don't really want other people strangers. Right? We don't want strangers to call us those names. Only the people that we consider beautiful, special, are allowed to call us those names. It's inappropriate for anybody else to use them. It stops you, it claims you, it names you And then it sends you. You become an evangelist, a missionary for the beautiful. You ever see a good movie? Right? A beautiful movie? And what happens? When you come out of that movie, what do you do? I'm not telling anybody. Right? Not gonna say a word about this movie. No. What do you do? You become an evangelist for this movie. You tell everybody you've got to see this movie. Nobody has to make you. You don't need a 10-step evangelistic program to send you out to talk about this movie. You don't need to be taught how to do this See, that kind of mentality only comes when we approach Christianity from the true and the good. Oh, please, somebody tell me how I can evangelize my neighbor. What? You can't help it if you're talking about something beautiful. You have to be an evangelist. You have to be a missionary. Nobody has to make you or give you some four steps to follow. How do I talk to somebody on the elevator? How do I talk to somebody in the grocery? What is that? The beautiful Sanji. Now think about it. The disciples are going about their business. Before they were disciples, they were fishermen. And Jesus comes and he calls them. And what do they do? Aesthetic arrest. They stop in their tracks. Then what happens? He owns them. Right? You have been bought with a price you are not your own. And then what does he do? He names them. In some cases he changes their names. And then what does he do? He sends them out two by two. Believe me, it's no problem. And I think we need the reclaim the idea that Jesus, right? Is not just a therapeutic session. That what the world needs is not another counseling session. Not diminishing the importance of that ministry. But that's what they think they need. But that's just another way really of stealing what from them what they really need. They don't just need to act right and to shape up or ship out. To behave the right way. You know that doesn't work with your children. But this is the King of Kings we're talking about here. The Lord of Lords. The first and the last, the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end And he radiates majesty, glory, splendor, beauty He's the beautiful shepherd. And when you can see it, it'll stop you. It'll claim you. It'll name you. And it will send you. And that's how I think we should look at shepherding. So as we come together tonight, honoring these two men that have been Under shepherds of the great shepherd, the good shepherd, the noble shepherd, and the beautiful shepherd. Let's keep the shepherd in mind. Let's pray. Glorious shepherd of your sheep. Beautiful shepherd, radiant shepherd, majestic shepherd We praise you and give you glory and honor, majesty and splendor, power and glory are yours. Help us, Lord, to see your beauty. Help it to shape us, mold us, form us, reform us. Help it to stop us. Claim us, name us, and send us. We ask this now In your holy and wonderful name, together with the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen.