This morning we're privileged to read from the Word of God. From 1 Samuel chapter 10, we'll be reading an abridged and shortened version. Print it for you in your Bible. You know, sometimes we are worried about the battles in life, and so we try to construct something. To to help us. We want God plus something else because God's not quite big enough. And so Israel insists on a king so they can fight their battles like the rest of the world. And God lets them have their way in their weak foolishness. But what's really cool about this passage is that In spite of their weakness and trying to do it themselves, we still see God's reassuring hand of care. Which is a call for us to put our full confidence in him and not in what we construct for ourselves as we We fight the battles of life. Please stand as we read this terrific passage from First Samuel chapter ten. Then Samuel, the last of the judges, took a flask of oil and poured it on his head, on Saul's head. And kissed him and said, Has not the Lord anointed you to be prince or king over his people Israel? And you shall reign over the people of the Lord And you will save them from the hand of their surrounding enemies. This shall be the sign to you that the Lord has anointed you to be prince over his heritage. Today you will meet two men by Rachel's tomb. And they will say to you, The donkeys that you went to seek are found. He'll be looking for many days for them. Then you shall come. to the oak of Tabor. Three men going up to God at Bethel will meet you there, one carrying three young goats, another carrying three loaves of bread, and another carrying a skin of wine. And they will give you two loaves of bread. After that, Saul, you shall come to Gibeth Elohim. And there you'll meet a group of prophets Coming down from the high place with harp, tambourine, flute, and lyre before them, prophesying, praising God Then the Spirit of the Lord will rush upon you, and you will prophesy with them and be turned into another man. Now, when these signs meet you, do what your hand finds to do. For God is with you. Then go down to Gilgal. And when he turned his back to leave Samuel, God gave him another heart or demeanor And all these signs came to pass that day. When they came to Gibeah, behold, a group of prophets met him, and the Spirit of God rushed upon him, and he saw prophesied among them And when all who knew him previously saw how he prophesied with the prophets, the people said, What has come over the son of Kish? To Saul also among the prophets. And later Saul's uncle said, Please tell me what Samuel said to you. And Saul said to his uncle, He told us that the donkeys had been found. But about the matter of the kingdom, of which Samuel had spoken, he did not tell him anything. Now Samuel called the people together to the Lord at Mizpah, and he said to the people of Israel, Thus says the Lord. I brought you up, I brought Israel out of Egypt, and I delivered you from the hand of the Egyptians, from the hand of the kingdoms that were oppressing you. But today you have rejected your God. Who saves you from all your calamities and your distresses? And you have said to him, set a king over us. Now therefore, present yourselves before the Lord by your tribes and by your thousands. God's going to give them their king. Then Samuel brought all the tribes of Israel near, and the tribe of Benjamin was taken by Lot. He brought the tribe of Benjamin near by its clans, and the clan of the Matrites was taken by lot. And Saul, the son of Kish, was taken by lot. But when they sought him, he could not be found. So they inquired again of the Lord, Is there a man still to come? And the Lord said, Behold, he has hidden himself among the baggage. Then they ran and took him from there. And when he stood among the people, he was taller than any of the people, from his shoulders upward. And Samuel said to all the people, Do you see him whom the Lord His Joker chosen? There is none like him among all the people. And all the people shouted, Long live the King! And Samuel told the people the rights and duties of the kingship. And Samuel sent the people away. And Saul also went to his home in Gibeah, and with him went men of valor, whose hearts God had touched. But some worthless fellows said, How can this man save us? And they despised him and brought him no present, but he held his peace. The word of God, may he open our eyes and our lives to it. Please. This is a very rich, full, and lengthy passage. Much here, far more than we'll be able to to gather and far more than I certainly understand. But hopefully we can get the scope and the focus of the text And God's message for us as it connects to us personally. Now, Israel was young and foolish. God had a long history of delivering her from her problems. And for some of you, you have a long history of being delivered from your problems. And of course, the greatest one is being a sinner and having to be appear before the judgment seat of God on the final day. And you know God is taking care of that. And subsequently, many other issues of lesser degree have challenged us, and God has seen us through. And yet We often find ourselves doing foolish things to protect ourselves as if we could Protect ourselves adequately. Indeed, our God is enough. But the problems are many, and we have to live this life And of course, a good father, if you're raised in a family, a good father will show that he still cares about you when you do some foolish stuff. To get yourself through life by your own efforts. Israel's mistake was to ask for a king. To help them fight their battles. It was a mistake. That's what we see in this 19th verse. Today you've rejected your God who saves you from all your calamities. And you have said to him, Set a king over us. Apparently, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob was not big enough. And uh they weren't quite state of the art at this point. All the other nations around them appear to have kings But they were behind. They were operating in a more decentralized way. They didn't have a centralized government. God would raise up some elders, or raise up some prophets, or raise up a judge or two. And God did it however he wanted, and he spoke frequently through the priests and through the prophets and directly, unlike we have today. And so he spoke, but it was a kind of a hit-or-miss situation, and the people apparently were concerned. living in the land of Cana. And so they decided, hey, you know, we need a better system. Hey God, how about giving us a king. We really want to get things under control here. And in the language of Pastor Desai that he quoted last week from I think it was One of the commentators, they were looking for a Mr. Israel. Perhaps some of us are looking for Mr. Israel in this election coming up. What's refreshing about this passage is that God knows how foolish they are And yet he accommodates himself to them. He accommodates himself and he allows them To have their way. But in the process, what's interesting I find in the passage is that along this path of raising up a king, God Shows signs of reassurance to this weak people of faith. He gives them a sign of reassurance. He reassures King Saul as he's being raised up in an inadequate system. And he reassures the people that they had the right man. And then he also sends a few men of valor along to help Saul along the way. These are some of the things I see in the text are very incredible. Encouraging, as this people attempt foolishly to, like we often do, construct a system that can protect us as if it could, like our Social Security or bringing a certain person to our life that this is now is going to solve our issues, or this new boss, or this child will do certain things for us. And all these things that are can be a blessing to us and often are. And yet our security lies elsewhere, doesn't it? We see first I'll draw to your attention here in verse twenty-two It says, they inquire of the Lord and says, Is there a man still to come? The Lord said, Behold, he has hidden himself among the baggage. I've jumped down a little text for you to show you that there's something about Saul. Here that uh is worth noticing. Apparently it appears that uh Saul needs a little reassurance that it's okay to be king. I mean, who would want to be the first president or the first king? That's quite a task. Some suggest he's hiding there out of humility, perhaps I tend to think it's more about reluctance. In verse 1, he had an experience earlier, and uh as God's calling him, He's to be this first king who's going to help Israel in a way, big way. God shows him a bunch of signs That's what weak people need, you know that we need signs. Strong people need only the God at His Word. And God says something, that should be enough. It doesn't have to tell you a story about it. It doesn't have to give you examples. It doesn't have to show historical victories and so forth and so on. These are all helpful. But a word should be enough. It certainly was enough to create the world. But in verse 1, we see, he says, and this shall be assigned to you That the Lord has anointed you to be prince or leader of his heritage. And if you read through this text, and we're not going to develop all that, but We'll see that there are a number of things that was going to happen to Saul as he moved out from Samuel. This was a private anointing there in the first part of the text. This first verse is Samuel is God's man. He's a man of God, and he anoints Saul. uh to be the first king in a private ceremony. And he says, and you're going to see some things as you're moving along through life here. And some of those things are going to be, you're going to bump into three guys And uh you'll see it there in uh verse two. Today you'll meet uh two men by Rachel's tomb, and they will say to you, the donkeys that you went to seek are found. And then shall come to the Oak of Tabor, and there three men going up to God, Bethel, will meet you there. One will be carrying three young goats, another carrying three loaves of bread, another carrying a skin of wine, and two uh we'll give you they'll give you two loaves of bread. So the first you're gonna meet two men and say, hey you've been looking for donkeys? Oh they found those. Don't worry about that. Your dad's worried Worried about you. Forget worried about the donkeys. Then he's going to meet these next three guys and he says, he knows ahead of time That's pretty cool, isn't it? You w you know what's coming? You do that you'd probably play the lottery, right? You know what a horse is, right? Seriously. But he's not told the lottery numbers He's just told that this guy's carrying little three little goats. One of them is carrying a sling of wine, and the other has uh three loaves of bread. And in the end They're going to say, here's a couple loaves of bread, which was a nice hospitality gesture. And so, and these are signs These are signs that uh that Saul is to be the king, that it's okay so you can chill. God puts you in position responsibility as perhaps a father, perhaps an employee to have an important position. He gives you a workload, he calls you a task you've never done a Before. But you know what? Sometimes we need a sign to say that God's going to help us. God's going to help Saul in a position. And so He could He could chill And uh there's another sign there that uh Saul is going to bump into uh a school of prophets. And uh these were men who were uh God would speak to on occasion. He would raise them up and have a message for the people. It wasn't like they had a Bible back then So God would raise up a leader, and he spoke directly to them. And of course, if whatever they said never came true, guess what they were supposed to do? Get rid of the leader. Because he wasn't from God And so now we see Saul uh he's going to be joining in. There's a change in his demeanor, and he joins in with these leaders. And he too starts singing apparently and praising. They say prophesying. Probably just singing praises of God and declaring how great he is. We're not just not expecting it. ended here. But uh and he's out of character and people are saying, wow, is that Saul? That can't be him. Is he another leader? Is he another prophet? He's not just another prophet, he's going to be a king It got people's attention. So God shows these reassuring signs, and He wants us to go through life assured. As we try to face the challenges of life. First of all, he wants you to be short of your relationship, basic relationship with God. 1 John 5. 3. I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life. There should be no question in your mind that you know you're going to meet God and He's going to say, I love you. You're in good shape. forgiven all your sins. I give you life everlasting. There should be no doubt about when you die that you're going to be okay. These things are written that you may know that you have eternal life. It's not arrogance, it's not presumption. It's revelation written down to secure us that you might rest peacefully in your heart at the core and then go about your life. You don't need to worry about death or illness and all that stuff as much as it's troubling and you'd like to get rid of it and pray for it to go away. That decor you're settled. And God wants us to live in a short life. If you're not as certain at the at the core, you're not much used to anybody. You just make everybody nervous being around you. Just need to chill out And know that you're well with God through Jesus Christ, trusting in Him. So Paul, or Saul needed to know he was okay to be in this position. God reassures him In spite of the fact it was not it was not even a good methodology. Having the king was a bad idea to begin with. Do you ever be in a position where you say, this company doesn't know what it's doing? It's doing everything backwards. But you know what? You're there. And so's God. So just relax. Don't worry about the methodology. It's imperfect. And if you're a leader, you're also imperfect. But you can rest at the core because you know that God's in control. Look at verse 7. Now, when these signs meet you, do what your hand finds to do. God's with you You got the signs. We get enough signs that God cares for us and loves us, puts us in a position of responsibility. Now just do what you got to do and know that God's with you. He's going to bless you and use you might not make you king, and a lot of these guys won't be president. But when it is just rest in God's care, if He'll do it, choose to do it Or she. Secondly, God reassures the community, not just Saul as a king, who's given a position of responsibility, that in their foolishness to try to help themselves erect a king. Who's going to supposedly do something great for them? But God reassures the community, do you know what? Okay, you can do this thing I'm still gonna help you. And I'll reassure you that you got the right game. And so we see some stuff happening there. One that we already mentioned, we see this change in demeanor of Saul. And it's difficult if commentators are all over the place here. What actually happened to Paul to Saul? He changed him to his different man into a different person. Later on if if you look at his life you gotta wonder, did he really have a new heart? I'm not ready to go there on that, that's for sure. If he did he certainly died in the state of sin. The bad place at the end of his life. But it does appear that uh uh his ministries confirmed that God wanted him there, that there was a change in his countenance and demeanor. As he's now praising God with these these prophets and apparently probably singing with them as the instruments are all being played along. And uh It appears that there's this initial burst of enthusiasm and uh surprising the people. How that's so out of character for him And the people says, is he is he a prophet too? I mean what's he doing over there with all these spiritual leaders, you know? So it's enough to get the people's attention that, hey, you know, maybe God's doing something. Maybe he's raising up a leader here But it wasn't going to be a prophet. It was going to be something much more unique that Israel had never experienced before, their first king. And uh so he we see uh the people get their attention has gotten as as uh Uh saw the words out that Saul's now among these other spiritual leaders, and there's a new man, and maybe God has a new role for his life. And God can do that. He can do something in your life To put a burst of enthusiasm, a burst of energy, a burst of vision, and and to uh to raise you up for a new role, which is certainly what he was going to do uh in in Saul's life. And he reassures the people. God doesn't want you, by the way, to have to have leaders that you're like Worried about. You're going to get a lot of imperfect leaders, but we don't need to worry about them. It wants you to know that you have the right leader over you Whether it's a father in your home, whether it's your boss, he's much leaders in our lives. And he wants us to rest easy. And so he wanted the community, God wants the community to rest easy, trust him. That they had the right person. And uh you know it's interesting whenever Aaron, remember he was the first priest of a long line of priests. There was some question. Is Aaron really supposed to be the priest? How do we know here? And there was some degree of discussion over his leadership. So in numbers 178, guess what? They had a Kind of a competition. And it took Aaron's staff and it did something special as he competed with the other possible leaders Number 178 it says, at the end of the day the Aaron's staff, though it was dead, it sprout dead, it was sprouted, and it brought forth buds and produced almonds. And there God confirmed that Aaron indeed was the right guy to be the first priest. And now we get the same thing with the king. Are we really going to get a king? And are we going to get God's choice for a king? The one we're supposed to have And so we see a number of signs here. Saul got some signs that he was supposed to be there. Now the people get some signs. And what the people are going to see, first of all, he's going to get Samuel's blessing. Samuel's already put his blessing on him in more fitting type of a guy what they wanted. You knew that they wanted Mr. Israel, as we heard? They also had somebody who was like Handsome and as we're told elsewhere, and he is much taller. He's like here, look, I'm a king. So it's very appropriate the type of person God chose But it was the person they wanted, they they needed to have. And it was the right one. It was God's choice. And that's so God also used a system of lots. Drawing lots. Now, as we read that text, we really don't know exactly how that worked with verse 19 and following. But uh he says, present yourselves there before the Lord by your tribes and by your thousands. The family brought all the tribes of Israel near You see it there? The tribe of Benjamin was taken first by Lot, then he brought the tribe of Benjamin nearby its clans, and the clan of of the Matrites was taken by its lot, and then narrowing down Saul the son of Kish was taken by Lot. So it was some type of Elimination a public elimination until they get to the right person. And some of them also might have been the Urim and the Thummim. Some of you know about if you read the biblical account. It was a special again, we don't know much about it, but it's in the Bible. It was a special device and it was probably stored in the The priest he fought his press plate. He'd have it in there on a special occasion. They would just actually pull it out. It sounds a little bit weird, like a Ouija board, but it wasn't. Is the real deal in the biblical account, like all the other inspiration racial parts of the Bible, which is the whole thing, uh, that on occasion the priest would have a special need and say, Lord, tell us, should we do this, yes or no? Shall we go into battle here, yes or no? And this Uram and Thoman had some way of God would speak and use it and he would say yes or no. Sometimes he'd say nothing. But and so it appears that he's it they're they're definitely inquiring to the Lord here, you know, in this text for And uh they're not sure, says verse um twenty-one. They inquired again of the Lord, how they inquire, and it may be this Orm and Thummum. We're not told in the text, but they were inquired Asking. And they were getting special communication from God. God's real. And he spoke just like he spoke to Adam in the garden at the very beginning. And he continues to speak in a very concrete way through dreams and visions, but now we have the Son of God Jesus Christ. He spoke in once for all and for through him, and now we have the most perfect way he could ever speak. Now we have it recorded in the scripture. So we don't have that whole process like we used to have. But as they're speaking, what I want to point out here was that there was this Public elimination, narrowing down that the people might know they had the right guy. And so they get down to all these thousands of people who have been narrowed down through this casting lot business And finally, they said, Is there still somebody else to come? Verse 22. And the Lord said, Yep. Guess where he is? He's hiding in the luggage. You know, he's probably behind some bedroll that was on the back of a donkey, you know, wrapped up or a prayer rug or something. He's in there tucked away. There's reluctant Saul. And uh so funny they go and they drag him out. You ever been dragged into leadership, by the way? That's usually how it happens. In fact I would suggest that's probably the better way to get someone to leave. Just to come you don't want someone to say, Oh I'll do it here and and they just want to kind of push themselves up to the front, be careful of those kind of people. I mean there's exceptions there. But for the most part, you see in the Bible, guys like Jeremiah Guys like Moses, you know, who am I? I can't speak. I'm not delivering anybody out of Egypt. What are you talking about? Okay, I'll give you your brother. He'll help you. You can't talk, I'll give you a mouthpiece. Yeah, yes it's those kind of people. And we got a whole congregation of them here, don't we? I'm one. Can't speak, you might be shy, you might not I'll be very good at something, but you don't get your feet wet. God calls you and step out and see what he might be able to do. So they use this process of lots to reassure you got the right guy. Saul's the man. for the job. And you know something? The people didn't need to worry. It was God's choice. You know, we ourselves are in the process of electing the president. We're not raising up a king, but a president. I don't know how many how many watched the debate last night. Anybody? Just one or Two of you? Very troubling to watch that debate. Will we get the right president? And how do we know? Truth is, did you look at what some of the issues are today? That was reason to worry about federal debt. Depending on who gets elected, you might end up having more federal debt, or you could have less. You might worry or have a reason to worry about tax policies You want your taxes to go up? May depend on who you left. What about health policies? Do you want to be have everybody to have health coverage at some level? It's going to cost a lot of people to do that. On the other hand, if you're down at the bottom of the rung and you don't have much income, you might be happy to get that. And uh are we gonna move into socialism more and more? I mean it's a real deal. Some people call it a democratic socialism Say one thing where everybody seems to get about the same, no matter what you do. A little bit scary to me, but We don't know who we're going to elect yet. And what about immigration policy? Are you happy with twelve million people or whatever, all a lot of people here illegally You know, raise up a man to help us decide. Are we going to give these people a waiver and just let them all in? Other people who are here legally and struggling to make it And what about are we gonna build that wall? Is Mexico really gonna pay for it? If it gets built? Or wanting to build it all. Do we secure our borders? I mean, these are important questions. I mean look at our our neighborhood now and right here in Relay and it's just very uh International, isn't it? And a lot of that how it develops would depend on who we elect. Uh maybe one of the presidents we elect may decide they want to throw us into wars, and a lot of wars. Or maybe some say I don't care what they're doing over there, let's just take care of America. There's a lot to worry about, you know. What about the issue of Social Security? Depending on who we elect. Well will your money, Social Security going away go away? The truth is that a lot of people just think it's not there anyway. It's already gone. It's that it's your kids who are going to give you your social security if you got any. If you don't, you pray that somebody else has some kids. What about the Supreme Court judge? are judges. Sad that we've lost important personal in the court And that'll be interesting to see how all that comes down. So much to worry about. Israel got the leader of God's choice. They had the perhaps the Ormin of Thummim. They had the lot system. They had God Himself securing that they would get the right leader. But you know what? We don't have the Ormond Thomum. And we don't do the system by lot. We do We don't even do popular vote. Use the popular vote. It's popular delegate vote. And you don't know who you're getting. In fact, you might not want popular vote. But you know what? We're going to get the right president. We're going to get the present that God wants. That's who we'll get. Might not be the one you want. Proverbs 1633, the lot is cast into the lap, but its every decision is from the Lord. I may paraphrase that in terms of the election. The people may cast their votes, but the final decision is termed by the Lord. He gives us what he wants. You know it sometimes God raises up a leader or he raises up a country who is not good because God wants to send us a message to shape And sometimes He sends us one that's great. Because God wants to do something great in our lives. It's hard to tell what we need sometimes. Do we need to be sent to corner be punished for a cup for you know for two three hours to get a wake up call so we can start worrying about what really matters Or do we need to grow in prosperity to get more money, get all our economic problems fixed? I'm not sure. Sometimes it's better to have very little money, but sometimes it's better to have more. Especially if you're good at giving it away and blood Blessing people with it. The one thing I know that this passage is about control and care and confidence, that God is in control God chooses Saul for the leader and confirms that Saul needs to be there. God shows the people that he's in control as he guides that process to raise him up. And you know what? The people Needed to put their confidence in God. Because they didn't even need that system. They didn't even need Saul, a reassurance that they had the right leader. All they needed to be reassured was they connected to the right God. The only God, you see? The whole thing was a mistake. The only thing they needed is Israel, and the only thing you and I need is God. If He wants to give us a democracy, so be it. And a good president Maybe one that knows God, that'd be wonderful. Maybe he wants to give us one that doesn't know God. I don't know. We don't know how that's going to come out. But one thing we know That our solutions to life do not rest in a president, they do not rest in a government, they don't rest in a king, only one One king only, the King of Kings, the Lord Jesus Christ. That's where our solutions rest. We got him, we don't need to worry about anything else. But it's pretty cool that God's reassuring the people. Even in this ridiculous uh approach to secure themselves, that uh even though they had uh constructed uh the system insisting on a king, that God sign of reassuring care. His hand of love was still with them, guiding them in the process. And to me that's that's very reassuring. You know, this is Valentine's Day. And we'll close here, but some people are are looking for a sweetheart. Some have found a sweetheart, and you found that he or she's not as sweet as you thoug But we have a sweetheart, you know? We have a sweetheart. An incredible king who loves us very dearly. And you know what? We have everything we need. And and so we're all s I I I get worried about how it's this election stuff. I get so worried about it. I thought, oh man I'm gonna have no money if this guy gets elected. Or you know, if this person gets elected, we're gonna uh it's just gonna be eight more years of what I just experienced or something like that, you know. Or or So anyway, I just it was good for me to be at this passage. Because I know that whatever whatever we're depending on, whatever system or thing we're trying to build, whether it's a bank account Or some kind of a democratic society or something to help us. The bottom line, it gets down to the same, you know. Can we trust in God's care to supply for us? Absolutely. The greatest sign of his care is not just like The things we saw in this passage, just bringing different people into your life, and they're going to give you a couple loaves of bread or they're going to uh see some guy's demeanor change. The biggest sign of his caras In King Jesus, the scars in his hands, nothing can separate us from his love and perception. So grateful that he died and he lives for us. We're in good shape. Let's continue to trust in God's care and ask his forgiveness for our foolishness to try to set up our own kings, our own systems to help ourselves as if They can actually do anything for us except for the mercies of God. So having said that, let's confess our sins to the Lord.