Well, good morning. If you have a Bible with you, I invite you to open with me to John chapter 11. We'll be reading from verses 17 through 37. We are continuing on in our study of the gospel according to John going through and we've we've been in chapter eleven. We started it last week and If you're not familiar with the story, Jesus had uh close fa friends, uh family who lived near Jerusalem A man named Lazarus and a woman, Mary, and her sister Martha. And as we saw last week, Jesus got a notice when he was far away that His dear friend Lazarus was ill. And oddly enough, we saw that Jesus, because he loved him so much, waited two days until Lazarus died before coming to Bring healing to him. And uh we we saw many reasons for that, showing that uh it was for God's glory and that God does all that he does because he loves us. But now we pick up where the story left off and we find what happens as Jesus arrives in Bethany, where Mary and her sister Martha are grieving. So if you would uh invite you to please stand as we honor the reading of God's Word. Hear now God's word from John chapter eleven. Now when Jesus came He found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb for four days. Bethany was near Jerusalem, about two miles off, and many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother So when Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went and met him, but Mary remained seated in the house. Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died But even now I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you. Jesus said to her, your brother will rise again. Martha said to him, I know that he will rise again and the resurrection at the last day. Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, Though he die, yet shall he live. And everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? She said to him, Yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world. When she had said this, she went and called her sister Mary, saying in private, The teacher is here and is calling for you And when she heard it, she rose quickly and went out to him. Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was still in the place where Martha had met him. When the Jews who were with her in the house, consoling her, saw Mary rise quickly and go out, they followed her, supposing that she was going to the tomb to weep there. Now, when Mary came to where Jesus was and saw him, she fell at his feet, saying, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. When Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews who had come with her also weeping, he was deeply moved in his spirit, and greatly troubled. And he said, Where have you laid him? They said to him, Lord, come and see Jesus wept. So the Jews said, See how he loves him. But some of them said, Could not he who opened the eyes of the blind man also have kept this man from dying? The word of the Lord this morning. Let's pray together. Our Father, what a precious gift it is that you have not left us to Grasp around in the darkness trying to figure out who you are and what you're like, but that you've spoken to us in your word, revealing yourself to us. Lord, we thank you for your word that is able to make us wise unto salvation, sufficient for everything we need to live for you. And we pray, Holy Spirit, that you would be with us in this time as we study your word, because we know Lord, our sin gets in the way. Our weakness gets in the way. We cannot rightly understand your word or apply your word apart from your work. Opening our eyes that we might see what you would have us to see. opening our ears that we might hear what you would say to us. And so we ask for your help, Holy Spirit, and we say in this time, speak, O Lord, for your servants are listening. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Man, please be seated. Whatever my God ordains is right. That's one of my favorite hymns And I love it for so many reasons, but one of the things that I I love about it is it's it's honest about pain and difficulty, but it it draws its comfort by looking back on Good, solid doctrine. Remembering that there's a sovereign God who's in control of all things, but that that sovereign God is also a God who is good and wise and loving and cares for his people. And it draws practical comfort from deep theology. We live in a day and an age where there is an emphasis and overemphasis on on our feelings and and on our emotions. Not that these things are entirely bad, and yet w we tend to focus almost exclusively on them so often. And the result of that is often that doctrine is seen as somewhat dry, somewhat boring, not entirely necessary And I think that goes against what scripture teaches. There's a famous preacher, R. C. Sprohl, who wrote a book called Everyone's a Theologian. Right? He's trying to draw the point out that the question is not whether or not you will be a theologian. The question is whether you'll be a good one or a bad one. Because what you believe about God necessarily shapes how you live. Our theology shapes our lives. I was reflecting on some definitions of theology this week, and I came across a couple that I think are are helpful and interesting. An older theologian, William Ames, says theology is the doctrine of or teaching of living to God. Not mere facts that you know in your head, but it helps you to live for God in the world. Dr. John Frame says theology is the application of God's Word to all areas of human life. He goes on to another place and says, theology is application. Right, all of these things showing the point that there's not some thing we know that's unseparated that's separated from how we live our lives day in and day out, but that a faith that's rooted in sound doctrine Must have a practical impact. And it will shape how we live day in and day out. And most importantly from this passage, it will shape how we respond to tragedy and to loss and suffering and pain. And that's what this passage really draws our mind to, asking us, forcing us to ask the question, how does faith in Christ Change the way that we respond to suffering, to death, to loss, even to sin and brokenness. I think the passage wants us to learn from this that Christians must respond differently than the world around us And I want us to just look at two ways briefly. When we're faced with the reality of this broken world, first we must see it in light of who Christ is. And second, we must come to see it as Christ does. So let's look first at verses 17 to 27. When we see, we must see the brokenness of this world in light of who Christ is. The background, as we said, as we looked at last week as well, is Jesus' friend Lazarus has died, and Jesus has now come to the town of Bethany. in order to to to be there and and as we'll see to raise them raise him from the dead, though they don't know that yet. He he arises he arrives and finds that he's been in the tomb for four days. Jesus was coming from a town that was about a hundred miles away. He left the day Lazarus died, and it was a three-day journey. So by the time that he gets there, it's now the fourth day that he's been in the tomb. It's possible that John mentions this because there was a Jewish tradition, though we're not sure that it was popular at the time of Christ's earthly ministry, but there was a Jewish tradition that says that the spirit of a person would kind of hover over their body for three days, seeking to re-enter it, until it became clear that they had had died and there was no opportunity. If that's not the reason that John emphasizes this, it clearly is to emphasize the miracle. Jesus is not mostly dead, or Lazarus is not mostly dead, as the Princess Bride would tell us, right? He's completely dead. He is totally dead. And Jesus comes and raises him to life. It emphasizes the miracle that Jesus is about to do. And we're told that Bethany is a town near Jerusalem, about two miles off. And it seems that Lazarus and Mary and Martha were probably relatively wealthy or prominent in the area where they lived, because many Jews from Jerusalem come to console them. And this surely would have included some of the professional mourners. that it was it was required that there were a certain class of people who their job was to go to funerals and grieve with the family so that you could weep with those who weep. It wasn't so much that they were faking it, but that this was their job to go and be there to console those who were hurting. And so there were many there in God's providence to see the sign and the miracle that Jesus is about to perform. So Martha hears that Jesus is coming and he goes she goes out to meet him. And I love her honesty when she comes to him. Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. Jesus, you could have prevented this. If you had been here, he wouldn't have died. But it's important to see the faith that's there behind her statement. Jesus could have stopped it. She believes in his power to heal. She knows that he could have stopped it, and yet he didn't. And it's a statement of just deep grief. It's possible that there's some reproach behind it. Why weren't you here? But I don't think we necessarily need to see it that way. The point is that she's being honest about her grief and her pain. She's not stoic and unfeeling in the midst of her distress And that's such a comforting reminder for us that we can go to God with our doubts and our questions and our concerns The psalms so often bring this out as we just hear the psalmist just honestly working through his problems and the reality of his life in the face of God. And one of my favorites for this is Psalm 74. I just want to read you a couple verses of this. It's a psalm of Asaph, and Asaph writes, Oh God, why do you cast us off forever? Why does your anger smoke against the sheep of your pasture? Remember your congregation which you have purchased of old. Which you have redeemed to be the tribe of your heritage. Remember Mount Zion where you have dwelt. Direct your steps to the perpetual ruins. The enemy has destroyed everything in the sanctuary. Your foes have roared in the midst of your meeting place. They set up their own signs for signs. They were like those who swing axes in a forest of trees. And all its carved wood they broke down with hatchets and hammers. They set your sanctuary on fire. They profaned the dwelling place of your name, bringing it down to the ground. They said to themselves, We will utterly subdue them. They burned all the meeting places of God in the land. We do not see our signs. There is no longer any prophet, and there is none among us who knows how long. How long, O God, is the foe to scoff. Is the enemy to revile your name forever? Why do you hold back your hand, your right hand, take it from the fold of your garment and destroy them? Honestly coming before God in deep distress. Not scared of what he's going to think, but recognizing that God can handle it. They can go to him in their pain. You see, one of the reasons this passage can be so challenging for us is because we know that God is wise and that he's good. And that he's sovereign, but the reality is that your experience and my experience in daily life doesn't always reflect that, does it? Sometimes it feels like God shows up late. Sometimes it feels like, if we're honest, it feels like God dropped the ball there a little bit. And this is a passage that reminds us that even in those moments when we feel like God may have let us down, we can go to Him in those moments. Faith is not something that tells you just to grin and bear it. But it says you can go to God in your pain. You can be honest with Him about the pain of grief and loss that you feel But it's important, as we see in this passage, to go in faith. We don't go to him and accuse him of wrongdoing as if he must justify himself to us. We never stand over God, asking him to give an account to us. No, we go to him in faith, but faith seeking understanding. God, I know what your word says about your goodness. Your mercy, your love for me, your deep concern about my well-being, and yet all these things are happening around me. It feels like the whole world is crashing down around me. Lord, I don't understand. Would you help me to understand what you're doing? And Lord, if in your wise providence it's not given to me to understand, would you give me the grace of That's the posture that we're called to go to God in. And that's the faith that Martha expresses here. If you would have been here My brother would not have died, but even now I know that whatever you ask from God, he will give you. There's actually some debate about to what it what she exactly means here. Whether there's expectations that she might that she thinks Jesus may actually raise Lazarus from the dead or not. It in some ways it doesn't seem like it. In verse 24, when Jesus says To her, your brother will rise again, she says, Well, I I know he will at the last day. She doesn't seem to have any expectation for him to be raised immediately. And later in verse 39, when Jesus asks them to remove the stone. She says, Lord, by this time that there will be an odor, for he's been dead for four days. She doesn't seem to have any kind of expectation in those moments that Jesus is actually going to do a miracle and raise her brother from the dead. I think that's a good reminder for us because it seems like her deep faith is also mixed with unbelief. She has faith, but it's weak. There's a flame, but it's kind of flickering there. I don't know about you, but that's good news for me. Because so often that's how I feel in my daily life. Faith that God can make things right, faith that God can bring comfort and use it for good, and yet scared to hope what that might look like. Even when Jesus says, your brother will rise again, she doesn't allow herself to hope and she doesn't get it. And I want you to see here how tender and gentle Jesus is with her, and how he is with us when our faith is weak. Look at his response there in verse 23, where he says, Your brother will rise again. It's deliberately vague, isn't it? It could mean just something as basic as one day at the end in the resurrection at the end of time he'll rise again. Or it could mean here and now today See, Jesus meets her where she is and then seeks to draw her out and strengthen her faith. Before he fixes the situation, he wants to use it to grow Martha's faith. Is he doing that in your life this morning? Going through a struggle and before the Lord steps in to bring relief, wants to bring you to the place where you can learn from him. And to grow from him and strengthen your faith and your dependence upon him in the midst of suffering and pain and loss. Not because he doesn't care for you, but because he cares so much. And notice he does it by teaching her. He says there in verses 25 and 26, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live. And everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? That's the the fifth of seven I am statements that show up in John's Gospel. We've seen several of them before. Jesus says, I am the bread of life. I am the light of the world, I am the door of the sheep, I am the good shepherd. And now he says, I am the resurrection and the life. And the point that he wants us to see here is that the future resurrection at the end of time is not some abstract concept. It's rooted in Christ. It's rooted in who he is and what he's done, and those things only come through him. He is the center of everything. He is the one who has the power to raise the dead and to give life. The background for this comes from John 5. In verse 21 and following, where Jesus says, For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so also the Son gives life to whom He will. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but is passed from death to life. Truly, truly, I say to you, an hour is coming and is now here when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear it will live. For as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son also to have life in himself. An hour is coming when all who are in the tombs will hear his voice and come out. Those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment. It's all about Jesus. He is the one who raises the dead and who brings life. Eternal. And it's important to see here, resurrection and life are referring to two different things. And the rest of the statement explains that. Right? The resurrection, that Jesus is the resurrection, refers to the resurrection of God's people on the last day. That's the point of the second half of verse 25, where he says, Whoever believes in me, even though he dies, yet he will live. Death is not the end because God's people will be raised again into new life. But life refers simply to eternal life that we have in Christ. And so Jesus says in verse 26, whoever lives and believes in me shall never die. To live and believe in him, to have eternal life, to be regenerated. Right? Ephesians 2. We were dead in our trespasses and sins in which we once walked, but God raised us to life in Christ. He called us out of darkness into his marvelous light. He's taken out our heart of stone and given us a heart of flesh that beats for him. It's to be born again, as John to as Jesus tells Nicodemus in John three. To believe is to have faith. Whoever lives and believes in me. Whoever is regenerated to have new life and then goes on to believe, having faith worked in us. See the point that Jesus is saying is not that there will simply be no physical death. He's saying there will be no ultimate death. No second death. Right? There is life after this physical life. Jesus says to the thief on the cross, this day you will be with me in paradise. Paul says to be away from the body is to be home with the Lord. The Westminster Shorter Catechism brings this out by saying the benefits that believers receive at their death. Or that the souls of believers are at their death made perfect in holiness and do immediately pass into glory. The moment you take your last breath as a Christian, you are in the presence of Christ. Free from sin forever. Eternal life. Just as Jesus gives living water so that you might never thirst, he gives life so that you might never truly die. And notice, believers enjoy this now. If you're in Christ, this eternal life has already begun. You have this eternal life already, and there's more to come. He turns to Martha and he says, This is who I am. Do you believe this? Right, Martha, do you believe this? Not only for your hopes about Lazarus, but do you believe this when you think of your own death? For yourself as well. And she responds with a great confession of faith. Yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, the one who is coming into the world. A clear confession. She's not just accepting facts about Jesus, but she's personalizing them, personal trust in him as the one who is the resurrection and the life, the one all her hope is in. I believe. It connects with the Gospel of John because this is the very reason that John says he writes the Gospel in John chapter 20. He says, These things are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ. the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name. Friends, do you believe this this morning? If you are in Christ, these promises are yours. He is the resurrection and the life. Even though you die, you will rise again. And if you live and believe in him, you will never truly die. What a wonderful hope. If you're here this morning and you don't know Christ, this is a passage that calls you to come to Him and to pray that He would work in your heart to give you the life that knows no end. Because when you believe it, it will change your life. It will change the way that you face grief and loss, face tragedy and suffering. We still grieve, we see that with Martha, right? But she grieves in hope. In hope knowing that death has been swallowed up in victory. That the death of Christ was the death of death. Death has no power over God's people ultimately because Christ has set us free. We see the brokenness of this world in the light of who Christ is, but we also see it as Christ does. Mary is still in the house, and Martha goes to her, saying that Christ is calling for her, asking her to come out and speak with him. Jesus, the passage tells us, is still outside the village. We're not exactly sure why. It could be that it's closer to the tomb and he plans to go raise Lazarus from the dead. it's possible that he's hoping to have a a private conversation with Mary, just as he had with Martha. Um if that's the case, it clearly doesn't go that way because as soon as she jumps up to go meet with him, everyone in the house follows her, thinking she's going to to cry at and weep at the tomb. And the result, actually, in God's providence, is that they're all there to see what Christ will do. When she sees Jesus. She responds almost the same as Martha with a couple differences, right? She comes and falls on her knees before Jesus, saying, If you had been here, my brother would not have died. But she doesn't go on to affirm Christ Hower like Martha does. Different people kind of seem to take it Different ways. Some have suggested that we should read into this that Martha's faith is stronger. Some people actually see Mary falling on her knees as a sign of greater faith and said that Martha's faith is weaker than Mary's because Mary comes and falls on her knees Others just see this as a difference in personality between the two sisters. We see that in in Luke, where we read that Martha was the one going around busy cleaning and preparing everything, while Mary was content to sit at Christ's feet. People with different personalities grieve differently. And it's beautiful to see here that Christ responds appropriately. Responding differently in different situations. I I don't think we should make too big of a deal over the difference in their response, but I think that that's one of the comforts we can draw from it. The point I think comes in verse 33. Jesus sees Mary and the Jews weeping. And the result, the passage tells us, is that Jesus is deeply moved in his spirit and greatly troubled. If you're reading out of the ESV, you'll notice there that deeply moved has a footnote to it, so that the word could also mean indignant. That word there for deeply moved shows up five times in the New Testament. Twice here in John 11, verse 33 and 38. Both times it's deeply moved. It shows up in Matthew 9, verse 30, where Jesus heals two blind men, and we're told Jesus sternly warned them, see that no one knows about it. Shows up again in Mark 1 when Jesus cleanses a leopard and a leopard, and Jesus says he sternly charged him and sent him away at once. All right, don't tell anyone what I've done. Finally, it shows up in Mark 14, where the disciples are angry because a woman has poured expensive ointment on Jesus, and they saw it as a waste and were told they scolded her, speaking sternly and scolding. The language here points to the idea, as the footnote says, of anger or indignation. One theologian, D. A. Carson, actually retranslates this passage and says, he was outraged in spirit And troubled. He goes on to explain that Jesus' inward reaction was anger or outrage or indignation. The question is, if that's correct, and I tend to think that it is, why? Why is Jesus angry? It can't be simply the fact that he sees them weeping, because Jesus is about to weep too, just two verses later. I think rather it's as Jesus sees them weeping, he knows why. He knows the cause of their pain is the sin and death and suffering of this world that wreaks so much pain. In this broken world causes so much damage and hurt. And it makes him angry. He hates sin and evil. And he's angered by it. It's not just anger at the reality of sin and suffering, but also anger at unbelief. Some point to the weeping here and say that there doesn't seem to be a difference between Mary's weeping And the weeping of the Jews. The Jews go on and expose their unbelief at the end of the passage and saying, couldn't he who healed the blind man have kept this man from dying? Many suggest this hints at unbelief, not just grieving, but grieving without hope. The opposite of what we saw with Martha. And this might be hinted at by the fact that when Jesus weeps, it's a different word used than when Mary and the Jews weep. Showing that that Jesus weeping is of a different nature because as the perfect man he does not weep without hope. But I think the the important comfort to see there is that even if that's the case, and if Jesus is partly angered by unbelief, we recognize that sin angers our Lord, and yet the same sin that angers him is also the same sin that moves him to compassion to come and save us. And so when Jesus saw the tomb, he wept. We can learn so much from this short verse. We see the true humanity of Christ, truly like us in every every way except for sin. We can also learn just as practical comfort, it's not unspiritual to weep and grieve because Christ has done it He is a God full of sympathy and compassion, one who weeps with the brokenhearted, drawing near to us in our pain. He's not cold or distant when we suffer, but draws near to us to comfort us with his presence. Jesus responded to the death of a friend, to the brokenness of this world with outrage and grief. With anger and with compassion and sympathy. Not angry at God, but angry at the reality of sin, and with genuine, heartfelt compassion for the hurting. I think one of the things that this passage calls us to examine in our own lives is to say, is this how you and I respond to the brokenness of this world? Do do we see evil and sin in this world and are we angered by it? Because too often we can become desensitized to the brokenness of this world, whether it's close to home or whether it's Far away and distant. We we must hate sin and evil. But we don't stop there. We must also be characterized as people who have deep compassion for those who are hurting and suffering. Not cold and unfeeling on the one hand and not barely sentimental on the other hand. We grieve with those who grieve. You see, when brokenness rears its ugly head, when when tragedy strikes, whether it's a a natural disaster, whether it's a mass shooting, whether it's the loss of a loved one, whether it's just as simple as someone's dream being crushed, Christians must be the ones with the answers. Not trite and simplistic answers. God always has a reason for what he does. No, honest answers, acknowledging the pain. I know this hurts. And to be honest, I don't understand it either. I don't know why God does what he does. You don't need to cover that up. Jesus can handle it. But we also hold out the hope. Friend, you're right, this world is not how it's supposed to be. But I have good news. It won't always be this way. Because in Christ we have one who is not just outraged by our suffering and sin. And he's not just able to sympathize with us. He's not just one who draws near to the brokenhearted. He's one who has done something about it. He entered into a broken world. He lived a life of suffering from the moment he was born and laid in a feeding trough until the moment when he was nailed to a cross. And friends, the good news is that Jesus has not only suffered with us, he suffered for us. He died in the place of sinners, defeating sin and death and Satan. triumphing over them at the cross and conquering them through his death and his resurrection. And he says, fear not, I am the first and the last. and the living one. I died, and behold, I am alive forevermore, and I have the keys of death and Hades. And now he's seated at the right hand of the Father, ruling and reigning over all things, in control of everything, even if it doesn't look like it. Appearances can be deceiving, but Christ is on the throne. And it as if that weren't enough, he then promises, Behold, I am coming soon. And when I do, no more tears. No more suffering, no more pain, no more death, no more sin. It's gone forever. You'll never have to see it or think about it again. He indeed, friends, is the resurrection and the life. And no matter what life throws at you You can believe this, and you can come to him and find comfort and hope that he will never leave you or forsake you. Let's pray together. God, indeed, whatever you ordain is right. This is where our stand is to be taken, whether suffering, need, or death be ours, we know that we are not forsaken. We thank you for the comfort that you give us, O Lord, that you are not merely a God who suffered with us, but a God who suffered for us in the person of your Son, who became a man, in order that he might suffer. On our behalf. And we thank you for the hope that we have in Him and for the comfort that we have. And we pray, Lord, that That these wonderful truths of the gospel would shape the way that we live in our daily lives, would shape the way that we face suffering and pain and loss, and that we would be comforted in the hope we have in Christ. And we ask all this in his name. Amen