O Lord, you are my God. I will exalt you, I will praise your name, for you have done wonderful things Plans formed of old, faithful and sure. For you have made the city a heap, the fortified city a ruin. The foreigner's palace is a city no more, it will never be rebuilt. Therefore, strong peoples would glorify you. Cities of ruthless nations will fear you. For you've been a stronghold to the poor, a stronghold to the needy in his distress, a shelter from the storm, and a shade from the heat. For the breath of the ruthless is like a storm against a wall, like heat in a dry place. He subdues the noise of the foreigners as heat by the shade of a cloud. So the song of the ruthless is put down On this mountain the Lord of hosts will make for all peoples a feast of rich food, a feast of well-aged wine, of rich food full of marrow, of aged wine well refined. And he will swallow up on his mountain the covering that is cast over all peoples, the veil that is spread over all nations. He will swallow up death forever. And the Lord God will wipe away tears from faces and the refurbished people will He will take away from all the earth. For the Lord has spoken. It will be said on that day, Behold, this is our God. We have waited for him that he might save us. This is the Lord. We have waited for him. Let us be glad and rejoice in his salvation. But the hand of the Lord will rest on this mountain, and Moab shall be trampled down in this place, and as straw is trampled down on the dunghill. And he will spread out his hands in the midst of a swimmer, as as of it as a swimmer spreads out his hands to swim. But the Lord will lay low his pompous pride together with the skill of his hands. And the high fortifications of his walls he will bring down, lay low, and cast to the ground to the dust. Amen. Thanks. Please be seated. I wanted to have chapter twenty-five in your bulletin so you can be uh referring to it, looking at it. But that's a lot to read, so So Julie and I, when we moved to Oklahoma City to start CityPress, the church's motto was Love God, Love People, Love the City. And so we really worked hard as a church to promote the good of Oklahoma City. We certainly understood and lived in some of the bad. And whenever we encountered the bad, we worked to try to change our part of it But we wanted to remember that that our calling, especially from Jeremiah, is to bless the city, not always critique the city. And so we were all in on OKC and then moving to Baltimore. We don't know how to do it any other way. So we're all in on Baltimore. I think I should be on the Baltimore Tourism Department. And uh it's a little trickier because of Baltimore's reputation, right, of course. We all know that. And we all know all the bad stuff, but we live in a delightful part and we often comment to each other, we did even just this week like It's so great that we get to live here. Sitting on the harbor with the breeze, watching the boats go by, seeing big ships come in, eating great food, being with great people. It it's just wonderful. Now I don't think Baltimore is considered one of the great cities of the world. Do you? No. One of my friends says, let's put the C back in Harm City. Because that would make it Charm City, like they say. So let's put the C back in Harm City. I thought that was clever And maybe you've been to great cities. Think about the cities you've been to that truly are great. I've been to Athens and I've been to London and Dublin and Cape Town and Prague and um they're just Outstanding. So Isaiah wrote this in seven hundreds BC. 1100 years later, Augustine wrote the city of God. Famous classic book. And he wrote it while Rome was going down, while Rome was getting sacked. Rome, the great, great city of Rome, was going down. And so he wrote about the theological implications of a crumbling world. And Augustine said people inhabit one of two cities, the city of man. or the city of God. And the city of man is unified against God. Humanity builds its own worlds, its own cities, and it's they seem so powerful, don't they? And the city of God seems so weak and unimportant, but it will not fail. Amen. That's good news for us today. And God invites us to live there. He wants us to have citizenship in his city. And so we've been talking about being in the presence of great people, but today we're going to talk about being in the presence of a great city. So the simple two points today are the city of man and the city of God. What's the difference? The key verse for the city of man comes in chapter 24, verse 10. The wasted city is broken down, every house is shut up, so that none can enter. Now we left off last week. We talked about the those prophecies in chapter 7. 9 and 11. But if you start going from there, you start seeing a lot of judgment. Jim and I had lunch and he said he was reading through and he's like, oh man, this little part in the middle here is pretty rough. It is. That's one reason why we're not going to go through it all. But if you look, if you just open your Bible and start looking, you see the judgment of Babylon. You see judgments according Moab. You see judgments on Cush and Damascus and Egypt and Tyre and Babylon and Sidon and even Jerusalem. Even Jerusalem gets thrown in the midst. We have nations and cities being judged. Look at fourteen twelve is a good example. How you are fallen from heaven, O Daystar, Son of Dawn, how you are cut down to the ground, you who laid the nations low You said in your heart, I will ascend to heaven above the stars of God, I will set my throne on high. I will sit on the mount of the assembly in the far reaches of the north, I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. I will make myself like the Most High, but you are brought down to Sheol, to the far reaches of the pit. God is judging nations. Babylon was awesome. Incredible nation, powerhouse, superpower. And the way I remember the the progression of You know, the promised land region, the ancient Far East of who is in control. You have Assyrians, Babylonians, Persians, Greeks, Romans. And I remember it as a big picture grows. A, B, P, G. Assyrians, Babylonians, Persians, Greeks And then I don't know what to say for our Romans. So the we talked about the Assyrians already a little bit, and we'll talk about them more. But the Babylonians were also just as amazing. But God sees it differently, doesn't he? He cuts them down. He cuts down people that ascend that high, who think they're that great. He'll even send them all the way to Sheol. He knows the pride. We have. He brings us down because apart from him we deserve it His holiness is absolute. It's not relative. And we've all failed. We've all fallen short. We've all sinned. What we tend to do is compare ourselves with the really bad sinners. At least I'm not like them. But God says, no. He in his presence, in his world really, he cannot take unholiness. Injustice, abuse, manipulation, theft, infidelity, lying, and he judges Cities, nations, nothing can stop it, even not their drunken songs. 166 We have heard of the pride of Moab, how proud he is, of his arrogance, his pride, his insolence, and his idle boasting he is not right. Therefore, let Moab wail for Moab, let everyone wail, mourn utterly stricken, for the raisin takes of Kirchasheth. We have heard of the pride of Moab, how proud he is, of his arrogance, his pride It's one of the seven deadly sins. In fact, it's the key seven. The worst, the root of them all. It goes all the way back to Garden of Eden when Adam and Eve were too proud to trust God. They thought they were right. So they sinned against him and ate the fruit. And we think, well, we know pride goes before the fall, but like, well, let's try it. It won't this time, right? Because it's going to be somebody else's fault. I'm going to get the benefit of the doubt. And so we are proud more than we know. We don't always want to ask for help, right? We want to go it alone. We do it ourselves. And we live in a world that is a meritocracy. So we need to achieve on our own. We take pride when we do. We take pride in so many things. We take pride in our goodness and our morals and also in our rebelliousness. We take pride in our beauty and in our lack of exercise. We take pride in good grades or bad grades. Perfect attendance, sloppy appearance. We take pride in our frugality, our recycling, our urban consciousness, our progressive literalism, our voting record. We take pride when we don't like what everyone else likes. Like, you know, I don't like Hamilton. I'm the only person on the planet, so I'm so proud of that. That's not true for me, but people are like that. You know, not like in Taylor Swift is not going over real hot right now. We're proud of our cynicism that we can see through everything We're proud that we can offend people and confuse people, strike nerves. We're proud of our social media accounts and our curating of our lives. Proud of sleeping past noon, stealing street signs, you name it. All that stuff I was looking this week about um for whatever reason I stumbled across this uh Kenneth Lay. That name may not sound familiar, but in uh he was the CEO of Enron back in the day, and Kenneth Leigh was living the life. He was the epitome of what people want. Rich, famous. He had all the fame, accolades, power, influence, vacations, everything about him. But you know what? He was a taker, wasn't he? And one way you can track this, and this is really what the article is about, is if you start watching the yearly reports Kenneth Leigh's picture gets bigger and bigger and bigger. He gets featured more and more prominently when they're talking about how good the company's doing, they're talking about how good he's doing The pride of man. It's all about him. And remember, they went bankrupt in 2001 and 20,000 people lost their jobs. Investors lost billions of dollars. He was charged, convicted of fraud, and he died in 2006. Pride caught up with him, didn't it? And it wasn't just personal. He affected a lot of people with what he was doing. And so in Isaiah 24 4 through 13, we read all of this. The earth mourns and withers, the world languishes and withers, the highest people of the earth languish, the earth lies defiled under the inhabitants, for they have transgressed the laws. violated the statutes, broken the everlasting covenant. Therefore a curse devours the earth, and its inhabitants suffer for their guilt. Therefore the inhabitants of the earth are scorched and few men are left, the wine mourns, the vine languishes, the merry hearted sigh. And it goes on, and we get to ten. The wasted city is broken down And every house is shut up so that none can enter. We go back to before God created the world, what was it? Formless and void Dark, barren, broken. We have new stairs. They're they're on this side, right? Yes, we have new stairs over there somewhere. And and you know the thing about those new stairs is something happened To what? Not Bethany. That's true. Something did happen to Bethany. But she's not a what. She's a who. Something happened to the old stairs. To put in new stairs, you have to take out old stairs. And why did we do that? They were judged as not being what we So there was judgment on those stairs, evil stairs, hurting stairs people. But we judge the stairs, and so that's why they're gone. That is the point of this thing. With judgment comes. something. The city of man. But there's another city, the city of God Changes do require a judgment call. A new direction means an old one is not working. Even if you change the channel, you're saying I don't want to be on that other channel. There's a this American Life episode. Are we all up on This American Life? It's a uh now a podcast radio show on public radio and eight each week they have a new thing and it's pretty good. So there's one episode called Fermi's Paradox. And one of the chapters or sections of this hour was talking about a woman named Esther Perrol. and she is a counselor and she records her counseling sessions with permission from the couple and and we were listening to one of them And on this particular one that we were listening to, there's a a couple and they have a great marriage except for one thing that's pretty bad. But they really like each other and they're great, except the husband had been cheating on her for twenty-two years. Did they have a great marriage? No. They didn't. But they thought they did and they talked about it and they wanted to stay together. So she's helping them Talk to each other, especially him listening to her. Shocker, right? I know. So so during the conversation, and this happens in counseling sessions, She will say to him, no, no, no, no, don't do it that way. Don't do it that way. Try this way. Nope. Stop. And she redirects him, shuts that thing down the way he was going. And it starts to work. He starts to get it. So she's judging what's wrong to help get to what is right. And they are starting to have hope, even in the midst of this one lesson or sec section for more freedom and trust to be born out of this because they can't continue these dysfunctional patterns, destructive patterns We talked about stumps last week. At at City Prez in Oklahoma City, we had a courtyard. We walked out to from the back of the building. And there was this awesome tree, and it was awesome for eleven months of the year. But one month of the year it was the worst tree in the world Because it was a mulberry tree. And it dropped it was huge, so it dropped at what felt like inches and inches of mulberries for a month during Easter. Always during Easter. And there was no way any person under the age of twelve could resist picking up and stomping in and eating mulberries every week. So clothes purple, they stomp it in purple everywhere. It was a disaster. So what did we do? Cut that bad boy down. We made a stump out of that thing. I didn't know what else to do. Shaking your head, it was terrible. It was terrible. So so so there are stumps in the world. That was a judgment call. It had to go because something else had to take its place. We planted other trees in the stumps. And so heaven is coming. There's going to be a new heavens and a new earth. We read 241. Behold the Lord will make empty the earth and make it desolate, and he will make it twist its surface and scatter its inhabitants. Look at twenty five one. O Lord, you are my God, I will exalt you, I will praise your name, for you have done wonderful things Plans formed the bold, faithful, for you have made the city a heap, a fortified city a room. Therefore strong peoples will glorify you. Cities of ruthless nations will fear you. And he goes on, on this mountain, the Lord of hosts will make for all his peoples a rich Feast of food, a feast of well-aged wine. There is something coming that's so much better. Isaiah 12 1 says, 1 through 6. You will say in that day, I will give thanks to you, O Lord, for through through you you were for though you were angry with me, your anger turned away, that you might come for me. Behold, God is my salvation. I will trust, I will not be afraid. For the Lord God is my strength and my song, and He has become my salvation. Amen I will make known his deeds among the peoples. Proclaim that his name is exalted. Sing praise to the Lord, for he has done gloriously. Let this be made known in all the earth. Shout and sing for joy, O inhabitants of Zion. For great in your midst is the Holy One of Zion. There is something coming. A new world, a new city. Another I got a lot of OKC stories today. But I I have this developer friend and he threw a party in this abandoned cleaner building, Sunshine Cleaners It had no windows, it had no roof, because he was about to make it something awesome. And he wanted us to see where it was. And then we got invited back to a new party at a brewery. One of the most glorious things ever. And it was amazing what he did to transform that place. W we're familiar with apocalyptic movies when everything is going wrong and everything's ruined and terrible, but there's always a resistance. In the Matrix, it's even called Zion, a remnant that still remains, a city that will not be defeated, a chosen one to go and defeat the enemy. That will come like we read in 25. 1 again. O Lord, you are my God, I exalt you, I will praise your name, for you have done wonderful things, plans from the both, faithful and sure. Isaiah is not writing an intellectual exercise here. It's not a philosophy class. It's not even a theological seminar. It matters to him. He's making declarations and statements. He's exalting and singing and praising because it's wonderful that God is building a new city on the mountain of the Lord and all are invited. All are invited. Cities are full of corruption and crime, we know that. But cities also have culture. Intellectual ideas, and they care for people. And there are triumphs. Great cities have cultural assets for everyone. like Patterson Park or the aquarium or Camden Yards or the Harbor. They have they're interesting, invigorated, and connect people to each other. There's cultural and ethnic diversity There's big ticket items and small local things, local musicians, local chefs, local entrepreneurs. Sprawl is minimized I got a buddy, he's a pastor in a church outside of Houston. And it's amazing. They will put down ten thousand houses and make a city in one year. And it's those these cities that have no through streets, no the code sacks where you never can go anywhere. You don't really drive by anybody's house because you You can't get into it. And don't put in things in the middle of the city. There's no downtown to those places. It's awful. Great cities are accessible. They have natural assets and green space And common spaces. They're walkable. They're bikeable. People want to be outside on sidewalks, parks, and trails and boats on kayaks. Great cities are just And they treat the poor well. Twenty-five, four, and five. What does it say? For you have been a stronghold to the poor, a stronghold to the needy in his distress So the song of the ruthless is put down. Justice for the poor, treating people well, the least of these, the orphans and the widows. In the city of God, all are brought low, all are equal, but all are VIPs. And there's a feast. A great feast that someone else paid for. That's the best type of feast, right? The best food, the best wine. I don't know if you guys have been to these amazing weddings. I I one time I did went up to the Catskills and I had a like seven course meal sit down. But I've been to Memphis Barbecue weddings and I've been to unlimited gumbo weddings in Baton Rouge. I mean it's these are amazing, right? When you get to be together with people that that you've been involved with, that you know their stories and you are celebrating this union And then you get to dance and feast? Oh, it's awesome. Good cities are sacred, safe, and busy. And in this city all are welcome in Zion. 259 And it will be said on this day, Behold, this is our God. We have waited for him that he might save us. This is the Lord. We have waited for him. Let us be glad and rejoice in his salvation. It's okay to say You know? God, you really could have come sooner. Um where have you been? We've been waiting. That's totally fine to say. We've been waiting, but you are here. And we are glad and we rejoice. You have come to save, and we needed saving. That is good news for us today. We waited and you arrived. You saved wicked, desperate people like us. You paid the price. We broke the covenant. You threw this whole party for us. So we can enjoy it. So we can be citizens of your city. It's sacred, it's safe, it's busy, accessible. We're connected to each other. other. It's not like the city of man. Now in this city the tears are gone and justice rules. And we're proud of you, God. And what you've done in our lives. The veil has been lifted. The death pole has been eradicated. We are all. Here, and we are not fake CEOs puffing ourselves up. And death is swallowed up forever. Amen. Death swallowed up forever Up forever. No more death. No more ALS. No more cancer. No more Alzheimer's. No more leukemia. All gone. All gone. I'm still haunted by my friend Dustin Salter. He was a fellow campus minister. He was down at TCU, so we weren't that far together. Beautiful, beautiful man. Great pastor. And he was out riding bikes with his kids one day in his Culsac neighborhood. His kids were like ten, he was forty And he just fell over. It wasn't a big accident or it wasn't a wreck or anything and he hit his head and he died. Two months later Later. Never recovered from that fall. It was a disaster partly because it wasn't a disaster. He fell in his almost parking lot. That will be gone forever. There will be no more that. It's brutal when those things happen. Evolution says, no big deal. God says that's not the way it's supposed to be. Twenty five eight really brings it all home then. He will swallow up death forever, and the Lord God will wipe away tears from all faces, and the reproach of his people, and he will Take away from all the earth for the Lord has spoken. Wow. This Jesus Born of a virgin, the forever ideal ruler from the root of Jesse, says he is eternal life. He gives it and he is it. He's the way, the truth, and the life And he conquered death by dying and raising again from the dead, so that sin could be done and taken care of. Buddha does not say that. Muhammad does not say that. Science does not say that. And so we, because we serve a resurrected Jesus, get to say it. Just like we had Christmas in August last week, we have Easter in September this week. Amen. Easter. The city of God is coming, and we will live for God forever. Not in pride, in joy. So which city are we gonna be in? Melody Wursnik Wrote a book called This Is Where You Belong. She lived in Blacksburg, Virginia. How far is that away from here? Geography check over on this side of the earth is not my forte. So she wanted to know what it what what makes you feel belong what makes you feel like you belong to a place. That sense of place. And so she has lists, you walk more, you eaten by local, you know your neighbors, do fun stuff, you explore nature, you volunteer, you become more involved in local politics. Local politics. You create new things and you stay loyal. Stay loyal to that place. Then you start to feel like you belong. And and we can do that. In our places, but also in this place, right here. We can walk with Jesus together. We can know our neighbors and each other together. We can throw parties together. We can explore together. We can eat together, as we're about to do. Get involved, create, serve, and stay loyal in hard times. That's what happens in the city of God forever. And we approximate that here as we go out into the world with grace and beauty and mercy and justice, together with the blood of Christ. Behold, this is our God. Bringing us to this city. Amen. And then we have several ways to respond. The first is maybe a few moments in silence. Let's take that silence and listen to the Holy Spirit together now.