Well good morning. Good morning. It's it's a joy to to be here this morning to to serve the Lord in this way. Um I have been here before. Some of you might recognize me, some of you may not. If you're new to the church, want to greet you in particular. I'm a new face here. And uh I I My my time at Faith Christian Fellowship is coming to a close in a couple weeks, end of this end of this month, and um actually beginning a new ministry. We're I'm jumping into a new ministry called Baltimore Antioch Leadership Movement. Bomb is what we call it. And um it's a to it's it's about it's not a pastoring position, but it's a position of of trying to equip churches and and individuals to to to be kind of twenty first century churches. That's kind of the way I look at it. And so part part of and so I'll be raising support to do that, but uh um knowing that I was stopping at uh at faith, Josiah talked to me and said, Hey We were looking for an interim. I said, nah. And he kept coming back. And so I th we prayed about him and we think the Lord is It's gonna be able to help us to help you uh during this interim time, which is an interesting time. Our church has just gone through an interim period itself before the new the next lead pastor came. So it's a joy to be here again. I I'm here with a different set of eyes now not just as a visitor. Um before we scripture, I just want to say um I was looking at uh in your bulletin and a couple a couple connection points. I probably should give connection points. One is you can see in my bio I was within a varsity and one of the first connection points I had with this church is the priors who supported university and they supported me when I came to Baldwin. I didn't know them. They supported they're still here to serve the Lord, loving the Lord faithfully. Of course I knew Dan Broad. I remember once um I I I I was you know just doing fundraising for university and um and uh you met at lecture hall two or three on UBC's campus and I went to worship there one time And uh that goes back before most of you were born probably, I don't know. And another connection point was uh so your missionary for the day is is is the Holman's. Uh Cindy Beck Holman. Cindy Beck was a student at UNBC Uh and she was part of the founding team that founded Faith Christian Fellowship where I work where where I've served. So again, we know we know Cindy and and and and and And uh the the Homans and they're serving the Lord uh in urban ministry, doing a great job. Before we scripture, just one I want to say one thing. Um I I I was As I was preparing yesterday, it dawned on me that our the today's message, I've got to talk about the virgin birth. And I said, are the kids going to be in the house? Wanna talk about the virgin birth? And so uh I'm I'm I was sort of sort of glad that the children have been dismissed. I'm not gonna get into it a lot, but I know if I was a kid and the guys over there that I don't know is talking about the virgin birth, mommy, what's a virgin? And she'll say, talk to your dad. I don't know what happened. I don't know I don't know how I don't know how you guys handle it, but but um let's read the the text for the day and it's the it's part of the Advent uh series and it's Isaiah chapter seven Verses 10 to 17. I use the ESV translation, English standard. Is that what you use here? I think it is. Yeah. ESV. Look at these these verses, which jump right into the context, into the passage And uh yes, yes, as you find will you find it, please stand up. Hear God's word. Thank you Again, the Lord spoke to Ahaz. Ask the sign of the Lord your God, let it be deep as Sheol or high as heaven But Ahaz said, I will not ask, and I will not put the Lord to the test. And he said, Hear then, O house of David, is it too little for you to weary men that you weary my God also? Therefore, the Lord Himself will give you a sign. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. He shall eat curds and honey, and when he knows how to refuse the evil and choose the good. For before the boy knows how to refuse the evil and choose the good, the land whose two kings you dread will be deserted The Lord will bring upon you and your upon your people and your father's house such days as have not come since the day that Ephraim departed from Judah, the king of Assyria. Let's pray. Well, thank you for your this word. Help us, Lord, to understand it and to engraft it into our hearts that we might be your people. This Christmas season. In Jesus' name. Amen. May be seated. The title is The Birth of a Special Child. The Birth of a Special Child Special children. Look at the dictionary definition, special, distinguished by some unusual quality. Especially being in some way superior, held in particular esteem, readily distinguishable from others of the same category, unique Being other than the usual, designed for a particular purpose or occasion. The birth of a special child. When we think of special children today, we have a that word has morphed into an interesting technical term, hasn't it? A special child. We think of children who are disabled, who are handicapped, who have some issue in life as special children. You've these special Olympics, right? It's not for the extraordinary ones, is it? It's for those who have needs, who come with basic some basic needs. The term special has kind of been flipped, hasn't it? It really has when you think about that word. That's not the way I'm going to use it this morning. Jesus was a special child. By special, I'm referring to the one who was conceived in a unique way. to a young Jewish couple roughly 2,000 years ago. And over 30 years later there were those who ridiculed the circumstance of his birth because the idea that Mary's firstborn was not from her intended Joseph Nor from some Roman soldier. That was one of the narratives that was out there. No, he's the son of God, the son of Mary, the one who was raised by Joseph, yes. But the Son of God. And Jesus had a special origination because he was a special unique child. He said to the Jewish leaders one day, those who were questioning his origin in John chapter 8, before Abraham was, I am. I am. I am. You don't say I am in the Jewish religion. You don't say that. You know, I am who I am. His name was Jesus. Emmanuel was what I call his nickname, one of many nicknames for Jesus. His title. We don't use the word title. We call them nicknames, don't we? Kind of descriptive names. Descriptive names. You're sometimes when you're you know on the playground, kids call you nickname. Hey, stretch or fat or one of my nicknames, well really the only nickname I really had was Spider. Now, why? Because you know who Spider-Man is, right? Spider-Man out these arms and you and when I played basketball I w I I was very skinny and I had a lot of arms and legs So they call me spider. They don't do that anymore. I don't play basketball anymore. I'm not skating anymore. But that was my nickname, okay? Back in the day But in pop culture there's n there's not just nicknames but people take on new names. Here's a couple of them. Um here's one you'll you none of you will guess it. If anyone guesses this, you get a prize. Stephanie Joanna Angelina Germanata. Anyone know who that is? God bless you. All right. Lady Gaga. Gordon Summers is sting. This one you should all get. The Queen of Soul. Yeah, you got that one. Alright, good, good, good, good. All right. But names are interesting. Names are interesting. In the Bible, people have names. There was a weeping prophet, Jeremiah. There's a son of encouragement, Barnabas. There was the baptizer, John, wasn't Baptist. He was a baptizer. That wasn't his denomination. That's what he did They were the Sons of Thunder. James and John. That wasn't even a rock group back in the day, a Christian rock group back in the day. The Sons of Some of you know that group, huh? Okay. Yeah. But there were nicknames. There were new there were names, titles of Jesus In the Old Testament, he was the seed of a woman. He's the branch. He's the root of Jesse. He's the son of David, the desire of nations, the cornerstone, the man of sorrows, the messenger of the covenant. And our pastor today he is Emmanuel. Emmanuel. Matthew gives us that astounding name in Matthew chapter 1, our verse that we saw earlier. And uh let's unpack it together. Here's where we're going to go with this. Um, we're going to talk about uh the meaning of Emmanuel in Isaiah's context. That's the part that's kind of hard. That's the part that I hope you don't fall asleep on. If you fall asleep, please don't snore, okay? Then we're going to talk about Emmanuel in Matthew's context. Okay? What can I do? How does he use it? Then we don't look at Emmanuel in our lives, in our context, right where we are here. in the twenty-first century. The word Emmanuel, God with us. Okay. The first the usage um in Isaiah's day And um of course I did say it's very interesting. You probably know that passage. Holy, holy, holy. And the an he he he got his calling. To go and be prophet, and God said, by the way, you're gonna be a prophet, and it's not gonna be a very great context. The people aren't gonna believe, there's gonna be an exile. Not a very good calling. But that was his calling. So chapter seven comes right after that. Right after that. It's an interesting prediction that we have here. Yeah, we'll talk about that. And then in chapter 8 and 9, it continues about this tr this this thing that's happening and this one that's coming down the road in chapter 9 and 6, a very famous verse. about Jesus. He's a wonderful counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace, Isaiah 9. 6. It's this whole context here, the first part of the book of Isaiah, as he's talking about What's coming? The chapter itself, the first ten verses are very first nine verses are very interesting. Here's a summary. Assyria is aggressively expanding the empire. From east to west, com from from from east to the west, coming to the Holy Land from Assyria. And and we we learn in the in the text of a coalition of Israel King Pekka and Syria, not Assyria, Syria, King Rezin. And they're they're they're coming against Judah in the south. So you have Syria. Israel and Judah. They've come together and they're going to come against Judah. Judah's where Isaiah is where Ahaz is. Ahaz is the king of Judah. And first of all, they first of all they want Judah to come on board against the Assyrians who are coming. But Judah doesn't want to so Ahaz doesn't want to do that. He doesn't want to come on board with them. They don't know, we know this from 2 Kings, that Ahaz is going to have an alignment with the Assyrians. They don't know that though. So you got all this intrigue of the nations trying to trying to take sides, okay? It's what's going on in the passage. And um it's chaos, there's this unity, you have the people of God Israel in the north, and the people of God Judah and and the the people from the north about the To invade with the help of the Syrians. Chaos, even among God's chosen people Back in those days, you know, they had coups. They didn't they didn't impeach kings like uh elite leaders, they just had coups against them. And uh that's the history of the world until America came along. Anyway, so that's just something of of what's going on. A little bit more about the the the The sign that he says is cut that God is going to give. You'll notice that um in verse 12, uh God he says I don't want to put God to a test. Now God asked him, he said, I'm just going, do you want a sign? A sign that I'm going to do what I said Basically God told him that he didn't need to worry because God was going to take care of the problem that was going to happen. He said, just trust me Don't make this alliance, trust me, okay? But God knew that he was thinking about having this alliance with the Syrians anyway, not with this coalition. So God says, look, ask me for a sign. I'll show you a sign. He says, I don't want to put God to the test. Now, no, no, that's that's that don't take him literally there. He's being sort of Pious and hypocritical there. That's what's going on in that verse. God's the one who said, test me. Test me. Show me. I'll give you a sign. I'll give you a sign. What side do you want to have? And God gave him permission to request a sign so that God would know that I will be with you. I am well don't make that coalition with Assyria. Trust me. I'm going to take care of these people who are coming. He says in 65 years they'll be gone. Trust me. That's in verses 7 and 9 of the passage. So in actuality, his not asking for a sign was a revelation of his discontinued hypocritical and wicked heart, King Ahaz. Verse 13, therefore God is frustrated. He's frustrated with Ahaz. And he turns not just to Ahaz, but to the house of Israel. He uses the plural in the Hebrew, and I will give you A sign. The sign would be point would point to the coming end of the coalition that was coming against them, against Judah, and the invasion of Israel by the Assyrians. That would end them as a distinct people within 65 years. Okay, they're gonna be gone in 65 years, God says The evasion would lead, by the way, to the mixing of God's people with pagans, such as that they they they would quickly lose their identity as people. New Testament, you might remember the Samaritans, who were this half-breed of people near Jesus. This is where it begins when the Assyrians came in, okay? So there's a sign. Now, in the context of Isaiah, what how what do we make of the sign that's given the sign of one who's going to be born Emmanuel? Um is it in w the the very helpful tr uh uh commentary is is the English the uh exposure's Bible commentary A Grogan says this. He says there's five interpretations of what's going on with this sign. Let me just break this down for you Uh rather quickly, let's just read what he has here. The first this this child who was to be born, Emmanuel, is was the is royal, perhaps the queen, and so the child is a royal prince, perhaps Hezekiah. Okay? Hezekiah, the one to who would be the sign, the sign child. Second, the mother is Isaiah's wife. And so the child is one of his sons. You can look at chapter 8 and you see something about that son's name. It's a long name. I won't even try to pronounce it. Third, the prophecy does not refer to a specific mother and child, but to mothers in Judah in general, who will give their offspring names symbolizing hope in God. That's the third option that commentators believe. Fourth, the mother is the Virgin Mary. The child is Jesus Christ. I like that one. Okay. And fifth The mother is a royal contemporary of the prophet, whose child's name would symbolize the presence of God with his people, and who would foreshadow the Messiah in whom God would be incarnate. It's a combination of the first and fourth. I like this one best. It's a combination. Okay? I think the fifth opt I believe the fifth option is is is the preferred option. Now, now let's look at how Matthew uses this passage, okay? The usage of this in the Old Testament. First, let me talk about the way Old Testament writer right n writers are used by New Testament writers, because that's an interesting discussion in itself How does the New Testament use Old Testament verses? Have you ever read a verse in the New Testament and says, wow, they took that out of context? How many times have you done that? I do it all the time. How do you get that? Let me talk a little bit about to help you with that. I know some of you read your Bibles. There's a couple ways that I think are not that helpful. One is to is to be very hyper, I'll say hyper-literalistic To see everything in the Old Testament as as as literally the way it it was. And that gets you, when it comes to in terms in terms of like the second coming and prophecy, it can get you into some sticky areas. If you take everything literally. So, and it's it's clear to me that the New Testament writers don't take everything absolutely literally from the Old Testament. They do interesting things with Old Testament prophecy. That's the first thing. To be hyper-literal. On the other extreme, which is wrong, is to be hyper-allegorical. To take everything as symbolic and not to be concrete for us. That's at the other extreme. Something different is going on in the New Testament, how they look at the Old Testament, okay? And there's two things, two things I'd like to surface as proper usage. One is what I would call predictive prophecy. And the other would call I'd call biblical typology. I'm sure you've heard of that. Biblical typology, I call it patterns. Historical patterns that repeat Predictive prophecy and and and typological top typological patterns. I like to it's easier to say pattern than topology. That's why I use the word pattern. I keep it simple. Patterns. Patterns or prediction. I think that's no. So the question in my mind is how is Matthew looking at what Isaiah said? How is he looking at that passage? How is he using the Emmanuel prophecy? To me it has to fit under under one of those two approaches. And again, serious Bible students disagree, but this is the approach that I believe is the best approach for us to think about. So again, Matthew's birth narrative, before we look at the prophecy itself, I want to look at how he uses two other Old Testament passages. Okay? And I want to show you that Matthew, in his book, as he writes his book, he does this with passages. In in chapter two, if you have a Bible, flip down to the next to the next chapter two, and you'll see that he cites in verses five and six They told him in Bethlehem of Judea, for so it's written by the prophet, and he quotes Micah, chapter 5, verse 2. And you, O Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are by no means least among the rulers of Judah For from you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people, Israel. That's a direct predictive prophecy by Micah in the fifth chapter That is fulfilled clearly by Jesus, who came to Bethlehem. They said, Where is this Messiah going to be born? He's going to be born in Bethlehem because Micah told us. Direct prediction. Okay? And um we see Matthew uses the Old Testament in That way. Clear, direct, predictive. Now, go down the next section in Matthew 5, Matthew 2. 15 Okay? And he's talking about this is after Jesus went down to to Egypt and with the Herod was chasing all the the the young boys, young infants. And Micah, at least Matthew says, he quotes Hosea chapter 11, verse 1, and says, Out of Egypt I called my son. What? What do you do with that verse, man? How can you pick that verse? Because that verse that Hosea used is pointing back to Exodus. Matthew, one thing he's doing, he's introducing a theme that Matthew loves, that Jesus is the fulfillment of Israel, God's children. God's children. Jesus is the fulfillment. He's not just Israel God's children. He's the son of God. He's the child, the son of God. And that Israel is a type. There are patterns in Israel's history that point to Jesus. And Matthew's introducing that. And so he he he and so just as Israel went down to Egypt. Jesus went down to Egypt. Patterns were these things that happened in history are used to say, see, that pattern is something that happened in the in the New Testament era, in Jesus' life. So what am I saying? Matthew in his gospel does both approaches. He uses typology and he does direct prediction. So the question is again. What's he doing in with Matthew 23 when he uses the Emmanuel prophecy? He says in 122 and 23, all this took place to fulfill what the Lord has spoken by the prophet. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us. I believe that chapter that the um Matthew here is using more of a a pattern approach to that passage. A pattern approach. Now, again, typology. Now the nature let me talk first about the nature of Old Testament fulfillment. Things in the Old Testament that are fulfilled. They're fulfilled in three different ways. Sometimes two ways, sometimes only one way, but there's three ways in which they're fulfilled. One is is immediate fulfillment. Something happens, it's predicted, it happens in that generation. Okay? Jeremiah was told there's going to be 70 years of captivity. That happened. And then his generation. Okay? The Babylonian captivity Then there's often this gospel fulfillment. Something that is spoken of, and they say, is this happening now or is it coming down the road? And yeah, we know now it was happening during the life of Christ Isaiah talks about one who was going to be a man of sorrows, who was going to be filled with grief. Remember, Isaiah 52 and 53 And they looked at that and said, What was it talking about there? Well, we know now who it was, right? That's pointing to Jesus, the man of sorrow, who died on the cross for our sins. So there's a gospel fulfillment of that Old Testament prediction. And thirdly, we know that there's an end-time fulfillment, even to the second coming of Christ. So some things in the Old Testament are fulfilled right now in that generation. Some things in Jesus in the church, and some things even when Jesus comes in the second coming. The Old Testament's an interesting part of the Bible, isn't it? Just give me the simple New Testament, right? But we ha to really understand the new, you gotta understand the old. Okay, so that's just about fulfillment. Now, let's talk about this word virgin. Virgin. In the Bible, the word is a general word for unmarried women and includes unmarried women who have remained sexually pure. So it's a general word. Okay? We can look at the visual languages and all that, but in Matthew 1, the word virgin is clearly pointing to a miraculous conception in Mary's womb. Clearly, by context. In Matthew 1, the word virgin is used and it it it's making great implications of Mar about Mary's non-sexual activity. That's why Joseph about to put her away, right? Wait a minute. Time out. Who you what? So that's part of the text, the context, we see that. The word virgin dairy means that she has not had a relationship with Joseph. And Joseph saying, well well wait a minute, don't tell me about w what these soldiers are around here. What's going on? They had to they had some interesting conversations, I'm sure One reason I do not believe it's a direct direct fulfillment is the usage of of the this general word for virgin as a social status. rather than the uses of another word that would address her sexual uh sta sexual status. So the uses of that word allows for an immediate fulfillment in Isaiah's day. Okay? In Isaiah's immediate fulfillment did not involve, I believe, the sexual activity of a virgin I believe that basically in Isaiah's day, the prophecy was saying that at the time there's a virgin in the royal palace. Who's going to have a kid? I don't think I that God is implying that that person's going to have a kid the same way that Jesus was born, miraculously. 'Cause it happened at least it was over nine months later. You know what I'm talking about. So no, I don't I don't uh so the word this word is a b is a broad word. We can say more about that, but um let me just say A little bit of an aside here. Many of us have heard of the Roman doctrine of that Mary was perpetually a virgin. She stayed a virgin throughout her life. Anyone heard that that theory? That's uh that's that's taught, and I believe the Roman Catholic Church still teaches that. Well unfortunately we believe that's not biblical. We believe that the scriptures are clear. That Mary had other children with Joseph. In fact, two of them wrote books of the Bible, James and Jude, the half-brothers of Jesus. Jesus had had half had uh siblings, half brothers and sisters. God loves kids and babies And also God loves the process by which they come to pass. Hebrews 13, 4 talks about that, keeping the marriage bed undefiled. In both the Old Testament and the New Testament, the assumption about unmarried women, unless they were known to be morally loose, is that they were sexually pure. That was an assumption about virgins, unmarried women, that they were sexually pure. Believe it or not, in our country, that used to be the assumption. But obviously these days that's not true. Story from five years ago in Arkansas about um Chloe Rubiano. They over Arkansas. Thirteen-year-old Chloe Rubiano is saving herself for marriage. But school officials think she should keep that to herself. Ruriano, a student at Remy Junior High, purchased a t-shirt at a Christian festival that reads, Virginity Rocks. On the front. On the back, it says, I'm loving my husband. I haven't even met him yet. It sums up her beliefs on sex and marriage. But school officials banned the t-shirt and forced the teen to wear a school-issue gym shirt instead because the Virginity Rock's message could lead to uncomfortable conversations. about sex. That was the the vice principal who make gave her that that conclusive message. So that's the world in which in which we live So here's my conclusion on this matter. I believe that Matthew 123 is a pattern prediction, it's typology, not a direct prediction. Okay? I believe in Isaiah 7. 14, there's both, therefore, an immediate fulfillment of someone in the royal family and a gospel fulfillment. Jesus. Okay? The immediate fulfillment was not miraculous, but the gospel fulfillment was. Okay? The English Standards Bible says Isaiah predicted the coming of a boy who would be assigned from God to his contemporaries and who would foreshadow Christ, in whom the terms of the prophecy Abstracted from its historical situation would be fulfilled in its fullest measure. Now time here. You you got you go to to what time? How long do you go? I don't I don't wanna I don't want to keep you too long. You go to level to t uh eleven fifteen? Eleven thirty. I don't remember. 1120ish. Alright. Ten more minutes. Very good. Let's roll. I forgot to ask that that very important question before I got up here. That's okay. The significance of the virgin birth. First, there's a theological significance and there's a historical significance. First, theologically, Jesus, the incarnate son, had to be born in a unique way, right? He does not have a sinful nature that you and I have. That's how he could be our sac our substitute, right? Okay And the real phrase should be, he was conceived by virgin that's just virgin birth, but virgin conception. And then the historical significance. Um you may be alert that a hundred years, over a hundred years, hundred ten years ago, um It was a major movement in Europe and America, uh, theological circles, to remove core biblical doctrines away from church. And they did it through getting pastors to to to to go through seminaries that wouldn't teach these basic fundamentals. And there were five fundamentals that pastors Who coming out of seminary had to say, yes, I believe them, or yes I don't believe them. And if you believe them, certain churches would want you. If you didn't believe them, other churches would want you. 110 years ago in our country. Here are the five. The inerts of the Bible, the Bible is the word of God, the historicity of biblical miracles, the miracles do happen. In fact, the creation and Jesus were miracles specifically. Third, the bodily resurrection and physical resurrection of Jesus, he didn't just wasn't just raised in our hearts. He was literally raised with a body. Lives today. Fourth, the substitutionary atonement of Christ. He died for our sins. And fifth was the virgin birth. It's a core doctrine. It was a core doctrine. It was one of the five fundamentals. Why? To deny it was the first step towards rejecting the work of Christ on the cross and what it meant. If he wasn't born to a virgin, he died because he's a sinner like you and I. He died for himself. He can only be the Lamb of God. If he was spotless, without blemish. And therefore, the ancient creeds affirm what we believe about the Holy Trinity. The Apostles' Creed. It starts with God the Father. It ends with God the Holy Ghost. But in the middle, it's about Jesus. Here's what it says: Jesus suffered under Pontius Pilate. was crucified, dead, and buried, and he rose again, and he ascended into heaven, and from there he will return to judge the living and the dead. But I left out two important ones, didn't I? You know it How'd you start? He was conceived by the Holy Ghost and born the Virgin Mary. Don't leave that out. That's the story of Jesus. He's Emmanuel, God with us. So what's the significance of Jesus being Emmanuel for us? First, it tells us Jesus Christ is God, the deity of Christ. Don't lose that He's God. He's Emmanuel. Christmas is about God taking a body. The word became flesh and dwelt among us. The incarnation is about God's entrance into this world through his son. Second, Jesus, who is God, is with us. This Jesus, who is God, is with us. Don't lose that. He's with us individually first, and then he's with us corporately. First, individually. The scriptures say he lives in me. He walks with us personally. We have access to the throne of God because of Christ. who is with us. We have guidance. We have power. We have the illumination of the Holy Spirit. We have the ability to witness. The Spirit will come. You will be my witnesses in Judea and Jemera, Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, the end of the world. This Holy Spirit It's Jesus with is the Father and Spirit in us. God is with us. You know, Christmas is a time when we get very busy, don't we? It's so easy to get lost in our schedules and our to-do lists and the extra things that that that this season brings. It's kind of hard to really sometimes take take time and remember what it's all about. But we have to intensely do that. We need to stop and pause and meditate on what it's all about. And it's not about the hustle and bustle. It's about the simplicity and the peace that Jesus brings to our hearts when we believe in him. Amen you will. God is with us. He's with us. He's our helper. That's the message of Christmas for me. Because I don't know about you. I need help. He's with us individually. Second, he's with us corporately. Corporately. We don't think enough about this in the Western world. He lives not just in me, he lives in us. The weakness of God's people is often lost by us. Covenant theology, our covenant theology asserts that God has made a special covenant with individuals and families And he's made a covenant with a collection of families who gather weekly to be his people in a particular place and space. That's directly all he says. That there's in a special way when God is when you gather to to to together as a covenant people, God is with you in a special way. More than than even when he's with you as an individual. We don't we don't we don't we don't rest in that enough and pret and meditate on that enough in our world. We're very individualistic, aren't we? One of the New Testament pictures of the church is the temple. What's the temple? Temple is a place where people, where heaven and earth meet, where people go to have some experience of God And that not just in the Christian religion, in any religion. We say there's a temple, a Buddhist temple, or whatever. It's a place where people think they're going to meet God, right? Temple. You remember in the in the gospels when when um Jesus in John chapter 2 was um uh talking about the temple and how the temple is going to go down and they said what the the the the the the he they didn't realize he was talking about himself not the building Because the presence of God, when Jesus was walking around that temple, wasn't just in that temple. It was in Jesus, who is Emmanuel, the unique son of God. So he no, he didn't he didn't we didn't they didn't understand that when he's talking about destroying the temple, he's talking about his body that would be three days and three nights in the in the in the ground of the earth. Temple Paul in 1 Corinthians 3 says this, Do you not know that you are God's temple and that God's Spirit dwells in you? If anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy him, for God's temple is holy, and you are that temple. And he's talking in the passage about the church at Corinth He takes the metaphor that he used in Ephesians chapter 2 of Jews and Gentiles coming together to be a building stones together, worshiping God. He uses that illustration in in Corinthians to talk about the temple of God being a corporate people gathered together. But then in later in Corinthians chapter 6, he says uh chapter 6 uh verse 18 to 20 Individually, you individually are the temple. He says this. Flee from immorality, sexual immorality, for every s every other sin a person commits is outside the body. But the sexually immoral person sins against his own body. Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God? You were not your own, for you were brought with a price. Glorify God in your body. So Paul, in the same letter, he says the temple is y'all, you all plural, and the temple is you individually. Emmanuel. God's with us. Amen? God being with us points to the fact that God keeps his promises. He keeps his promises. What are some of the promises of God? I am with you always. I will never leave you or forsake you. No one can snatch you out of the Father's hand. Nothing can separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord. The special child, Emmanuel, Jesus Christ. It's God and He's with us. You better watch out. You better not power. You better not cry. I'm telling you why. Santa Claus is coming to town. He's making a wish. He's checking it twice. He's gonna find out who's naughty or nice. Santa Claus is coming to town. No what? I'm glad I'm not worshiping the big guy in the red suit. We're worshiping the special God, the unique guy, whose red blood was poured out because if you're like me, you're not always nice But we don't have to worry. God is evaluating us. He is he sees all. He sees Louin Artyonis, but he also sees his son. Amen. Who died for us And we can rest in that salvation that was purchased. I can walk in the freedom and the power of that salvation that's secure. Because his spirit lives in me and in you. I hope you share that confidence today. The Christmas isn't about evaluating whether you're naughty or nice. Christmas is Emmanuel. Though you aren't nice, God is with you. Let's pray. Lord, pray for anyone here who thinks that salvation is performance, moral performance of the life they live. Look, you have come in Jesus Christ and died for us because you were the special one, the unique one, God in the flesh. Help us during this Christmas season to worship you, to adore you, to rest in you, to serve you, to proclaim you. We'll give you thanks in Jesus' name. Amen.