Good morning, good morning. Greach in the name of Christ. And uh you can we're in the minor prophet uh the uh Habakkuk in the Old Testament, and if you we you may rise as we read uh the text for the day which is chapter two verses two to five. Habakkuk two two through five The series is waiting in faith during difficult days. You find it yet? Okay. Not the easiest book to find, I know. Alright, verse two to five. And the Lord answered me, write the vision, make it plain on tablets, so he may run who reads it. For still the vision awaits its appointed time. It hastens to the end. It will not lie. If it seems slow, wait for it. It will surely come. It will not delay. Behold, his soul is puffed up. It is not upright within him, but the righteous shall live by his faith Moreover, wine is a traitor, an arrogant man who is never at rest. His greed is as wide as shaol like death. He's never enough. He gathers for himself all nations, and collects as his own all peoples. God's word. Let's pray. But I pray you use this these these these very few verses, Lord, to speak to us about not only Habakkuk's day, but our day and our lives as we live in our generation. Thank you for the good news it's here, and yet the challenge is here. To may the words of my mouth and the meditation of all of our hearts be acceptable in your sight, Lord Rock, Redeemer Amen. Maybe seated Last week, Eric, Eric took us into chapter 2, from chapter 1 into the first verse of chapter 2. Chapter 1 was this back and forth between the Lord and the prophet Habakkuk. God told Habakkuk that he was raising up the dreaded, hated Chaldeans, the Babylonians, the Chaldeans, to be an instrument of discipline to his covenant people. people of Judah. Havakuk wants that clarified. He says, whoa, wait a minute. He can't believe this. So He goes to the watchtower and waits to hear from God again. He wants a revelation, a vision that he can take to the people as the prophet. Now of course the ancient watchtowers were high above the city walls. The guards would ascend up the fortress tower to watch and wait Looking for the enemy troops to come over the horizon, whether it be land or maybe if it's maybe a sea horizon, but to the sea to see the the troops coming. Watchtower, you know the uh the me maybe you've had some people knocking on your door two by two. The um The Jehovah's Witness, uh their their magazine that they probably left with you if they it happened is is called The Watchtower Back in 1879, Charles Russell started the magazine entitled Zion's Watchtower and Herald of Christ's presence. The first issue said that the magazine's purpose was to draw attention to Russell's belief that people of the time were living in the last days. The day of the Lord, the end of the gospel age, the dawn of the new age, the watchtower, taken from these old biblical prophecies. In fact, um Isaiah chapter 21 Verses 5 to 9 says this. They prepare the table, they spread the rugs, they eat, they drink. Arise, O princes Oil the shield, for thus the Lord said to me, Go, set a watchman, let him announce what he sees. When the sea when he sees riders, horsemen in pairs, riders on donkeys, riders on camels Let him listen diligently, very diligently. Then he who saw cried out, Upon a watchtower I stand, O Lord, continually by day, and at my post I am stationed whole nights And behold, here come riders, horsemen in pairs. And he answered, Fallen, fallen is Babylon, and all the carved images of her gods, he is shattered to the ground. Isaiah chapter 21 Many analysts of rock and roll music believe that that apocalyptic passage is what inspired Bob Dylan to write a classic song. That was made famous by Jimi Hendrix. Arguably the greatest guitarist ever in rock music. Amen for Jimi Hendrix there. There must be some way out of here, said the Joker to the thief. There's too much confusion. I can't get no relief. Businessmen, they drink my wine. Plowmen dig my earth. None of them along the line know what any of it is worth. All along the watchtower Princes kept the view. Well all the women came and went barefoot, servants too. Outside in the distance a wild cat did growl. Two riders were approaching, the wind began to howl. No reason to get excited. The thief, he kindly spoke. There are many here among us who feel that life is but a joke. But you and I, we've been through that, and this is not our fate So let us not talk falsely now, the hour is getting late. Bob Dylan, all along The watchtower. Habakkuk is at the watchtower waiting, gazing over the horizon of history to get a word of what God is up to and of what's going to happen. In every generation, God's people have the difficult task of living by faith in Him, trusting Him, waiting at the watchtower. Living by faith in God is what distinguishes those who are righteous from those who are unrighteous. Living by faith in God is what distinguishes those who are righteous and those rig Who are unrighteous. We don't look at the nature of decision the nature of real faith And the nature of unbelief. That's what we're going to look at in these four verses. Verses let's understand the vision. Verses 2 and 3. Let's begin to understand what this vision is all about. The word vision or revelation, a word from God, a a a picture of what God wants us to know. What's it referring to? Is is is it just verses four to five? Four to four verses four to five, I believe, are a microcosm of the entire book in one sense. I believe that this book is what he wrote. It was the vision that God wanted him to write and to pass on. What does this text tell us about the vision? Well i i i is verse two. Write the vision. Make it plain on a tablet. The vision is readable. It's it's readable. You can write it and read it. So he may run who reads it. It's transferable. It's being passed on to others. It's a transferable vision. Verse 3. For still the vision awaits its appointed time. It hastens to the end. It's a forward-looking vision. It has implications for the future, not just the now and the present. Fourthly, it will not lie. It's a trustworthy vision because the source is, of course, God. It's God's vision. God who knows the future. God who cannot lie. So it's it it's it's readable, it's transferable, it's forward-looking, it's trustworthy, and lastly, verse i i if it seems slow, wait for it. It will surely come. It will not Seemingly it's it it will it it's a it's a fifthly a frustrating vision it's a frustrating vision because it seems to be so slow Lloyd Jones on this passage has written this. There are only two possible attitudes of life in this world, that of faith and that of unbelief. Either we view our lives in terms of our belief in God and the conclusions which we are entitled to draw from that, or our outlook is based upon a rejection of God and the corresponding denials We may either draw withdraw ourselves from the way of faith, or else we live by faith in God. A man's belief determines his conduct. Here is the great watershed of life, and all of us are on one side or the other. D. Martin Lloyd Jones, great British preacher. God is calling Hebak and God's calling us to have faith. Have faith in the vision despite not having a good grasp of it yet, he says. Wait. During difficult times, people need a vision to help them persevere and endure and carry on. And so do we. August the twenty-eighth, nineteen sixty-three was fifty-seven years ago. And uh celebrated uh Friday. I guess today's a third day. Yeah, Friday. During the 60s, um, there was a great crisis of violence in the streets in many American cities The nation was in need of direction. A preacher, Dr. Martin Luther King, articulated a vision, a hope of what our nation could be. This is the Great March on Washington for jobs and freedom, which is now we just call it the Great March on Washington. My dad was there. He was a federal worker. He was warned, don't go, like most federal workers, don't go to that crazy march. But he went. You've probably heard the main the the the keynote addressed by Dr. King. I have a dream. King stayed up till four o'clock in the morning trying to figure out what he wanted to say He wrestled over that. As he spoke on that hot August afternoon, during an applause moment, about 11, 12 minutes into it, he heard the familiar voice of a gospel singer Mahelia Jackson. the famous singer that he had heard that voice many times uh feeling the need for a rousing climax she uttered the now famous words Tell him about the dream, Martin. Tell him about the dream. Occasionally King had used this dream, this vision, this picture of a different America in his messages. So Dr. King pushed his manuscript aside, and from then on he took off. Unscripted. He said nine times to the crowd, I have a dream. And he pivoted then by quoting Isaiah 40 and the prophecy of the valleys and the mountains being made straight. And then he climaxed the message with the thoughts on, Let freedom ring from the patriotic song, My Country Tis of Thee, citing the various mountains and hills of America. I strongly encourage you to reread that message or YouTube that message. It took about 16 minutes, so much applause, about 16 minutes to listen to it. Because America needs a vision, a picture, a dream now. Now after seeing the blue and the red visions of the conventions the last two weeks, I'm convinced more than ever that a third vision is needed. Dr. King declared simply and personally The the uh the the the the the key point of his dream. I have a dream that my four child little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin, but by the content of their character. But he also said some other things that people have forgotten. I'm going to read you two paragraphs. First, there are those who are asking the devotees of civil rights, when will you be satisfied? We can never be satisfied as long as the Negro in the victim is the victim of the unspeakable horrors of police brutality. It's 57 years ago We can never be satisfied as long as our bodies, heavy with the fatigue of travel, cannot gain lodging in the motels of the highways and the hotels of the cities. We cannot be satisfied as long as a Negro's basic mobility is from a smaller ghetto to a larger one. We can never be satisfied as long as our children are stripped of their selfhood and robbed of their dignity by signs stating for whites only We cannot be satisfied as long as the Negro in Mississippi cannot vote and the Negro in New York b believes he has nothing for which to vote. No, no. We are not satisfied, and we will not be satisfied until justice rolls down like waters, righteousness like a mighty stream. Illusions from Amos chapter 5. Now if you look if you study that, you'll see that some of those things have been totally accomplished, some have not. But he also said this. There is something that I must say to my people who stand on the warm threshold which leads into the palace of justice In the process of gaining our rightful place, we must never be guilty of wrongful deeds. Let us not seek to satisfy our thirst for freedom By drinking from the cup of bitterness and hatred. We must forever conduct our struggle on the high plane of dignity and discipline We must not allow our creative protest to degenerate into physical violence. Again and again, we must rise to the majestic heights of meeting physical force with soul force. And he goes on and on. We don't appreciate when you don't appreciate the power of soul force. You degenerate into physical force. And I believe that whether the writers of our world today or the vigilantes who respond to the writers need to understand what Dr. King was talking about. Can I get an amen on that? A picture, a dream, a vision. Habakkuk wanted to understand God's vision in his day, and so do we in our day. And so Habakkuk waits in faith. Like him, we must wait in faith. But the waiting is not that God might do something in our world that that that might make things right. It's not just that Yes, we wait for that, but not for more than that. We wait on God for the day when God Himself shows up. When God shows up to end the mess, that's the ultimate weight. That's the ultimate trust in the watchtower. We wait for God to bring history back to where what history ought to be. We cry, Maranatha. We we cry, let your kingdom come. Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. That's the vision. That's the ultimate vision of God's people. And we wait. We see that in Revelation. We see the saints waiting. How long, Lord? The second thing in verse, I want us to understand something about faith. Behold, his soul is puffed up. It's not right within him, but the righteous shall live by his faith. The back is faith is this watchtower kind of faith, a faith that looks at history. It's not a random set of experiences, but sees that he's got the whole world in his hands. He is in control. History is his story. And those who have watched our faith, they get above the foe, above the details of what's going on, the randomness of it that it looks like and know that there's someone who's looking and sees it all. Watchtower faith is the kind of faith that worships God no matter what. Because of that faith. Not because of what God does, but because of who God is. It's great. One of my favorite worship songs the last 15 years is by Martha Manazi. Because of who you are, I give you glory. Because of who you are, I give you praise. Because of who you are, I will lift my voice and say, Lord, I worship you because of who you are. Jehovah Jairah, my provider. Jehovah Nisi, Lord, you reign in me. Jehovah Shalom, my Prince of Peace, I worship you because of who you are. That's what we're talking about. A faith that doesn't worship God because of what's happened, but a watchtower faith that says, Lord, I know you. I know you got this. Watchtower faith is not escapism, but deep trust Um one of one of the students from the seminary, Derek, Derek Polium, he's a actually an intern over at um Columbia Presbyterian. He preached on the Habakkuk recently, and I listened to a sermon, and he We just close it out on what he said. What he said, he said that th th this is not escapism, but it is going somewhere That you can see the larger picture. That's what God's calling us to do. That's what he's calling Habakkuk to do, to go to the watchtower. Derek went on to essentially say that we as God's people don't need to get our insights from social media or big media. Ultimately, we should get our insights from the Lord. From the watchtower. It's there that we be we are given the vision, the revelation from God and His Word. Preached, but read by ourselves individually, meditated upon, studied deeply. And then, then, as we look at the events in our world with the lens of God's word We can speak with that third voice that the world so desperately needs to hear. Last week Pastor Eric talked about driving without contact lenses. Remember his illustration was very, very interesting. And and my when I turned into my fifties, my early fifties, uh I began to re realize that my eyes were starting to change. Uh 'cause I had a great vision all my life until about then. I couldn't I could no longer read small print. So I started grabbing reading glasses and Of course the reading glass system magnifications get each year a little bit, you know, a little wire. But without them, the words on the page look pretty fuzzy. And I can't read without them. You know, that's the way we are about our world, you know. When we fail to have on the proper glasses, the proper lenses, things look fuzzy. We don't see things accurately. And the lens that we have to put on is the Word of God. That's our lens. Faith must be grounded in what God has said. Real faith is grounded in what God has said. Also, faith always has an object. It's not just faith in faith, it is faith in God No, the the king of Babylon, it could have been Nabah Palazar or Meredak Baladan, we don't know which one it was precisely, but they had faith, faith in the Babylonian god, Mar Marduk, other gods, Molech. Uh but but but but faith in a false God doesn't get you anywhere. Isaiah forty to forty-five talks about that a lot. About the idols. No, the gospel is about faith in Jesus. Not just faith in faith. The Protestant reformers were correct, reminding us that the just shall live by faith alone, in Christ alone They add that phrase alone because that's the essence of what the scriptures are saying. Sola file, sola christus. Faith alone in Christ alone. And of course, the phrase the just shall live by faith had great meaning to those during the time of the Reformation. This phrase that Habakkuk uses here is quoted three times in the New Testament. I want to glance at those three three instances. First is Romans 1. We heard this earlier. The just or the righteous shall live by faith. Romans 1, 17. The emphasis here is on the word just or righteous. Paul is about to give his initial argument in the book of Romans that we are not justified or declared righteous by works of the law that we do. But by trusting in the righteousness of God granted to all who believe by faith in Jesus Christ and His work on the cross. At the cross, the mercy of God and the justice of God meet Divine justice was satisfied for us when we believe in it by faith. Most commentators believe that Romans 1 16 and 17 is the thesis statement for the whole book of Romans. Okay? The just shall live by faith. This thing of justification. 2 Corinthians 5 says, He who knew no sin became sin for us that we might become the righteousness of God in him. That is so core, so foundational. Are you in Christ? If you're in Christ, it's because you have trusted in what Jesus did for you and the great exchange has occurred for you. You have said, Jesus, take my sin and I'll take your perfect perfection. The great exchange. He becomes our unrighteousness, and we become the righteousness of God in him. The second instance in the New Testament is Galatians chapter 3. Galatians 3, 11, where again Paul says the just shall live by faith. Here the emphasis is on the word live in the context of the passage. In contrast to the Judaizers who said the Christian life was about following Jewish traditions, Paul says, no, no, no, no, no. He says, no. You were saved by faith in the first couple verses. You were saved. How did you receive the Spirit? You were saved by faith, not by works. And so you live by faith Galatians 3. 11. And the third is Hebrews chapter 10. The just shall live by faith, and if it's there, it's the word faith. As we heard in Hebrews 11 earlier. To chapter about 11. It's in the context of faith. The emphasis there, that the Hebrew disciples are confused about the Christian life. And they're looking back on the Old Testament as folks who work their way to salvation through the many rituals they performed. That's their understanding of Old Testament Jewish religion. But the writer says, no, no, no, no. The writer of Hebrews wants us to see that those saints simply believe the promises of God. And didn't shrink back in unbelief. So he profiles each of them, Moses and Abraham and Rahab, the list of those who by faith trusted in the promises of God They didn't those promises were fulfilled, but they were looking for a greater country, a better country, it says. The writer wants to know that. And he's he he cites this Habakkuk II context As he exhorts them to remain faithful to God's promises. They were justified because they didn't live by works, they lived by faith. Because that's so core to biblical faith, biblical religion. See, there's two paths. The psalmists make it very plain. The psalms begin with two the first first and second psalms, which kind of enter you into the book of Psalms. They frame the book of Psalms. Chapter 1 of the Psalms is about the man who is blessed and the picture of the man, the fruitful man, but it ends like this The Lord knows the way of the righteous, but the way of the wicked will perish. The way of the righteous, the way of the wicked. Okay? The way of the word righteous is the one who walks in in the word. Psalm chapter one. Then Psalm chapter two. There's a contrast between those who are rebellious Who are rebellious against the Lord and his anointed one, and they will perish. As opposed to those who are the righteous who kiss the Son and find refuge in him. See, the Psalms begin with this picture that there are really only two paths. This is the righteous path and the unrighteous path. Because the just shall live by faith. And those who are not just aren't just because they don't live by faith. They're the ones who are not upright Proverbs continues. There's a whole Proverbs 29 I was reading. Proverbs 29, here's four verses from Proverbs 29. When the righteous increase, the people rejoice, but when the wicked rule, the people groan. A righteous man knows the rights of the poor. A wicked man does not understand such knowledge. When the wicked increase, transgression increases, but the righteous will look upon their downfall. An unjust man is an abomination to the righteous, but one whose way is straight is an abomination to the wicked again. All over the Psalms and the Proverbs, all over the scriptures, this contrast of paths. This week we saw devastating storms in the in the in the the Gulf Coast Coast and South. Hurricane Laura. Laura was Laura's a nice name. She wasn't very nice. When I think of Laura's, I never that's really mean Laura's. This Laura was aggressive and mean. Many homes, many businesses were destroyed No, Jesus ended the sermon on the mount with an interesting illustration about a storm. Remember that The Sermon on the Mount Matthew 7, 24 to 27. He suggested uh two two houses on a side of a beach, of a shore. One one had a firm rock foundation, the other was grounded was founded on sand, and the same storm came, one fell over, the other stood He says the difference is because of the foundation. He says, again, there's two ways. There's two paths. There's the righteous path, there's the unrighteous path. Now even the the writer the leaders for Led Zeppelin, the rock group, Robert Plant and Jimmy Page. They knew that there's a fork that all of us face. Now I think they took the wrong fork. They took the wrong side of the fork. But they said, yes, there are two paths that you can go by But in the long run, there's still time to change the road you're on. They don't know the truth of what they were writing when they wrote that word, that song. Because if you're on the wrong road, God allows you turns And you can change by trusting in the Lord, trusting in his son, seeking his righteousness and not seeking your own. We've talked about the vision, we've talked about what belief looks like and true faith looks like. Let's talk about unbelief. Unbelief. Because the end of verse 4 and verse 5. Talk about unbelief. And there's a there's what I've called the anatomy of of unbelief here. You've puffed up. The soul is puffed up. Look at what it says in verse 5. arrogance, puffed up in contrast to faith, in contrast with with dependence and humility. The soul is puffed up. It's not upright with him, him There's an a greed. His greed is as wide as shale. There's affluence. There's an aggression. Gathering nations, annexing nations. He talked about that in chapter one. This aggressiveness. Always wanting more, a lack of contentment never has enough. So there's arrogance, there's affluence, there's aggression, there's always wanting more. And he he he uses the The he personifies Babylon. I don't know if he's talking about just the leader or or just the whole nation, but he's saying that's what unbelief is like There's there's a there's an there's an uh an uh an independence again uh uh against the face of God. No, no, no. I don't want to trust God, I want to I want to be my own person And it leads to those kind of characteristics. Now, God is God after people who humble themselves before Him and trust Him. You know, it's it was President Abraham Lincoln who said, nearly all men can stand adversity, but if uh if you want to test a man's character, give him power. Babylon was was was growing in power, and their character came forth and blossomed into that kind of a characteristic as their power grew. What's true of individuals is also true of organizations and nations. King Lincoln also said this uh uh on as he inaugurated the National Day of Fasting and Humiliation and Prayer, March of 1863. Abraham Lincoln. We have been recipients of the choicest bounties of heaven. We've been preserved these many years in peace and prosperity We have grown in numbers, wealth, and power, but we have forgotten God We have forgotten the gracious hand which preserved us in peace and multiplied and enriched and strengthened us, and we have vainly imagined in the deceitfulness of our hearts That all these blessings were produced by some superior wisdom and virtue of our own. Intoxicated with unbroken success, we've become too self-sufficient. To feel the necessity of redeeming and reserve preserving grace, too proud to pray to the God that made us. That's the President of the United States who said that I like humility in leaders. It's been an interesting week, hasn't it? I mean we we continue to uh uh uh deal with COVID-19, the worst pandemic since the Spanish flu. Schools open and now they're saying, well, maybe we shouldn't open. They're closed, shutting down many of the schools. Isn't that what's going on? In California we see w we see these wildfires. I saw uh the uh 2400 fire trucks. 14,000 firefighters, 95 aircraft trying to solve these fires that came from lightning. Hurricane Lara, Category 4, winds over 150 miles per hour, incredible devastation, 14 dead, $12 billion worth of damage. Kenosha, Wisconsin. Jacob Blake. Kyle Rittenhouse. What a week it's been. Let me end with a statement from Lloyd Jones. Again, if we want to be to keep calm and even joyful in these difficult times in which we're living, It's vital that we should grasp the great principles of prophecy. The Old Testament is full of it. Notice how God foretold the flood. 120 years passed and nothing seemed to be more unlikely. The people laughed at Noah for expecting it, but at the appointment time, he came. And so it was in the case of Sodom and Gomorrah. There was a divinely predetermined moment, and when the time came, God acted. The most striking example is sound in the life of Abraham. In Genesis 15, we find this statement, know of surety that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land. that is not theirs, and shall serve them, and they shall afflict for four hundred years, and also that nation whom they serve, uh will I judge, and afterward they shall come out with great substance And later in Exodus twelve we read, Now the sojourning of the children of Israel who dwelt in Egypt was four hundred and thirty years And it came to pass at the end of 430 years, even the selfsame day, it came to pass that all the hosts of the Lord went out from the land of Egypt. And Jones says, how exact the self-same day. And he continues, also in Habakkuk's case, there will be There will not be s a second's delay. God has fixed the appointed time. And then to Jeremiah it was revealed that his nation was going to be kept in Babylon for exactly seventy years, at the end of which the people will be brought back. And it all came to pass. Similarly, Daniel was enabled of God to prophesy with exactness the time of the coming of the Son of God, the Messiah. End quote. The Messiah, the Lord Jesus, who lived, who died, who rose again in the fullness of time, who poured out his spirit above his people, you and I. And so you see ultimately the vision, the revelation, the word from the watchtower is about a person The person of the Lord Jesus Christ. And my prayer for you during these difficult days is that you are in him, that you are trusting in him, that you are waiting on him, that you are growing in him, and that you are sharing him. Because he is the only pathway to peace during these difficult days. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, we wait not knowing where history is going. We don't know where our lives are going, Father. But we wait. Because we know you. And we know that you hold this world in your hands and you hold our lives in your hand. You are a great God. And you love This world and you love the people of this world. You have a special love for your elect in this world. Oh God, give us the faith to continue to hold on to your hand as you guide and direct us. Lord, I would pray for anyone who has not come to that place of simply trusting in you and surrendering their heart to you Knowing that they can trust you as one who is faithful and will take care of them and not abuse them. And I pray that you would do that work in hearts, Lord, for those who might need to come to faith in Jesus Christ, that your burden is easy. It's light that you love them. You care for them. Seal this word in our lives. We pray for As we talk much about where our land is, where our nation is, we pray for peace in our land. I continue to pray, Lord, that you would raise up leaders. who know your heart and know your word and can bring sanity to the insanity that we see on both sides. Lord, I pray that you would do that. For your glory. In Jesus' name. Amen.