For the second time, good morning. It's a beautiful Palm Sunday. And because it is Palm Sunday, we are taking a little break from Going through a series in the book of 1 Corinthians. So this morning we'll be considering one of the uh longest minor prophets, the book of Zechariah, one of the hardest books of the Bible as well. And we'll be reading just one verse, Zechariah chapter 9, verses 9. If you're able, would you please stand and let us honor the reading of God's word? So Zechariah is writing in chapter nine and in the beginning of it he lays out the plan for God's people that the king is coming, but he's coming to crush all of his enemies. Then towards the end he declares how that kingdom, his achievements are going to be. And right there in the middle in verses 9, he speaks to his people and he says, Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem. Behold, your king, your king is coming to you. Righteous and having salvation is he. Humble and mounted on a donkey. On a colt. The fall of a donkey The word of the Lord this morning. Let us pray. Father, we truly rejoice in your presence this morning and ask for your blessings to be with us as we consider your word, that is, truth. Your word that is the bread of life that we have to nourish our hearts and our minds to renew us, to bring us into salvation. May this ring true in our hearts and minds, we pray. In Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated ISIS kills 33 people, execution style, in Syria. A bomb is found in St. Petersburg, raid A young child is found who walks on all fours and does not speak like a human being living with monkeys in India. Dozens are killed in suspected chemical attack. The sad story of a young woman in Nigeria who escapes Boko Haram but ends up losing her child in malnutrition. And this morning, a bomb kills at least 13 Coptic Christians gathered to celebrate Palm Sunday. These are the headlines, just a few headlines that were surrounding or around our news agencies this week. You know, it's one thing for us to hear this devastating and tragic and sad news that troubles our world and think to ourselves, just where is hope? What does our future look like? Where is God in all of these things? But The reality of it is that sometimes we hear things that are happening in Syria and in Egypt and in Africa and other places, and we we say to ourselves, Well, I don't know those people. Well, I am not there, or I have never experienced any of those things. And sometimes we can feel a little detached and isolated because those things are happening in far-off lands, things that are not very dear and close to us. But I remind you this morning that a quick look at your own personal life will actually expose the reality of who you are. It will reveal the chaos, the pain, the sorrow, and brokenness that you may be experiencing in your own life this morning. Why do I say that? Because we deal with sickness every day of our life. Whether it is you, it could be your child, your a friend, or someone else that you know. We deal with financial burdens. We don't seem like we have enough to sustain us. How about our workplaces that sometimes can be so difficult? A mean boss. That we want to get rid of. How about our broken relationships? Marriages that are in the rock, sons and daughters that are not living as they ought to be How about people that we want to be reconciled with? How about some of us who struggle with insomnia and find it difficult to sleep at night? Anxiety, depression. And even saying all those things, you might still be saying, Well, I'm not quite there, Josiah. I don't know all those troubles, and maybe my my financial situation is great and my workplace is awesome. That could be true Too, and praise be to God for that. But I'll remind you of something that I am pretty sure 100% that you've dealt with and were struggling with this very morning, so to speak. Your struggle with sin. Temptation, desires of the flesh that you simply cannot shake off. And so you might be saying You might be crying out to God and saying, I have this deep longing for an end to come. I have this deep longing for peace. I have this deep longing for restoration. See the passage that we just read this morning to give you a little context, it's exactly what the people of God, when the prophets Zechariah and Hegai are actually prophesying See, it is the time that God's people had returned from exile. And so they are back. They're rebuilding the temple in Jerusalem. And so they're longing, they're living in this longing where that they want peace and restoration from God. They are crying out to God and saying, Lord, you have made so many promises to us and we are longing for that day, for that time when those promises will be realized, through a messianic king that would come and crush and defeat all of our enemies. But you know, even as they're longing and as they are looking to God to provide for them, they are still afraid. Remember, they returned from exile, but they still have enemies that are surrounding them. And they are afraid that they might be taken back to exile yet again. Are they supposed to be continuing to rebuild the temple? Are they supposed to continue living their lives and rebuilding Jerusalem? Is God really going to restore the glory of Jerusalem as He had promised? So the prophets Zechariah and Hegiah show up And they're actually encouraging the people in the here and the now. Zechariah is telling the people, listen, right now you need to continue to rebuild the temple. You need to continue to hope in God because He is with you. He's gonna guide you But don't just forget and/or just think about the present. Think about the future. Think about the coming hope that has been promised to you. Look forward to the coming king. He is the one who is going to come and crush all of your enemies. Zechariah is encouraging the people of God. He's telling them, I want you to rejoice, I want you to be glad, I want you to shout aloud and rejoice as if the promise has already been fulfilled, that the king is already here, he has come. And I think it's something that we need to consider this morning, despite all the things that I laid out to you that troubled our world, that trouble our hearts. And so Zechariah points to them and and wants to show them what this king will look like. So in verses nine he's actually describing The character and the nature of this king. Then in verses 10, which we did not read, is actually giving the achievements of the king. We're only considering his character. Who is this king that is coming? Look at verses 9, the only verse that we're looking at. He is a righteous king. The king who comes is the righteous one. And you know the calls for for the people of God to rejoice actually began In the very beginning of Zechariah. In chapter 2, verses 10, we read there that Zechariah is calling God's people to rejoice, to be glad, because God has promised one that will come and reside in Jerusalem. But There's an addition to it that many nations will actually join themselves to the Lord during that time. So he says, rejoice now. Because there will be many that will belong to the kingdom of God. The call for rejoicing here in chapters 9 are actually to even go deeper, even glorify, you know, be joyful even more, daughter of Zion. And that language kind of surprises us sometimes, right? When we think of God describing his people as daughter of Zion, daughter of Jerusalem. What do what does it mean? In Hebrew, uh the names of towns are actually named in a feminine we you know way. So all the the names of towns are are feminine, so to speak. But I think it actually also gives us something much deeper than merely following a Hebrew way of naming towns. That God is actually showing that there's a close relationship between Himself and His people. It's like laying claims or parental claims on God's people. As a mother loves their child. God is saying, these are people that are so close to me. They are my covenant children. They belong to me. And I will come to them. But it's even more. We should note. If you read Isaiah chapter 1, verses 8, you realize that, and in Jeremiah, that mostly when that language of daughter is used, it's actually in situations in context where there's a broken relationship. The Old Testament describes whenever they use that that language of God it's when God and his relationship with people has been severed. Listen to what to what the prophet Isaiah says in chapter 1 verses 8. And the daughter of Zion is like like a booth in a vineyard, like a lodge in the cucumber field, like a besieged city. But the contrast here is striking, isn't it? That God is not separated from his people, but he's actually coming to them. That they might they must rejoice because they belong to him So who is this king of glory? Our verse for the day was from Psalm 24, 7, asking, who is this king of glory? Who is this king of glory that we we we're supposed to open our doors, the doors of our hearts that he may come in? And the prophet tells us who he is. Says he comes as a righteous king. He comes having salvation. He's endowed with salvation. He comes to conquer, not like the earthly kings with bloodshed and with swords and with an army behind him. No, he comes to do the Father's will. He is protected and upheld by God. The psalmist reminds us. He's a victorious king, but not victorious in the sense that we think of a king that is riding on a horse. But he comes in victory to aid his people. And then that language of righteousness is not just that he is righteous, that he is He is endowed with salvation, but that he is actually coming to bring righteousness. He is coming to bring salvation to his people. The Hebrews there it actually almost seems like it's saying that the king who is coming is saved But the king that is coming has salvation in himself. Jesus does not need salvation, does he? He has no sin, but he's endowed with salvation so that he may save. His people. And of course, we know that this passage is alluding to the Messiah. It's a foreshadow of the coming Son of God. The Messiah, Jesus Christ, is the righteous King. And that that theme of righteousness is what we got to think about it as righteousness, as vindication, that when when God's people are being oppressed, when when judgment comes, or when God comes with his rightful uh or with his justice, he comes to vindicate. He comes to make things right. Righteousness is not a static thing When the king comes, they're not just saying, I'm coming with with justice to bring justice, or I'm coming uh as as one who is holy and righteous and all it's not a static thing, it's actually an activity. He's actually administering justice He's governing with justice. He's encouraging justice, so to speak, encouraging that which is right. Again, like I said, when God's people seem to be the ones that are weak and oppressed, When the mighty and the evil seem to be the ones who are having the way, the promise from the prophet Zechariah is this: that the coming righteous king is coming to vindicate his people, and that's the reason for you to have great and deep joy. Jesus is a righteous king. He's a just one. He's the one who gives us the gift of righteousness through his Father That when we come before him, as those who are repentant, as those who confess our sins before him, he makes us, he declares us that we are righteous in his sight through his son Jesus Christ. That he doesn't just stop there, but he continues to work in us, daily making us righteous, so that we may be fully made righteous when he returns. And it's not because of anything that we have done. That us being right being made righteous with God has nothing, absolutely nothing to do with ourselves, but it's got everything to do with the covenant that God has established before his people. That God has sworn an oath to make you right, to continue working in you, to bring into completion the good work that He began in you, that of saving you. Continuing to save you until the very end of time. When you look at your life, when I look at my life, I think of my life as something that is as chaotic. Because I'm struggling with my own sin. And I look around and I hear all the things that are happening in the world, and I see the world that is chaotic, a world that is in turmoil, a world that needs God's, the King's righteousness. I think of it when I watch any any TV show that that talks about a home that's being renovated. A fixer wrapper, if you will And you look at all the stuff that is that is being being brought into into the building, all the all the hammering and all the the glass that's falling and and roofs coming down and cabinets being being being swept down and carpets being ripped off and and it's a mess. There's dust, there's there's just it's just chaos. And then you wait for it. Because when you're watching that TV show, you're just waiting for one moment When all the paint has been put in place, when all the appliances have been put there, brand new, fresh, and everything is set and clean. And the finished product looks so awesome. And I think about my life and I know that Jesus is working on my life right now, that it might seem like the chaos in that building, but one day I will be a finished product. Even better than those fixer wrappers. A righteous king is coming and indeed has come, and that's good news for us in the age of chaos and disappointment But you know what he comes to do? He doesn't just come to do as God's people are waiting for him to to to kick out the Roman Empire. He comes to restore order in what is disgraceful, not just in the world, but what is disgraceful in my own heart. He comes to fix me. He comes to make his blessings flow far as the curses are found. Zechariah wants to show that he is a king, the king of Israel, but also our rightful king. That he reigns. In peace. He's not a political messiah. He's not one who comes with might. He comes to rule the hearts of men and women. Has he ruled your heart? Is he ruling your heart this morning? See, I think this prophecy really does give us an idea. It actually tells us of how the church of Jesus Christ is supposed to be restored. That a king from the house of David will rise again to restore all things. That the hope for all of God's people is found in this coming king. That your hope as God's people is only found in Jesus Christ and in him alone. He's encouraging a people that are in distress, people that are in sorrow, people that need hope, a people that need to be reminded of the hope that they have in Christ Jesus. Don't we need that today? Because I know I need that And he's saying, I want you to wait patiently. Wait patiently for this king that is coming to bring complete restoration into your life. So, how are you waiting for this king? How are you waiting for the kingdom of God to be fully consummated? Are you waiting? You know, some of us our problem is we we have a hard time waiting patiently. We have a hard time saying, Lord, would you please just provide a means for me to rejoice, to rejoice even in my sorrow? Because I know that there's a better hope that is coming in Christ Jesus. We have a hard time waiting patiently and saying, God, I know that I feel as if I'm broken, but I know that you're still working in me. Like that fixer wrapper. And one day I will have peace. One day I'll be fully restored. Secondly, the king comes as a humble servant Again, he's a righteous king, but he's also a humble king. See, the prophecy in Zechariah we've mentioned was that the king would come, that this righteous king would actually come riding on a donkey. And we know that this prophecy is fulfilled in Matthew chapter 21 and John 12. These two apostles actually do quote Zechariah, but they mix it up with Isaiah chapter 62. Yet. Even with all that specificity of this prophecy that is being fulfilled, the people of God still don't believe that this is truly the Messiah That was promised to them that he's truly the king that was supposed to come, that he was truly the king that was coming to deliver them, to redeem them, to bring them peace, and to fully restore them. Even Looking at how this prophecy is being fulfilled in Christ, they failed to understand that the final salvation that God had promised to them would not come in the traditional sense That the Messiah was not coming conquering on a noble horse. Instead, salvation will be achieved through that which men despise, through that which men regard as weak. A Messiah riding on a donkey. See, Jesus is actually when he appears in the triumphal entry in Matthew 21, he's actually coming to declare to the people that were accusing him, Are you really the king of the Jews? He's actually offering himself. I am the king of the Jews. Because they are gathered during the Passover celebration. So there's actually pilgrims that are coming to Jerusalem for the festival. It's not like they're there because they're coming to welcome Jesus But he's offering to them and saying, I am the King of the Jews that was promised to you. I am the Messiah. I am the Savior that was supposed to come and bring you salvation. And yes, they do declare and they come to him and they sing, Hosanna, Hosanna, to the son of David who comes and brings salvation. A delirious crowd that seems somehow they they realize that he is the king of kings But their celebrations are actually misplaced. We've even told that the leaders of the day were not even amused that the people would start declaring this king. And in very few moments, the same crowds that are crying out, Hosanna will be crying out, crucify him, crucify him There's nothing unusual about riding on the on a donkey, really. If you think about it, during the times of judges, this was actually the mode of transportation. If you read 2 Samuel chapter 16, David actually came riding on a donkey. But there's something special about riding on a donkey. A donkey was the appropriate animal for one who came on a mission of peace. A donkey is an animal of peace. If a king wanted to come and show off his might and his victory, and that he was coming to conquer by by killing all his enemies, he would not have showed up riding on a donkey. He would be on a horse. He would be in front of the army, coming to show his might and his strength. A horse, however, I mean a donkey was however something that the priests and the merchants and Eminent citizens would probably consider something appropriate for them because it's an animal of burden, an animal of peace. So Jesus is really communicating something to us by coming riding on a donkey. What is he communicating by riding on this lowly animal? I think it's really an affirmation of his character and of his purpose. of who he is, a humble king, but also what he has come to do. He is the king of peace. He is the prince of peace. That Jesus does not view his messianic kingship as the people of his time. He doesn't look at it as coming to do battle, coming to overthrow the Roman Empire Establish his kingdom in Jerusalem. He doesn't come as we would think of it with a million dollars to bribe people and and to show them all look, I got all the money in the wall He does not come with the military apparator showing his might and glory that I am the king who has come to conquer all of your enemies. He does not come beating his chest with pride and arrogance He comes with humility. He comes to show love and compassion. He comes to seek and to serve those that are lost. He rides on a donkey. Rides on a donkey and does not appear in any way as a majestic earthly king on a war horse. He's a man of sorrows. And I think that's important for us to hear. That the King of Kings himself would lower himself and come to his people come to rescue his people by by showing this great humility and it is that humility that allows him to be kind to us To associate with himself with those that are weak, with those that are burdened by sin, with those that are broken by sin, with those that would be considered lowly people. And it is us And yet for those of us, all of us who deserve God's wrath, He will choose to lay down his life for us. Because of his humility, he would take the road to Gethsemane. Because of his humility, he would not regard glory. And kingship, which all belong to him. But he will choose to go to the cross for your sins and my sins. He doesn't make claims on the throne It belongs to him. But he comes to make a claim on your heart. He comes to make a claim on your heart. He does not come to destroy. He comes to love you. He does not come to condemn you. He comes to help you. He does not come in the bite of arms, but in the strength of love. And when he appears, it's not time for people to open their palaces. It's time for us to open our hearts to him. This king. Of glory, this king of peace. You know, we struggle. I struggle so much to open my heart to this king. You know how I struggle? I would rather pray to this king, to this humble king, to this prince of peace to come and rule my life in one sense and not the other. What do I mean? Lord, please come and take all my enemies away from me. Come and provide for me the things that I want you to provide for me, and yet I am unwilling to let Him expose my sin. And rule my my heart, the deepest parts of my life, so that he may truly be my king. You know how I struggle? I struggle because I I want to dictate how this king comes to me I want to determine, I want to define, I want to tailor make this king of peace. This is how I want you to be. Be this way, but don't be the other way. He's saying I have come in humility so that I may completely rule every part of your life. See, the good news for us is this that though we remain rebellious Unfaithful, disobedient. It is because of his humility and his obedience to the Father's will. That not only led him to the cross and him dying for us and for our sins to make us whole, but that's our hope right there. That he will lay down his life for us, that we will be made whole in the very end. And that Jesus is actually committed to us, that He is completely committed to you, to making you righteous, to making you whole. And that's good news. And that's reason for you to rejoice. And so if you're like me and you're filled with so much longing this morning. If you're like me and you feel like the people in Zechariah's time who really truly indeed understand what a longing feels like because they had enemies. I have enemies. We have enemies I struggle with sin. I struggle with sin that one day I cannot wait for it to be vanquished. I cannot wait for it to be taken away. We have enemies of our body, sickness and death that drives us to so much fear, and I cannot wait for me not to be fearful of ever dying. We have enemies of the soul. Satan who seeks and comes to devour us, Satan that tempts us and gives us all the empty promises that this world has to offer: power, success, security, and fame, and all these things. And I get sick and tired of it. I cannot wait for the glorious riches that Christ has prepared for me. And so you cry. So I cry. So you cry with me. We say, Lord, how long, O Lord? When will you bring justice and restoration? Our only hope is in this coming king. Our only hope is in Jesus returning. He has promised to redeem his creation, his cosmic redemption and victory that can only be achieved, not by means of power and might But it is achieved by something so weird and absurd and something that the world has never heard before. A king that comes riding on a horse, riding on a donkey, not a horse But it's actually a special thing. It is a beautiful thing. Because it is only through this coming king where sinners are made into saints, where slaves are made into sons and daughters, and paupers are made into princesses. It's only in this king, in this coming king, for he is the only one who is able to deliver the promises that he makes. And so we can join the crowds as they sing Hosanna to the Son of David, because blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. And you, brothers and sisters, have reason to rejoice. The king has come. The king is coming. Father, we thank you this morning that you truly have come to us. You have come to dwell with us. Come to rescue us from our sin. We rejoice that. Your son Jesus Christ would come riding on a donkey in humility and in righteousness to redeem us from all of our sins. So, Father, when we cry out, how long, Lord, will you will you uh keep uh Us waiting. Father, may you fill us with hope that you truly are coming, coming to redeem us, to restore us, and to bring us to a life where we live with you forever and ever Never. May this be true of us all. This morning we pray in Christ's name. Amen.