A And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up and said to him, Zacchaeus, hurry and come down, for I must stay at your house today. So he hurried and came down and received him joyfully. And when they saw it, they all grumbled, He has gone in to be the guest of a man who is a sinner. And Zacchaeus stood and said to the Lord, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor, and if I have defrauded anyone of anything, I restore it fourfold And Jesus said to him, Today salvation has come to this house, since he also is the son of Abraham. For the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost. As they heard these things, he proceeded to tell a parable, because he was near to Jerusalem, and because they supposed that the kingdom of God was to appear immediately. He said, therefore, a nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom and then return. Calling ten of his servants, he gave them ten minas, and said to them, Engage in business until I come. But his citizens hated him and sent a delegation after him. saying, We do not want this man to reign over us. When he returned, having received the kingdom, he ordered these servants to whom he had given the money to be called to him, that he might know what they had gained by doing business The first came before him, saying, Lord, your minah has been made ten minas more. And he said to them, Well done, good servant, because you have been faithful in a very little, ye shall have authority over ten cities. And the second came, saying, Lord, your mina has made five minas. And he said to him, And you are to be over five cities. Then another came, saying, Lord, here is your mina, which I kept laid away in a handkerchief, for I was afraid of you because you are a severe man. You take what you did not deposit and reap what you did not sow. He said to him, I will condemn you with your own words, you wicked servant. You knew that I was a severe man, taking what I did not deposit, and reaping what I did not sell. Why then did you not put my money in the bank, and at my coming I might have collected it with interest? And he said to those who stood by, take the minor from him and give it to the one who has the ten minas. And they said to him, Lord, he has ten minas. I tell you that to everyone who has, more will be given, but from the one who is not, even what he has will be taken away For as for these enemies of mine, who did not want me to reign over them, bring them here and slaughter them before me. And when he had said these things, he went on ahead, going up to Jerusalem. Amen. Thank you. Please be seated. I knew it wasn't 69 inches. I knew that. But about like three months ago maybe I realized that Siri can do math. And so I have committed to never do math again. Siri, how many inches is six foot four inches? That's what I would have said. She would have told me. My brain is atrophying. We are finishing up this week a sermon series that goes from when Jesus left where he had mostly done his ministry in Galilee and he travels through Samaria and he gets to Jerusalem. the last week of his life before he dies on the cross and raises from the dead. We've been talking about a lot of walking stories Walking slows us down. As Jesus is walking through this region, really a region that most people would have avoided, most Jewish people would have avoided. He's telling these parables and these stories And so we've been looking at the stories, um, trying to figure out what in the world he's talking about. I've run three marathons. My first marathon was in Dallas and I trained and trained and trained and I was ready as ready as I thought I could be and so I drove down to Dallas And it was 75 degrees in December. That is not good for running a marathon. People were very worried. But over the night, it got down to 34 degrees and raining. Having not run a marathon before, I did not have the right clothes for either one of those situations. And so I put on my sweatpants and I quickly realized Heavy sweatpants aren't gonna work, so I took those off and I just left them. So I'm running in the rain. It was pretty miserable. Um I got about two and a half miles away, and I was done. But I did not want to stop and be rescued, even though we're talking about stories of rescue That's not really great for a marathon, right? And when you stop, you also start freezing. So I I found these two women and they were about my pace and I walked up to them and ran up s slowly ran up to them and tried to make friends real fast and we were all in the hurt locker together and so we started going and one of them was okay. And so she kept on encouraging me especially with the other one, we're close. Don't give up. We're almost there. The end is near. It's coming closer and closer. And you can sort of see it And once I crossed that finish line, I crumbled to the ground. My calves seized up. They had to put one of those um mylar, you know, blankets on to warm me up. And I had a friend there who was waiting for me to take me, you know, pick me up. And he said he had not heard a person curse that much in that short of a time. I was not doing well. But I did make it to the end. Sometimes when you make it to the end, it's awesome, right? When the end comes, you are so thankful. There are other times when it's bad. The vacation is ending. The car is ending. Julie and I when we were first married I had this old Mercedes. It was a tank like 1980 that my parents had given to me And I took it in to get the oil change one day. I was in the bay and they said this takes a special oil filter. We don't have we have to order it. It'll be here tomorrow. Like okay Okay. I don't have anything else to do. So I we had a concert in Tulsa. I'm driving back from Tulsa, the engine ceases, the car is no more because it needed oil I knew it needed oil, right? I was in the bay. I didn't know the end of my car was near that day An end of a relationship could happen that you don't know is coming. Sometimes it's good when the end is near, like you're ending an engagement because you're getting married. You're ending a pregnancy, the the baby's here, you're ending a jail term, you're ending your braces Your mortgage is done, right? The end is near for Jesus heading to the cross, and he knows it He knows he is about to suffer this excruciating thing. And he starts in on 1928. This is when he goes into Jerusalem. So we are right before that. And along the way, as Jesus is going to this end, he's saying all these things. Right? Since our last parable at the end of uh in the middle of eighteen, Jesus has said, let the little children come into me. Do not hinder them, for such belongs the kingdom of God. The kingdom of God belongs to children. Jesus has this interaction with the rich young ruler, a very famous conversation. Jesus tells about his death again. No one knows what he's talking about, but he keeps talking about it. And Jesus heals a blind beggar, saying, Recover your sight. Your faith has made you well. And immediately he recovered his sight and followed him, glorifying God. And all the people, when they saw it, gave praise to God. the things he's doing. And then we get to 19. The day is here. Now this isn't a parable, but I I I really want to talk about Zacchaeus. But but Jesus stops where? Where does he stop? He entered Jericho and was passing through. Jesus entered Jericho because Jericho is the entry into the promised land. It's right before you get to Jerusalem. Now remember back in the Old Testament when Moses died, Caleb and Joshua became the people in charge. And God told them to take Jerusalem. It's going to be the sort of gateway to what eventually becomes Jerusalem. So they sent in spies. Remember the story? They sent in spies. And who hid the spies? Rahab, the Canaanite prostitute. And then Joshua fit the battle. This is an old black hymn. Joshua fit the battle of Jericho, right? And Jericho crumbled, and Rahab came into the people of God. And she married a guy named Salmon, which is sort of cool. Salmon is in the Bible, by the way. And that couple had a son named Boaz, who married Ruth, and they had a son named Obed, who had a son named Jesse, who had a son named David, who was in the line of Jesus. So Rahab enters into the story of God. Right? God delivered this city to his people, and he delivered this woman To his story. And she's mentioned three times in the New Testament. One time in Matthew 1 in the genealogy, one of the women in the line of Jesus. Another time in the Hall of Fame of Faith in Hebrews 11. And at the very end in James 2, where she is called Rahab the prostitute, that's identity language for sure. Right? Is that how you want to go down in the books? But she was a redeemed person. Redeemed and rescued in the story of God at this spot. And God is still rescuing very unlikely. people just like her. This time at Jericho again it's Zacchaeus, who was a wee little man And a wee little man was he, right? But I feel bad for these young kids because I don't think we sing these songs anymore, right? Back when we were There was a very limited corpus of songs that you had to know. We didn't have all this other stuff. We didn't have veggie tales even. It was just like songs like this. I think they're uh doing better though in that department. There's more exciting things. So Zacchaeus, right? Uh I think if you look back at the parable of the Pharisee and the tax collector in chapter 18, consider this. Right after that, Jesus meets a rich man who asks Pharisee-like questions. The rich young ruler does, right? He's trying to get to this thing or figure out if Jesus is the right deal. And he also says, I have kept the law. This is Pharisee checkpoints, right? He also doesn't like the answer he gets. Another Pharisee checkpoint So we have this man, and then we have a tax collector. So we almost have this parable being worked out in real life, right? The two characters are real And this one, this tax collector, wants to get a peak at a celebrity. Guys ever wanted to get a peek at a celebrity? Have you ever gone to do it? When I told you so already a lot of times that uh I liked food shows And so the great food truck race. Have you heard of that show? They they give out food trucks and they have to go through all these things and the a the winner gets a food truck. They came through OKC And so I got my kids in the car and we went to go on it and I am on the great food truck race. I looked it up, season five, episode four, at the fifteen thirty-five minute mark. You can see me and a much younger Anna and Drew. So I was chasing celebrities, minor celebrities, you know. food truck race. But I've done it, so maybe you you might do that if you heard somebody was going to be in town. And that's what Zacchaeus is a normal person and we have this moment When Jesus is walking, and Jesus sees Zacchaeus in the sycamore tree, looks him straight in the eye, and says, Come down, I'm coming over. And I'm sure Zach Keys is like But I don't know how many people in trees there were. But he's like, What? Me? I just came to see you. I didn't plan to talk to you. I didn't plan to invite you over. You invited yourself over, in fact. That's pretty bold But he scurries down, and what happens is he immediately, immediately in the presence of Jesus, completely changes. He goes from being a hated, greedy tax collector. You couldn't be a tax collector unless you were greedy. There were no like generous tax collectors To this, behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor. And if I have defrauded anyone of anything, I restore it fourfold. Whoa, that is a radical change in his life. He goes from greedy, backstabbing And he found the end of life without Jesus and life without being hated anymore. Because he's about to do this. It's radical Now, a lot of times I'll show illustrations where if you're under 40, you might have a vague reference of this. Now I got the opposite. If you're over Twenty. You may not who know who this person is. Okay, who knows who Mr. Beast is? Okay. And some people know because their grandkids have told them, right? Okay, so Mr. Beast is this dude, he's only like twenty-six, and he's the number one uh subscribed to person on YouTube. Which means he has like 18 million subscribers, which is crazy. And he was the first person to get a million viewers on this new Facebook thing, whatever it's called. Threads? Yeah Okay, so Mr. Beast, he doesn't do gross stuff or weird stuff. He he started off doing Julie's the one who told me about this, so I've looked it up a little more since then. I've I've known about Mr. Beast for a week, so I'm not saying I'm knowledgeable. So he started off doing some normal YouTube stuff and then he started doing these uh Stunts we'll call them. Where he would you know put people in a slime bath and like the last one he gets out gets ten thousand dollars. You just stay in there as long as you want. No w other rule But then once he started to get more and more followers, and of course now he's generating ad income, right? People think he might be worth a billion dollars already He started doing more philanthropy things. Sometimes as simple as he would walk up to somebody and give them ten thousand dollars, just cold, and film it, and the whole thing would only last a minute Or he would give a ten thousand dollar tip. Or he would um w he got a thousand people prosthetics He did paid for a surgery for a thousand blind people to have this procedure done. So he's now has this philanthropy where he's giving away tons of money. And the thing about it is people are crazy about it We hear a lot of negative things about the internet, all justified. This is not one of them really. You can be cynical about it partially. There's a reason to. But as he as you follow him, you feel like you're participating in somebody doing good. And it's Positive. Okay, Zacchaeus is about to be sort of like Mr. Beast here. He's about to take all this money that he's accumulated and start giving it away. And I guarantee you He's going to make new friends. He's going to have a new community. He's also going to be around other people that want to follow Jesus And that is a game changer. It's a new outlook. It's a new mindset. And he is no longer an outsider in the kingdom. Because Jesus says this, today salvation has come to this house, since he is also a son of Abraham, for the Son of Man came to seek and save the lost. I guarantee you Zacchaeus hadn't been called a son of Abraham in a long time. Certainly not since he started tax collecting. And he was pretty good at tax collecting. And he became a despised outsider. The person who, if you saw walk into the temple, you'd be like, what is he doing? here. Since he started, he's been spit on, cursed, beaten up, threatened, left out, and he has certainly made Enemies. And now Jesus is saying, salvation has come to your house. You are a true son of Abraham, because I have come to see you. I am excited about lost sheep, lost coins, lost sons and daughters, lost people And I rescue them. He's our rescuer. That's good news for tax collectors, isn't it? It's good news for prostitutes and lepers and prodigal sons and daughters. It's also good news for Pharisees if they would listen. But do they listen? No, what are they? And when they saw it, they all grumbled. He has gone to be at the guest of a man who is a sinner You know, it's that's one of the dumbest things to say. Everybody's a sinner. That's not what they meant, right? A bad person. Despicable. It's beneath you, Jesus, to go to tax collectors' house. He does seek inside That's good news for us today. But then Jesus also talks about how the end is here So remember, we've been talking about this. As people are following Jesus, as they're hearing about him, as they encounter him, they're thinking to themselves, maybe this is it. This could be the Messiah after all. And if he is, what would it look like? This is how the parable starts. As they heard these things, he proceeded to tell a parable because he was near to Jerusalem, and because they supposed that the kingdom of God was to appear immediately The kingdom of God was to appear immediately. What would it look like if it was here? What would you think it would look like? Perpetual Orioles World Series, right? I think it'd be the end of the SEC. I hate the SEC. But football isn't as big around here, right? It's prayer back in school. It's this abortion ban that we always wanted, right? It's this person in charge or this party in charge. We a lot of times think of it as politics. They had ideas too, because they had been subsumed by the Romans. Imagine if Maryland got annexed by Pennsylvania or Virginia Would it matter? Well, yeah. If you go to a marin, you would say, like, I want uh I want Maryland back Don't Virginia my Maryland, right? And we would want to be led out of oppression. We would want a real leader. We would want real priest, a real army. A real place to be free. That's what's happening in the Ukraine, right? I mean, we're talking about borders. No, we're not just talking about borders. We're talking about freedom and conquest and they were being taken. They had been taken. And so is Jesus the answer? What will the kingdom look like if he is? And so he tells this story. This is the last one before he goes into Jerusalem. He says there's a noble man, a prince, not yet the king, and he has ten servants, and they each get minus. Minas, uh that's a word that describes three months salary. So they get two and a half years salary Which is a lot. Just imagine these are wealthy, you know, people because they work for this wealthy prince, so maybe let's just they have a hundred thousand dollars a year so they get two hundred and fifty thousand dollars all at once. Wham That would be sweet. He doesn't really give them instructions. He basically says, do your normal thing. I'll come back. Do what I do. You know what that is. Gokwur. And during his absence a faction rises against him They don't like this prince. They don't want him to be in charge. They don't want him to come back. They're trying to get him to stay away. That doesn't work. He does come back. He receives the kingdom and he is now the king And so he brings these servants back. Number one, he took ten minas and he made ten minas. This guy's an investor, right? Knows what to do. And so um he gets ten cities. Ten cities I don't know. I mean this king can give away ten cities? That seems like a lavish reward The next guy makes five more, so now he has fifteen, so he gets five cities. Good job. You know, now you got a lot more to do. You have five cities to take care of But number three, number three takes it and turns it to one, puts it in a handkerchief And says, I was afraid because you were a severe man. You're a severe man? This severe man just gave out fifteen cities That seems like a generous man to me. He wants people to use their gifts for the kingdom, right? He's putting his resources in the hands of other people so they can steward it, so they can make it grow. He he wants them to be responsible, but he trusts them. This isn't a dictatorship at all. And so this servant gets severely judged, right? This servant misread the whole situation, all of it. And he gets a judgment even so far that he takes what's left and gives it to the ones that already have. And they say that's not fair. None of them fully understand the king for sure. But Jesus is really talking about how non-participation is not an option. I tell you that everyone who has more will be given, but from the one who does not, even what he has will be taken away. But as for the enemies enemies of mine, who did not want me to reign over them, bring them here and slaughter them before me. Woe That is judgment. Non-participation in the kingdom really hacks off the king. So there are two big themes in this parable. The first, we know, they wouldn't have known this, right? We know this is a big, huge parable about what's about to happen. To him, to the king himself. There are a group of people not happy with the king and want his removal. And in the parable it doesn't work, but in real life They get what they want. They get a big traction. They get a partner. And even so far, they pledge their allegiance to Rome. The very thing they hate the most in their lives, they say, we have no king but Caesar. That's how far they're willing to go. That is blasphemy. They're going to accuse Jesus of blasphemy. And the whole town is going to move from Hosanna, Hosanna to crucify, crucify. It's a parable about what's about to happen. It's on Jesus' mind. But it's also a parable about what Jesus wants in his kingdom, which is what he's been taught Talking about a lot. Because we don't know how long it would take till the king returns. He didn't say even in the parable, I'm going to be gone this exact amount of time. You can expect me here. So when the king isn't here, what shall we do? My opinion is if you're a pizza maker, you make pizzas until the king comes back. If you're an accountant, you do accounting until the king comes back. You teach, you design, you invest. The kingdom is a lot about normal stuff. That the king values. Maybe if you're a professional gambler, you shouldn't be professional gambling Until the king arrived, right? There's probably some things that maybe we should stop doing, but for the most part, it's normal life waiting for the king to come back. What does the king want us to do? Let the little children come. Don't hinder them Give all you have and follow me. Invite me to your house today. Your faith has made you well. Go make disciples, teach and baptize. Sin no more. Repent and believe. Be fishers of men. Let your light shine before men so they can praise your God in heaven. Hunger and thirst for righteousness. Be blessed if you're poor in spirit or meek. Love your neighbors. Love God. Love your enemies. Don't lust and hate. Whatever you do for the least of me, these you do to me. Pray this way. Forgive seventy times seven. That's some stuff we should be doing, right? Until the king comes back. When I was an RUF campus minister, I I used to pray uh that I would multiply myself I would pray that there'd be students who would eventually become interns and maybe go to seminary and become pastors themselves. And God really blessed that chair. Not not because of me, but but we had At least a dozen pastors come out of that ten years of ministry. Which a super blessing But it can start to think that that's what we want. Like that's the best thing you can do. If I start praying for pastors from out of the ministry all the time and you didn't become a pastor, you didn't get my prayer answered You sort of let me down in some ways, how it can feel, right? So I also made a very big point that I prayed for normal people. Pastors are not normal people. I I wanted the kingdom of God to be filled with moms and dads and husbands and wives and lawyers and technicians and electricians and contractors and doctors and chefs engineers I met a guy up in Hunt Valley who's a a spice tester for McCormick. What a weird, crazy, awesome job, right? I don't even know what that looks like. It's just obey. It's just all obey, right? This batch is great. But we need that. Repairmen, school bus drivers, soldiers In other words, in Samaria, which is this region, but it we've also been talking about this is our normal lives Where we sort of wander around apart from church. Jesus is not talking about church stuff. I can think of one time he talks about church. Can you the Pharisee and the tax collector go to the temple to pray? That's it He talks a ton about homes and farms and fields and courtrooms and money and bread and children and death and animals and fig trees and barns and getting beaten up and left for death. He's not talking about seminary. He's talking about preschool and kindergarten and grade school and high school and whatever happens after that, trade school He's talking about how messed up people find grace, and it's incredible. He's talking about celebrating found things, and the kingdom of God therefore is all around. You're not going to find many people that love church more than me. I I don't know why. I'm crazy about church. But there is a lot more going on. All throughout the world, all throughout the week, besides this hour and a half. I think it's very important. But Jesus isn't really talking about this hour and a half. Talking about who are we as the kingdom of God in between the first coming and the second coming, which is where we're at. And if you today Are mad at God or disappointed with Him or frustrated with Him. You don't think Jesus is doing a real great job Maybe you're not going to ask for his removal. That's a little extreme. But he can like shore up his leadership skills, listen a little better And and if you're considering burying your mina in a handkerchief because you're like, I don't know. What do I got? What does he want me to do? It's not good enough. Good news is salvation comes to houses. He can be found in church, but he can be found in houses. Jesus shows up and when he does, he touches things and changes them, and someone has joy. If they know him, if they see him. Now you can go away sad and go away mad and go away and grumble, or you can be in his presence and go like, whoa, the king is giving out grace. It's not severe unless you don't participate. I wonder what they thought about that parable a week later I wonder on the road to Emmaus if they might be like, you know what? Remember when Jesus said that really wacky thing? Which wacky thing? The one about the king and the do you think he was talking about what just happened Then of course, what happens? He shows up and talks to him about all the things in the Bible that pertain to him. That would be a great, great. Pastor Carl talked about that for a couple weeks He was called the king three times last week. Once when he rode in on a donkey, twice by Pilate in their conversation. And he died with a placard over his head, King of the Jews. He was the king, and he was Not what they expect. A king come to die. A king come to pay the penalty. A kingdom with no boundaries or borders. A king who put a kingdom of priests like you and me. What kind of plan is that? We are the priests of his kingdom. Holy cow. Jesus didn't leave us a list of chores, he left us the keys to the kingdom. Will we participate? Because Emmanuel, God with us, seeks and saves the lost. Two last stories. One I read a book um because I w you know read a lot of books about walking. One of them is about Marco Polar. who traveled a long way. And this book is called um How to Talk About Places You've Never Been. Because this guy's hypothesis is Marco Polo never went all the way to China. And the reason is because he doesn't talk about the Great Wall of China. What how do you leave that out? He does talk about unicorns, that he saw unicorns and griffins How do you put that in? A true story. So his thinking is Marco Polo met a lot of people Who told a lot of stories, who went to all these places, but he didn't go himself. It is very possible to talk about the kingdom of God and Jesus and not have gone. Not participate, to use those words, and not encounter the Savior who seeks and saves them Okay, here's my last walking story. And this is the end of the whole series, so I'll never talk about walking ever again. Uh I've got a group of friends who uh go tubing and this tubing means like rafting down the river on inflatable tubes, right? And so I went one time last year, and this year I was like, okay, I'm gonna go, but I'm gonna learn how to do it myself, so I'm not beholden to them. So y tell me the place you start, tell me the place you stop. And so Julie and Anna and I went a week and a half ago. And it was perfect. It was great. So I now in all the spots. And on Friday, I had planned to spend a lot of time in prayer for y'all. And so I thought, well, why not pray while tubing? That's even better, right? I'm not gonna lock myself in some room. I'm gonna tube down the river. But that means I'm gonna tube by myself. I can do this. I parked my car at the spot and I walked the other way, I walked up, so I'm gonna tube down back in my car No problem. I figured this all out. I get to the spot, it's the most likely spot, but I see up ahead there's a bridge. So this is on the NCR trail. It's beautiful trail right No problem. So I get to the bridge. Now mind you, I'm carrying my tube. I've got flip soap on flops on. I've got my dry bag and uh little cooler, you know, drinks. So I'm walking down and I end up walking two months. So this takes 45 minutes to an hour. It's hot and there's dunce. And um so I get to the bridge, oh the brid I had in my head a little bridge like this high over the stream. Why did I have that in my head? It's a big bridge. 50 feet above the water. And so there's no pathway. So I see a little tiny path in the mud. So now I'm going down this muddy, steep path in flip-flops with a tube with my stuff. And I'm thinking I have to get down here. Like a normal person would say, I'll go back to the place where I know I can get in. No. I was thinking this is something to be conquered So I finally get down, I get all scratched up with thorns. My last step right before I put my feet this far in the mud. So now I gotta pull my flip-flops out. I get to the water, oh finally. I make it. So I start going and I instantly can tell my tube is deflating. Slowly deflating. No problem. I get a little farther this part of the river, which I have not been on yet, because I didn't think to ask questions. has of some rapids. So that's not real awesome in a tube with stuff you don't want to lose, right? Um so I get out and of course my flip-flop falls off, flies away. I shouldn't have been wearing flip-flops. I know that. Um so now I only have one flip-flop and so I make it through there and I'm exhausted and sweating and saying words and uh praying. I'm also praying. For my safety. Um and so now I'm going, tubes afflating, it's now a taco. Um I'm ready to be done. And anytime I step on the rocks, it really hurts. I'm just looking for a place to get off. So finally I find a place, and it's where I should have put in in the first place Which means now I have a mile walk back to the car. Without shoes, without a shirt, carrying a deflated tube, deflated. The whole point of the story is this part. So here I am walking down the NCR trail. I was alone on the river. I saw no one else doing what I was doing for a reason I find out. Okay? Now I'm on the NCR trail. Tons of people coming in. I can sort of understand why somebody in a bike doesn't stop. They're going on the bike. They're going fast. A runner, I could sort of understand, but I had a dude walk past me, which meant he had seen me for a long time. A shirtless, shoeless person. And then he walked past me, never said a word, never left back. Now I don't know what he could have done to help anyway, but he could have done That would have been nice, I think Here's my point. Jesus wouldn't have done that. I was on Friday the type of person that Jesus would stop for. He, I'm sure, would have said, that's Zacchaeus? Doug Servan, you're walking down the road without shoes on and shirt on. What's going on with that? Now I don't know what his rescue plan would have been because I made it anyway. But Jesus seeks and saves the lost. Not the people zipping down on the NCR trail knowing their planes. Lost people like you and me when we haven't found our way. And that is really good news for lost people like you and me. Amen. The end is near, but the day is here. Let's pray, and then we'll sing a song. Lord, thank you that you come to save, you come to seek and save the life of Thankful for your goodness.