Well, good morning. We're going to be returning this morning to our series in the book of James. We took a break for a few weeks, and now we're back into it. We'll be reading this morning from James chapter 4, verses 1 through 12. And if you remember, James has been starting off by reminding us of the importance of enduring trials with joy, that suffering is God's way of doing something in our lives to make Making more make us more and more like Christ. And he goes on to talk about what it looks like to put our faith in action, saying that that true saving faith always shows itself by how we live. And he continues that theme throughout the letter, picking up one how we speak to one another, how we interact with each other in the church. And he continues that as we go into chapter four. So if you're able, I'll ask that you please stand as we honor the reading of God's Word this morning. Hear God's word from James chapter 4, beginning in verse 1. What causes quarrels and what causes fights among you? Is it not this that your passions are at war within you? You desire and do not have, so you murder. You covet and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You do not have, because you do not ask. You ask and do not receive because you ask wrongly to spend it on your passions. You adulterous people. Do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. Or do you suppose it is to no purpose that the Scripture says he yearns jealously over the Spirit that He has made to dwell in us But he gives more grace. Therefore it says, God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Submit yourselves, therefore, to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, purify your hearts, you double minded, be wretched and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned into mourning, and your joy to gloom. Humble yourselves before the Lord, and He will exalt you. Do not speak evil against one another, brothers. The one who speaks against a brother, or judges a brother, speaks evil against the law, and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law, but a judge. There is only one lawgiver and judge, he who is able to save and to destroy. But who are you to judge your neighbor? This is God's word this morning. Let's pray together. Our Father, we cannot live by bread alone, but by every word that comes From your mouth. We need you, Lord. We need your word to guide us, to shape us, to explain the world we live in and how to live in a way that pleases and honors you. Lord, we come to you this morning knowing that we can't even benefit from your word or understand it rightly apart from the work of your spirit in our lives, opening our eyes and unstopping our ears so that we can hear and see what it is you would show us from your word. And so, Lord, this morning we come to you as needy children, asking you, Father, to feed us from your word. And we pray, Holy Spirit, that you would Speak to us, for we're listening. And we pray all of this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. Well no doubt many of you are familiar with the the song that says, They will know that we are Christians by our love. The world around us has so many thoughts about us as Christians, don't they? I think sadly, our love is often not very high on the list of how they would describe us. The church should be a place of love, a welcoming place where broken sinners can come and find rest. But sadly, it can often be a place of bitterness and fighting, can't it? James is dealing with a church here that's failing to love one another, and it's a common problem that we see all too often. And his point as he deals with them is to say that our failure to love one another reveals that our hearts are not right toward God. And he says, therefore we must humbly submit to him. And I just want us to look at three things together this morning. I want us to first look at the problem that they're dealing with, and I want us to then turn and see the cause. And finally, James will point us to the cure for their failure to love one another. So as he begins to highlight the problem in verses 1 through 3, James begins by highlighting the damage That sin can do if it goes unchecked in our lives. That He wants us to see how dangerous and destructive it really is Sin is not a small problem because it and if we don't address it properly, it will always grow into something worse. And in verse 1, he brings our attention to the problem: there is fighting in the church. He uses strong language, the language of going to war and fighting battles with one another. It's figurative language to highlight the fact that they've not yet come to the point of throwing punches. There's not physical violence going on yet, but they're close. They're having violent and bitter arguments with one another. There's disunity and bitterness in the church. They're angry and they're arguing about everything. Everything's a fight. The sad truth is that sometimes the most bitter fights we have sometimes happen in the church, don't they? Because we have a tendency to all insist on our own way And James wants us to see that our problems and our fights with one another reveal so much more about ourselves than they do about the people we're fighting with. He says, our passions are at war within us. That word is literally pleasures. It's the word we get hedonism from. He's saying our fights are the result of our selfishness, our unmet desires and our coveting. And it's an important point for us to see because James wants us to recognize that our outward actions always reveal the condition of our hearts That's what Jesus says when he says it's out of the abundance of the heart that the mouth speaks. Our behavior is never merely a behavior problem. And if our sin is neglected, it always leads to greater sin. And James here provocatively highlights the end result as murder. If they will not address their violent conflicts, eventually they will turn physically violent, to the point of even killing one another It seems innocent at first, but if it's unchecked, it'll lead to greater sin. Because in our selfishness and our pride, we want to put ourselves first, thinking that we deserve everything we desire. And so James here wants us to understand where sin leads so that we can be motivated to fight it as soon as we begin to see it in our lives. You see that the other thing he brings out in these verses is that they don't have a healthy relationship with God. Did you notice in verse 2 they've stopped praying? They don't have because they don't ask. They don't ask God because they're trying in their own strength to accomplish all that they want, trying to put themselves in the place of God, thinking they they don't need to depend on anyone other than themselves. J. C. Ryle, an Anglican theologian in the 19th century, made the point to say that the quality of our relationship with God can always be seen in our private prayer life. Prayerlessness is a danger sign that ought to be going off as a warning in all of our lives. When we stop to pray, stop failing to pray, something is wrong with our lives. And that's what James is highlighting here. And more than that, he's saying we impoverish ourselves by not praying. They don't have because they don't ask. Failing to pray is like winning the lottery and then continuing to live on the streets. We have the living God that we can go to who cares for us and promises to provide for us and meet our needs, and yet we fail to ask him to meet The needs that we have. But his problem, their problem, he says, is not just a lack of prayer. Because even when they do ask, he says they ask wrongly. They're not just discontent, but they're wanting things for the wrong reasons. They're pursuing their own pleasures and passions, wanting things for themselves, not for God's glory. I don't know about you, but I do this so often. It's so easy to come to the Lord asking for things for the wrong reasons because we all have hearts that have mixed motives, don't we? We want something, maybe it's even the right thing, and yet we find ourselves so often wanting it for the wrong reasons. For our own comfort and pleasure and satisfaction, rather than ultimately to honor and glorify God. Now, this doesn't mean that we can't have desires. God has created all things in this world for us to enjoy rightly. But as we'll see, the goal is submission to God's will. We can still ask for the things that we want for him, but we must do it in the right posture, saying, like our Lord, not my will, but yours be done. Trusting in God's wisdom and his goodness and his timing to give us what he knows we need when he knows we need it. And the problem here is that sinful desires lead to greater sin. And James begins to highlight those sinful desires in verses four and five as he highlights the cause of the conflicts in the church. He says their sinful hearts are the root of their bitterness and their fighting. But their sinful hearts, their discontentment that they have in coveting and not achieving their desires, that itself is a symptom of a deeper problem. And he highlights it in verse 4 when he calls them adulterous people. You see, the language of the Old Testament brings out the idea that God is seen as a husband to his people. You see this running all throughout the prophets, especially maybe most clearly in the book of Hosea, where where God calls Hosea to Mary Gomer, a prostitute, in order to emphasize the fact that his wayward and rebellious people Have left him, have committed a spiritual adultery by chasing after other gods to satisfy their desires. Idolatry, James Son says to see, is spiritual adultery. He mentioned in verses 1 to 3 that their passions and pleasures were at war within them. See, his point here is they fallen in love with the world. And they haven't gotten to the point where they've rejected God altogether. Instead, they're trying to have both, so to love God and the world. And James here echoes Jesus. You cannot have two masters. God will not tolerate divided loyalties. We're either for him or we're against him. We have to choose. You can have friendship with the world or friendship with God, but not both. The world hated our Lord and will hate all who follow him. He was despised and rejected, and a servant is not greater than his master. In verse 5, he continues this thought by driving home the point that God is jealous for the loyal affections of the people he created. It's actually a a pretty difficult verse to understand for a number of reasons. The language is somewhat ambiguous in the original to try and understand exactly what he's saying. I think the ESV is helpful there, the way it it translated. That God is jealous over the spirit he has caused to dwell in us. But the other thing that's tricky about it is you see quotation marks around that verse. It says the scripture says, and goes on to seem to quote But that verse doesn't show up anywhere in the Old Testament. And I think what James is actually doing, rather than referencing a specific Old Testament verse, he's picking up on a biblical theme that runs throughout the Old Testament. He's saying the scriptures say throughout that God is jealous over the people he has created. We see our selfishness and discontentment is what led to their fights in the church. It's rooted in a pride and a love for the world. And it's important to see here that so often we have layers of sin in our hearts, don't we? When we're fighting against sin, we need to deal not just with our sinful actions, but with our sinful heart motives and our sinful desires. We must deal with the sin behind our sin. Here, James points out our tendency to desire the pleasures and comforts of life and make life all about us, thinking we deserve comfort and security and all these things that we long for in life. But Scripture everywhere tells us those things cannot satisfy the deepest longings of our hearts, can they? God says in Jeremiah chapter 2, My people have committed two evils. They have forsaken me, the fountain of living waters, and hewed out cisterns for themselves, broken cisterns that can hold no water. When we try and find satisfaction apart from God, It's like trying to carry water in a broken cistern that will leak everywhere. It cannot hold what it's meant to hold. Augustine brings this out in his confessions. He says, You have made us for yourself, and our hearts are restless. Until they rest in you. If we waste our lives chasing after things that cannot satisfy, of course we won't be content. And so it's important to see here again that the people did not consciously abandon God for the world, and yet their actions revealed the truth about their hearts. I think it's important for us to pause and reflect on our own actions and our own hearts. What story does our lives tell? If someone were to follow you around and watch you for a week, who would they come away thinking that you love? Would they look at you and say, that man loves God? Or would they come away saying, they have fallen in love with the world? How do we, whether consciously or unconsciously, how do we find ourselves buying into the world's values and the world's way of thinking as we go about our lives? I think we can examine all kinds of different areas of our lives. Just to pick up on a few of them, we can look at the way we spend our time, can't we? The world tells us Go, go, go. Every moment is a moment for progress, a moment to an opportunity to pursue success or passions or our desires God says, you weren't meant for unending progress and motion. He says, be still and know that I am God. There's time to work hard, but we also need time to rest and time to focus on our relationship with God and the things of eternity. And he's given us a rhythm, six days on to work and pursue all that he's called us to do, and one day to pause, to rest, to to confess our humanity and our weakness and our need for him. In the weekly Sabbath. We think of this in so many other areas of life. The world tells us the things that we need to be happy and satisfied, whether it's sex or money or any of these other things. Things we need for our security. Money can is is promised to us as a thing that can buy comfort, meaning, happiness. And the world also tells us, by the way, no matter how much you have, you always need just a little bit more. On the other hand, our Lord tells us He is our provider and our protector. He takes care of the birds of the air and the grass of the field that doesn't do anything to look out for itself. We are far more precious to him than that. He's able to care for us and it's all his anyway, isn't it? He's just given it to us to be responsible as good stewards, using it to to further his kingdom. And of course we can enjoy it, just like everything else he's given us in life to enjoy. But like all things we enjoy it to his glory, not to our own satisfaction above all. I think maybe one way that we fall into the world's pattern of thinking that that touches closely on what's going on in this passage. Is the consumer culture of the world around us. It tells us we need more, that everything is about us and our desires and our preferences and our needs. And I think all too often that comes into our view of the church, doesn't it? Sometimes we can approach the church the same mindset that we use trying to pick a grocery store. What's their selection of things they can offer me? How much is it gonna cost me to associate here? And if at some point I decide I don't like what they're offering, I I think I might just take my business elsewhere All of these worldly approaches to life feed our selfishness and pride by putting us at the center rather than Christ. That we serve a Savior who came not to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many. And until we come to find our delight in him. Then in our pride and in our selfishness, we will make life all about us. And we'll fall in love with a world that promises us all kinds of pleasures that it can never deliver. So James highlights the deep problem that lies within our hearts, and finally he directs us in verses 6 through 12 to the cure. It's a spiritual problem, and there's only one cure, and it's a spiritual cure. The cure is only God's grace, grace that humbles us and brings us to repentance. You see, God demands total allegiance, which as sinful people we know is impossible to give him. But James says he gives more grace. He makes us into the people that he commands us to be. Isn't that a wonderful thought? One pastor brings it out this way. He says, Our God is a consuming fire, and his demand for our exclusive allegiance may seem terrifying. But our God is also merciful and gracious, all-loving, and he willingly supplies all that we need to meet his all-encompassing demands. But in order to grasp that, we need to see our need for grace, we must have humility. And in calling us to humility, James quotes Proverbs 3, 34, and he he draws out the idea that God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. You see, only the humble are going to enjoy God's grace because only they realize they need it. The proud, James says, have God against them. As I think about that verse, my mind was drawn to the wonderful hope that Paul gives us in Romans 8, where he says, if God is for us Who can be against us? That's such a wonderful promise for us in the Christian life that nothing can separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus. If God is for us, nothing can be against us. But I think we have to see that the opposite is true as well. If in our pride God is against us, friends, it doesn't matter who's for us. He calls us to humility, calling us to submit to God. To submit literally means to put under, to come and place yourself under the authority of another. It means to obey, but it means to do so willingly, freely, not under compulsion. And he encourages us and gives us the great promise: resist the devil, and he will flee from you. See, when we're fighting against sin and temptation, we can do so in the hope that God will deliver us from them. Doesn't always feel that way in the moment, does it? But we have this wonderful picture of Jesus in the in the wilderness, in the temptation, before he starts his public ministry, going out for forty days and forty nights to be tempted by the devil in the wilderness. And he has to resist time and time again, but at the end, what do we see? He conquers the devil. And Satan flees from him. When we fight against sin and temptation, even though it feels like Satan might never let up, we have the wonderful promise that He who is in us is greater than He who is in the world. And he helps us to overcome temptation and delivers us from it. The promise is not just that the devil will flee. There's a greater promise. God will draw near to you. Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. It's a wonderful promise that we see all throughout Scripture. Jesus says to his disciples, If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him. Christ is able to save to the uttermost all who draw near to God through him. He says again in John 6, and no one can come to him unless the Father who sent me draws him. All that the Father gives me will come, and whoever comes, I will never cast out. So where we see that note of grace again It's not that we come to God in order to make him love us and then he responds by coming to us. No, it's God's grace always taking the initiative. From start to finish, grace always comes first. So how do we come? What posture do we come as we approach God? James says the only posture to come to God is in repentance. These verses contain one of the strongest calls to repentance in all of the New Testament. But James begins by referencing Psalm 24. Who may ascend to the hill of the Lord? Who may stand in his holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart. You see, we need to have our sin cleansed. We must be sprinkled clean by the blood of Christ. We need his righteousness that's counted to us by faith, and you can come to him with the promise that if you come, he will never turn you away. As we said, James uses strong language here. Throughout the whole letter, he constantly refers to them as brothers over and over again, even when he highlights so many other problems that he's having. And yet here he changes his tone. Cleanse your hands, you sinners. Purify your hearts, you double-minded. He's referencing an unstable person, someone who's wavering between two things, right? He's describing the person who's trying to love both God and the world. He goes on and says, Be wretched, mourn, weep, let your laughter be turned into mourning and your joy to gloom. I think we just need to pause here and say that He's not suggesting some form of penance, right? Where we we earn our forgiveness by showing God how bad we feel. That's not at all what's in his mind here. His point is to emphasize strongly that we should have a genuine sorrow for our sin. We see this in Psalm 6, where David cries out, saying, I'm weary with my moaning every night. I flood my bed with tears. I drench my couch with my weeping. We read about Peter, who after he denied the Lord three times went out and wept bitterly. Paul says it's a godly grief that produces repentance that leads to salvation without regret, but the worldly grief produces You see, the end goal is not that we stay feeling awful forever, but that we feel guilt and grief over our sin just as long as it takes us to come to Christ in repentance and be restored. It's important to have grief and hatred for our sin, but it's also just as important that in our repentance we have a view of the mercy of God held forth to us in Christ. Otherwise, we'll never come to him, but we'll run away from him. Again, his call is to humility and not to pride. He says: humble yourself before the Lord, and he will exalt you. And here we see an important point that he's going to draw out in the later verses. Humility has an impact on your relationship not just with God, but also on our relationship with one another. That's why he changes to begin to talk about how we speak to one another. And in verse 11, there he what he literally says is, don't slander one another. Don't keep talking about someone saying things that are false or things that you're not even sure that they're true. Don't begin questioning and criticizing before you have all the facts. Don't be so quick to believe the worst about the motives and intentions of others. You see, we all want people to give us the benefit of the doubt, don't we? But so often we are quick to think the worst of others in the same situation. But the problem is not just slander, as James brings out. The deeper problem is judging. The connection James makes, as one pastor said, he says that James suggests that criticism of a fellow believer involves standing in judgment over that believer. You see, because when we do that, we're not evaluating their actions in light of Scripture and and humbly calling them to repentance out of a love for them and concern for them. For their soul. No, it's in our pride we're making ourselves feel better by putting them down. We're pointing out all the ways that they fall short in order to make ourselves feel good about ourselves. This is why James says that they're judging the law and speaking evil against the law. It's an odd way to phrase it, but his point is that if you're breaking the law by failing to love your neighbor, And he says, by your actions, you are breaking the law and denying its authority and its goodness. Right? You can say all that you want about how good God's law is and how much you think it's it's the right way to live. But your actions show that really in your heart of hearts you don't think that much of it. You're not doing the law but standing in judgment over it. And that is something that Only God can do. He is the only lawgiver and the only judge. He is the one that's able to save and to destroy. Jesus says, don't fear the one who can kill the body but can't harm the soul. Fear him who can destroy both body and soul in hell. He is a consuming fire, and we will all stand before him to give an account of every careless word we've ever spoken. You see, James's point here is that when you judge your neighbor, you're putting yourself in God's place. So long as pride remains unchecked, we will never find true contentment. The only cure is to humble ourselves before God, to submit to Him, and to begin to love our neighbors. He calls us to do this, but it's also a gift of God's grace. He gives us the humility that he demands of us So we must come and ask him for it. Will they know that we are Christians by our love? Sometimes we have a hard time loving one another in the church, don't we? Our failure to love others, James says, is rooted in our pride and in our love for the world. And it reveals a lot about our relationship with God. As a spiritual problem, it requires a spiritual solution, and the only solution that's found is to come to Christ in faith and repentance, confessing our pride and our love for the world and humbling ourselves so that He might exalt us. This is the example that our Lord gave to us, isn't it? He didn't seek and chase after the pleasures and comforts of this life. He didn't seek to exalt himself. He didn't do anything from pride or selfish ambition. No, though he was in the form of God, he did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being found in the likeness. of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name That at the name of Jesus every knee will bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. You see, Church, he didn't seek his own desires, but continued in trusting himself to him who judges justly. And for the joy that was set before him, he endured the cross, despising the shame. is now seated at the right hand of the Father in glory. As we follow his example of humility, we can have confidence. Because God will give us the grace we need. Because Christ's life, death, resurrection, and ascension, they're far more than just an example for us to follow. He humbled himself to live a perfect life for us, to satisfy the obedience that we could never give. And then he died in our place to satisfy God's wrath towards our sins and to free us from our bondage to sin. If you are in Christ, sin no longer reigns in you. Of course you still struggle. We feel our passions at war within us at times, don't we? But sin's dominion has been broken. We can live for Christ by the power of His Spirit, who breaks us bit by bit, day after day, of our love for the world and helps us to love Christ supremely. We can look to Christ not just as a model of humility, but as our unchanging source of true delight, who will never leave us or forsake us Regardless of our circumstances, and who sustains us in the midst of every frustrated desire that we have in this life. It's only when we find our contentment and joy in our unchanging, unbreakable union with Christ That we can truly begin to love one another as we're called to. By God's grace, may He give us the humility to submit to Him and to love one another so that the watching world truly will know that we are Christians by our love. Let's pray together. Lord, what a high calling it is to love one another. What an amazing plan that you would save us, make us right with you in an instant, and then spend the rest of our lives making us holy. That you would call us into a community, sinners dwelling side by side with other sinners. To love one another and spur one another on to love and good works. Lord, we know that we're fallen and that we're broken and that we struggle so much to live for you and to love one another. And we pray, O Lord. By your grace, would you give us the humility that we need to submit to you, to love you supremely, and show that love in our relationship with one another. As we thank you, O Lord, that you You promise to do that. That you promise, Holy Spirit, that you will complete the good work that you've started in us. And we pray that that would give us comfort and encouragement for the remainder of the week. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen.