This scripture reading is from Luke thirteen, eighteen through twenty-one. He said, therefore, What is the kingdom of God like? And to what shall I compare it? It is like a grain of mustard seed. And again he said To what shall I compare the kingdom of God? God. It is like leaven that a woman took and hid in three measures of flour until it was all leavened. Thank you, Janet. I'm wondering how good you are at doing nothing. Or waiting. Do we have any really good waiters? Different different meaning when you say waiters that way, right? I'm terrible at doing nothing. I am really awful at it. I was thinking about my twentieth anniversary uh trip that Julia and I take and this is first world problems for sure. My mother booked us a place in Key West, she said. Awesome. Except it was really an hour and a half away from Key West, and it was basically just this resort. And if you have been down there, you know that there's no beaches really. It's a coral reef. And so it's just straight water. You can't walk the beach. There's really nowhere to go. I'm in this little tiny town. It uh it didn't really have anything and all Julie wanted to do was sit by the pool and read all day, which is fine. I can't do that. I read my twelve books in two days And then I just went crazy for the week, trying to figure out what to do with myself. Well she had a great time. So I'm not doing that type of vacation again. It really was the worst one I've ever taken. Now I plan way more to do than that. Um so waiting is hard, but in action Often is not good. At our house we had we were battling warts for a while with the kids, and if you don't take action on warts on a hand They will go crazy. They're like dandelions, which is another thing I hate. You can't just let dandelions take care of themselves, right? What's gonna happen? There's gonna be millions of them So the pot potholes in Baltimore are the same thing. Come on, people. Let's get on the stick with that. Jesus and this Passage in these ten chapters is walking and talking and working. There's not a lot of inaction here in this passage. And as we walk with Jesus, we are praying, listening, giving our time and effort. And waiting for him to work, for him to act. Some days what you gotta do when you come home from work is just not quit. There are days in your life you're going to say today's a not quit day. That's my only job is to not quit. So that's an act. It's an action. And we we can take the long view. sometimes not write the email, not make the phone call. And as an RUF campus minister, I would sit with eighteen to twenty-two year olds And they would be freaking out about the thing before them when I knew, in my immense wisdom, right, next semester is going to be better. You're gonna make it. I'll never forget sitting with a woman and she said, Why won't God send me someone to marry? I'm never gonna get married. She was twenty-three. Come on. That is not how this works. We have to have perspective. And so Jesus tells us a parable here of inaction. The parable of the fig tree. It's in Luke 13, verse 6. Now before that, he they he's talking about a current issue of the day. Last time we talked some about anxiety in chapter 2. There are these things, and he just tells us, do not be anxious. Well, there's this thing that happened in 13 where some people died. The very time they told him about the Galileans whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifice, and he answered them, Do you think that these Galileans were worse sinners than all the other Galileans because they suffered in this way? Or the eighteen on whom the tower in Siloom fell and killed, do you think they were worse offenders than all the others who lived in Jerusalem? No, I tell you, but unless you repent, you also likewise. Will perish. They're thinking they deserved it. The people who died deserved it There's a one-to-one correlation in their minds about towers falling on people and how bad they are. Now Jesus does tell us keep short accounts. Right, we we need to repent because there will be a day when we will all perish. And that day may be today. I hope not. Hopefully not by towers. But when we make us one-to-one correlation on sin and death, sin and penalty. We end up getting in trouble quite a bit. I I told you I grew up in this small town, Ozark, Missouri, sort of like this, and my dad was a businessman. He owned a nursing home Owned and operated a nurse. So he knew everybody. And and he, when I turned sixteen, had all the police officers in town and the sheriff start pulling me over. And he didn't tell me of course. So it was super wacky. I would be getting pulled over for the weirdest things. Like You didn't put on your turn signal like I didn't turn. Or you're you're swerving around. Like I am not swerving around. And I would always never get a ticket. I mean I I had it happened a dozen times, I'm sure. And so he was trying to scare me into being safe, but the opposite happened. Because I was ticket proof. I could do anything I wanted and I never got a ticket. So I made the one-to-one correlation That for some reason God smiled on me in my driving. I do remember one time I was in Arkansas in a super curvy road and I was feeding and I did get pulled over and I was gonna get a ticket. This guy didn't know my dad, right? And I'm thinking, oh, first time. And a car going like a hundred miles an hour zooms by and the guy says, Whoa, that's way worse, gets in his car, takes off the back guy. Yes, the streak is still going. Sometimes we get what we deserve, other times we don't. We don't get punished all the time for every sin. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. And then Jesus tells this parable of the barren fig tree. I think it's one of the strangest ones. A man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came seeking fruit on it and found none. And he said to the vine dresser, Look, for three years now I've been seeking fruit on this fig tree and I could find none. Cut it down. Why should it use up all the ground? And he answered him, Sir, let it alone this year also until I dig around it and put on manure. Then if it should bear fruit next year, well and good. But if not, you can cut it down. Farmers don't want unused space. Right? That's not good for production value. So when we see something not producing Our response is cut it down. Cut our losses. Burn it. Destroy it. Kill it. And and we start tearing down unused buildings so we can build new ones. This isn't functioning correctly, so let's get rid of it. That's true sometimes with our bodies. Things in there we don't like or don't want and we want to get rid of them. Partly we did this when we had our work day. I was getting out clutter Like I don't know what this thing is for. Why is it here? Let's get rid of it. Tapping Joan's brain right there. So so we value production, right? We hate inaction. And here Jesus says, wait, it doesn't have to be today. Let's give it another year. Let's nurture it, put manure on it, be patient, see what happens. But what about death and divorce and depression and destruction? The reckoning is real. It is coming. But we also let the Lord decide We make decisions, we work with him, but but he is the one who is ultimately the assessor on the timing. of it. And so we submit to him and and we wonder about it. Because it's a mystery to us sometimes. Why is this not working? And it may just be we haven't seen the end result yet. Right? We need to wait and be patient, which I'm terrible at. There are some things we need to fix right away, so we don't wait for everything. We have to be wise and come to the Lord and be asking him what he wants, looking for what he's doing, not just using our own assessment, but his assessment. And that is really hard for us to do. I think what it's one reason why Jesus has it in here. Now I do want to also talk about this other piece which is what Janet really read, the mustard seed and the leaven. So we're talking about small things really today. Fig trees, mustard seeds, leaven. Nothing big and huge and massive. But Jesus says these little things are important. Fig trees, manure, mustard seeds. Leaven. They help things grow. You put some things in the compost pile. To create this manure to help things grow. And you probably heard that mustard seeds are so tiny, they're like a millimeter. And yet they can grow into a ten-foot-tall plant. Think about an acorn that turns into an oak tree. Small things can become big and important. Leaven It's not the important stuff. It's not the milk and the eggs and the flour. It's this little tiny thing that gets in there and changes the whole nature of the substance, of the bread. So we are called to not despise small things. That God uses small things To do great works. He uses insignificant, out-of-the-way places and people, like Bethlehem, Samaria. Galilee isn't any great. Shakes here. Dundalk. He uses people like Hannah and Ruth and Mary, the mother of Christ was a nobody Abraham and Sarah, who are they? He uses us. Isn't that amazing? He uses us Sometimes we think like if if just this famous person would start coming to our church, you know, if Lamar Jackson would come, how great would that be? That would be pretty cool. Yes it would be But it it would it he he uses us Jesus is walking to Jerusalem to do his biggest work. His most significant work. The most significant work of all time in the history of the world. To accomplish his victory by dying on the cross as a criminal. Who would have seen that coming? To shed his blood. Another simple thing, blood. Mustard seeds. Leaven. And he says he is the door. Another simple thing, a door. It's the very end of this chapter. At the very, very end, he laments over Jerusalem. He cries. He says, How often would I have gathered your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings? And you were not willing to come to me, to follow me. You, you, the people of God, have ignored me It breaks his heart. The heart of Jesus breaks for these people. But he says, I am the door. Come through me to know the Father and the will of the Father. He It's very similar, if you think cut it down, cut it down in 137 is is in the same ballpark as crucify him. Get rid of the problem. There's a problem of unproduction, and there's a problem of this person is messing things up. We have to cut down Jesus and get him out of here. We have to eradicate the problem. And Jesus on the cross says, Father, forgive them. We sang that beautiful song, Father Forgive Them. It's amazing that he would say that. Don't despise this big work Or the little things. Jesus forgives, pays intercedes as he lives and dies and rises. And this is good news for us today, isn't it? It's not what we deserve. We are sinners, rebellious. We're sinning against God's creation, the fruit that He rises, the kingdom of God. We don't see it like we should. But he is patient and kind and forbearing. And he says Let's give it some more time. As he's at work in our lives, letting us grow, instead of cutting us down, he's saying, wait and see. We just see what happens. Instead of us having to crucify, be crucified, we get to live in his glory. As he makes things great, these tiny things become amazing. This amazing grace shows us the upside-down kingdom where the last or first And then Let's pray. Lord, we come to you in this upside-down kingdom asking for you to help us see these small things, these great things, these mustard seeds, this leaven, and how you work in our lives. Use us in this church even today. In our prayers, in this sermon. And in our songs, in our giving, that we would be able to see you and glorify you in your work. We ask this in your name. Amen.