So we uh taking a long break from studying the book of Deuteronomy. So this morning we are going back to our study. And I hope you haven't forgotten much of what we had started to study. We are in chapter 2. We're reading from the middle of this chapter, from verses 26. To chapter three, verse eleven. Um it's such a long text that couldn't fit into a tiny little bulletin, so If you could use your few Bibles or if you have your Bible on your phone or whatever it is, uh we'll read together. Would you please stand as we honor the reading of God's holy word Chapter 2 verse 26. So I sent messengers from the wilderness of Kidimoth to Sion the king of Hespon with the words of peace, saying Let me pass through your land, I will go only by the road, I will turn aside neither to the right nor to the left. You shall sell me food for money that I may eat, and give me water for money that I may drink Only let me pass through one on foot, as the sons of Esau who live in Seer and the Moabites who live in Ear did for me, until I go over to the Jordan into the land that the Lord our God is giving to us But Simon the king of Hesbon would not let us pass by him, for the Lord your God had hardened his spirit and made his heart obstinate, that he might give him into your hands, as he is this day And the Lord said to me, Behold, I have begun to give Sion and his land over to you. Begin to take possession that you may occupy his land. Then Sion came out against us and all his people to battle at Jahaz. And the Lord our God gave him over to us, and we defeated him and his sons and all his people. And we captured all his cities at that time and devoted to destruction every city. Men, women, and children. We left no survivors. Only the livestock we took as spoil for ourselves with the plunder of the cities that we captured From Ero, which is on the edge of the valley of Anan, and from the city that is in the valley as far as Gilead, there was not a city too high for us. The Lord our God gave all into our hands. Only to the land of the sons of Ammon you did not draw near. That is, to all the banks of the river Jabak and the cities of the of the hill country, whatever the Lord our God had forbidden us Chapter 3. Then we turned and went up to the way to Bashan. And Og, the king of Bashan, came out against us. He and all his people to battle at Edra. But the Lord said to me, Do not fear him, for I have given him and all his people and his land into your hand, and you shall do to him as you did to Sion the king of the Amorites, who lived at Heshbon. So the Lord our God gave into our hand Og also, the king of Bashan, and all his people, and we struck him down until he had no survival left And we took all your cities at that time. There was not a city that we did not take from this from them. Sixty cities, the whole region of Agbab, the kingdom of Ag in Bashan And all this were cities fortified with high walls, gates and bars, besides very many unwalled villages, and we devoted them to destruction as we did to Sion the king of Hesbon, devoting to destruction every city, men women, and children. But all the livestock and the spoil of the cities we took as our plunder. So we took to the land at that time, out of the hand of the two kings of the Amorites, who were beyond the Jordan, from the valley of Arnon to Mount Harmon. The Sidonians call Herman Syrian and while the Amorites call it Syrian. All the cities of the tabland and all Gilead and all Bashan, as far as Selecha and Edra, cities of the kingdom of Og and Bashan For only Og the king of Bashan was left of the remnant of the fine. Behold, his bed was a bed of iron. Is it not Rabah of the Ammonites? Nine cubits was its length, and four cubits its breadth, according to the common cubit. The word of the Lord this morning, Lord Jesus, we come to you. To look into your word, which is truth. Your word that lasts forever. Our daily bread. We pray now that the Holy Spirit will illumine our hearts and minds that we may hear it. Pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated So when you leave your house every morning, get into your car, you're driving somewhere, or hopefully you are at least you don't get into your car and wander around driving and after five hours of being on ninety-five you begin to ask yourself where was I going in the first place? So when you get in your car you know your destination, you know where you're going But you don't just know your destination. You also know how to get there. Or you have a little gadget that helps you and tells you, turn right, in the next five miles, take the next exit. It has directions. It gives you directions on how to get to where you're going. Now, while you may know your destination, While you may know why you got up from the bed and got into your car to leave, you may not know exact details of what's going to happen in your journey. Okay? So maybe your gadget might tell you that there's an accident, but there could be an accident that happens a few seconds before you get to where you're going and that's Slows you down. You are not sure if you're gonna be stopped by the police as you drive. Maybe you're you're a little late, so you may be stopped. You don't know that. You also don't know if your car is gonna get you there. Well, you assume it will. You don't know if you're gonna get a flat tire. You don't know if there's something unexpected that's going to happen on your journey. Your car would break down and all these things. And so There seems to be unexpected obstacles and trials that lie ahead of your journey to where you're about to get Now, it's really easy, it's possible that you could actually be tempted if you face so much opposition in your journey that you just turn around and say, well, forget that meeting or forget that whatever it was that you were about to do Hopefully it's not going to work and you decide not to go to work or church for that matter. But you could experience so much opposition that you actually feel like you need to turn back. It reminds me of my of our Christian life, doesn't it? We know what our final destination is. What is that? To be united with Christ One day to see him face to face, to to enjoy and and glory in his presence, to be with him, this longing that we've had to be with God. We know that's for sure. That's where we're going. We're not quite there yet. And so in our Christian journey we are experiencing all kinds of things before we get there. Yes, we know we're gonna get there. But there are things that we need to endure on this side of heaven. There's death. There's struggle with sin. Sin, there's trials, there's there's challenges, there's all kinds of things that we we have to deal with in our lives before we get to a final destination. And the question for us this morning to think about is how then shall we navigate our life? Between now and the time that we get there. And what we need to think about is how do we navigate life Before we get there in such a way that we're not going to grow weary, we're not going to get tired, we're not going to get to a point where we actually say, Well, I I'm losing focus on where I am going. How can we keep? our eyes on the destination, on the journey where we're going. See I tell you that story because I think it's related to what we just read here. Especially beginning of chapter 2, the Jews are on the verge of possessing this land that God has promised to them. So they know God has made a promise to us. We're going to Canaan, we're going to the promised land, we're going to get there. And He's told them that He's going to fight for them, that He's going to achieve victory with all their enemies so that they can actually achieve that Final destination. And yet they are not there. Yet they're having to deal with battles, they're having to fight wars with the Amorites, they're having to fight Sion and and Aug and all these mighty kings. And I think there's a true encouragement for us as a church here in this wonderful story that we just read of God conquering for his people. And it is this. That in our journey as Christians, we're not called to fear. We are not a people called to fear. Not to be afraid. Why? Because our trust must be in the Lord, our trust must be in a God who fights for us. A God who fights all of all battles. And because he fights for us, the one thing that I want us to see in this text is this. that every trial we face in our life is actually an opportunity to exercise our faith in God. Did you hear that? Every trial we face in our life is an opportunity for us to exercise our faith in God. Moses begins here in verses 26, sending messengers to go to Kidemoth and he says, Well, you go out ahead of us and and make sure that you you speak to this king. God has already told us where we're going to pass and for us to make our way into the into the into the Jordan, we we gotta go through this king, through this Hesbon place. And we come in peace. Tell him to help us just pass through. We'll buy everything, water, whatever we need. We will buy from him. We're not trying to to to to get his possession. We're not trying to take anything from him Just only let him let us pass through. Of course King Sion would not have any of it. And we're told the reason why in verse thirty, right? Why? Because God hardens his spirit. He makes his heart obstinate so that he will not listen to to God's people. He will not heed to the call to let uh the people of God pass. Now that story reminds us of another beautiful story that we read in Exodus. The story of the Exodus. As Moses goes to the to the to the Pharaoh and says, Well, will you let my people go and worship me? And the Pharaoh says, Absolutely no. And we're told again who hardened the heart of Pharaoh? God did. Why? So that God would actually give Pharaoh and King Sion to to his people to conquer. But there's something beautiful in this story that reminds us of the Exodus, that the Exodus was actually the beginning of God delivering his people and did not stop there. But God's people possessing this new land, this promised land, is actually part of God's deliverance, part of God's redemption. And the story doesn't stop there. It actually applies to us. We'll get to that, so I'm not going to give it away. But God is still delivering his people even as they are going into the promised land. God is saying, I will do my part. I will accomplish what I've promised to accomplish. I will do everything I told you I will do, which is to rescue you. But you have an obligation and a responsibility. What is that? So God says, I have done it all. It's all right there for you to achieve, it's all right there for you to succeed, but there's something that you gotta do. Have faith and obey. Have faith and obey. That's all I ask. I don't ask you to fight. Well, you will fight But it's actually not you who is fighting it. God is already doing it. Your job is to be faithful, is to have faith and to obey what I say Understand that what I what I promised to you and what I've spoken to you is true and it would actually come to pass. What's your struggle as a Christian? I'll tell you mine. What's your biggest struggle as a believer as you walk with the Lord? Don't you struggle with the tension of knowing what God's promises are and unbelief? I know what God says. I know what He promises. I know what He promises me for my life and my church and my family and everything else. I know that so well. But it's so hard for me to to accept it. Lack of faith. Do you find yourself saying like I do, God I know you tell me that you will provide for my family, for me. I know that you say you're the great physician who will heal me. I know that you say you will deliver me from my current situation, but I hear that. I kind of sort of believe it. But I also trust myself. So I'll trust you with my mind, but I will trust myself with the actions. See some of the trials that we've faced in in our life We don't recognize just how in our Christian journey that those obstacles are actually things that God is allowing to happen to us so that we may trust Him more. I know it's hard. It's not easy. But next time before we start blaming the devil and saying, you devil, you did this. We gotta Ask ourselves and say, why is God allowing this to happen in my life? Maybe I'm not trusting him. I'm not denying that the devil has something to do with our trials. I'm not saying that Sometimes we're so quick to make judgment of what we think is going on and not quick to trust God and say, Lord, what is it that you're calling me to trust? Where is it that you are leading me? See, in both wars that we we read in chapter two and chapter three, both Sion and Og here, they're being destroyed, they're being killed and all the property and all the cities and everything else is just being destroyed, other than the livestock which they keep for their plunder And like I said, this is really the beginning of of God's people possessing at least part of the land, because there's more to come. Next week we'll start looking at the division of that land to different tribes, but this is the beginning of it Now they're beginning to actually command and conquer and be victorious. But look at verses 37 of chapter 2. What are they acquiring? They're actually being very obedient. We talked about faith and obedience. They are only taking that which God has told them to take and not possessing whatever God has told them. Don't touch that Because it doesn't belong to you. We see here really a distinction, a separation of God declaring the land that actually belongs to the Jews and land that does not belong to them. This is special. God is saying there's a specific part that I want for you and it's not every part that you want. It's What I want for you, a distinction between different lands. We'll get into it a little more next week. But you see how in chapter two, after they div they defeat King Sion They are pumped up. They encouraged. They're like we've one down. Next one to come. So when all comes into the to the to the to the fore, to the foray, as you say They're ready. We're gonna fight it. We won. We beat King Sion. You you are nothing to us. We're g we're gonna go and and get you. They're not afraid at all because the Lord is their warrior. I I find that encouraging. You know why? Let me ask you a question Have you experienced a victory in your life of late? Where you've actually clearly seen the hand of God doing something in your life and and you stood there and you wonder and you said, Oh man, God did this. Is that encouraging you today? As you think about the past and you realize, you know, I was there. I'm not there anymore. I was struggling. I'm not struggling anymore. Or not as much. Even if it's a gradual change, but here you are, you're still standing and recognizing God saw me through that. Oh yes, I know he will see me through this and this and that and much more that's to come. It's supposed to be encouraging for us Do you remember early on in chapter 1 verses 28, what did the Jews say when they were being asked about possessing the land? What did they say? Going up where? Where are we gonna go up? Our brothers have made our hearts melt. They've told us that the people are greater and taller than we are. The cities are great and fortified up to heaven. And besides, we have seen the sons of the Anakim. We are not going there. That was an expression of fear, but a fear that had no grounding because what did God told them? Victory is yours. I've already prepared the land for you. Just go and take it. But they are they're thinking, oh no. We're not gonna go there. See, God wants to replace your fear with faith That's what's going on here. Their fear has been replaced with faith. And you know this week I just found a little nugget in scripture. We all we are always learning something In Genesis chapter 51, verses 1, that's the first command that God gives to us to not fear Very early on, Genesis 15:1 says, Fear not. He's speaking to Abram just before he has a covenant with him. He says, Fear not, Abram, I am your shield, your reward shall be great. And then what happens after after that? God has a covenant with Abraham and he tells him, what is the covenant? God is telling Abraham, listen I have called you by name. You are mine. I am going to be your faithful keeper, your your shield, your protector, your warrior. Everything. All you need to do is just trust in me Yet I am afraid. Yet we are afraid. And God is telling us, I am your covenant keeper. Whatever I have declared I will do to you, I will do it. All I want from you is please don't be afraid. Have faith. See, the promise that God makes to Israel is only received by faith alone It's only received by faith alone. And those who try to acquire it in any other way, the the road to the promised land is not just about, hey, let's take our swords and go and fight and and get this land. No, no, no, no, no, no, no It's about how God is leading his people to get there. See, the question here is not whether they will achieve the promise that God has made to them. That's not the question here of whether they will inherit the land, is it? It's already it's already given. That's a given. What is the question? The question is if God's people are going to recognize that what is being given to them is a gift from God received by faith. We know something about that, don't we? We know something about that, don't we? My salvation There is no other way to God other than by grace, other than by faith alone. Eternal life, our destination. It's not achieved by me fighting my way and performing works and doing all this mighty thing that I think I could do. It's only achieved through one way. By faith alone. So we learn here that every trial that we face in our life is an opportunity to exercise our faith in God. But finally, and I love this particular one. Nothing, absolutely nothing, can stand in the way of God to save you. That's what Moses, that's what God wants his people to hear, you nothing, no authority, no kingdom, no power, no wisdom, no human wisdom will stand in God's way to save his people. people. Let me go back to chapter 2, verse 30. With God hardening the spirit, the heart of Sion. What was going on here? You know it's both ways. It's not just God hardening his heart. Sod is actually culpable. He's held responsible. Why? Because Sion is not even affected by the demands that God is making upon him. Clueless, nothing. God's people have come to you asking for a way to pass through, and it doesn't affect him in any way. One commentator puts it this way. God's secret inspiration moves, forms, governs, and draws man's hearts. So that even when the wicked even by the wicked he executes whatever he has decreed, at the same time it is to be observed that the wicked are not impelled to hardness of heart by intrinsic force But that they are voluntary that they voluntarily hardened themselves so that in this same hardness of hearts, God may be seen to be a just judge. However incomprehensible his counsel may be, and however the impiety of the man may betray itself, who are their own instigators and the authors of their own sin? End quote It's not just about God hardening his Sion's heart here. It's about the man's heart himself. See, and I think this really kind of gets into something even bigger for us to observe and be able to learn from. That sometimes we tend to think of God's standing or sitting up in the high tower Creating men and everything else, and then just watching from above there with no clue as to what's going on in terms of the details of human life. And that's not true. Because our God, who is our Creator, is intimately involved in the desires and affections of our hearts. Including that of Sion. That God cares about his affection. And so God is hurting his heart so that he may fulfill his will. But realize that Sion's disposition or his heart or his behavior is not going to stop God from doing what he has determined to do. Be destroyed and let God's people go and possess what their promises. It's the same thing with Og, right? Og does not even learn by the way this this are the this both kings are both Amorites, so they they kind of know each other. Okay? He's not even affected by what's happened to in Heshbon at the the battle of Jehaz with Sion being killed. Nothing. Ah just goes like, well, they killed them or they're not gonna come to me. They're not gonna get me. But guess what? His hardness is what leads to his own destruction. But why is God performing this act of defeating Og and Sion. Again, I think it's a great reminder for God's people to know that God is fighting for them, that they're not supposed to fear. But do you notice, even going back to chapter 2, verses 33? Who gets all the credit? The victory is attributed to one person. To Yahweh. To Yahweh, God. He receives all the glory because it's him who is doing that. What does verse 33 say? And the Lord our God gave him to us. And the Lord our God gave him to us. Not that we went and fought and we conquered. No, God. Did it on their behalf. And then we see something that's going on here. Remember I mentioned, and I I'm sure you heard it as I read slowly as we read scripture, they destroyed property. Man Women and children. Now we our passage is not really about that, but we gotta we can't just gloss over over that and just move on. We have to address it. See, the rules of holy war during this time dictated that every living creature All all things when when there was a battle that was going, they were all supposed to be destroyed. Cities, property, people, livestock, and all these things are supposed to be destroyed and dedicated to God on the grounds that the land belongs. to God. It's his holy sphere. And it was being given to him and designated as holy. The underlying concept was this. That whatever is not holy cannot come to Yahweh's presence. It has to be destroyed. Remember the distraction of Jericho in Joshua chapter 6? This was called the law of Harem. Uh basically if you want to think of it, just think of it devotion to destruction. That's it. In some instances as it was here, some of the things were spared, like the the you know was partial destruction, so they were told to keep the The animals for their planet. Now, that law does raise some serious theological questions, doesn't it? Especially as it pertains to God's character. God. Really? Why would you destroy all that property? Why would you destroy men and women and children and all these things? Which I think the best way to address this question is actually by being able to distinguish between practice, uh principle and practice. So the principle is that God is here seen as a holy God, sovereign to his people. He is the only one. Nobody else can replace him. And anything that opposes the lordship and the authority of God that or anything or anybody that tries to take his position as a God and Lord over his people must be taken out, must be removed. That's the truth. The other part of it is God's holiness. Now if you go back and read the Old Testament history, you realize that God had actually pronounced and decreed the destruction of the Amorites. Why? Because we're told that God was offended. His holiness was offended by the wickedness. Of the tribes in Canaan. So God is sovereign and God is holy. Nothing can stand against God's character and who He is. Now, this law seems to affirm the lordship of God to his people, Israel, as well as his character in being holy, because really These tribes were evil. They were wicked. They were opposed to God. And they were trying to occupy his place. And so this law actually accomplishes both redemption and judgment all at the same time. Now what's the practice? We must be careful here because we tend to take some of those things and then try to apply them in our contemporary text and things kind of just get a little weird. While that is the principle, the practice of that principle is not always exactly the same as it did in the Old Testament. And so we must be careful to distinguish between the two. Okay. So continuing with nothing that can stand in God's way. Some of you love C. S. Lewis as I do, a great author. Do you remember how C. S. Lewis describes the lion? Aslan, the line, how does he describe it? He's loving, right? He's gentle, right? He is he is he's caring and and awesome. He actually lets the the children come and play with his whiskers, right? But he can also be a terror. When the witches' minions come close, they can be destroyed just like that Because he is not safe. Do you remember the conversation on the uh between Susan and Mr. Beaver? Susan is afraid. She's asking, oh I thought the that the lion was a human being, right? So she says, Well, I'm a little nervous to meet a lion, so is he saved? And Mr. Beaver says, Save? Did you say safe? I didn't say anything about safe. He is not safe. But he is good. He is the king, I tell you. He's not safe, but he is good. He is the king So we see throughout God is really encouraging his people not to fear because yes we may come against the terror of God And yet that does not take away the fact that he's a good God. So even when he acts and does things that seem to make us feel like, how could you? The truth of the matter is it is his goodness. See Moses' words here in chapter three verses two, there's no optional probabilities It's certainty. God will do what he said he would do, and nothing is gonna stand against him. I I love it. Do not fear, he says, for I have given him and all his people and his land into your hand. Do you recognize in verses five how many cities did they capture? Just like that. Sixty cities. And how are those cities, how what are we told? All those who were cities fortified with high walls, gates and bars, and besides very many unwalled villages. An amazing victory. See it really sounds like they were just strolling around the cities peaceful and saying, oh yeah, that's ours, we'll take it. Oh yeah, that's ours, we'll take it. Just like that It's God's amazing victory at hand here. Because when God is on the throne, when he's doing his work, when he's performing all these mighty things, I tell you. It happens. Even with Aug, a giant. You know, if we're to use the exact measurements that were given here, this man was about 13 to 15 feet tall. Well, I think he was about nine. He slept on a bed made of iron. Man, this was a a real man's man. I mean this he was not just a man. He was a man's man A bad metal I really? That's ridiculous. A giant of a man, the only remaining man of the tribe of Rephiam, you know, people fear that this guy was powerful enough to stop a whole army. Can't stop my God. Not God. See, this would not be the last battle that the Israelites would fight, would it? This was not the only trial, the only challenge that the Israelites were going to fight as they were trying to get the promised land. How is what are we supposed to apply that in in our life as we think about it? This is what I I think we need to think about. See the the battle that you might be fighting right now is not gonna be the the last. See the challenges that you're facing now are not gonna be the last, I'm sorry to say. But what should you know as you go through every battle, every trial, every challenge, every difficulty in your life? This is what you need to know. God says nothing can stand against my way to providing a way out for you through this trial And through it all, through it all, I've learned to trust in him. He will walk with you. That's what he wants you to know. I am with you through it all. See, my hope and your hope is not just in the things that God helps us through on this side of heaven. It's not. Those things are helpful. But that's not our great hope, is it? My hope is not to defeat the kingdoms and achieve the things on this side of heaven. My hope. is to find true and eternal peace in the kingdom that's about to come. You know how I know that Because the God who fights for me is a God who won the ultimate fight This were the small battles. But God won the ultimate fight for me. He sends his son Jesus Christ to go to the cross. A great king and warrior and mighty God Himself, humbling himself to go to the cross To fight Satan and sin and death. I was an enemy of God, separated from God God would fight for me through his son so that I may be reconciled with him And not just there. That he continues to fight for me now, here Through sin's oppression, through every trial that I face, through every difficulty that I face, he says, I am with you. I am fighting for you. So church, here's my encouragement for you this morning. I hope you know that the Lord is your mighty warrior. And I hope that you see every trial that you may face There's an opportunity for you to exercise your faith in God. But you may never forget that because he fights for you, nothing can stand in his way to save you. He is your mighty warrior. Father, we thank you this morning for you are our mighty warrior, the one who stands in your place and fights our battles. And you have won it all on the cross. May we delight in that fact that you have truly saved us. And you continue to save us. And you will truly and really save us. And so we await for that day that's coming when there will be no more death, no more sin. We long for that day. So encourage us this week and this day we pray in Christ's name. Amen.