Good morning, good morning. Good to see everybody in God's house today. This is uh we're continuing now our our series in the book of Ephesians, which we've been looking at for for uh quite a few months. It's interesting that for some people today is Halloween, right? For some people today is Reformation Day. We did Martin Luther's we did we did uh Mighty Fortress today. And I was trying to think how do I how do how do I make this sermon fit into these things that are going on? Well marriage is a kind of a scary thing, isn't it? And uh marriage needs to be reformed, right? So there you are. But actually, I want to connect it to missions month because marriage, there's a missionary component to marriage that I want us to understand. Let's stand and listen to the meaning of God's word. Ephesians 5, 21 to 33, from the in the uh ESV translation of the scriptures. It's our portion today. Hear God's word. Submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. Wives, submit to your own husbands as to the Lord, for the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church, his body. and is himself its Savior. Now as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit to in everything to their husbands Husbands. Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the Church, and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word So that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish. In the same way, husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. But no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it. just as Christ does the church, because we are members of his body. Therefore, a man shall leave his father and mother, and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh This mystery is profound. And I'm saying that it refers to Christ and the church. However, let each of you love his wife as himself. Let the wife see that she respects. her husband. God's word. Let's pray. Lord Lord, we thank you for this portion of your word. Lord help us to to to be faithful to it as we proclaim it and as we As we look to you for help in our relationships, thank you for your presence here with us for all who here. In Jesus' name. Amen. May be seated. God has created marriage, and marriage is created by God to give us a picture of the gospel. Marriage is created by God to give us a picture of the gospel. Do you understand that? The marriage passage. This is the one of the most fullest marriage passages in the New Testament. We're going to spend some time here today. And uh you know God is the one who created marriage. I I I can't think of a biblical definition of marriage, it's kind of there. I can't with my own. Here's my definition of what marriage should be. It's a man and a woman of sound mind Covenanting together to commit to one another exclusively, emotionally, in other words, spiritually, financially, and physically In a publicly sanctioned relationship until death separates them. There's a lot of aspects of that. This is an emotional commitment This is a financial commitment. It's a physical commitment. It's a public commitment. There's a lot there, but Marriage is God's idea. And God created people and and and he created us to know him. And though we are fallen, he still wants us to know him. And he he God has described the way that we can get to know him, through the the the rescue operation, the redemption operation of the gospel that transforms lives and transforms hearts and transforms people. transforms relationships. The gospel is the good news that through Jesus Christ's life, death, resurrection, his victorious lordship That the fall of mankind has been and is being reversed. That's the gospel. God has entered into history and it's changed everything because of what his son has done Ephesians, the context is the book of Ephesians, and you know that we're we're starting here at verse 21, kind of picking up the end of the last paragraph, because it really is a hinge But most commentators will tell you that this really flows, continues the flow of what the Apostle Paul has been saying in Ephesians chapter 5. He talked about the fact that we're to walk in love as Christ loved us. We're to walk as children of light, not in darkness. We're to walk in wisdom, redeeming the time for the days of evil. We're to be filled with the Spirit, walk in the power of the Spirit of God. And all those things that He has told us are in preparation in one sense for this passage here, which is which is which is a very important passage Not only in Paul's day, but in our day. Because now he's going to talk about how we walk in in our households. And he's going to talk about the relationship between the husbands and the wives The relationship between the the the parents and the children, the relationship between the slaves and the masters. And the this is the household codes. They worshiped in those bigger households. One thing about the whole Roman Empire that I've come to understand is that most people were not rich. of just poor common people, but only about ten to twenty percent of the people were actually rich. But some of those rich people their households are where churches gathered And the and their households when we talk about the household codes of the New Test New Testament church in Rome, we're not just talking about uh the the quote nuclear family that we think about. No, there's this this extended group of relationships that that we see in the New Testament and the household codes that Paul addresses. Now, uh in terms of where I'm going to go today, I'm going to talk first of all, I'm going to have to say, I'm going to say a lot to all of us. And then I'm going to look at the text and talk uh f first to wives and then to husbands, because that's the way Paul addresses this in the texts. But there's some reminders for all of us, for all people. And then there's there are reminders to to wives and reminders to husbands. Husbands. We're gonna look at ourselves as the church, we're gonna look at the world. We'll look at our obligations that we have as disciples of Jesus to remain First let me talk about a reminder for all. Verse 21, submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. Again, that flows out of all he's been saying, and that's to the entire body of Christ. In the body of Christ, we're to be people who submit to one another. Um there's a what some have called a a a mutual submission. Because you can see in verse twenty-two, he says, wives to your to your own husbands But you know what? If you know in the original language, the word submit isn't even there. But it's it is implied. It's implied from verse 21, which is why I added verse 21 to our Text. He really says submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ, wives to your own husbands. It doesn't say wives submit. He doesn't repeat the word submit. Because submission is the general thing we do in our relationships. He doesn't want us to think that only wives are the ones who submit. That's not not a no. There is a particular submission that he talks about that that has to go on in the in the marriage, but all of us as believers are to have a kind of submission to one another. The early church, the family was a was a very important thing, not just in our world today, but in the early church. Um Michael Green, a commentator, talk about the evangelism in the early Of Greco-Roman society. Christian missionaries made a deliberate point of gaining whatever households they could as lighthouses, so to speak, from which the gospel could illumine the surrounding darkness. Uh Stauffer may have gone too far, this commentator Stauffer, when he claimed that there is an almost ritual household formula to be found in the new New Testament, but he's quite right in stressing the centrality of the household to Christian advance. The household was a key place for the advance of the gospel in the first century. And yet, and what Paul is calling for is a very radical thing. He's calling for mutual submission in one sense. He's going to explain what that looks like. But he's he's he's he what he's saying is radical in the day in which he's preaching because th there was a there was a very oppressive attitude in most uh Roman men. One one commentator, Cato, says this Um the the the uh the commentator MacArthur said this is he quotes uh uh Cato, a Roman statesman in the second century. He says this, if you catch your wife in an act of infidelity, you can kill her without trial. But if she were to catch you, she would not venture to touch you with her finger. She has no rights. MacArthur says that reflects the extreme of male chauvinism that comes out of the curse of the fall and reflects the perversion of roles and the responsibilities that God intends for husbands. And wives. So there was clearly an inequality in the Roman understanding of male-female relationships, husband-wife relationships. And Paul is speaking into that That there's a mutuality, and he's going to show that. And they'll talk about how that works in this text. Verse 31, he quotes verse uh in verse 31. Genesis 2 24 man's delete del Leave and cleave and become one flesh with this wife. It's foundational. One thing that we've come to learn, that many people have come to understand Is that that verse about marriage? Marriage is not just an institution for God's people. Marriage is an institution for mankind. God has ordained that it is good that human beings enter into marriage, and He's created us in such a way that we have that drive, that longing. to be linked to a person of the opposite sex. He's made us physically that we might be linked to a person of the opposite sex. He says in Hebrews chapter 13, the writer of Hebrews says, let marriage be held in honor among all Let the marriage bed be undefiled, for God will judge the sexually immoral and the adulterous. Marriage is a good thing We need to understand that God has created marriage as something good. Think of the garden. He created Adam said This is good. Created Eve said, this is good. Created America said, this is good. This is very good. It's not good that we're alone. And that's not just for Christians. Should for everybody We need to be connected with a person like that. There are divine principles that produce healthy marriage relationships. And unbelievers. Can do certain things and to a certain measure experience temporal joy and peace and happiness through marriage. You know that. But you need to own that. It's not just Christians that have good marriages. Some believers can too. And that's good. Because marriage is God's idea, it's one of God's blessings, it's one of his common grace blessings for the human race. It's not created by God only for the blessing of his people. But it's also created as a depiction of the gospel. And think about it. What we're saying, we'll see about how that works in a second But what we're saying is that even when unbelievers experience a good marriage, they are depicting the gospel. They don't know it But they are depicting the gospel. Sadly, many Christians don't know it. And marriage is a picture of the gospel. And so Paul calls that a mystery. Verse 32. He calls this a mystery In the New Testament, mystery is something that's not clearly understood, not clearly known, but it's being revealed. We talked about this word mystery in chapter 3. When we looked at Paul, the apostle of the mystery, he revealed more clearly the inclusion of Gentiles. Remember that a few months ago? It's not a totally new idea What was radical as Paul unfolded the death and the implications of it? Well, here again, Paul uses the word mystery. There's something radical that Paul wants to unfold here about marriage. Again, what is marriage? It's this covenanting together of two people, a man and woman, exclusively, emotionally, financially, physically, publicly. So death separates them. See, marriage points to the gospel, Christ and the church. Paul continues, he says that in this passage And as believers, we need to understand that that is the profound mystery. That's my title. The profound mystery. There's a message that every marriage communicates. An unhealthy marriage communicates something bad about God. A healthy marriage reflects and communicates something good about God. It communicates to the watching world. To other brothers and sisters in the church. It even communicates back to God as an act of worship when you have a healthy marriage. Communicates to Satan who hates you and wants you to have an unhealthy marriage. It communicates to your spouse. There's communication going on. Communicates to the next generation, your children The children of God might produce. The healthier the marriage, the clearer the world sees Jesus. Marriage between two people of the same gender is directly from the pit. I need to say that in our world today Because I've in my probably in ten years I'll probably get arrested for saying it. It's a direct attack against our Creator. And I say this realizing that there's pain in that statement for many of you May m some of you it you know, you maybe you have experienced that kind of attraction. Maybe you know someone or who has experienced that kind of attraction. And in our world our world seems to want to to um uh authorize it as as We're in a fallen, broken world. And even in this area, in the area of our sexuality, we're fallen, we're broken. All of us in various ways The only person in the world who what didn't have any sexual issues is Jesus. And he didn't get married, by the way. That's a shout out to the Catholics there, right? But we're all we all have sexual issues, all of us do Um let me tell you a story about a man uh in church history. Um he had intense passion issues Sexual struggles. During his teenage years he left home in kind of a boarding school situation and he ex begin to experience the joys of the world physically, sensually, he began to uh uh become active sexually. He um um had a girlfriend in fact and uh he moved in with her and they had a son together. And uh in his twenties he He he he he finished school in the s and he began to to pursue the meaning of life and how can he find peace in life. And and he joined a religious cult. It was in that cult for all I think about his life I think about the that great song by the Rolling Stones, I can't get no satisfaction He became a successful, wealthy professor of rhetoric. And yet he struggled, he was a success in his career, yet he struggled with his own sexual urges. Um he wanted to to fulfill his wife his mother's uh desire and prayers and really turn his life over to God In fact, in his memoirs later he would say his his prayer was, Lord, please give me chastity, but not yet. Well we know that man is Saint Augustine of Hippo, the fourth century bishop of Hippo, North Africa, who came to faith in Christ at thirty-two years old. After many years of what we would call sexual addiction and pursuing love in all the wrong places, pursuing peace of heart through relationships. And he lived after he came to know God, he lived a celibate life. His mother got rid of his concubine. That was that's that's an interesting story, but he lived a celibate life as a priest After that, for the rest of his life. In his confessions, his famous confessions, his memoirs, he said, Lord, we were created for thee. Our hearts are restless until they find rest in thee. Like many people, they're looking for love in the wrong places. And we need to need to mourn. As we see people pursuing the love that only God can give, the peace that only God can give But we live in a in a pretty promiscuous, crazy society that thinks that ignoring God's word and creating our own sexual ethic will produce freedom It's been tried before. It has been tried before and it does not work. In Romans 1, if you look at Romans 1, verses 18 to 18 at the end of the chapter, it informs us of that first century world that Paul lived in. One of the things that we need to understand as followers of Christ is that these Moral issues that we think are so oh they're so bad now. Nothing's new under the sun. Look at Romans 1 Nothing's on the sun. The idea that they could find freedom in these areas Without God. See, there's not freedom there. There's only bondage. There's only bondage. Paul's, let me talk a little bit about the world of Paul and the world of Jesus They were their s there's this the sexual practices were were very similar to the practices of our day. And I saw one commentary said that every uh noble Robin Roman uh uh citizen had not just a wife, he had a boy. A boy, not his own son. A boy. That was very, very normal. And if you look at the New Testament, it kind of speaks into that. That ethic is abnormal. It's not what God designed uh us to have. A man did not look to his wife to fulfill his pleasure. He looked he had uh other he fulfilled them in other ways. But in the history of the world, again Augustine was in like the fourth century and and then we had the dark ages then we had the reformation the reformation there was a there was kind of a renaissance of of the the importance of of fidelity between husband and wife think of think of Luther the Reformation Day Luther who had what Yeah, over dozen had like seventeen, eighteen kids? I mean a lot of kids, he and his wife. And and um uh he th the whole idea they went from the celibate pastor to the pastor who could be, you know, a a normal man who could have a a a marriage. And the Reformation W uh took some real steps there. But also if you know history, there was this time called the Victorian Age where or at least our image of it is is that the Things were pristine and and those people of people of faith didn't we're not allowed to have these kind of drives, these kind of drives that God that God gave us And then in the nineteenth century, the twentieth century, um many of you um par are old enough to remember the uh sixties, the the revolution that took place in the sixties that it that included a what c what we call a a sexual revolution as some of the things like um d uh uh birth control in terms of the science uh uh Make things change things. Um the divorce laws, divor divorce became very easy. But one of the most important things that happened uh back then is is the purpose and meaning of marriage began to shift Marriage became a way of self-fulfillment. It was all about me. It was about making my life better. The sense of obligation towards God and towards others began to slowly Melt away. Marriage became all about me. Separated from God, separated from family, separated from societal obligations, separated from the next generation. It was all about self-actualization. That's the word they use. And now in the 21st century, we're we're reaping the benefit of that. We're seeing the total reimagining of marriage, the total redefining of marriage. We're seeing the normalization of early activity. With as long as there's common consent, right? We're seeing the delay of actual marriage We're seeing the acceptance more and more of common law relationships where there is no marriage. Of course, we're seeing same-sex marriage. We're also seeing open marriage. You've heard about that, haven't you? Well you decide that you're not going to be faithful to each other. You just agree that you're both going to cheat. And of course, we're also seeing a slowly the rise of polygamy Where did this come from? This comes from our rejection of God's Word. We know that. We know that. And I wish I could say that those are the only problems in the world. But unfortunately it's not just out in the world. Let me say something to young people, because I know the world looks crazy to you. It is It is crazy. These things are crazy. And um parents need to understand that things are changing rapidly. Rapidly We were young to follow the Lord and his word, we were considered to be weird. We were weird But for young people to follow the Lord, they're considered evil to have the beliefs that the scriptures say about these things. It's evil to deny people what they want Be alert as we talk to our kids, to young people, as we raise the next generation. It's even more difficult than we would imagine And we need to to to to know that to follow the Lord, young people are not only considered to be weird It it it to be it is considered to be evil to to believe that sex is only for married people. In our world. Not just weird We're told that the most important thing is that there is consent by two adults. That's not God's way. We need to understand that We need to understand that that's difficult for our young people, but they have to, if we want them to hold on to their faith, we've got to impress that upon them as clearly as we can. Young people, it's a lie. We need to understand That. I think all I can think of is in the book of Judges. There's that verse. This is there is a way that seems right to man, but the end thereof is the ways of death. And that's what we're seeing happening when it comes to the issue of marriage. Let me say before we look at the text a little bit, I mean there's a there's a couple of words I want to say to a few people. I want to say some things to single and divorced people This pass this message isn't isn't too this is Ephesians. This is not 1 Corinthians 7. Read 1 Corinthians 7 if you are single or divorced. And embrace singlehood as a gift, not a burden, as best you can. Foster healthy relationships. Learn how to appreciate the opposite sex 1 Timothy 5, Paul exhorts Timothy to treat the young women as he would treat his sister. The principles there for single for Dorsey, so understand. The next thing I want to give is just a word about Paul himself. Paul was not only a Jew, but he called himself a Pharisee of Pharisees. Philippians three. At some point in the first century, all Pharisees had to be married. Scholars differ on on what that when that became the rule. So some believed that he had been married, some believed he was He was never married. There's a difference among Bible scholars, what I'm saying here. Ultimately it doesn't really matter. It doesn't matter whether Paul is saying these things as a marriage Why? Because Paul is just a vessel. Paul's just a mouthpiece of fear for God In fact, if you look at 1 Corinthians 7, he ends that chapter kind of saying that. He says, uh, I have the Holy Spirit. I am an apostle. I'm saying these things out of the authority that God's giving me, is what he says there. Now that that's important because there are many people who reject what we have in this passage because oh Paul said that. And Paul was a Melchauvinist. You've heard that. Maybe you've heard that. No, Matthew records that Jesus said some of the same things. Listen, truth is truth, no matter what the source, okay? And we live in a day when people think that the experience of the storyteller grants them ultimate authority, not the truth that they're giving. That's ridiculous I am not a dancer, but I can talk about dancing and give some truth, not all truth. I'm not a politician. I can give a little bit of truth about politics I'm not an adulterer. I can give you the truth about adultery. I'm not a woman. I can give you a little bit of truth about what it means to be a woman. The truth isn't grounded in my own experience. It's grounded in God. And we got to understand that. We can't just diss something because of the source of the truth. We can listen to what the what the person is saying and evaluate it. Well, all that is is we've got a few minutes to look at these verses now. First is a reminder to wives, verses 22 to 24. And again, remember in Roman culture there was this movement against mutuality that he's coming against. So he says, Wives, submit to your own husbands. In Ephesians 4, he warned: don't live in sensuality like the Gentiles live. Both Judaism and Christianity raise the understanding of marriage and the status of women. Judaism and Christianity did that in the Roman world. Notice he says, submit to your own husbands. You don't have to submit to every man. No. your own husband, not somebody else's husband. Big one of the biggest challenges, of course, for Christian women is this idea, this word submit. It bothers women Obviously it doesn't mean that uh what what antagonists to the faith uh think it means because men and women are are to give To only give total loyalty and total obedience to God. We know that. In fact, he doesn't say obey, as he says to in the in the the the child to parent and slave to master. He doesn't use the word obey, he uses the word submit. Different word that he talks about. One commentator, Kent, says this: there's no hint of any inferiority except in position. Wives may be the equal of and many times inferior to the husbands in intelligence Courage, spirituality, and moral discernment, discretion, and in a thousand other ways. Furthermore, as members of the body of Christ, they're equal. But in the matter of authority and position in the home, the Bible is absolutely clear. The wife is subject to the authority of the home. It's not an issue of who's smarter or who's better to be seeing. That's never the issue. In many ways, women can wives can be smarter or more than the husband. That's not the issue. And he gives a reason why, verse 23, because Christ is head of the church. There's this mystery thing. There's something going on about the gospel, the church in Christ, that is being reflected in a marriage The the hard the probably the hardest phrase in this whole passage is the little phrase in verse 24. Submit in everything. That's not an absolute everything. It's not an absolute everything. thing. Um obviously like the apostle said in Acts, we must obey God rather than men. If if if the husband's counsel is to do something that is that is clearly against Scripture Then the woman is not bound to do that. We know that. So don't let that phrase um scare you Here's a very important distinction regarding what I would call the feminist movement that we've seen in our lifetime You need to understand that there's a very different difference between 20th century feminism and 21st century feminism. Twentieth century feminism called for equality of women with men. Equality of women with men men. And if we understand the context of our world, that was essentially good. It's a good, godly thing. Galatians 3. 28 talks about in the church in the church how there's equality However, 21st century feminism is calling for the elimination of men. Think about it The myth that women are somehow better, superior to men, and therefore we don't need men. That's just as demonic as the other side. the emotion that men are superior. Twenty first century feminism wants to eliminate maleness. Amen. Think of that. Think of what's going on in our world Well, then there's a word finally to husbands, verses twenty-five to thirty. And the key word is love your wives. Come in, you're the love you you're you're to love your wife. It's interesting that y you mu you know in the Greek language several words for love. He doesn't use the word eros, that's it, romantic sexual love. Because for guys that's pretty easy, right? He doesn't use the word phileo, which is brotherly love, friendly love, because you wouldn't marry someone if you didn't feel kind of a relational connection, would you? He uses the word agape. What's agape? God's love, this unconditional love, this love that's tough, this love that's hard because it doesn't come naturally to us. A love that's supernatural, that's the love of God working through you. That's the word he uses. The unconditional love for the unlovable. And that's not easy And that's why Paul Paul puts it there. The challenge for men is a God they love. Because men tend to check out. Okay, forget it. That's our tendency And and Fox says, no, no, no. Unconditional love. Keep at it. Stay in there. The challenge for women is to respect. That's why he says respect women respect your men. There's a challenge. There's a particular challenge as we relate to each other He talks about. And another key word in this phrase, in this text, is as. As Christ loved the church. How did Christ love the church? Gave himself up for her. This is sacrificial love. He gave himself. You know, you you you you daily sacrifice and give yourself up. Give up your thoughts, your your your interests, your desires, your rights. That he might sanctify her to make her holy. Having cleansed her by the washing of water with the Word, the Word of God See, the responsibility is to assist God in the process of sanctification. The idea doesn't ignore or take her for granted. Men can easily do that. In most marriages, women need more attention, more more conversation. Is it closer to a creational? I don't know, but I see that One commentator says, This love has as its standard and model the love of Christ for his church It means not only a practical concern for the welfare of the other, but a continual readiness to subordinate one's own pleasure and advantage for the benefit of the other. of the other. It implies patience, kindness, humility, courtesy, trust, and support. And then here's a fight that could revolutionize the way you look at this passage. Ultimately, we are not Jesus to our wives. That's not what he's saying. In fact, when you think about it, when it comes to Jesus, we are brides. Think of it. Men, you're a bride. He's cleansed us. He's sanctified us. He's washed us. We sit in that same seat in one cent And we and we'd we'd include our wives in that same seed of being washed, cleansed, transformed. By Jesus. And we're to we're to we're to to cooperate and help we're to assist God in that process. Not just the wives, but our children as well This cannot be done naturally. Many people say it's so hard to submit. We know it's hard to love like this. And again, and that's why again the passage doesn't begin right here. The passage begins early. We love as Christ love. He's our image. We love in the power of the Spirit Verse 18, be filled with the Spirit. It takes that kind of a supernatural power to have the kind of homes that God wants us to have. Let me close with just a couple pastoral things. Let me let me conclude with with uh first uh a sum uh a wonderful summary of this passage uh by a commentary called Clinton Arnold. He has five points here, five points A few observations. There was a variet variety of ungodly cultural pressures that husbands and wives would have felt in the environment of Western Asia Minor, which is where it Uh these would have ranged from the traditional roles of the heavy handed dominance asserted by the the families, the the men of the families, and and unquestioning obedience of the wife to the societal traits seen in the new the new Roman woman, which was this feminine. Two. There is no doubt that women in Western Asia Minor were finding more opportunities in the civic and religious life of the community. Some were finding a new degree of freedom from the restraint and control and dominance of men in the society political, in society politic politics, religion, and the household. Number three, there were also some fairly radical trends in gender identity, where some men were repudiating their masculinity, appropriating a feminine identity, serving a female goddess, and engaging in sexual relationships with both. Men and women. This is the world of the first century. For in light of this diversity of trends in society, Paul writes to many Christians in Ephesus and Western Asia Minor. to give biblical and a Christological perspective on what it means to live as husband and wife. His readers come from all segments of society. Slaves, peasants, probably many from the urban elite. Some will have held to the traditional Greek and Roman understandings of rules, but others would probably be living the lifestyle of the new Roman women. It would not be at all surprising to find that there were some women who became Christians, who once served as priestesses In the local goddess cults. And fifthly, Paul remarks to husbands and wives are counter to every cultural pattern represented in that society. His vision for marriage is not a concession to any cultural pattern, but substantially challenges them all. His plan is rooted in the creation design and profoundly informed by the relationship that Christ has with his church. A couple of applications as we close. First a word to those, maybe some of you are newly married. It would be wise to have an older couple that walk with you, someone who knows who knows you well and can encourage you and help you understand the changes and the challenges that marriage brings you That's one of the beauties of the church. We can encourage each other to keep on keeping on You might say, well, I I can talk to my parents about those kind of things. Well parents can be helpful, but sometimes you need someone who doesn't know you as well that can be more objective. That's one thing. I remember when we were when we were newly married, we had a couple named Larry and Stephanie Kraft. They became missionaries overseas. They left it. They left us here in Baltimore. But you know, I remember the first few years, Larry got talked Jerry would say, Stephanie, I gotta talk. Healthy. It's healthy inviting Christ to have people who can encourage you when you're newly married. A word to those of us who've been married a little longer. I've been married what forty plus years now. Be available Don't think that you have it that you have nothing to share. You do. And the other thing is particularly when it comes to your relationship, don't take your spells for granted. It's easy to do. Don't take your spells for granted Granted. Next, um just a word to those of you who are unbelievers who may not have made a commitment to Christ yet. Don't idolize marriage as if it's the ultimate Don't make marriage an idol. Jesus saves, not marriage. Okay? And often Christians can give the impression that, oh, if you get married, your life will just be wonderful. Well, how many married people say that's not true? Jesus says marriage doesn't. When you get married and find out I need some I need to be more sanctified than I ever dreamed. Amen. God uses marriage to to change us, to bless us, to uh to transform our hearts. We begin to realize I'm more sinful than I ever thought I was I was yet Jesus' grace covers me more than I ever dreamed. If you never come to Christ, don't make marriage and I I don't but but but but be married to Jesus, okay? Who who who says come to me, I'll give you rest, I'll I'll I'll make your life what it needs to be Because he died for us. Because we're all messed up. Let's pray. Well are we living in a in a in a world that is so confusing? And I pray that that something I've said here today by your spirit will will Will help us to continually be faithful to you. I pray for for for for couples. I pray for children. I pray for those who were who don't have children. For those who whose children are God. Lord, all of us we're in very different circumstances, many of us. I pray that we would know that it is good. The thing that's called marriage that you have created is a good thing. Help us to protect it as you have have created it and not uh give in to the distortions of it that we see around us. And help us most of all um um Live that out that the world could see that it works, that marriage can work if we follow your word. May we be faithful to you, Father, in Jesus' name. Amen. Again, it's the love of Deep Jesus in our lives that