Good morning. This morning we are finishing up uh First Samuel chapter three. And we are reading from verses fifteen to the end of the chapter. So if you're able, would you please stand with me as we read? And now here we the meaning of God's word. David saw that Saul had come out to seek his life. David was in the wilderness of Zith at Horash. And Jonathan, Saul's son, rose and went to David at Horash and strengthened his hands. In God. And he said to him, Do not fear, for the hand of Saul my father shall not find you. You shall be king over Israel, and I shall be next to you. Saul my father also knows this. And the two of them made a covenant before the Lord. David remained at Horush, and Jonathan went home. Then the Zephites went up to Sawed, giving us saying, Is not David hiding among us in the the strongholds at Oresh on the hill of Akylah, which is south of Jeshimon. Now come down, O king, according to all your heart's desire, come down, and our part shall be to surrender him into the king's hand And Saul said, May you be blessed by the Lord, for you have had compassion on me. Go make ye more sure. Know and see the place where his foot is, and who has seen him there, for this told to me that he is very kind. See therefore and take note of all the lurking places where he hides, and come back to me with sure information. Then I will go with you. And if he is in the land, I will search him out among all the thousands of Judah And they rose and went to Ziff ahead of Saul. Now David and his men went in the wilderness of Baeon in the Arabah to the south of Jeshua And Saul and his men went to seek him. And David was stolen. So he went down to the rock and lived in the wilderness of Maon. When Saul heard that he pursued after David in the wilderness of Mahon Saul went on one side of the mountain, and David and his men on the other side of the mountain, and David was hurrying to get away from Saul, as Saul and his men were closing in on David and his men to capture them. A messenger came to Saul saying, Hurry and come, for the Philistines have made a raid against the land. So Saul returned from pursuing after David and went against the Philistines Therefore that place was called the Rock of Escape, and David went up from there and lived in the stronghold. Of engaging. The word of the Lord this morning. Father, we ask that you would bless us. We ask that you would bless your word. We ask that you would guide us and help us to believe your faithfulness towards us every day. We pray all this in Christ's name. Amen. Peace be seeded. You probably have heard the many versions Of the Drowning Man Christian joke or story. So I'll tell you my version this morning. It's a story, it's a joke, but it's a story about a Christian man who Who decided to stay in his house after this emergency warning that the riverbanks were about to overflow and flood the nearby homes? And so instead of evacuating, just like everybody else, this man, this Christian Christian, faithful Christian man we should know, decided that he was gonna stay there because he was going to wait upon the Lord to save him. So a car passes by as the neighbors are evacuating and leaving the city and they say please come on over and let's go, let's get out of here because it's gonna overflow these days or no please A canoe comes by with people with the waters that they're flowing and they ask the same thing. A motorboat comes by, he waves them away and he says, Go help someone else who is in need. Because God will save me. And so the waters keep rising. He goes into the second level of his house, up on the rooftop. A helicopter comes up and a man Tries to give him a rope to hold on. He says, Come on man, you're going to die. And he says, No, I'm fine. God will save me. And so the man drowns, of course, and he dies, and he goes to heaven. And when he gets there, he asks God, God, why, why did you not save me And God's answer is simple. He said, Son, look here. I sent you a car, I sent you a canoe, I sent you a motorboat, I sent you a helicopter. What more were you looking for? I see we might laugh at this story. Indeed, it's a laughable Christian joke. But I do think that there are principles that we can learn from this story. And the main principle which is more implied or implicit than explicit Is this that God has made a promise to you as his child? That God has made a promise to all of us to save us when we are in trouble. And yet God has made another promise to us that He will never forsake us. As we've been singing this morning, He will never leave us. But I feel like sometimes in our lives we live as if we are people who are just doubtful We doubt and we're tempted to look for help from somewhere else. Sometimes we we even miss God's help altogether, like this man misses God's help. And so our job and our work this morning, or my job, or the work that the text this morning is teaching us is this that in most cases and most of the times we need to constantly be Be reminded that even when God's promises towards us seem to be threatened, that God's providential care will always prove them to be true Did you hear that? Even when God's promises seem to be threatened in our lives, God's providential care proves them to be true. It is what David needed to be Here it is what David needed to be reminded by his own friend as he's hiding and running away from Saul. David is here hiding from Saul in the wilderness. needing to be reminded because all you could see was trouble all around him. All you could see was a man that was relentless relentlessly pursuing after him and wanting to destroy him David could not be able to see his destiny, which was God's promise upon him of being a king. After being anointed, he's sitting there and thinking, when will this ever happen? Will this promise ever be true? And so Jonathan comes to encourage me. And so as we all do, David's encouragement had to be this. The first thing we see in verses 15 through eighteen it was this you must keep your eyes on what is unseen you must keep your eyes on what is unseen And as and so we are reminded the same thing to keep our eyes on what is not seen. Remember as we read from from chapter 15 before then, we read in chapter 23 or verses 1 to um to As Pastor Dan preached last week. I wasn't here, but I'm sure he was talking about this. That you know the story was David leaves, David did in Tialah trying to save the people of God from the Philistines Then now he's leaving Kiala because he's already inquired of the Lord and has known that this is not a safe place for me to be. It's his own home, it's his own place, his own people, but he's not stayed there. And so he's, we're told in verses 15, he's escaping, going to the wilderness. But look at verses if you have your Bible with you, look at verses 14 How that uh pericope in chapter twenty-three, one to fourteen ends. It says in verses fourteen b and Saul sought him every day. Saul sought him every day. But God did not give him into his hand. What an amazing thing that David has been promised to be the king. I mean this man is seeking any safety that he can find. But Saul is every single day relentlessly seeking after him too. Now, we can only imagine how David's weariness had become, how slim he held on to God's promises of salvation Especially with how Saul is acting. You know, David elsewhere in Psalm 6:3, the mess of his situation, he says, My soul is greatly troubled, but you, O Lord, how long? Do you ever cry that? How long, Lord? How long will I have to wait? How long would you have to wait for your promises to be true? We will never know just how close David was coming to giving up, to forgetting all of God's promises forever. Forget it, forget this thing of me being a king. Who cares anymore? All I want is just to be saved. But I think actually that it is God's provision of this young man, of David's friend Jonathan, to encourage him that shows us, that gives us just a hint of how desperate and how much David was handling. By a thread. And so Jonathan comes and provides a model of what a Christian friendship is all about. Because David is coming to him and he's reminding him of God's faithfulness towards him. He's encouraging him, David, you need to believe and continue the fight. You cannot give up now. Do you realize how much Jonathan is Risking by going to find David all by himself. He's going to David. He's approaching David in his own place. trouble. Jonathan does more than just show up, does more than just being there for the man. He did what we all need when we are in trouble. Look at verses 16. What are we told they did David Jonathan did. He strengthened his hand in God. David's hand was trembling David Hen was slipping away from holding on to the strong support of faith in God that he needed David was living in fear. So Jonathan comes to put David's hand, as it were, in God's very own hand. It is one thing to take one hand when we're facing trials and we're in despair, but it is even a greater thing when we take those who are struggling and those who are in despair and place their life, place their hands. On the promises of God. Did you hear that? It is one thing for you to tell someone, oh brother or sister, I ache and I mourn with you, and it's just so sad for me to hear the story and to hear the brokenness that's going on. It is another thing to point that person and tell them there is one who is able to comfort you and give you strength more than I could ever do. And you need to look into his promises. He's encouraging David to look upon the promises of God because they are truly uncertain. I mean, he even points to him and tells him, even so, my father who is seeking to kill you, he even knows that those promises are true. The hand here is representing the power struggle. This is a power struggle here, and we must be asking ourselves: so whose hand is going to prevail? David's Him, God's Him, Saul's Him. Look at verses 17 This is not an empty attempt at comfort or trying to to to somehow tell tell David, oh you know everything is going to be alright Because David doesn't think that. He doesn't see that. It's an expression of reality. It is more powerful than the terrifying circumstances. That's what Jonathan is telling David Telling him, forget what you're seeing, forget all the struggles that you're looking at, forget all the pursuit that this man is trying to kill you Forget all that. There's something that is bigger than your circumstances. But why should David not fear? Why should he not fear knowing that the hand of Saul is the hand that holds the spear? It's the hand that keeps on hurling the spears upon him. How could Jonathan not be afraid, even telling David not to be afraid when he knows his own father tried to kill him? You know why? It is only because of God's word, it is only because of the promises that David hears and he believes them. He believes the promises of God. What David is hearing is what overcomes what he saw Does God's word to you ever help you to overcome what you can see? That you're able to see all the trials of life and be able to say, you know what, I see all the darkness, I see I see all the turmoil, I see all the brokenness, I see all the bad things, but man, I serve Almighty God. And that's where I'm going to look at. He says in verses 17: Do not fear, for the hand of Saul my father shall not find you. You shall be king over Israel, that shall be next to you. Saul my father knows this. Jonathan is affirming God's promises to David. You know, I'm sure his presence with David was refreshing, truly refreshing. But it is only by reminding And you know this is the last time that David and John Jonathan will see each other. It is the very last time that Jonathan will see his friend. Jonathan will die. There's a certain heaviness in this word, in this final word, as as they have their last act of friendship. As Jonathan and David renewed their covenant relationship again, with Jonathan reminding David, I will always be there for you. My brother. But you know what Jonathan is doing here? Jonathan is turning David's heart on the one who was able to do much more than he could ever do He's not telling him I will always be there for you. He's actually directing him towards God, toward a father, towards a God who is able to rescue him and save him. He's reminding David that God does not abandon his servants. He doesn't abandon those who belong to him, even when he places them in harm's way. Do you ever wonder why God would not say David yet he still continues to allow him to go through all these trials and temptations? Why would God let that happen? Why would he allow him to continue facing trouble? I'm reminded of Psalm 22, a psalm that David praised and lament, a psalm that David's greatest son would also put some powerful image When he was on the cross, he says, Be not far from me, for trouble is near, and there is none to help me, he cries out. Many bulls and compass me, strong bulls of Bashan Surround me. They open wide their mouths at me like a ravening and roaring rot lion. What was David supposed to do? Under this difficult circumstance. Maybe even a better question is this: what are we supposed to do? What are you supposed to do when you're facing despair and trouble? When you are tempted beyond what you could ever imagine What are we supposed to do as a church when we face all kinds of persecution when we feel like the world is just crumbling on us? What are we supposed to do? What can you do? What should you do? you do. There's only one thing that we can do and that is persevere. Because that is what we're called to do. David is here being called to persevere through his lives because our whole lives the goal of our our our whole life is that by perseverance we we not only prove that we have faith Faith in God, but that we actually enter into the fullness of this salvation with Christ speech. That we persevere to the very end. Jonathan is here helping us to see beyond our circumstances. Jonathan is reminding us to walk by faith and not by sight. Because what we see can fool us into thinking that we are weak, that we have nothing. Yes, we are, but God is our strength. Jonathan is helping us to remember God's promises, which are true. Because when we understand that God's promises are certain and Truth, that makes a difference as to how we look at life. Do you want to see life differently from God's perspective? You only got to believe His promises, that they are true. You know, there's a passage in Matthew chapter 17, verses 22 to 23. I will not read it, but I know it. You know, this Jesus is talking to his disciples, he's telling them, He is He's coming to them and telling them, see, the Son of Man is about to be delivered into the hands of evil men, and they will kill him. And he will be crucified and he will die. And then he says, On the third day he will be raised again. But you know how that passage ends? It says that the disciples were distressed. And so you wonder, did they even hear the promise that came at the end of those words that the Son of Man must be given to evil men, die, and be crucified? They never heard, they never listened to the beauty of the Son of the Beautiful words that Jesus said, but on the third day he will rise again. God's faithfulness to the Is never in doubt. God's faithfulness to rescue us from our trouble is never in doubt. Not at any moment in our life. Do you know what is always in doubt? It is our faith. It is our faith that always needs testing. It is our faith that always needs renewal. It is our faith that always needs to be strengthened. But you know what? When we are tempted When we trust the Lord, when we are strengthened by the trials of our life, then our faith flourishes. It is the only way. It is the only way for us to keep our eyes on what is in sea. Because when we keep our eyes on what is seen, we forget the promises of God, we forget our destiny. Second thing that we see here is that we must keep our eyes on the unexpected The first thing we must keep our eyes on what is unseen. Secondly, we must keep our eyes on the unexpected. Look at verses 19 through 29. What mattered most was not what was seen but what was unseen. God's invisible hand truly at work in David's life to rescue him And I think it's even it's even so funny here that the to emphasize the point, the text actually doesn't tell us about this invisible hand of God that is at work. It barely gives us the story of what happened To emphasize the point that God is trying to make for us. And so David is in the rocky desert of Judea. The Ziphites are here, his own brothers and sisters negotiating his betrayal. His own countrymen, fellow Judahites, cold and cynical opportunists. I mean this man And women are not even facing any threat from from Saul. Saul had killed the prop the prophets, remember, the priests in Naw. But he's not even threatening them in any way. They just simply freely offer their Betrayal upon David. And of course Saul doesn't think that the information he get he grants them is enough Because he's a man that is driven by fear and desperation, so he wants to make sure that give me the perfect information so that I may capture this man. destroy him. But look at how delusional Saul is. He's become so deluded that he thinks that God is on his side. Even after destroying God's priest, you still think that God is on your side? Mr. Israel, you are so He is pronouncing a blessing to the people of Zipha who have conspired towards David. And then look at verses 21. They the the Ziphrites actually have a misguided concern for Saul. He says, For your concern for me, what concern but Saul is not the only man who's got intelligence. David too has his own intelligence. He gets information. He's got He told you must disappear and go to the uh to the land of Maya, where he continues to trust in desperate faith. And while he's in the cave, we're told that Psalm 54 is one of the passages that David actually writes. And here is this word from Psalm 54, one he says, Oh God, save me by your name and vindicate me by your mind. He's still crying out to God. And towards the end of Psalm 54, we see a man whose faith is rising up as he's praying to God and asking for his rescue. We see a man who is actually giving thanks to God and saying, I praise you, God. For the victory that he has not seen with his eyes, but he knows it's there. Because he's seen that victory with his face And so as the climax of the story gets here, we see David is on one side of this mountain with this man, and then Saul is standing on the other side, closing in on David. They're just about to capture him and destroy him And so we hold our breath, we wait for the hammer or for the axe to fall, and at that very moment a messenger shows up and boom, tell us all, you need to go back The Philistines have raided our land yet again. You need to go fight. Because you see, what's going on here is this. These two enemies that Saul is so threatened by The Philistines threaten the kingdom of Saul, and so does David. So, which is the greater enemy for him to go find? Well, the reason why he goes back and stops pursuing David is not because he thinks that David is a lesser enemy. Or that the Philistines are greater. No. This is Yahweh's timing as he uses the Philistines for his service. This is all God's plan. Some might not know what's going on. But this is Yahweh's plan to save his own. The enemy that we read, the Philistines in verses 1 and 5, the enemy has become the Savior. A strange, a strange twist. With a touch of humor from God. That's how He saves us. See the certainty of God's sovereign resolve to save his people is rightly here compared as we see in this passage by this great and solid rock. The place is named the Rock of its Cape. The other translation is the rock of division. Indeed, such a suitable name for such an unforgettable case. For David. What an amazing way that God saves it. The mountain becomes the emblem. The mountain becomes the emblem of the divine providence as God is coming between David. And the destroyer, a reminder for us this morning, that when we face or when we are fear or when we're afraid of facing future despair and troubles, we need to be reminded that God is always standing between us and the destroyer. He's always right there in the middle, protecting us and saving us from all of our enemies. Is that where you trust His morning is that where you place your trust this morning in that rock of your salvation the one who stands in between you and the enemy to save We're talking about this word, I'm using this word uh saying providence. And sometimes I think we lose or we don't even understand what that word means. What is providence, anyways? What does that mean to us as I like Ronalph Davis. I I love the way he uses his language in talking about the Old Testament. It's a beautiful language, but language that we're just We can identify with because he doesn't seek to use all these big words that, you know, oh yeah, it's the you know the divine, this and that. He just says it this way that providence is the strange way God works to keep his people on his on their feet. I love that. That's providence. The strange way that God works in our lives to keep us on our feet. You and David is not disappointed. By trusting in God, by just simply saying you know what, I'm gonna be in the caves, I'm gonna be in the wilderness, I'm gonna be in Maon. God will do something. I'm expecting the unexpected. Because God is able to provide resources to sustain us during In times of despair. Because God has thousands upon thousands of resources that He can use at His disposal to save us. Many of which are known to us, many of which are not seen with our very eyes unless we Look to him in faith. David was not called to overthrow Saul. Do you know, do you do you think about it when you read about David going through all these trials? When the people of Ghali are in trouble, when Sora needs someone to defeat the Philistines, who does he go to? Who does he go to? He can save. He goes to David. David has just saved Kialah from the Philistines. I mean do you ever think why why is David not taking his men that he's been training and just attacking Saul, overthrowing him and being done with it and become the king? Why is he not doing it? Because that was not what God told him to. Because that is not what God wanted him to. God wanted David to persevere, to be faithful to his God-given calling. That's it. Be faithful to what I've called you to do and I will provide. I will give you the victory. Not you. You might be a Goliath slave. You might be killing all this. But that's not what I'm calling you to do right now I'm calling you to persevere. See a contrast here that we see here towards the end as Saul has seen To trust in the Lord. He's instead trusting in the rumors from others, from the zeepys that they're betraying him, using his own military uh knowledge and political strategies. He's depending on his own wisdom Whatever information he can gather from the Zephites, he will take it. By contrast, David is here a man who is completely depending on God, seeking God's divine guidance to lead him to where he's supposed to be So here's my question for you, church, this morning. Who are you trusting this morning? Are you waiting upon God's salvation? you fully by fully trusting in him, believing in him that he will. By his providential care, come to your rescue. Is that what you're doing Or you're doing what I'm tempted to do all of my life, which is this. I'm always tempted when I'm in trouble to skin and to work in my own strength and abilities My own strength, using the knowledge that I know and the things that I know, depending on government and laws and all these things, individuals, my own family. That's my temptation to come to my rescue But are you trusting God for the unexpected? Are you trusting God and being faithfully walking with Him? And asking God, what is it that you're calling me to be faithful to? What is it that you're calling me to do now, regardless of what I have to face in my own life? Because I know that you will rescue me. I gotta tell you a story. I was struggling with discernment this week. And I just couldn't put the two points together. Sitting in my office, at my desk, staring at my computer Trying to type the most profound statement I can come up with so I can convince you to truly trust God. Then my phone rang. And I prayed called me and my friend was in tears and she needed encouragement. She needed to share with me just all the trials of life that she was expecting And I sat there and listened. She starts, she broke down in tears and I'm tearing up. And she told me, Josiah, I am not Afraid of dying. I'm okay with that. I could go to heaven right now. And it will be okay. And I sat there thinking to myself, oh, how much I need to confess my sin this day because I truly have no faith. I don't believe that God that I am gonna be preaching about and talking to people and telling them to have faith. Because I have no faith at all. Doubt. And I told her, you know, you called me thinking that I was going to encourage you, but you are encouraging me. You have broken my heart. But you know, my friend taught me one thing about this passage. They said, as much as I have so much faith that God is truly here doing his will and providing for me and doing everything. I am also extremely afraid. I am filled with anxiety I cannot face tomorrow And that was it for me. I said that's me. Do like I believe in your promises. I trust they are true. But I'm also here. I'm scared to death. You know your rescue might not look like David's rescue. It might not be God just showing up at The opportunity. Your rescue could be death itself. It could be David's future was not to be determined by what he could see, by the ruthless pursuit of Saul. God said, I'm the one One who gives you your future, and the one who determines your future. This was not the last time that David was going to suffer. He will keep on suffering. You know what the Bible tells us about David's greatest son, Jesus Christ? It says that Christ must suffer. He did something. He was betrayed. He was killed. He died. He hung on the cross. But the same Bible tells us that he rose again from the dead He is. And he tells us by his suffering, his crucification, his resurrection has become our victory. And that is why, church That is good news for us. That is why that is the greatest news that you could ever hear. Because by his resurrection, he's saying to you and to me That the promise I have made to you is true and is certain. And he is able to say this: do not be afraid. Do not lose heart. Why? Because I will always strengthen you by my hand despite all the dreadful sorrows that you have to face in your life. But then you may ask me, but how do we know that we've reached the end of ourselves? How does Christ know that we've reached the end of ourselves, that we cannot bear it no more? That we are at the end of ourselves. How do we know? I have no words other than to read this passage from Hebrews 4. 14. And is this the only way we may know. Jesus says, since then we have a great high priest. Who has passed through the heavens? Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with the witnesses. But one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may find mercy and find grace to help in time. Of need. David, you will never leave. You will never escape. You will never be away from the shelter of the most high God. Never! It will never happen. And the same God who promises those words to David is the same God whose hand can turn your griefs away. The same God who tells you though sorrow, need, or death be yours, yet we are not. not forsaken. Are you trusting this God? Are you trusting his promises? You must keep your eyes on what isn't seen. You must keep your eyes on the unexpected. Father, we thank you for your word this morning. Thank you for your reminder yet again of how faithful you are to us. Would you forgive us though we failed to trust you, to believe you Will this week be filled with a reminder of all the promises that you have made to us. And that we fully and truly live in full defense. We pray this in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen.