Morning. What difference does Jesus make in your life? What difference does Jesus make in your life? If you're able, would you stand with me as we honor the reading of God's Word this morning? We're reading from Micah chapter 5, verses 2 to 5a. Listen to the word of the Lord. But you, O Bethlehem Ephetha, who are too little to be among the clans of Judah, from you shall come forth for me. One who is to be ruler in Israel, whose coming forth is from old, from ancient days. Therefore he shall give them up until the time when he who is in labor has given birth Then the rest of his brothers shall return to the people of Israel. And he shall stand as shepherd and shepherd his flock in the strength of the Lord, in the majesty of the name of the Lord his God. and they shall dwell secure, for now he shall be great to the ends of the earth, and he shall be their peace. Father, we come before you and we behold you, who is our King and our God, the one who is so powerful and mighty to defend your people. We're so thankful for your word that you give to us. May you use this word as we delight in it, as we look upon it as a word that is sweeter than the honey. Would you use it to encourage us this morning and to remind us of your promises that are true? us. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. Some of the headlines this morning on the New York Times Read as follows. In a strategy against the ISIS, the U. S. weighs risk to civilians. On the BBC, World News reads, Delhi gang rapists freed amid protests. Another headline reads, Buildings collapse in China. Landslide. The Daily Nation, the Kenya newspaper, reads, the police rescue a church in central part of Kenya before a bomb explodes. These are some of the headlines that we read, whether you read or look at the news or not, these are some of the things that are happening to us This day, this hour, this day of the Lord as we gather together before God's presence. The migrant crisis that's going on in Europe right now The problem of ISIS that we experience is giving all of us just a glimpse of how broken our wall is. The sad part is that is just a tip of the iceberg. The news that doesn't make the national news or you don't read about it on the on the New York Times or any newspaper on the television Is much more worse than we would care to know. I know some of us here that have refused to watch the news and would not want to hear what's going on Rightly so, because they are so sad and broken by what's going on in our world. They're trying to escape the tragedy and the reality of our world. But that does not take away the suffering that we experience The hopelessness that faces us when we are faced with such trials. Because at times we become disillusioned, we become bitter and angry and confused. And we try to find an answer to the hopelessness and the brokenness that we face in our life. It is the same thing that God's people are facing as the prophet Micah is prophesying to God's people. They are trying to find an answer An answer and a solution to defeat their great enemies, the Assyrians, and others. And yet, God is pointing them to an answer that's unexpected. And the question before us this morning is: when life seems to be falling apart, where shall we go to find an answer to our problems? God is here in verses 2 pointing God's people to a small and insignificant town as the source of their hope, as God's answer. To their hopelessness. But before we even look at verses 2, verses 1 reads this because I think it bears on what the prophet Micah is talking about here. Verses 1 of chapter 5 says: Now master your troops, O daughter of troops Siege is laid against us. With a rod they strike the judge of Israel on the cheek. God's people are in distress And things are just about to get even worse, as he tells them. You are about to be laid on siege. He's referring here to the Babylonian exile because God's people are just about to be taken into exile. They will be there for seventy. Years. Micah is looking at God's people and yet the answer does not lie in telling them that immediately, right now, God is going to rescue you. He's saying you're gonna be in trouble. You're gonna be in distress. But I am speaking to you to give you hope, hope in a trying time so that you don't lose the hope that God gives you. He's pointing them to the source of their hope. As the text moves from verses 2 to 5, from present distress to the future. Future, not now, future salvation. From humiliation of Jerusalem to Messiah's victory. And the source of their hope is to be found in this rather surprising place From a small, insignificant little town of Bethlehem, as we've sung this morning, and as my old professor Bruce Walkie Used to say the little town is sublime with glory as it is alone addressed by Jehovah, by God Himself, directly here in this passage. Bethlehem means house of bread and Epratha means fruitful. Epratha is actually a small district. In Judah. I'm not sure if he's referring to both of them as put together collectively, or he's just referring to this little district in Bethlehem As we see in Psalm 132, 6. But though this place is fruitful, it is insignificant. It is a small place where nothing, absolutely nothing, would be expected to come from. It is insignificant, insignificant in its existence among the clans of Judah because the Judah was quite big. Just like David. Remember the story of David. David, who was the least of his brothers. Where was David born? In Bethlehem. And he plays only a very limited role among Judah's clans. The Messiah is therefore coming from this little town to give hope And we know how the Messiah is seen as he comes into the picture. He's lowly and despised, so that through his only through the sovereign grace of God alone That he becomes great. Matthew quotes the same passage in Matthew chapter 2, verses 6. As Matthew is answering the question of Herod, as he was asking, Herod asked the question: Where is this king that has been born? And the answer to that question is this little town. Matthew sees the smallness of Bethlehem, but Matthew wants to show us the greatness that we Would come upon this little town of Bethlehem because the Messiah, the promise of God, would be born in this little place. And here we see in this words in verses two as as God is speaking, he says, But for you, Bethlehem. And then he says, and from you, which is God showing just how he's able to draw from smallness the greatest of all things. The most prestigious men are not the greatest men. David was the youngest of all, the small man who would who was not even considered as a king. And yet God is able to bring him up as a king in contrast to the proud and and then the powerful clans of Judah, Bethlehem. Is little. And we know that the story, the focal point in a redemptive story where God comes to save us, comes from this little place showing Israel's great future Which does not depend on great human king, but it depends solely on divine intervention to bring greatness Greatness out of nothing. And then he says, From you shall come forth for me. What does that mean? It is God simply showing us this. That this ruler, this king that is about to come, is not coming to solve, or is not coming because of your own honors. He's not just coming for you. He's coming to accomplish God's promises and plans. For you. It is God initiating that, not man. It is God's answer to our problem, the source of our hope. Then he says he's from old is from ancients of days. It's a reference to where Christ is being born, to where the Messiah is coming from. From from the line of David, going back to 2 Samuel chapter 7, as God promises that the one who was to come would occupy the throne of David and he will dwell there forever But it is even more than that. It is alluding to Christ Himself, the pre-existence of God, of Christ Himself, that Christ was not Just the one who came to be born on that day with the virgin birth, but he existed even in creation itself: the Trinity, God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Who would have expected that a king would be chosen, would come from such a little town of Bethlehem? Who would have expected that a king would be born where the cattle feed? As David belonged to a pastoral family, the shepherd boy, and his father as well. As I mentioned, he was the least of his brothers. Who could have thought that the King of Glory that that the King and the Light of the World would come from such a place Isn't it when you think about it, going against expectations of all men, where a king is being born in this small place, in such a place and with such parents? But God is telling his people here that if he is the same God who is able to make David A king to make David rule in Israel and make the nation prosperous and great and blessed. This man that is born in Bethlehem, they have no reason to fear. They have no reason to be distressed in their current Why? Because God can and He will from this little town bring forth a king. We do not accomplish great things. God accomplishes great things through us. We are not the ones who do it. And that reminds us that we ought not to boast in anything. As we always sing, we don't boast in anything, but in Christ alone, in what God has given us. I think it is a reminder for us to watch ourselves that we don't buy into the competing rulers that want to take over our lives with false promises or fixing all of our problems. I don't know what kinds of rulers are in your life that are wanting to take over your life. God is telling you that He is the one who accomplishes. It is His and Answer to your problems, not others. But it's also a reminder for us to be watchful that we're not overconfident, but we remain under God's sovereign plan. See, we want, I want to control my future. I want to control what's going to happen tomorrow. I want to control what's going to happen today after this service. But God wants us to know this. God's people were trying to find one who would come to conquer their enemies right away. The enemies thought they were going to conquer and destroy Israel. They're all trying to control their future, but God says that He is the one who provides the political map for the world, not the nations. The United States, Russia, Turkey does not provide The political map for the world. God does. So I ask you this morning: where have you failed To see God answer your prayers and answer your problems. Have you been looking elsewhere? Have you looked at your small and insignificant places and who you are and thought, God is not here. I hope you're able to see that and see how God can bring something out of nothing, greatness out of that which is small. But the second thing that we see here is that God is not just simply providing an answer to God's people's hopelessness, that He also has a timing. But just because God has said I will do something doesn't mean that you're gonna get it right away. That we have to wait upon his timing. Even In times of hopelessness. The people of God seem to be focused more on their military power, on having a ruler who will come and conquer the Assyrians and occupy their land immediately There's a confusion here over what the Messiah comes to do and what they want him to do. Isn't that all life? When we're praying to God, when we're coming before the Lord, we Don't think about what he is coming to do, what we need. We think more about what we want him to come and do. But God is saying here that there's going to be a delay. That the people need to be patient and wait by trusting God and His coming In the meantime, he's gonna give them away to their enemies. And we know again, I repeat the this is a fulfillment that happens actually in 701 BC Because the Assyrians do attack Jerusalem. And then Judah is taken to captivity by the Babylonians for 70 years. But do you know what happens for the next 700 years after Micah prophesies? Seven hundred years the people of God have to wait for the promised Messiah to be born And here we are, we sit and wait for the return of the King of Kings. And we are still waiting. His birth comes to mark the end of a period in which Israel is given into the hands of the enemies. His return will mark the end And God is here using in verses three, he says, Therefore he shall give them up until a time when she was a very good thing. Who is in labor has given birth, then the rest of his brothers shall return to the people of Israel. God is using a believing community, the community of God to bring about the Messiah. A community that is characterized, as you see in Luke chapter 1, by faith, by prayer, and fullness of the Holy Spirit and Messiahs, people, as we know, are the ones who are naturally joined to Him, obviously coming from the line of David. But those of us who are now have been converted and spiritually joined by him by being heirs of Christ Himself. Remnants of God, which is referring to the final consummation, and all God's people shall gather together before Him. And then Micah says this But the Jews would be like pregnant women expecting mothers for this reason: that though they would have to endure the greatest of sorrows, they yet would follow a joyful result. I think Jesus uses the same thing in in John chapter sixteen, verses one, he says, When a woman is giving birth, she has sorrow because her hour has come, but when she has delivered the baby She has she no longer remembers the anguish for the joy that the human being has been born into the world. The relief that comes and the joy that comes when a child has been born. But I think it's also alluding to what the prophet Isaiah is prophesying. The birth of Emmanuel, the one who is born of a woman, the virgin woman That he is a joy to the world that man should rejoice, become, because he comes to bring blessings to flow, far as the curse is found. The question for us as we read this verses 3 is this: how do we balance, therefore, the present realities with our future hope? How do we balance our future reality with the future hope? Because here's the truth: as Reformed theologians like to say, we're living in the already and the not yet The day of the Lord has not yet come. That we, as I read all the headlines that are happening in the world, we're living in a real sinful world of war and trouble and trials, as Jesus promises us. But does that mean that it destroys our hope? Or does it mean that we trust in the promises of God for our future? Hope His word produces faith so that we may walk faithfully with him. To be patient, to endure every day our present realities as we wait for the confirmation of his promises. But this has to involve something that we need to do in our lives, which is always difficult. It involves the removal of fear. We are driven by fear And this objective attitude of a strong expectations of what has not yet happened. If you're like me, you get there. You feel this strong urge of just wanting something to happen so badly that you can't wait for tomorrow. But when you trust in God, when you trust in Him, we have hope. Because without hope, then we have no reason to go on. We have no reason to go on. It's much like raising a child, isn't it? Those of you who have young children. When they're so young and little, you're trying to force them to go to bed so you can get some rest And then they hit puberty. And then in high school, you can't get them to wake up or do anything in the house. So you allow for some independence and yet you have control over their actions. Maybe if you don't have a ch you don't you don't have children, maybe this might make sense to you if you're married. It's more like marriage counseling, isn't it? Where each partner wants to control everything in the relationship, what's gonna happen, what are we gonna buy, are we gonna put up a Christmas tree or not? And they want to control the future too Or maybe at work, maybe here, at church, when we always want to have our way Our own timing when things ought to happen, how this should happen, and why this should happen. We demand to do things away. But God knows our thoughts. He is the one who takes them into submission. So that he controls them. The only thing that you and I can do to control the future, do you know what it is? I'll give it to you. It is one thing: it is to pray, Father, may your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. And nothing else. That's the only way you can control the future because God provides the hope for the future for He knows the beginning and the end. He knows how things are going to turn out. You don't But during times of crisis, and when we're in difficult situations, we despair and we want to change our circumstances. But her hope means waiting and having faith that a promise has been made to you and it will become true. And having the peace and trust and assurance that God will make true His promise. Until the time when God acts, is what He says in this verse 3. Until when the time When the virgin gives birth, because there is nowhere else to turn to. We must wait for that time. Because if we're tempted to turn to any other things, it will leave us with a sense of abandonment. I love C. S. Lewis and I love when he writes in the Chronicles of Nanya in the in the book The Silver Chair, as as the lion Asland, who is a representative of Christ, goes and asks the little girl Jill, and she says, Are you not thirsty? And she says, Oh I'm dying of thirst. And then he says, Then come and drink. Here's the here's the water. And then she gets afraid and she has he says, May may may I could could I could could you just move away for a little bit so that I can come to the fountain and drink. And the lion just answers this little girl girl, you know, with with this growl and low look, and and she's he just gazes upon upon her And then the little Gao Jill says, Will you promise? Promise not to do anything to me if I come to drink in the land. Says, I make no promise. June was so thirsty, she was looking at the rippling fountain of water, and she did not even realize that she had made a step closer to the Lion. And she says, Do you eat, little girls? And the lion answers, Without boasting, without anger, without being sorry. Loung just said, I've swallowed up girls and boys, women and men, kings, emperors, cities, and realms And then Jews says, I'm not gonna come to drink. Then the lion says, Then you're gonna die of thirst. And Jews says, Oh dear She comes a close a step closer and she says, I suppose I'm gonna go look for another stream to drink from. And as Aslan Lion says, there is no other stream. There is nowhere else for you to go. You must give your life away to Christ in his timing. You might be in his mighty paws, he might have you in his strong jaws, but he's the lion, and you are not. But you know what we know about him? He gives us a promise that he is good. He's our shepherd. And that's our assurance. That is the assurance that we have when we are hopeless. He tells us so in verses four and five, and he shall stand and shepherd his flock in the strength of the Lord, in the majesty of the name of the Lord his God, and they shall dose him Cure for now he shall be great to the ends of the earth, and he shall be their peace. It is God's covenant faithfulness that's being proved here That he made the same promise to David, and he has made it happen. And God's people should know that they will dwell securely, for his promise is being fulfilled. He will stand as a shepherd, meaning that he will endure forever. Again, 2 Samuel 7: that covenant that God makes with David, he will not break it. He's establishing his kingdom forever. He comes to rule not as a dreaded tyrant or one that oppresses his subjects. He doesn't come to oppress us, but he comes To bring us joy. He comes as a gentle shepherd. He rules us as this fulfillment is made in God's church. He's a shepherd that defends us. Defends us And this in this world as I mentioned, we're subject to so many troubles and trials as as Satan tries and comes to find ways through which to attack you Through which to attack the church as we are tossed and turned by so many tribulations. But God, the Messiah, is a strong and invincible defender to us. He shepherds us as with a rod of iron. There is power in Christ to defend you, to defend me. And as children of God, we are under his grip. We are safe and secure, for he is our peace. And so you might ask me, so when will this security and peace come to be? Because right now I'm not experiencing it. I don't see it, I don't have it, I don't feel it The God's God's people asked the same question as their land was taken away as they were being driven to exile. They were asking the same question you were asking So how can we be assured of this promise, of this security, and of this peace? The answer is this: because he shall he she says he shall be our peace, and we ought to be satisfied with the protection of the king. King whom God the Father has given us. Micah is calling him or peace because he's the one who comes to drive away all the hurtful things He's armed with strength and power to check all the ungodly, to check all the people and all the ungodly people that wage war against us. Are you afraid of ISIS? Are you afraid of the Islamist radicals? Are you afraid of anything or anyone in this world? I am. The idea of peace here is Christ telling us that He is our Prince of Peace. And most of the times we only think of peace as the absence of hostility and war. But did you know that the Hebrew word for peace, shalom, goes beyond that? It is our security, it is our prosperity, it is our well-being, and at times even internal and spiritual peace. Peace that God gives us. He's our peace because he's the one who reconciles with the Father. And so because we belong to the Father, we are safe in Him Martin Luther got this right when he penned this word that we all sing together. Did we in our own strength confide our strength or striving would be losing We're not the right man on our side, the man of God's own choosing, though we ask that we may be Christ Jesus, it is He, Lord Sabaat is his name, from age to age the same, and he must win the battle. And though this world with devils filled should threaten to undo us, we will not fear. For God has willed His truth to triumph over us. The prince of darkness grim, we tremble not for him. His rage we can endure, for lo his doom is sure, one little word shall fell in I'm running out of time, but I gotta say this. I think we are tempted sometimes to misplace our hope and assurance of our future. I read during the uh funeral of John F. Kennedy, Edward Kennedy quoted one of his Many speeches that he had made, he said this. Our future may lie beyond our vision, but it is not completely beyond our control. It is the shaping impulse of America that neither fate No nature, no irresistible tides of history, but the work of our own hands matched reason and principle that will determine our destiny There is pride in that, even arrogance, but there is also experience and truth. In any event, it is the only way we can live. End of quote I disagree with you, Mr. President. As Gary Smith says, hope is not found. Hope is not secure if it is founded only on human plans. Human reason and human experience, lasting hope, is only found in God And in conclusion, one commentator, Gregory, says this: the deliverer has come into this world in the person of Jesus Christ, like David. Jesus is the new shepherd of God's sheep. Offering security from external enemies and a life of security. Jesus is above all a gift to you, a gift to the world, to those who feel shut in on every side, like the besieged citizens of Jerusalem. Who first heard these words, Jesus brings the prospect of deliverance and security. And that is the essence of the message of Krishna. God makes a gift to a besieged world through whom deliverance may come. End of quote. God has indeed entered our wall. He's indeed entered our hearts. Isn't that assuring enough for you that though you may feel hopeless, that though you may feel like you're heart pressed on every side, that Christ has promised Has delivered, has brought his promises to his people, and he says, I will do the same. Though, through this little town of Bethlehem Where David was born and the Messiah has been born to give you peace and security so that you may be safe and secure. That is your hope, so that you may be safe and secure. Father, we thank you for your promises that you give to us every day, that we are indeed safe and secure that you are indeed our peace. You have come to give us that shalom, that perfect peace that we may enjoy, that though we are tossed and turned And tempted and tried on every side, we still remain our great ruler, our great king, who defend us Defends us. We thank you, we honor you in Christ's name. Amen