And a man lame from birth was being carried, whom they laid daily at the gate of the temple that is called the Beautiful Gate, to ask alms of those Entering the temple. Seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple, he asked to receive alms, and Peter directed his gaze at him, as did John, and said, Look at us. And he fixed his attention on them, expecting And he took him by the right hand and the same. And leaping up he stood and began to walk, and entered the temple with them, walking and leaping and praising God. While he clung to Peter and John, all the people, utterly astounded, ran together to him in the portico called Solomon's, and when Peter saw it, he addressed the people. Men of Israel, why do you wonder at this? Why do you stare at us as though by our own power or piety we have made him walk? The God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, the God of our fathers, glorified his servant Jesus, whom you delivered over and denied in the presence of Pilate when he had decided to release him. But you denied the holy and righteous one and asked for a murderer to be granted to you, and you killed the author of life whom God raised from the dead. To this we are witnesses, and his name by faith in his name has made this man strong whom you see And no. And the faith that is through Jesus has given the man this perfect health in the presence of you all. Amen. Thank you, James. I I have told you right about the time we were all flying to Mexico and the weekend of the flight I realized my passport Our kids were not very old. They were probably fifteen, thirteen, eleven and nine or something like that. that. So Julie got to go to Acapulco with the four children uh and met all the arrangements that I had made which I didn't know who these people were either and get set up in our little apartment and I drove to Dallas. It was Memorial Day weekend so I had to wait till Tuesday morning And then I flew down and greeted her. She was so happy to see me. So check your passports Okay, we are talking through on the way to Pentecost this beginning part of Acts. We won't cover nearly all of it. And you might have noticed I skipped Acts two. Because it seems like a preaching crime if you're gonna go to Pentecost to not preach Acts two on Pentecost. So we'll we'll backtrack sort of I think we did this for Christmas So we're skipping over Acts 2. We'll come back to it. But that reminds me something. On Pentecost Sunday, get this in your brain, we'll sort of maybe make this a little more official later. But on Pentecost Sunday, if you know a language other than English, now you don't have to know it. You have to read it. You know, we're not doing extemporaneous speaking here. But on Pentecost Sunday, I would like for you to stand up and read or recite Acts 2, 38 and 39. This is where Peter says, you know, they say, what must we do to be saved? And Peter says, repent and believe, you and your children. This promises for you and your children. Not those two verses. And so we're going to hear. In the languages of the world, like they did on Pentecost, a little brief message. Okay, so I can do German, I can do Swedish. Weirdly Swedish, but Yeah, I can do those too. But anyone else can do German or Swedish too. So um just be thinking about if you can come up with something and we will like on Pentecost, hear the Bible read and under Understand what it means. Okay. Acts three. We're talking about power and authority We talked about power and authority last week with Acts 1, and I mentioned someone who famously especially in maybe the seventies and eighties, would raise a sword and say, I have the power. Who is that? He-Man. That's right. And She-Rah. She-Rah has the power. Power, power, power, authority. The Holy Spirit has the power, right? And in Acts 1, we read about how the Holy Spirit is We have the power of the Holy Spirit to go to and be witnesses in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and the ends of the earth, right? Locally, right where they were, the region, the region they didn't want to go to. And us. It got out this far. You know, you know, back in X1, they weren't thinking about USA But it got to us. It's still going out. Amen, right? The power of the gospel transforms. Now, obviously, a little it's hard to explain this. But there's a power, maybe a low-level power, of a driver's license. This gives you an authority to get to drive. However good or bad you do it, I don't know The passport gives you an authority to say like you yeah, you get to travel. You gotta have it I'm an ordained pastor, and so I have an authority where I can marry people. Now, honestly, that's not hard to get anymore. Anyone could get one, but but still I have credentials. My credentials right now still sit in Cleveland County, Oklahoma. They're in a book, an official book, on official page. You can look it up. And so when I do weddings, I say, by the power invested in me, in the Presbyterian Church in America, and the state of wherever I'm at. I now pronounce you husband and wife. You may now kiss the bride, and you gotta step away. You don't want to be in that picture, right? I have the power to do that. Now there's also this thing which we're way more aware of now than we used to be about power dynamics. Right? How not every uh situation People are equal in power. And these power dynamics can be um off a little bit because of gender, race, class. It can be also like how big of a person you are, just size, weight, girth, how loud your voice is. There's power dynamics, you know, in in titles and positions and ranks. Think about it this way. A lot of us in the church are very normal, like the session group of men, hears membership interviews. So we this happens all the time. We don't think anything of it. But you know, back when I was an especially a college minister, I would have these 18-year-olds want to join the church And so now you have an 18-year-old female college student walking into a group of men that she doesn't know. Okay, that's a power dynamic, right? You gotta be aware that that can feel weird. It doesn't have to feel weird, it doesn't feel f weird for everybody But it is a uh thing to be aware of, notice, mitigate against maybe, if you care about the person. You don't just say none of that matters So power includes strategies, negotiations, cooperation, influence, persuasion, leadership, communication, emotional intelligence. And we all have some amount of power. Little kids have power. Think about a little kid in a car on a vacation has the ability to ruin the whole thing. Right? Why are you crying? Forever crying. That's a power You've co-opted the whole car. So we all have power. But ultimately, the Bible tells us what We all have these things we're talking about, and we're helpless without God We need Christ's presence and his power in our lives. So I have three points today. First is Christ-centered power. Now we do want to pause and notice, very beginning, John and Peter are together. There's going to be lots of times now as we go through Acts where we see Peter sort of on his own. We'll see Paul sort of on his own, but they're always going to meet up with people. Right? They're not ultimately alone. And they did get sent out two by two in pairs. We are not or should not be Lone Rangers. in this life, in this church. We should not be rugged individualists. We need each other We are a team. It's very common in sports to say, you know, we are a team. We are a team. We are one. And so, you know, it's going to look like this. Yeah, team has won. Oklahoma City, right, yeah. They are the number one seed in the West. Do we care about NBA basketball I don't I don't feel like this is the sportsiest group of all time. Okay? You are caring about NBA basketball. There you go. Okay, team is one So Peter and John are ministering in their weakness, but totally with the power of Christ and the Holy Spirit, right? They are not on their own, even together not on their own. They're not ministering in their own name, but in Christ's name. Let's look at 1 6. We'll go through all this, but In the name of Jesus of Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk. Like it's in his name I'm ministering. So let's so as we think about this, it's 3 p. m. They're outside the temple. There's this man who's lame from birth. He's probably about 40. We we learned this in uh in Acts 4. So but he's always been lame So he gets carried every day to the temple, to the gate. He doesn't get to go in because he's lame. That's not acceptable. So he's never been inside the temple. He's only been outside of this gate. The gate probably looks like this gate. Yeah, it is a beautiful gate, right? Now I don't really understand these this is obviously a miniature or something because those are huge weeds. Okay, so he's up there standing there somewhere a and they come upon him. Okay, that's fine. Just uh it's helpful to think of what this looks like, right? Now Peter and John were going up to the temple at the hour of prayer, the ninth hour, 3 p. m. , and a man laying from birth was being carried, whom they laid daily at the gate of the temple that is called the beautiful gate. to ask alms of those entering the temple. Seeing Peter and John about to go in the temple, he asks to receive alms. This happens to me all the time in Fell's Point. All the time. Every day, multiple times a day. So just like that. And Peter directed his gaze at him, as did John, and said, Look at us. Look me in the eye, man. And he fixes attention on them, expecting to receive something from them. But Peter said, I have no silver or gold. But what I do have, I give to you in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth. Now hold on. This dude is not expecting the next words here, right? I think he's probably expecting, get out of here Scram or I I told you I don't have a silver of color, but I do have like, you know, a couple bucks Instead, he hears, rise up and walk And he took him by the hand and raised him, and immediately his feet and Ankles were made strong. And leaping up. He didn't just like he leapt up, right? He stood and began to walk and entered the temple for the first time entered the temple Walking and leaping and praising God, and all the people of God saw him walking and praising God and recognized him as the one who sat at the beautiful gate of the temple asking for alms, and they totally appropriately were filled with wonder and amazement at what had happened to him. Now I just want to focus on this leaping part for a second. Back in Isaiah 35 We read this, 35, start, verse 5. Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf unstopped And then shall the lame man leap like a deer. And the tongue of the mute sung for joy. We sing about this For waters break forth in the wilderness and streams in the desert. People know this They know this. And when they see this stuff, they're like this is Isaiah, man. You know, he didn't go into some like spa treatment program and the doctors and you know do yoga for a year and all this stuff He got healed on the spot and he leapt for joy. And they all witnessed the power. It caused a commotion. Okay, so the church currently has two point four billion people in it So they say. Thirty-one percent of all people in the world say they're Christians, right? And it's been growing over time. Think about where we are in Acts. Think about where we are now. I just said 2. 4 billion. We're here. This is what they started with. Despite what Sin, heresies, terrible ideas terrible methodologies, despine with politics or completely ignoring politics Despite internal and external craziness, we have our liturgies, our strategies, our theologies. Our methodologies all are fine, but this is why the church grows. The power of the gospel, the power of the Holy Spirit People coming to faith, people leaping for joy when they had no hope. The power of God is what drives the church to grow and grow and grow and grow We have the power of a risen ascended king. Power Christ-centered presence. Now, this is important because John and Paul ministered to the whole person of this man. Right? And we want to minister the whole people. Jesus ministered the people's physical and spiritual needs. And there often it's true that there are these separate ministries. Some ministries are going to say, okay, we're going to do the physical stuff. Admin, physical support, medicine, nurses, counselors, food, education jobs. Wonderful. Other ministries say, no. We're only preaching the gospel. We're only teaching about Jesus, right? They can get all that stuff other places, right? We're going to teach and preach the gospel only. And so we'll see you later on the others. But we are physical, spiritual people. We have problems in both areas. And Peter and John minister both to this man. Teeny tiny example, uh when we were ministering at this very, very poor school, worse zip code, we were in this elementary school called Delma Parks. And so we're trying to help and support. And there's a million things that are not right about this one, but some of them are simple. You know, so it's they're in third grade, so they're supposed to be learning how to read. And they don't get to pass unless they learn how to read. read. Which is problematic because they all seem somehow pass. And they certainly don't all read. Thirty-three kids in one class. But but one thing we're noticing is They're thirsty. They're dehydrated kids. They come from food deserts, so they have food anxiety every minute. They don't know what they're going home to. They don't know. When they show up to school, they haven't eaten. They haven't had enough water. So they can't learn. They're fidgety, they get in trouble, they get sent back home. So so you know like learning to read Certainly is this like mental thing. But your brain is in your body I don't know how to be more obvious than that, right? Your body needs water. Your body needs food. So you're just not a learning machine James talks about this in one twenty-seven. Religion that is pure and undefiled before God the Father is this Perfect theology, perfect church attendance, tithing Being able to say all the apostles, the books of the Bible in order. Nope To visit orphans and widows in their affliction and to keep oneself unsane from the world. Now, James, okay, if that's not the only thing He's sort of, you know, using that as an example of we got stuff to do. People matter to us. Another example. Um I think we're a little more a aware of this now, but if you're trying to be healthy It's really important to have like a group that knows about this. When I was really working on this, maybe I don't know, 10 years ago, I got this app called Noom. N-O-O-M. And noom, you get put in this little group of people you don't know, and there's a leader, but they're not really instructing you. You're just sort of checking in and encouraging each other, like how'd you do today? But it's important because then you're talking about it. But you know, uh getting fit isn't just eating fewer calories. That's important. It's not just exercising more. Super important. Those two things go together, but it's staying active, eating right, sleeping well Thinking positive, and making meaningful connections with other people. Whole body Ministry, whole body, change, word and deed. And too often we only focus on our minds, our learning, our thinking, and then we add in rules But Christianity itself is actually what? A lifestyle of grace and mercy and truth. And we're participating wholly with the Holy Spirit We're not like delving off some part of us that the Holy Spirit doesn't get to to use or talk to, right? And that's true here in church, too. I'm certainly trying to impress on you, maybe Too much now at this point, but we are whole people in church. So we're not just here listening to sermons. That's a part of it. That's our ears and our mind. But we stand up. We use our voices to sing together. We say prayers together. We're participating in this thing together with God and the Holy Spirit. This I'm not just up here on a show You're not just back there watching. Like we come up, we take the supper in our hands We taste and see that the Lord is good. We drink from His the well of His grace. We move. Like you know, it's a response of coming forth. So there's walking. Some of us, you know, are have ADHD. Fine. Some of us are fidgeters. Fine. We are in this together as people participating with God and the Holy Spirit. When we listen and follow the Holy Spirit, sometimes He says, go straight to proclamation. We're going to talk about that next. Most of the time, he says it's going to take a while with this person to earn this person's trust, to be with this person over lots of experiences. To serve this person, to love this person, to be patient with this person, until it's time. Okay, last point. Christ centered proclamation This is a pretty awesome miracle, right? A lame man walked. Peter, you are the man. You can do it. Peter could have said, I am the man. I can do it. You know, he's he's looking at these crowds, they are pumped He can be a religious celebrity. You know, maybe he could have thought, book deal coming, get the scrolls ready I could be a conference speaker in Galilee. Uh uh I'm gonna sell some merch. Make some C Ds I don't know how they would have done that, but what does Peter do? He makes much of Jesus. Uh y probably the best example of our sort of obsession with celebrity Christians, you know, we probably We aren't that obsessed. Other people are obsessed, right? Tim Tebow. You know how many times Tim Tebow gets asked to speak at a church on Easter Thousands. There's only one Easter. Thousands. Thousands. And it's like if Tim Tebow is at our church on Easter It's gonna be amazing. It's gonna make Easter p pop People are utterly astounded that this happens. And what does Peter do? Let's read. While he clung to Peter and John, all the people utterly astounded, ran together to them in the portico called Solomon's. And when Peter saw it, he addressed the people Men of Israel, why do you wonder at this? Or why do you stare at us as though by our own power or piety we have made him walk? The God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob, the God of our fathers, glorified his servant Jesus, whom you delivered over and denied in the presence of Pilate. Did you forget that? It just happened. And then, when he had decided to release him, but no, you denied the holy and righteous one, and you even asked for a murderer to be granted to you. Good job. And you killed the author of life, whom God raised from the dead. To this we are witnesses. And his name, by faith in his name, has made this man strong, whom you see and know. And the faith that is through Jesus has given this man the perfect health in the presence of you all. Peter says, This is the story that's been written. It has been written through the scriptures. And that's your hope. That's your story. Through the history of the Bible, through the prophets, through the writings, through the Psalms, through Lamentations, through the law, through Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy even. All of that is pointing to this man, Jesus, whom you crucified. He Peter was a part of that too, right? God's every intention all the way from the very beginning was to send his son to live out life Die a cruel death to atone for our sins and defeat death by his resurrection and ascend to heaven, heaven, and he's coming back someday. So he tells the story of redemption, right? And he is asking them. Who's writing your story? Are you involved in this story? Or are you watching from the outside What is your story based on? Is it based on your own righteousness? Or your own beliefs, or is it based on the God of the universe? Maybe there's this you've seen this uh slide. This sort of comes around in um Warren, can you hit that next slide? Yeah, have you seen this? It's sort of a college ministry type. This and this is like on the left, you see You see Jesus is in the life. He's hanging around in there. He's a part of the mix. But a person's self is on the throne I'm on the throne. I care about Jesus. I got him in my back pocket. I pull him out when I need him. We're good. Versus Jesus is on the throne and I'm on the side. Now I do want to point out, has anyone seen this before? Yeah. Okay, there's a one big problem with this. What I just told you is not the problem. The problem is, look at the dots on the left And then, oh, when Jesus is on the throne, guess what happens on the right? Everything's fine. It's orderly, it's non-chaotic. You with Jesus on the throne you get to live a very disciplined, productive life with all of your pieces perfectly arranged. That is false. If anything, Jesus comes in, he messes up all the pieces. Gives you new pieces you didn't want. I gotta care about these people? Forget it. So this is this is a little bit of a difference, but so you know like what's the next one Yeah, so we we sort of think on the you know top lady, oh yeah, we're marching up the mountain. Everything's nice But it certainly is way more on the the other one, right? Hmm mm-mm. Are we getting there? I don't know. I don't even know where we're going. I was thinking about okay that's good. Um you know that the Jewish people were supposed to go to Jerusalem once a year. year and so they have these Psalms of Ascent. So it's sort of crazy like if you live a mile from Jerusalem, no problem. But if you live a long ways away You are walking and walking and you got whining kids alike on vacation, right? And you're hungry. It's like we're going to Jerusalem, let's all be fine. So it's not easy to get there, man. So that's a little more of our life. But the center of the story, still, the point is still valid, it's not our morality It's not knowing the Bible. These people knew the Bible way more than you. And they were missing out on Jesus. Jesus weren't they Peter's talking they're like What? The guy That got crucified, right? The blasphemer. He got killed for sedition and treason. That guy We're done with him. You know what? He really got what he deserved. Good riddance. He made us hopeful. We thought all this cool stuff was going to happen. We heard all these stories, and then look. In Leviticus it says, if you die, if you're cursed, you die on a tree. And that's what happened, and you're still talking about them. But Peter, I like to call it um everybody has to have a fastball You know, in baseball, if you're down and you don't really know you're like we're having a rough time, you go to the fastball. Curves are unreliable, sliders are unreliable, unless you're Mariano Rivera, then you're fine. But but when you're in trouble you go to the fastball and Jesus is the fastball for all of us Well what else do we have to offer, really? It's our go to pitch We want to be hospitable and friendly for sure. I've got a buddy, he's a pastor of a church, and one of their core values, like written in the handbook, is this: don't be weird. This is actually what's in the handbook. We value emotional intelligence. You know that's EQ instead of IQ, EQ. Read the room. So we value emotional quality, emotional intelligence, tact, kindness, gentleness, and hospitality. If you think it might be off-putting, don't do it. Good weird, in the sense of uniqueness, go for it. Bad, oh, uh, uh Good art, oh, if it's off-putting, skip it. Good art connects and includes. Bad art excludes and disconnects. Good jokes create community. Bad jokes offend and isolate people. I think that's pretty good advice. I don't know how well I do I think emotionally intelligence is a very, very big deal, especially for leaders. Sort of goes back to power dynamics a little bit But still, the center of the story, the fastball we got, is Jesus Christ. Christ, our Lord and Savior, the King. Do we make much of him? So certainly here we're We're gonna sing about 'em, we're gonna pray about 'em, we're gonna confess about 'em. Every sermon is gonna be about 'em The church rises and falls upon its commitment to Jesus. Graphics are fine Flags are fine, cleanliness is fine, but that's not the center, is it? And so Peter Says this Repent therefore and turn back that your sins may be blotted out, that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord, and that He may send the Christ appointed for you Jesus. Whom heaven must receive until the time for restoring all the things about which God spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets long ago. Repent And believe that your sins might be blotted out, and that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord. Because Jesus has sent for you. That's what we got. That's what we got. Okay, last story. Thomas Aquinas. I got two pictures of Thomas Aquinas. Here's the first one. You know, Thomas Aquinas, twelve hundreds. This is going back a bit, right? Twelve hundreds, mid-twels. Looks like a dashing fellow, right? Until he cut his hair this way. Next one, I think. The other monks didn't like him, pinned him down and shaved his head this way. That is a weird haircut. Warren said he'd do it for fifty bucks Fifty bucks. I think we could see this by next week. Fifty bucks to Warren. He comes a very cheap Um so there's a story told of Thomas Aquinas, great medieval theologian, known for many, many things, and he's walking through a grand cathedral by a bishop or a pope or somebody super important, right? And and the Pope or Bishop is talking about all it took to build this thing all the time, all the effort, all the money, all the money And he's talking about the coppers are filled with coins and all this stuff. And so the bishop, pope, whoever, looks to Thomas and he says, Behold, Master Thomas. The church can no longer say, as Peter did, silver and gold have I none, can we? Thomas is not a slow witted person. Thomas quickly responds, alas, and neither can it say, in the name of Jesus Christ, rise up and walk. Yes, we need some money. We all need some power. We all need some influence You know, it's not going to be easy to talk about Jesus if you don't have any of that stuff. None. But it comes in lots of different forms. But ultimately, Jesus is The head of the church. He has the power. Our hope is in him, not in our own righteousness, but in Christ's perfection, his work, his power, his presence, and our proclamation. Of him. Amen