It's a surprise Sunday. Yeah, surprise. So if you guys would like to follow along, we're reading from Acts two this morning, and if you're gonna look in your Bibles that are in the pews, it's on page eleven fifty-seven. It's not up on the screen today. So if you would like to follow along, you can look on your phones or in your Bibles on page 1157. And it's Acts 2, 1 through 4 and 37 through 41. When the day of Pentecost arrived, they were all together in one place, and suddenly there came from heaven a sound like a mighty rushing wind, and it filled the entire house where they were sitting. And divided tongues as a fire appeared to them and rested on each one of them. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. Now when they heard this, they were cut to the heart and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Brothers, what shall we do? And Peter said to them. Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. For the promise is for you and for your children and for all who are far off. Everyone whom the Lord our God c our God calls to himself. And with many other words he bore witness and continued to exhort them, saying Save yourselves from this crooked generation. So those who received his word were baptized, and there were added that day about three thousand souls. So last week for our Anchor of Hope series, uh going from Easter to Pentecost, I like to sort of think about the church, things that are important for the church. We've talked about uh hope for our families, hope for our finances, hope for the poor, hope for the world, and this is hope for for the church. Next week we're going to look at our totally different. We're going to go into Esther, the book of Esther, and then we'll do the book of Revelation. And then it'll be Adam Advent. Whoa. Okay, so I just zoomed through the whole summer and fall. Ted Lasso. He uh told his team after a big defeat, you need to be like a goldfish. What does it mean to be like a goldfish Forget everything, right? And um you know it's it seems like maybe you could be feel sorry for a goldfish in a little goldfish pole. Right? Because every day the goldfish looks at the same stuff a treasure chest, a palm tree, a pirate ship. That's all there is. There's nothing else And we could feel like that super boring. But scientists tell us I do not know how they know this. How do you measure this? I don't know, but the goldfish has an average memory of three to four seconds. How How can you measure that? I don't know. So in other words, the goldfish is going around, it's like, look a pirate ship, wow! Oh, a treasure chest, cool, a paltry. A pirate ship! Oh a palm tree! So over and over again. It's just an amazing thing. It never gets bored. Ever. And so like if you in your families you might notice that there's someone who tends to instantly forget And it's good to forget some things, but it can be bad to forget some things and the church can forget things. In the PCA, this happened at City Press and this happened here at Grace. When you go from a mission church, so you're a church plant, to becoming your own church, that's called your particularized. Right, you're particularized. That happened a long time ago here at Grace. And when you're particularized, this happened in the nineteen eighties, right? Nineteen eighties They say you are independent and self-sustaining. In other words, the Presbytery doesn't have to worry about you. You're independent and self-sustaining. sustain sustaining. But the truth is none of us are independent and self-sustaining. That's a very particular thing, and I understand it because Jesus said, I will build my church. Solomon said, Unless the Lord builds the house, the workers labor in vain. And Peter said, The church is the God's household built by God on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets. Of which Christ Himself is the cornerstone. He is the anchor of the church at all times. And we don't need to goldfish that. I've told a couple of money jokes. I'm gonna tell a church joke today. Um one of the in the test uh one of the s Seminary students meant to write, uh when we confess our sin, God takes away our guilt. But instead he made a typo and he said when we confess our sin, God takes away And the professor wrote on the margin, yes, but he always sends a comforter. So we're going to be talking about the Comforter today, the Holy Spirit. Pentecost is for the church. Yay. Pentecost. I love Pentecost. We wear red on Pentecost. Um you know there's always been the church. The Old Testament has a church. But Pentecost is the New Testament Church and it's really the birthday of the international church. God's plan had always been to bring the nations in. And there were sometimes notable examples, like Rahab, right? Who's a who's another Old Testament? Ruth is a exactly um uh Zipporah was probably not an Israelite. So there are a few examples of people who Who came in to God's people? But generally God's people sort of forgot about that. Um but here we are, the Holy Spirit is in a different way, not wholly different, but more manifested. And the church spreads throughout the Roman Empire all the way to us. All these years later. So it's the birthday of the Gentile church Seven weeks after Easter. We read in Acts two. Now in verse five, now there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men from every nation under heaven And at this sound the multitude became t came together, and they were bewildered because each one was hearing them speak in his own language. who are speaking Galileans, and it was, and how is it that we hear each of us in our own language, right? They saw a rushing wind, they saw tongues of fire, and they heard other languages Now in the Old Testament, the Pentecost Pentecost is a harvest celebration. Sacrifices first um about for forgiveness and uh atonement, but then they were offering the first fruits of their bounties, right And so this is largely a society of shepherds and farmers. There were some artisans and there were businessmen, sure, but it was shepherds and farmers. And so they hear this. Then you shall keep the feast of weeks That's what Pentecost is. Then sh you shall keep the feast of weeks of the Lord your God with the tribute of a free will offering from your hand, which you shall give to the Lord your God who blesses you So they were called to do that. Sacrifices for atonement for sin and giving thanks for what they had. In the New Testament, Pentecost shifts differently. Why? Jesus had already completed the final sacrifice, right? And so there's no more need What did Jesus say on the cross? It is finished. And so instead we don't gather for that reason, we gather to give thanks for God's provision. In the work of Jesus for our redemption, we then bring our thanks to Him. And what's important also is that the the noise and the the fire the fruit of the spirit rested on every disciple In other words, Jesus, I meant this point down there, Jesus' ministry and restoration is for all of us. And so Pentecost focus focuses on Jesus and his ministry. And it's important to realize, and I've made this point many times, to put ourselves in the position of these people. Right? Um when Jesus died on the cross that way, stricken, smitten and afflicted see him dying on On the tree, everyone's impulse is that that discredits him. God's prophets do not die on trees It is a curse to die upon the tree. And so I I tend to think I always try to pull it into like Um after he dies, it's sort of like there's a sports center, right? And they're like re evaluating. See, I told you he wouldn't do it. Well I thought he would do it Well look at what happened. I mean look at the results. The poll says fifty-two people fifty-two percent vote vetted on him that he would do it. Well forty-eight percent didn't. And so they have these debates Like we do. Who's gonna be the best? Who's gonna do it? Who's gonna lead us? Who's gonna what's happening? Well there's fighting on the inside, right? Who's gonna get Aaron Rodgers? And so Jesus when Jesus dies on the cross, people a lot of people are saying, like, I told you so. He's no good. But when Jesus raised from the dead, he was vindicated, right? The witnesses saw him, he spoke, he ate, he told them to wait in Jerusalem, and he showed up And the Spirit came with power on Pentecost. And the disciples were ready to speak, and the crowds were ready to listen And Jesus had raised from the dead 49 days earlier, and they knew about it. Some might have been there to see it. Some had thought he had deserved to die. They joined the crowds, crucify him, crucify him, crucify him. And now he's alive. Amen. Pentecost is the coming of the Spirit. On the night that Jesus was betrayed in John He said this, John 14, 26. But the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things And bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you. The Spirit will remind the disciples of what they need most. The Spirit isn't going to tell them everything all at once, but tell them what they need, right? And so then we get to Acts two, two through four. And suddenly there came from heaven a sound like a mighty rushing wind, and it filled the entire house where they were sitting, and divided tongues as of fire appeared to them Fire, as I said, is the uh a symbol of cleansing And of judgment. Blows. And so God gave the disciples power. God came to purify fire. He came to blow away the chaff like the wind. And blow his truth into our hearts and our minds. And so Pentecost is a new level of the Holy Spirit's Work. The Holy Spirit had inspired the prophets in the Old Testament. The Holy Spirit had led Jesus into ministry, right? And just think about there were so many crowds that heard Jesus talk and minister. But there were so few disciples to follow him. And on Pentecost, thousands came to him. from across the world, who would go out and tell of his great and mighty deeds. They would tell of the wonders of God. Verse eleven Both Jews and proselytes, Cretans and Arabians, we hear them telling in our own tongues the mighty Works of God. Jews from all over the world could understand this. And they asked, What did this mean? And some people said, Obviously they're drunk. Well it's 9 a. m. If you're drunk at 9 a. m. you are working hard on it. That's called tailgating at University of Oklahoma in eleven o'clock game, six a. m. You're gonna find drunk people already. They got there at midnight. Okay, this is not that situation though. And Peter starts preaching, right? And he says, this is what Joel talked about all the way back then. This is what Joel talked about, that we will receive power from on high And the Holy Spirit empowered Jesus for ministry, and now Jesus is empowering the church for ministry. Ministry. In the past, God had anointed through the Holy Spirit prophets, priests, kings, and judges. Prophets, priests, And now who is the anointing? Everybody. Men and women, old and young, Jews and Gentiles. seventeen chapter two In the last days it shall be, God declares, And I will pour out my spirit on all flesh, and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams Even on my male servants and female servants, in those days I will pour out my spirit, and they shall prophesy, and I will show wonders in the heavens above. And the sun shall be turned to darkness and the moon to blood before the day of the Lord comes, the great and magnificent day. This is then. This is happening. This is the last day. history of the world it means the end of the redemption history we are here in fullness Unleashed, the very last word of Acts is unhindered. People of every tongue need to hear this message. The day of salvation has come for us, 2 Corinthians 6:2 says, For he says, In the fabral time I have listened to you, in the day of salvation I have listened to you I have helped you. This is where we are. We are here. Language has divided us, but the Holy Spirit has united us, right? With AI and all our apps now you can get instant translation. Like you know, I'm trying to say this. Give it to the person Or they have this ones I've seen now where you just scan a menu and it'll go into English. That's what this is. We can understand languages. We don't need those apps, right? We need the Holy Spirit in Chapter two. Now I tend to think and our sort of tradition thinks these were known languages. actual languages that people know that they didn't know. So that is a miracle in and of itself. But it wasn't um pr prayer closet languages or whatever So for Grace Church, our church, this particular church got particularized and is self-sustaining, but not real Really, we participate in the universal church of Jesus Christ, right? Led by the Holy Spirit. Pentecost then also deepens the proclamation of Jesus Jesus' work John chapter three verse two says This man came to Jesus by night and said to him, Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher come from God, for no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with us. See you are doing the signs. We are seeing them. But you were also executed. This is a hard thing for them to understand. You are doing the signs, but you also died on the cross. Again, surely God wouldn't let his prophet die that way. And Peter says, no, that's wrong. That's not how it goes. Verse 22 Men of Israel, hear these words, Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested to you by God with mighty works. John three two, God with mighty works and wonders and signs that God did through your midst, as you yourself know, this Jesus delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God. You crucified and killed by the hands of lawless men. This was all God's plan, God's Sovereign plan, and you freely chose to do it. God's sovereignty, man's free will You nailed Jesus to the cross. Now did they say, whoa, whoa, whoa, I wasn't there. I didn't do it. The Romans did it You did it. Judas portrayed Jesus why? For greed. Any of us got any greed? Sure. Peter betrayed Jesus for fear. Any of us ever afraid? Say nothing Try nothing, venture nothing, sure. Pilate betrayed Jesus because of cowardice. We all can wilt under pressure The Sadducees and Pharisees and priests betrayed Jesus because of envy. And they didn't want to lose their privilege. Maybe we can relate. In other words, our sins contributed to Jesus being sacrificed That that sacrifice was necessary. So we all rebelled. We all nailed Jesus to the tree. And yet God intervenes and dies. in our place. And remember that Russ Taft version of that song? It's an old spiritual. Rust Taff. Remember Russ Taft? Who did Rustaft sing for? The Imperials. Oh we had lots of Imperials records in my place. He sang that song when he went off on his own Ain't No Grave Gonna Hold Him Down. Ain't no grave gonna hold them down. That's a great song. Death cannot prevent resurrections. And just think about Peter himself, right? Two months earlier, four fifty days earlier, what did he do? Clammed up. Didn't have any words. The words he had said, I don't know who you're talking about Talking about. I never met the man. Jesus who? And now look at that same guy. He is preaching like a madman. He is letting it all like he doesn't have fire over his head. His head is on fire The Holy Spirit has changed him, hasn't it? And God still does that. God blows life into people. The Holy Spirit blows life into people, and it's mysterious. It's mysterious. People can sit in the same place, hear the same message, and have totally different responses. It happened time and time and time again, but the Holy Spirit helps us. Shines a light to the Word of God and helps us to live lives adorning to the gospel to sanctify us. The Holy Spirit also helps us to see our Weaknesses and we cry out to God for strength and direction, right? And and God uses hardships, illnesses, difficult relationships Relationships, uh miserable workplaces. We just saying on Jordan's stormy banks I stand Because we're not there yet. We're on the banks. It's close. We're gonna be over on the other side where there's no poisonous breath There's no chill. There's no tears. We're so close. But we're not there. But we've got to keep that in our hand. The Holy Spirit helps us, right? The Holy Spirit brings the truth to bear on our hearts. in our lives, as we hear the word, as we contemplate it, as we meditate on it, as we read it, and as we share. The Holy Spirit also works in relationships and friendships. People who care who reminds you of what uh needs to be done or or what you need to believe. Um and sometimes it's just that we can pray together That's all we can do. I don't have anything besides prayer. The Holy Spirit changes us and reminds us that God is working as we grow to be more like Jesus Himself. The Holy Spirit came on Jesus in his baptism. The Holy Spirit led Jesus into ministry. The Holy Spirit gives Jesus power. Luke eleven thirteen. If you then who are evil know how to give good gifts to your children How much more will the Heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him? So we have the Holy Spirit Pentecost then br preaches Jesus crucified risen and Lord. Right. The first Pentecost, Peter preached the repentance of sin, faith in Jesus and the risen Christ, who is exalted at the right hand of God. This is thirty-three Being therefore exalted at the right hand of God and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured out that you have yourselves are seeing and hearing. David did not ascend to the heaven, but he said to himself, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool. But all those let the all the house of Israel therefore know for certain that God is made him both Lord and Christ this Jesus whom you crucify so was their response. Now when they heard this they were cut to the heart And they said, Hey, what are you talking about? What shall we do? What shall we do? And Peter said, repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the givenness of your sins. And you will re Receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. Remember last year we we read that verse with all these languages? Spanish, Japanese French. Swedish of all things. Um it'd be amazing to hear Here Aramaic, Arabic, Greek, Latin African languages, Asian languages. What shall we do? And you hear in your own languages? Repent and be baptized, every one of you in this In the name of Jesus, for the forgiveness of your sins and you receive the gift of the Holy Spirit, for the promises for you and for your children, and for all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord our God cause to himself. What shall we do? Repent and be baptized, you and your households. Repentance means sorrow, change beliefs, attitude. Grief over sin, a resolve to abandon sin, turn to God. Repentance is a sign of life. Allegiance to Jesus. And what happened? They they asked this question and they heard this answer Verse 40, and with many other words he bore witness, and continued to exhort them, saying, Save yourselves from this crooked generation. So those who received his word were baptized, and they were added that day. About three thousand souls. Lord Jesus, I've been selfish, I've been proud, I've been judgmental, I've been manipulative, I've ignored others. I've indulged myself. I've neglected you, I've rejected you at times So Lord Jesus, I'm turning from those sins toward you in faith. You died and rose and have power to forgive and grant eternal life, and I follow and obey And God forgives people who pray prayers like that. He reconciles them to himself. As we respond to the Holy Spirit Spirit's call to us. And then we receive the Spirit in our lives. So we're not just then going it alone. We all need the Holy Spirit. We never outgrow the Holy Spirit, especially in hardships. Paul, when he's shipwrecked, he's like, You have led all this to me so I can know you more And declare your wonders and glories more. That's why you've given me these hardships. And this Pentecost drives us then to our Missionary work. We are all missionaries, right? We're not professional missionaries. Acts two the languages illustrate this. I'm sure you've been in church you've heard this that the Tower of Babel, God spread his people and scattered him. And languages do divide. Now until these acts Bring me and you say the wrong word and you get something crazy. And you and that's what the way it works. But now we're bringing together, but this was without technology They could understand it. The Tower of Babel was reversed. The Holy Spirit united us, gathered us through the memory. So we are all together in Jesus. And so in in uh Isaiah Thirty two Isaiah thirty two Behold a king will reign in righteousness and priests princes will rule in justice. Verse two Each will be like a hiding place from the wind, a shelter from the storm, like streams of water in a dry place, like a shade of a great rock in a weary lane Then the eyes of those who see will not be closed, and the ears of those who hear will give attention, and the heart of the hasty will understand and know, and the tongue of the stamp stammers will hasten to speak with joy. Behold the king will reign in righteousness and preachers will princes will rule in justice. Each of us will be like. It's not just just kings, it's not just princes, it's all of us. Each of us are commissioned the priesthood of all believers, sons and daughters of the king, the princes and princesses of the king Commission to go out. And when we go out, the eyes of those will not be closed. The ears will give attention. The heart will understand and know. And the tongues will speak. So we become his emissaries His mouthpeats. The people that are doing his hands and feet. Right? We become a shelter. Eyes are opened We make noble plans, we stand in our deeds, we give our lives, we share our lives because we have life from God our Father. The Spirit of Jesus is in us. Our faith is in him, our strength is in him, our purpose is in him, and our mission is in him because he is our steady steady fast anchor, right? And we need to make sure we don't goldfish that. We need to remember he is all we need. Amen He's our hope for the church. This church and all churches. Amen. Let's take a few moments in silence. There are different ways to respond when we hear the word preached. Let's take a few moments moments in silence and listen to the Holy Spirit who we whom we've been talking about answering what it is he says to us now.