Yeah, we need this technology. So I'm surprised I've got this computer with me, but hoping it uh doesn't fail. But I think we'll be all right. I'm a little worried about this thing uh so because my computer's not connected to that So we'll see. Anyway, good morning. Had a chance to touch base with almost everybody here except maybe Janice and this couple here and You morning. Um it's great to be back and to share some things with you. Not long ago I was um talking to a pastor and he was doing a series on uh things we ought to talk about more often. And so he said, uh what would you uh talk about if you could choose one of these things. So after about two or three days I I uh got this sermon topic. Let's see if I can get it on. The forgotten fear. We talk about a lot of things, but uh when is the last time you've talked about the fear of the Lord? I read an article on it. I read a book on it. Uh so I've been doing a lot of that recently, trying to figure out. You would think after 40 years of ministry that you would uh have done a study on it, but not until uh the immediate presence, more or less You're going through the Psalms and you're doing a series, and so Carl asked me to pick out a psalm, but really it's going to be a launching point, uh, Psalm 128, where it says The fear of the Lord, blessed is everyone who fears the Lord, walks in his ways. We're told that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of the wisdom. Is that showing up there? So you need to keep me alert here because I'm not sure. It's like I only have eyes where God gave them. So you look at this phrase and you'll find that The Messiah took delight in the fear of the Lord. That's what we're told. Whatever it means, he took delight in the fear of the Lord. And uh it also says something about the the early church, that the the early church walked. in the fear of the Lord. So the church throughout Judea, Galilee, and Samaria had peace and was being built up and walking In the fear of the Lord and multiplied. Acts nine thirty-one So, as we think about this phrase, uh something that Christ delighted in, something that the early church walked in. And so whatever we think or feel about that, it's to be commended. It's something that's commendable, something to be highly valued. And that's why it's so surprising in a way that it's d uh dissipated and disappeared, even the language. I did go back and look through the you can do a search in the New York Times And you could do a word search on what they've been publishing over the last umteen years. So I typed in the fear of the Lord and I had to go all the way back to nineteen fifty one to find a reference to it. And that was the and then in 19, I think it was 1936. I have the dates and other notes, but uh a minister was saying, even back then the fear of the Lord had grown out of style. It was out of style eighty years ago or so or so and continues to be undervalued today. This thing is not advancing for me. Here we go. So just quickly here, we you can read your psalm and you can find quite a listing of the benefits and the blessings that come from uh the fear of the Lord. Uh uh but here are some for you also. Just a s a hand though I grabbed from the scripture You know, it's the beginning it's where wisdom begins. It's considered a fountain of life. According to God speaking in Scripture, it provides a a place of strong confidence. When you have that, you've got confidence. It provides a refuge if you have children or your neighbor has children. They can find a refuge there. It's better than great treasure in God's analogy or comparison. Uh it opens a friendship to God. If you got that, you can have a friend with God. And hey, you know you have a lot of friends, but it's hard to beat that friendship It opens a secret to God's covenant, which means the deal that God has struck between mankind and himself. And it's as we see from the psalm, uh, God's blessing comes to everyone. Who practice the fear of the Lord. So, what does it mean to delight in the fear of the Lord? What does it mean for you and I to walk in the fear of the Lord? It has content in the Bible. There are two requirements. The second I'm going to get to at the very conclusion. So don't think this is going to be a super long sermon when that c because he's still not done after twenty minutes. He's on the first point still. So no, no. First requirement is going to occupy the sermon, basically Uh uh so as I look in I looked through a lot of definitions and people talking about you look up Wikipedia, he's got this big long thing in there from one of my former professors. But uh I'm a simple guide. You can't say it in a simple sentence. It's like, I don't get it. It just goes over me. So I boiled it down to two things I think would identify what the fear of the Lord is. If you're a person who fears the Lord You recognize the Lord's greatness. You recognize this awesome greatness of God. So go away from the city sometime on a dark night, look up into the sky. And you begin to refresh your awareness of God's greatness. So I still haven't, there we go. It says by example in Psalm 111, great are the works of the Lord, and they're pondered. So I encourage you to refresh yourself in this practice of pondering the works of the Lord. his his handiwork. So you can refresh your appreciation of how great he is. It's not like we're a three year old and we see a flower for the first time or a two year old and say, Oh wow. And now we're old and we say, Oh those old things We just walk right by, barely notice them sometimes. So that computer is not responding too well. There we go. The greatness of the Lord cannot be measured, Psalm one hundred and forty five So you see these kids out here trying to measure this? That's I think it's sequoia. Some of you uh remember the story from about forty years ago I told in this pulpit when I was looking for seminaries way back in the seventies We visited different seminaries. One was out in Vancouver and um so we came down the Pacific coastline and there were six of us in the car and it was a little Camaro and I was like probably the next the smallest guy. So we got fingertip to fingertip and tried to do what these kids are doing. Nowhere no way could we get around this this uh redwood uh tree. It was just massive. A car could drive through it easily. So the Lord's greatness can't be measured Uh we look up into the sky and there's a plethora of stars. I mean, we can't count what we can see, and we know we can't see Many more that are beyond the count. This is your God We are microscopic compared to what he's put above us and around us. Uh oh, thank The Lord is great in all that He does and says and is. And um I probably should just turn this computer the other way. Uh the Lord is great in his beauty. So 'cause I'm really not looking at my notes, I'm just uh thinking about the awesomeness of God. The Lord is great in his beauty. And here we got a picture of I believe the Grand Canyon. How many of you have seen it? You've seen it before, right? Beautiful, absolutely beautiful. We'll see some more uh of it a little bit later on one of another slide. Here's an elegant ocean shoreline. And here is my neighbor's tree. I got it at the trunk. It's about 65 years old. She just cut one down. It predated the Civil War. And uh but this one's about 65 years old, so I got underneath of it one day and took a nice picture of the Lord's handiwork. And here, you uh were not retired from the formal ministry. Uh the church was generous and sent us to a trip. On a trip? Well here was part of the trip. Santorini from our hotel where we're staying, looking out over the infinity pool into this uh I forget the word there's a word for it, but that's a volcano, the first body of water, and then the opening into the Aegean Sea. We got to see that every night. In fact it was so beautiful that that's where they were holding weddings. Weddings right outside us sitting on the balcony. There's a let's hold a wedding here. And wouldn't it be wonderful? Uh oh, go back. If the beauty of the Lord Would fall afresh upon us and fill us. That's what he says in Psalm 90, the oldest prayer in the Psalms, or at least from Moses, that is As Moses prays, let the beauty of the Lord be upon us. And then the Lord establish the work of our hands that God's beauty would rest upon us, then then what we do would definitely leave indelible marks of goodness and blessing, kindness to the people around us. Even though sometimes we think we have little to offer, but you have so much and have given so much already and offered in so many ways, continue to pray the Lord's beauty rest upon you because it is indeed great. He's great in his imagination. So where's he going to go from here? Back to the Grand Canyon. It's a different day with different lighting. And then the fire lily. Great in his imagination. Then one of my favorites. Some of you may know the names, I doubt it uh this guy here. Great in imagination, this is our Lord's preachers. And this one. I love this one. Next one. If he comes up up too far. That one. And then these zebra fish. Fantastic. I mean this is our God. What what an imagination he has. And he could just whatever he wants to create. Oh oh this will look cool. That'll be cool. Well let's put a pair of these together. Let's put a school of them together. So um which is great in abundance. The Lord's great in abundance. He's great in resources. So we see a whole bunch of these critters. And sometimes Uh the Lord's uh fill has filled the earth to his abundance, and we are privileged to share some of the abundance. So my two youngest uh there with their fishing trip and uh you don't think they caught all this by themselves do they, do you? Uh-oh, come back there. Why are we not getting anything? There we go. Help them. It took us a whole two hours. That was it. Two hours we had we had double hooks when we started fishing, thirteen uh miles off of Ocean City. And um dropped in we started with two hooks on the line. Within fifteen minutes we said we gotta go to one hook. We're catch seriously, we're catching too fast. And uh reminded me of John uh twenty-one, the resurrected Christ. They fished all night and Jesus said Throw the line in over over here, try over there. They come up with 153. Well we had a hundred and fifty three plus and we had to throw about two hundred and fifty back in. It was great some uh great sea bass. And a few trigger a few trigger fish. I got one there on my right hand. So the Lord is ri rich in his resources and fill the earth with them. He's great in his character. His ways are pure and upright and Uh he keeps his promises. He's unlike you and me, inconsistent. He can be trusted forever. Psalm thirty-four four. Thankfully we can be forgiven and we can become more consistent as we try to emulate his his character. We some get a feel for it in the spectacular uh um impeccable uh scenery of God's person, so to speak. So he asked the question in Isaiah, to whom can you know can you compare me? Who are you gonna make my equal equal? And my wife and I sit down not long ago and try to come up with everything but like, okay, we just wasted like fifteen minutes of trying to come up with some type of comparable and um couldn't do it. So But it was, I don't think I thought it was Easter. She thinks it might have been Valentine's Day when I went down to Rebs. How many of you have gone to Ribbs for chocolate? Right down by the hospital St. Agnes. So I'm gonna buy some chocolate for her. And she says, give me some chocolate So uh I got my peanut butter things, whatever they are, melts and some non parellels and so I'm thinking she said they're really good and I said, Well, I got thinking as I was looking over the counter of chocolates and et cetera and I said Well if these non-parells are really good, I wonder what a peril tastes like. So so I asked him, I said, Do you ha I mean I'm all sincerity, I said, Do you have a perell? Have any perils? So the girl says I don't think so. We just got non-parels. They asked another girl, no, no, and that's the guy. They're going in the back and about five minutes later they come out, we don't we don't know what parrels are, we never had any, we don't sell it. So as it turned out, I never took a foreign language, but apparently non-parrel means unparalleled. Unparalleled. Without parallel. To whom? Can we compare him? He's great in his understanding of the matters of life. He's great in understanding matters that are important, big matters. He's great in understanding matters that are small. Great matters. Small matters. Uh oh, those are the great ones. Now they've got the new Hubble upgraded, whatever it is. I'd like to see some of those photos. This is the old Hubble, I think. And you created my inmost being. You know the scripture. You knit me together in my mother's womb. You think he doesn't understand small matters? He understands babies. He understands you when you were a baby and why you're in your mom's womb. And he understands that these last three or four years have been hard for many of us, with John's already referenced that. With the uh pandemic and politics and economy and relationships of all sorts that have been broken and people trying to figure out how to even talk or relate to one another and So we got masks, do we don't have masks, we have shots and we don't should we haven't not get vaccinated? Should we you know, we got it's just almost at an impasse in many ways, so it's hard to navigate, especially when we're not all on the same page on on what I would call these lesser important things. Important but not the end of the world. And then you get the political and just uh a lot of things. Plus when he personal things that you're working through, it just gets complicated. But the Lord understands where you are. He knows your situation. And I wasn't sure whether I was going to put this slide up there, but I decided to. That is a picture of your DNA. Looks like some jewelry, doesn't it? But it's a close-up, an artist rendition based on what they actually see in the DNA. And um That's he knows that detail that's the deepest down within you. He knows how complex you are and what makes you tick and how you're putting Together. So don't think, don't ever forget his ability to empathize and enter into and understand and connect with every part of your fiber. So you can lean on him and trust him to take care of those tiny fibers that you may think he missed. I mean he's able to handle things that are very delicate. And it says a bruised reed he won't break it off. And a smoldering whip, he's not wanting to snuff it out. As you look in fear and honor and reverence to him, he's able to handle delicate things. He knows how delicate we can be. And he knows and understands relationships and families. And he is great and power. There's a little child afraid of the ocean. The wave's not even that big in my opinion, but I guess if I was her size I'd I'd be backing off of it a little bit too. But uh it's pretty powerful stuff And the Lord is great in power. Great in power. And let us not forget what Hebrews tells us it's a fearful thing. A fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God without a relationship with him, without confidence in him, without knowing that he's caring for you and believing it uh uh it's a it's a very shaky, precarious situation. And we must all appear before the judgment seat of God to give an account. You know, two aspects, two requirements for the fear of the Lord. One is to recognize his greatness. You know, a lot of Israelites' enemies and the Canaanites had recognized the greatness of the Lord. They were afraid. They saw that uh Israel had been delivered through the Red Sea. From Pharaoh and gone across the Jordan and the waters were parted there. And they and they saw that Israel's uh was winning her battles. But you know the one requirement they didn't have for the true fear of the Lord? They wouldn't surrender their hearts. Their hearts and their lives would not surrender to the God of Israel The God of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph, Jesus. As Jesus told you religious leaders in the first century, these people's hearts uh are far from me. They honor me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me, from me. As we see in 1 Peter 5, know this. I mean, remember, God resists the proud, resists the proud, but he does give grace to you who humble your hearts. The second requirement is simply put, is to surrender, to live a surrendered life. That's what it requires to walk in the fear of the Lord. So as we move Toward these last handful of slides. Why? Why Are we called to surrender our lives? Why is a surrendered life so essential for you and for me? Well, it's not real complicated. I am the Lord, and there is no other. That's it. Remember what Jesus said to Peter? Jesus said, uh Peter, are you gonna you believe me? Like the others? You gonna Distance yourself. He said, Lord, where are we going to go? You're it. You have the words of eternal life. And you notice how it says, I am the Lord, all caps? I am the Lord and there is no other. That's I am Yahweh. This, you could argue easily that this is God's preferred name. It's five or six thousand times in the Bible, and almost all the translation puts it in caps. It's really I am Yahweh. The same thing as blessed is the Lord. We read it in Psalm 128. Or the Lord is my shepherd. So many of those verses. I am Yahweh. Yahweh is the shepherd. He's the one that delivered the Israelites out of Egypt. He's the God of the Bible. And you know It says, if we can get the slide to go, that men may know from the rising of the sun to the setting That there is none beside me. I am the Lord. I am Yahweh. And there's no one else. Not Shiva, not Brahma, not Allah. Not the gods of Canaan, Gad, who was a god of fortune, Moloch, god of fire, Kemish, the national god of the Canaanites, and certainly not George Harrison's god, Masweed Lord. Who's a seemed to be a Hindu god. So it's the fear of the Lord that's the beginning of wisdom. No life is more secure than a surrendered life that surrenders to the God of the Scripture, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And we have his promise. He says, you draw near to me, and I'll draw near to you. That's what he says. And why especially should we live a surrendered life in the Because God has surrendered his life for you. God in Christ incarnate, that he might live the perfect life. And take the judgment that you deserve. That's why we're called to live a surrendered life. Because he surrendered his life for us. Christ said, God did not send his son into the world so I could condemn it. But rather that the world through me might be rescued. Psalm 128 says, Blessed is everyone who fears the Lord, who recognizes him's greatness. And who surrenders to him, walking in his ways. This time let's pray this prayer together. Together. Dear Lord, help me never forget how great you are. You are without doubt great in wisdom, great in power, great in mercy. Thank you for sharing with me your great love. For surrender your life that I might find your forgiveness and live forever. Help me today and every day. To live a surrendered life, that I might be daily blessed and continue to be a blessing to those around me. This I pray through Christ.