So just a little bit about our trip. We, you know, started off in Paris and ended up in Zurich. We went down this Rhine River. So one day we were only on the river boat and I think we saw like twenty-seven castles. Boom, boom, boom, you start knocking them off eventually like, oh another castle, wow But these trips like this, especially in Europe, are castles and churches. Castles and churches Lucky for us we like churches. A lot of people on the ship were like, get me out of here. I am church saturated. But I could have stayed in those All day long. The castles, super cool, very important, very strategic, completely irrelevant anymore. We have different ways to deal with threats Churches. Whoa. I mean some of these are middle age, Roman age churches, Roman Age churches Remember the Edict of Constantine in 313, where he said, all of the Holy Roman Empire is Christian Now we can debate how awesome that was or not. But it changed a lot of things, right? And they started building these Roman churches and then they became medieval churches. Some of them built in the 1800s, 100, 1000, 1200s, right? Some took 400 years to build Our favorite one was in Strasbourg, which is on the border of France and Germany. And it was built from 1015 to 1439. It was the world's tallest building for 227 years. Um because some other ones fell down. So it was the tallest building from sixteen forty seven to eighteen seventy-four. Then there were three other churches. These are all in like 500 feet territory. And then the Washington Monument went up in 1884 and it was five hundred and fifty-five feet. It's weird we're coming back to height of buildings again. And then the Eiffel Tower in eighteen eighty nine, nine hundred and eighty-four feet Uh this one this church in Strasbourg we have a I have a few pictures that I took. Look at that thing. Okay, and then this is like these front facades right here where you walk in the portals And then there's this astronomical clock on the inside of this thing, which is Ancient, right, you know? No electricity. They figured out how to keep track of time, solar time Day, month, year, zodiac sign, moon phase, planets, liturgical year, and there's this you know like every hour the w on the zero part of the hour this baby comes out and then fifteen minutes later a young man comes out and then Fifteen minutes later, an old man comes out and then death kills the man. And the baby comes out again. Well that's a pretty quick life cycle. But you know, reminding these these had functions besides just what they did. And the fact that they can still completely work is incredible. The only thing the guy has to do is come up and change things for leap year. 'Cause or no not leap year. No, they they actually account for leap year, it's for uh daylight savings time. That wasn't factored in back Julie and I went to church in Paris the first Sunday we were there, but we couldn't the second Sunday, and I hate missing church. But We went to churches, for sure. The these churches okay, we can't oh yeah. These churches, um I appreciate so much the beauty of them, the craftsmanship, the devotion, the windows, bringing heaven to earth, and bringing people who walk inside to heaven. They they had never been in any building like this, right? They had never seen anything like this It had to be awesome. These are architectural marvels. And these churches sat at the center of everything They were in the middle of everything that happened in each of these towns and cities. And power. Greed, corruption, politics. There was a reason Luther wrote up his theses, wasn't it? Luther was uh a Catholic priest of the common people, right? And he asked all these questions. It wasn't even uh late, he started asking questions And so in Germany they started sending him to Rome to talk to the Pope about his questions in a way for them to get him gone for a couple of years. It takes a long time to walk from Germany to Rome Over the Alps by himself, right? And so he's in this little burg somewhere in Germany, and he gets to Rome and he goes, Whoa! And he is not impressed, is he? We're suffering out here. We're dying out here. And you're building this and this and this. My people are giving you indulgences. To pay for their sins so they don't go to purgatory. So their past relatives and future relatives don't go to purgatory. So you can build this He is not happy, right? The priests can't marry, but they all have mistresses across the street. But now, twenty twenty four, do people want to go to church I looked up the statistics for Maryland and it says that sixty seven percent of people in Maryland say self-report that they go to church every week or every month. Do you believe that? Where are they? They drive out of state? Most people are mad, burned, bored, cynical Indifferent and think the church is irrelevant, right? Now, you know, we're not fundamentalists, we're not liberals We're not pursuing the latest fads. We're not stuck in ancient times. We're trying to build this mix or blend of an ancient faith You know, like Apostles Creed and songs they we've sung before. We're not reinventing any sort of wheel here. But we're also living in Maryland in 2024. So, you know, we're not preaching in Latin. So we're trying to bring the this ancient thing to this present-day reality, ancient and modern. So here we are, um just like we had Christma Christmas tide, we have Easter tide We're still in the season of Easter. Marching our way again to this next church holiday, and then we'll take a break for a while. Pentecost. Pentecost, the great holiday of the church, the great holiday of Acts 2. It's on June 5th, so we're going to look at Acts on the way there for these weeks weeks until then. Acts was written by Luke. Right. And they would have been bound together, but they came in two scrolls. One scroll would have been too much. So that's why they're separated. Makes sense to separate. And Luke was a a doctor. trade, but he became a great historian because he did all this research and he did these interviews. So he wasn't a contemporary, but he went back and interviewed everyone who knew anyone. So he most likely talked to Mary, right? He talked to Peter, talked to John. Amen. So what does Luke say? Point one Jesus' work, not our work. A lot of people will, totally understandably, point to Christianity with Christian people's actions. What we do makes us who we are. And most people sort of don't have a good grasp of what Christians do or what they have done in the past. But you know, it's Christians throughout time who started the first hospitals The first clinics, the very first orphanages, first shelters. But Christians have bombed hospitals And clinics and destroyed like vigilante destroyed whatever they didn't like. Christians have fought for justice, fought for peace, fought for well-being, fought against slavery, fought against civil rights, and Fought for slavery and against civil rights. And I can show you sermons from Presbyterian pastors About how slavery is biblical and awesome. Christians have entered the worst places with hope and joy. Christians have packed their belongings and coffins to go into the jungles of South America and Africa to preach the gospel, knowing they will die there. Christians have rescued babies from the scrap heap and raised them as their own You guys seen uh Cabrini yet? It's about this Catholic nun. Now we you know there's a lot about the Catholic Church we're not super jazzed about for sure. But let's not be completely against all of it. That's wrong. And this lady, you should watch this movie for sure. Now the crazy thing about the movie is it's not super sympathetic to the whole Catholic Church. Which is probably fair. But this woman knows how to get what she wants, but she ends up in five points in New York. One of the most dangerous places in the world, and you should watch her be the boss of this place. It is super inspiring. So we have that in our heritage. People do these things And we shied away, built wealth, swindled people. Christians have been some of the very best artists, scientists, architects, businessmen And Christians have stood up against serious crimes like playing cards and dancing All that stuff, right? Hair's too long, dress too short. Let's have some modesty around here Okay, but we know Christianity isn't about what we have done, right? Or what we do or what we will do Following Jesus should have a real impact on our lives. We should live changed lives. We should have a redeemed mind, a redeemed way of look at things. But in the crazy way it works, is we are still a fallen people, a redeemed fallen people Sinners and saints at the same time. We're still saved by Jesus and screwed up. Lost and found We've still broken, still cracked. We can't ever pay enough. The cost is still too high But the good news is here in Acts 1. Look at 1, 1 through 3. In this first book, O Theophilius, oh, did I jump reading the scripture? Oops. Who was supposed to read it Just read it to yourself. I'm kidding. We don't need to read it. We're already going, right? We'll see what we'll we'll go we'll touch it along the way. I'm sorry. I was whoo not everything's gonna be perfect today. Well, here you go. Here's three of it. In the first book, O Theophilus, I have dealt with all that Jesus began to do and teach. Until the day when he was taken up, after he had given commands through the Holy Spirit to the apostles whom he chosen, he presented himself alive to them after his suffering by many proofs. Appearing to them during forty days and speaking about the kingdom of God. This is our hope right here The good news is what Jesus did. He suffered. He died. He paid the penalty for you and me. Someone had to, right? We couldn't pay it ourselves. Jesus suffered and died and raised from the dead, and he appeared to the apostles and others. Because that means he gave proof that he was real. People saw him. It wasn't their imagination. It wasn't a group hallucination. It wasn't wishful thinking on their part. It wasn't some legend that got passed down over time. Hey, you remember when you saw Jesus? Oh yeah, I remember when I saw Jesus. Let's keep that going. And again, it's important to remember: no one expected this to happen. The Romans don't believe in resurrection, the Jews don't believe in resurrection. Not personal bodily resurrection. It happened though. And that's why the church continued That's why Jesus' disciples, his followers, did not fade away, because up from the grave he arose with a mighty victory for his friends. Against his voice. So we do need to present a better picture to the world. Yes. Right. Um I even read an article this week about an atheist agnostic person who was writing about the demise of church gathering and church cultures. And he was like first thinking, yeah, alright. We don't need that stuff. But he was realizing that this is a fabric of community. And society. And even though he didn't participate it, if no one participates in these things and we're all on our phones, we think this is community, we are missing out And he's right. And one of the things about I mentioned this in the welcome and is when we come here, it's important that we remember that we don't need to pledge allegiance to the flag Like here. This is more than that. We're also sort of in time and outside of time, right? We're bringing these things that people have said into now And so we can come to this with our burdens, but we can have a different focus on them. And we need that, and we need to look each other in the eye and say, I'm with you on that. But we are all stumbling. And we found a rescuer, and we found a savior, and we found a redeemer. And our hope and our glory and our story is in him. It's the theme of our song. And the good news, we don't gather at Jesus' grave every year He is alive. Okay, Jesus' focus. See that's That little thing right there. Not ours. So we need to look where Jesus' looks looks. We just talked about Jesus' work, not our work. Jesus' focus, not our focus. I know a lot about focusing. I got glasses when I was in second grade. I've sat in that little eye thing hundreds of times. Is A better than B? Is B better than C? Pick one. Pick two. And you're always like, I hope I'm picking the right thing. I mean it's not I got no one else that my blame if my glasses turn out wrong, but I don't know what's better. They're all close. Just get me in the ballpark I went to contacts. Yeah. I could wear glasses, sunglasses. I got laser eye surgery. That was amazing. But you know laser eye surgery resets your eyes and then they continue on whatever trajectory they were on just from a new starting place. So, you know, maybe seven years later, glasses again. Then eventually they tell me they can't make them any better Because this like I'm drooping over here. So eye surgery. Focus, right? The disciples need to focus So when when they had come together they asked him, Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel? What do you think is behind that question? It's not crazy, right? They still want what they've always wanted. This natural, nationalistic, Davidic, Solomonic, glorious kingdom And after all, you think about it, this guy who we said was a king cannot die I mean we can send him into battle over and over. We might have to wait three days before we start again. He's unkillable We got a gold mine here. All the other things we already knew, walk on water, control the weather, make bread, make wine Cast out demons, and now we can't die. Boosh. Let's go. And Jesus says This is not the way it works. I've been telling you over and over again. My kingdom is not div not defined by borders Or rivers, or even twelve tribes. It never was about that Jesus' kingdom is compatible with patriotism, but not compatible with nationalism. Not the same thing Jesus rules an international community in which race, nation, rank, and sex create no barriers to fellowship Amen. So he says in one seven, because this gets to another wrong focus that he's anticipating. He says of them, it is not for you to know the times or seasons that the Father has fixed by his own authority. We'll stop there. It's not for you to know because this is the When are you coming back question, right? They're not asking what shall we do But when are you coming back? And that's something we've not gotten over asking. I remember when I was in high school, I got a little booklet called 89 Reasons Jesus Coming Back in 1989. And I memorized that to death. And I was sure it was gonna happen. Which makes you know test taking relatively unmotivating. You you know turn in your paper and I just turn in nineteen reasons why. There you go That should work. I remember when I was in REF, this was another time, this would have been in the mid two thousands, and there was this guy and he said He's coming back in like May 2004. And there were billboards all over. Is this about right time? Harold camping? I don't remember what his reason was They're all whatever, it was the same bit. And so I'm driving to RUF summer conference with my college students down to Florida, and in the back of my mind I'm thinking, you know, he's coming back sometime. But I'd rather be on the beach and whatever else I was gonna do. And I had zero percent but it was interesting to drive that way, right? And even just you saw this on the eclipse thing People are like mapping the eclipse path and they're like trying to come up with some uh secret code that goes back to like, no, I could never figure it out There's this thing about eclipses where people think it's happening in eclipse. Now, again, Jesus died during eclipse, right? So that's not crazy. But NASA has mapped out the next one thousand years of eclipse. So you do not know the time? Well, we know the eclipse is times So these are wrong focuses, right? Focon. They're focused on heaven. Oh, there's one more wrong focus. Ten and eleven. And when so this is now he's he's going up, right? So we're gonna talk about that, but and when they were gazing into heaven as he went, behold two men by the Two men stood by them with white robes and said, Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into heaven? This Jesus who he was taken up from you into heaven will come in the same way as you saw him go into heaven So this wrong focus is forever looking in the wrong place. Waiting. Waiting, right? Focusing on things not here. It's sorta like um little kids playing hide and go seek. And you're like, you're getting warmer, you're getting warmer, and they go completely the other way. You're getting warmer, you're getting warmer. Oh okay. That's not what getting warmer means You don't you don't get it, right? At morals, needing better rulers, leaders, family devotions. These are all good things, but they're not the focus of who we are about in the church. We don't also just passively wait for Jesus' return, do we? We have stuff we gotta do. Jesus' focus is seeing the world through the mission of God, through His mission, through His kingdom And that God is present through all believers with the Holy Spirit. And Jesus had told them to wait, four and five, and while staying with them, he ordered them to not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father. Which he said, You heard for me, for John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now. So he had told them to wait there. There's things to do And you know, I always think that the disciples always had these side chats. So Jesus would talk and he would say something like this and they would get together like, Do you know what it's Are we pretending like we do? Are we asking? Peter, are you asking? And they uh then they Like, let's just pretend we understand. Because we don't want to be stupid looking all the time. But they don't know what he's talking about most of the time, right? He's promising them faith of the Father, power of the Holy Spirit. Gifts given by grace not earned, they all come from God's favor alone. And that is hard to wrap your head around. Jesus' power, not our power. Last point. Knowing and loving and following Jesus changes you. And you get on his mission. Now that we get the famous verse in here, which is all You remember we get these have those famous verses and lamentations of all places. But we know this one. Acts 1-8. But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come on you, and you will be my witnesses And when he said these things as they were looking on, he was lifted up, and a cloud took him out of their sight. But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come on you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and all Judea and Samaria to the ends of the earth. Now, how I mean I grew up in the 70s. Anyone else? Anyone el anyone else alive in the seventies? Okay, we'll start there. In the seventies Um G. I. Joe, Superman, Batman, but really Steve. He Man. I have the power. Okay, you don't like He Man? She Ra! Contemporized version, right? What does She-Ra say? She says, by the power of I think they both say by the power of grace goal Sherah has the power. She talks in third person. So yeah, we want power. I had He Man sets We are calling this series unhindered, and the reason is if you turn back the very end of Acts Which is the last verse is Acts twenty or the last chapter is Acts twenty-eight. And let me read to you the last verse of Acts. Proclaiming the kingdom of God and teaching about the Lord Jesus with all boldness and without hindrance. That's what Paul was doing. He welcomed all who came to him, proclaiming the church of God and teaching about the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness and without hindrance. It's like this is where we're going as the church. Unhindered. But I feel pretty hindered. Does anyone else feel hindered? Unhindered? No boundaries Say what we want, we can breathe, we're honest and compassionate and passionate and free, and people responding, responding, responding But remember, it's not our work, but his work. So we tend to, I'm focused on my goodness, my theology, my hymns, my liturgy, my doctrine, my organization. But we are called to invite people that Jesus' work, not ours, His forgiveness, His redemption, He is the hero, not even the church at all. We gather around him. Not our focus. We focus on the stupid logo that we can't figure out. Our liturgy, right? Both matter, our theological positions. But Jesus' focus? God his Father. Not the king of Israel, his kingdom, the kingdom of God. I pledge allegiance to the kingdom of God first and foremost. I live in America and one its best. I give it some partial allegiance for sure. But and our focus isn't when on he his return when he returns. Our focus is on his life, him coming, him living and dying Is raising from the dead. And his power, not our power, right? Sure, we all have some power. We all exert influence But Jesus has all power. He's all the omnis. Omniscient, omnipotent, omnipresent. He controls the winds and the waves. He raises from the dead, forgives sins. And he took the servant's towel and washed feet. He humbled himself to death on a cross What wondrous love is this, oh my soul. Oh my soul. I want Grace Church to grow You do too. And this is a great church. I'm very glad to be here. I'm impressed and all you do and all you have done. And there are people who need us. There are people who think the church had passed them passed the spot passed them by And we should be strong and vital and beautiful and relational, compassionate, engaged, speaking the truth in love, but it's still about Jesus, not us. It's His power, His Focus, His World, His Work His kingdom, his mission, his church. He is our great foundation in all of the building materials, and he is the architect And that gives us hope. In the Hunger Games, the president of Pan Am Which used to be an awesome airline, of course. Said there's something stronger than fear. Hope Hope is strong when people need it. When they see hope. When they see someone give up everything, when they see a person volunteer to be a sacrifice. When they see someone pursue others in love even to own hurt When they see a life of power in love, that has the power to change. You and me and our city and our community and our world. That's this is what the church stands for, right? The hope in Jesus Christ, not the hope in us, not the hope in the church. Now, I think we do have a lot to offer, but let's be honest, we've also caused a lot of chaos So we need to invite people to Jesus and we all are walking with him together. Jesus is way better than Katniss Evergreen. He is our hope. We are his church. Amen.