For the reading of God's word. Therefore, remember that at one time you Gentiles in the flesh called the uncircumcision by what is called the circumcision But now in Christ Jesus, you who were once far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. is our peace, who has made us both one and has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility, by establishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances, that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two. So making peace, and might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility. And he came and preached peace to you who were far off, and peace to those who were near For through him we have we both have access to one spirit in the f to the Father. So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of the God built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone, in whom the whole structure being joined together, grows into the a holy temple in the Lord. In him you also are being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit. Ephesians two eleven to twenty-two Beloved, let's pray. Father, thank you for your great building. It's beyond our imagination. But we ask that you might come now and infuse Our hearts. Take down the things that cause us to be divided. Break down the things in our own hearts that keep us Us from you that shatter your glory in us. Help us to see your faith Help us to imagine the grandeur that you have imagined and set in front of us. And so, Father, open your word that we might see Jesus. In his name we pray. Amen. Yeah, I want to talk about houses and the house that Jesus built. When we were choosing a house uh a number of years ago when we had to come back from Kenya We found it difficult because our kids had fallen in love with our house in Kenya. And it was difficult to make the transition back again. And um so we sort of went from one house to another that the realtor was showing us. And I I was struggling with how to get the kids engaged with it. So at one point I decided that the best way to do it was to give them and they were in elementary school and middle school and high school. They sort of spanned all the uh different ages at that point in time. I gave him a little piece of paper and an assignment. The last thing a kid needed to do is to be taken by a real estate agent and be walked around the house and said, Now this is the bathroom. Like, you you think I don't know that? And and and this is the living room. Well I know that too. So I said, Listen, when we get to the front door, you just go in and Explore the house. Figure out what's there. And here's your assignment, Josh, and here's your you're going to measure all the rooms. Here's your assignment, Hannah, here's your assignment, Jesse. And uh you know and their assignments took them through the house Said to discover it. And one of the questions that I remember asking them is: Does this house, does this place have space that you would like to live in? And if so, what would it look like? What what could you imagine yourself doing in this space? You don't yet have friends. So if you did, what would this house enable you to do with your friends? And so they went through and they thought about the house and the space in that light. I don't know what you think about or what you did think about the house that you're presently living in, why you chose it It may have been, well it was the only one I could afford, and that's a great reason. It could be, well, it was the biggest one I could afford. It was the prettiest one. It was the whatever it was. But think back to that specific time I'm gonna guess that the reason you chose the house is probably not like the reason That God gives us in this text as to why He built His house. And so I want you to think about the reasons. For which God builds his house. If you think about the reasons that a lot of people in our lives choose a house. It's not usually because every room looks like every other room. That would be a really strange house, wouldn't it? Or supposing you like the color line green, and every space was covered with the same painted color line green. Lime green. The carpet was lime green, the walls were lime green, the ceilings were lime green, the trim was all lime green. It was all the same color. And the furniture was all lime green. So I you know you just think God didn't build his house that way. What's amazing to me in this text is that he fits us together and he grows us into a space that he dwells in But what he puts in his dwelling place, in his house, uh has some characteristics that we would rarely choose. But he The first is this it's a house that invites strangers. Look at verse 19. Therefore you are no longer strangers and foreigners. But fellow citizens were the saints and the members of God's household. So you are God's household But you're no longer strangers and foreigners, because why? Because God invited you in as a stranger. He made space for strangers in his house. We were once strangers, far off from God. We were once strangers to each other. I don't know if you can remember the first time even you came to this church, this congregation. We all arrived at different times. So you have to think back to the first time you ever walked through those doors. You were a stranger. Somehow you have become a not stranger. Over time, we become incorporated and we become made friends. And sometimes, like children, we Bump into each other. And our friend and our friendship becomes a little irritable. But clearly God makes space for that in his church. That we start out as strangers and we become So God invites us to Himself. We are strangers to Him. We are strangers to each other. We're strangers to Him. But the text tells us that He draws near to us. And that's why we can be near to each other, because he draws near to us. Now, I've been in a lot of churches, congregations. And if nobody draws near to me, if I walk in and I walk out, and nobody bothers to introduce themselves to me. Nobody draws near to me. I know how I feel. And I know how you feel too. You think that was a pretty unwelcoming church. Nobody drew near to me. Well, God draws near to me, and that's why I come near to Him, because He first draws near to me. And the church reflects His character. So what God builds into the church is to reflect His character. character, he draws near to me. When I'm a stranger to him, when my heart is set against him, Scripture says, He draws near to me. He makes me one with him. And because he makes me one with him, I can become one with others. So it's because of my div of our diversity in the church that God has drawn out of the world. It's because of that diversity that we can actually understand the pain and the suffering of others. Imagine if we were all lime green. Uh we wouldn't understand blue and we wouldn't understand teal green and we wouldn't understand white and we wouldn't understand black we wouldn't understand anything except for lime green. But because God takes us from all of the colors, from all of the different varieties, from all of the failures From all different kinds of loneliness, from all different kinds of walks of life, from all different failures, from all different sinfulnesses, from all different kinds of family situations. From all different contexts of education and abilities, he takes all of these things and he draws us together and he makes us one. Because of that, we have an ability to understand difference and others. Imagine if we were all lime green. I don't even think lime greenies would want to be a part of us. I you know but God doesn't make us all lime green. He makes us with every shade, every color, every variety. And so we can draw near to each other. We don't know the backstory in any of our lives. We don't know the kind of pain that we were We don't know the kind of loneliness that somebody has experienced. We don't know the kind of unfaithfulness that somebody has walked into We don't know the kind of bad choices that somebody has made. We don't know any of those things. But because we ourselves have made those kinds of bad choices in our lives, And maybe everybody doesn't know them either. We have a point of reference. And God says, I want even that weakness that I have redeemed To be a part of my redemption for someone else. So he uses that. It is a house of strangers. And God invites us into his house by coming. He forgives our failures. He draws us in his redemptive grace. And he says, Now I want you. To be the reach, the arm, the hand of my redemptive grace. That is incredible. There's a second characteristic of God's house, also in verse 19, and that is it's the house that makes friends and members. So it's not just that we're strangers, we don't stay strangers. We become friends and members. He makes us members of his household. Uh we have in this congregation have had the joy of watching children born. It's been fun. It's been fun in the in the few years that I've been a part of it. And those of you that are a part of this congregation a lot longer than I have, have seen those children be born, have seen those children grow up, have seen those children mature. But here's the thing about kids. While they are born, it takes some years before they experience a sense of becoming a part of the family. Now, for an infant, it's a fairly quick process. If you adopt a child and the child is When you adopt them. They don't just instantly become a part of that family. I have a sister who has just received into her immediate family a uh sixteen year old grandson that she hasn't seen for many, many years. And uh as his father is uh very incapacitated in the hospital, his mother is someplace outside the co country. He has no other extended family. For the first time in many, many years, he is now trying to live with his grandmother. It's a new family. Now you just imagine that. He hasn't seen her since he was, I don't know, a toddler. And now at 16. They've got to become a new family. It doesn't just happen. You don't just walk in and say, Here I am, Mom. Mummy, Grand Mom. Wow, how do you do that? But in God's family, he makes us friends and members. He invites us to be apart. He saints us. That's the thing that's amazing. You know, verse 19 says Fellow citizens with the saints and members of God's household. We don't saint ourselves. God saints us. He gives to us a crown of victory. Whether we deserve it or not, the truth is we don't deserve it. He puts it upon our head and he says, I want you to be mine. For all of the mess that you might make, I make you mine. I receive you into my household And you will be mine. And somehow he says, I want you to learn to be friends. with each other. And we look around, we think, Yikes, I didn't choose these people. What I want is a bunch of lime greenies. No, I don't really want lime greenies. I just sometimes think I want everybody to be like me. But it would be really miserable if everybody was like me. It would be just as caustic and I wouldn't want everybody in my life to have my failures. Would you? So I don't really want all line greenies to be around me. I want somebody else to be around me. God says, listen, I will enable you to be friends. I will enable you to be a part of my people. Fellows, that's what he calls us. Uh in Africa we would call it age mates. People who experience the same things at the same time of life. Uh cohorts is another word that we sometimes use. But people that have had the same experiences or in the kingdom of God, there is a similarity in our walk with the king Call that equity. We have had these similar experiences of recognizing I'm not good enough. I don't do the right things. I fail. Oh you Too. Oh, you too. It turns out we've all been down that road. And we have had to learn by God's grace to say, Lord, forgive me. I did it again. And again. And to hear God's word saying, I forgive you again and again. Yeah. And I will straighten you out again and again. I will comfort you again. But Lord, you already comforted me. I never No, the shepherd's voice says, I will comfort you once more. I'm lonely again today. Why do I have to be lonely today? I was lonely yesterday. I will draw alongside of you today. Just like it did yesterday. And that's the commonality that we walk through. Again and again, day by day, we experience it. That together, each in our own little journeys, but together we experience it corporately. And so it is that experience that makes us members and friends. Because we are in the same cohort. We're ones that can appreciate each other because we have fundamentally appreciated Christ's reign and Christ's presence. In us and in each other. There's another characteristic that uh uh God builds, Jesus builds, is characteristic church on. That's verse 20. Look at it. Built on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets. We're built on a foundation. The foundation is an incredibly important part of any building. Uh and it doesn't matter what that building is, I like you, probably seen a lot of buildings, a lot of different kinds of foundations. But the foundation that we're built on Is given to us here. The foundation of the apostles and the prophets. So it's the teaching of the apostles and the prophets. The foundation, in other words, of scripture itself. What it is that the apostles and the prophets have to say. And not just the rules, but the way of life, the way of bringing our lives before God, the way of living our lives It's that that's that God is saying my house is going to be built upon that kind of a foundation. So why is it Why is it that we worship the Lord week after week? Why is it that we come to the Lord's table in this congregation I You know, I ate last week. Do I need to eat this week? I ate yesterday. Do I need to eat today? No, I ate yesterday. That's enough for today. I ate last week. I don't need to eat this week. So how long can we say that for? I can eat once a month. When's the last time you only ate once a month? Uh the point is, if we're built on the foundation, that foundation of teaching of the word, it's not a position, it's not a person, but it's the regular taking part of recognizing I rest on the foundation of Scripture. I rest in the foundation of the teaching of Scripture. And I have to refresh my memory of where I am. So I take the whole word and I apply it to the whole of my life. Again and again and again. The house that Jesus built is built on a foundation. And the foundation doesn't wander, it doesn't shift, doesn't change. It's not here one day and there another day. It's constant. The house that Jesus builds is built on a verse 20 again. A cornerstone, Christ Jesus as a cornerstone. The cornerstone is Christ. Cornerstones aren't exactly today what they used to be. Most of our cornerstones today in significant buildings. uh are set and put in place after the building is built. Like, you know, we we leave a hole for the cornerstone And uh after the building is built then we uh we have a special service, memorial time, to put that cornerstone into place and it's fit in a nice neat little box. or something like that. Well back in the day the cornerstone was the peace. Piece, the major stone against which the entire building was squared off. So you put that massive stone block in place, and then the walls were squared off Off of that one stone on both sides and up. And you knew if you had a true cornerstone that you would have a true building. And so that cornerstone was there for a reason, not just decorative, but it was structural And we're told that the that the cornerstone that we are built on and around is Christ Himself. So it's the Christ experience that is shared. It's the experiencing of Christ, of our friends, of our teaching, of our foundations It's the Christ who forgives. It's the Christ who transforms. It's the Christ who gives hope. It's the Christ who gives me redemption. That's the foundation that Paul is writing about here. Built on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets, with Christ Jesus himself as the cornerstone. Now it's it's uh somewhat significant that the house that I described that my children looked at and that we ended up buying many years ago in Brunswick, Georgia, I didn't look at the foundations. I should have. But I So this was rural Georgia. Anything could be built, and anything was built. And it was built on piers. Between the time when we looked at the house and the time when we bought the house, it was a major freeze. I had not told any of my kids to crawl under the house, nor had I. But between the time we looked at the house and the time we bought the house, the major freeze had caused all of the pipes that were just sort of floating loose underneath the the house to freeze. And so when we finally came to enter the house, it looked like one massive watering can with water dish all over the ground. And uh we had to have a plumber come and reconnect and take all of the old piping out and put new piping in Because the foundation was up on piers, and there was nothing that kept the cold from attacking those pipes. The foundation is critical. But we often don't inspect it. And we don't ask what's there? What's down there? But in God's house, in Jesus' house, The foundation is critical. And we need to recognize it. There's another characteristic of the house that Jesus built, and that's in verse 21. Look at it. In him, the whole building is fitted together and grows into a holy temple in the Lord. That's uh actually why I thought of a Lego house. Spitted together brick by brick by brick by bri brick. You can pry them apart, but they're naturally fitted together. And each brick is different. That's part of what makes it. They're not all lime green. See they're not even the same shape. But they're fitted together carefully. So that's the picture that we have here. The house that grows it, but the problem is, many of our houses Many of our lives don't actually grow. So the characteristic of Jesus' house is that it grows in Christ. A good house is one that's right for a time. So uh, you know, maybe the house that you are in was a great house when your children are little and you think, man, this house is just Perfect. And then your children grow big and the s and it's like the walls you know get smaller and get closer together and all of a sudden the the house that used to be be really big enough is now you feel like you're literally in a Lego house. It's like you know we're expanding out. We need to build, we need to add on to this this tiny little house. So you build and you add on and what do you know, in about two or three years your kids grow up and they're out of the house. Now what do you do with all this extra room? And all of a sudden your house is too big. I gotta clean this thing all the time. Now I got something to cut the grass. Now I I don't have anybody to do it anymore And I have to rake the leaves and see a lot of work. So the house that used to be just right is no longer just right. Here's the deal about the house that Jesus built. It grows. It grows in Him and it grows with us. It grows with him. So a good house is one that's right for the time. A great house is one that's always right. That's that's the point I want you to see. And God's house, Jesus' house, is always right. The struggle that we have Is that often when we look at church, we're often not happy. We think, my church isn't big enough. My church is too Big. My church doesn't have enough lime green. My church doesn't have enough of this. My church doesn't have enough of that. My church But what God says is, Jesus Church is always right. And that's something that we have to look at and appreciate. Jesus Church is Always right. If you are growing, it's God's church. It's the place of God's dwelling. Now that doesn't mean that we adequately reflect all of God's glory. But it is a space, it's the human space where God's grace. Exists and grows. And that's the characteristic that's here. In him, the whole building is fitted together and grows into a holy temple. In the Lord. So He lives in us. God actually lives in us. And the room That I talk to the kids about is not just a room for Goss, it's not a room for Vivian. It's not a room for Carl. It's a room. It's me. I'm the room. You're the room. God lives in you He lives in you. And that's the church that Jesus builds. He builds you. And if you're anything like me, Jesus couldn't you have done better. Well, if he could have done better, he would have. But he can't do better. Because the whole of redemption, the whole of Jesus' plan, is seen in you. And me. It's seen in our brokenness. It's seen in our failures. It's seen in what we can't do and can't be and aren't. That we might come before Jesus and say, Lord, I'm not enough. I've failed again. Forgive me Take me, make me dwell in me So the house that dwells with God in his spirit is verse 22. In him you two are being built together. Into a dwelling place for God in His Spirit. In our human houses, the family lives Our guests live. In God's house, he lives. You are God's house. When you dwell with God, He dwells in you. He lives in you. He lives through you. It's an amazing house. It is an amazing house. You are an amazing house. Of God's glory. So do you like your church house? The house that Jesus built? What do you wish for? Do you want a fireman's pole? What do you pray for? More strangers, more friends, more land greeners, greater joy in the foundation. A greater sense of security in the cornerstone? Do you pray for constant growth? In Jesus? Do you pray for God's dwelling? That everyone who comes not only through those doors But everyone who meets you at work, at the grocery store, has some sense. God passed by. I have been in the presence of God. You are the house that Jesus built. Let's pray. Father You have built us, and we are yours.