And the captains of the temple and the Sadducees came upon them, greatly annoyed because they were teaching the people and proclaiming in Jesus the resurrection from the dead. But many of those who had heard the word believed, and the number of men came to about five thousand. On the next day their rulers and elders and scribes gathered together in Jerusalem. With Annas the high priest, and Caiaphas and John and Alexander, and all were who were of the high priestly family. And when they had set them in the midst, they inquired, By what power or what name did you do this? Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, Rulers of the people and elders, if we are being examined today concerning a good deed done to a crippled man, by what means this man has been healed, let it be known to all of you and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead By him this man is standing before you well. This Jesus is the stone that was rejected by you, the builders, which has become the cornerstone And there is salvation and no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. Now, when they saw the boldness of Peter and John and perceived that they were uneducated common men, they were astonished, and they recognized But when they had commanded them to leave the council, they conferred with one another, saying, What shall we do with these men? For that a notable sign has been performed through them is evident to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it. But in order that it may spread no further among the people, let us warn them to speak no more to any one in this name. So they called them and charged them not to speak or teach at all in the name of Jesus. But Peter and John answered them. Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you rather than to God, you must judge, for we cannot but speak of what we have seen and heard. And when they had further threatened them, they let them go, finding no way to punish them because of the people, for all were praising God for what had happened. Years old. Acts four, one through twenty-two. We got pretty close at least, right? Okay, I mentioned this in the last few weeks, but I'm mentioning it again. The nation had been under siege, but the uprising Uprising had been quelled, and the new government made sure, wanted to make sure there would never be an uprising this like this ever happening again And how can they make sure strike fear in the inhabitants? So every year One male child and one female child were chosen from each region, chosen by lottery, to go fight to the death. And there was only one winner. We know what I'm talking about? Yeah, the hunger games, right? Fear and persecution brings fear and persecution We're talking about the very first months, days, weeks after Jesus had died, rose from the dead, walked around And then ascended into heaven, right? This is this small little church. There has been, of course, an Old Testament church. The church doesn't really just start here. We can sort of talk about that way in shorthand. But the Old Testament Church had preceded, the Holy Spirit has been around, but not quite like this. It is different after Jesus has come and died and rose from the dead and ascended. In this little tiny group, they keep gathering week after week, Sunday after Sunday, because the Lord rose on Sunday They keep on getting together to remember and talk about it. And this little group, 100, 120 gets to 3,000, gets to 5,000. Not everyone is happy. So I have three points for you today from Acts 4. Acts 4 is a continuation From Acts three. These two chapters go together. The gospel exposes a persecuted church. Now, I don't know what you think, but most people think the church is very boring We don't think that here, of course, do we? Very boring. Now I grew up in a Methodist church in this little town Ozark, Missouri. Probably when we moved there was less than 5,000 people. Uh Little Methodist Church. And I was there every Sunday. They handed out perfect attendance pins and I had a whole string of them. And I was also an acolyte. Well do we know what acolytes are? I don't see them around anymore. But this is like the the fairly formal church Uh and there are candles at the front, right? And so an acolyte, usually kids, and you wear a special puffy shirt, white puffy shirt, I don't know how else to explain it You put it on and you have one of those candlesticks, right? It goes out real long and it's got a wick on the top that you get to move up and down. It's got a little bell that puts out the can out the candle when you're ready to snuff them out. So you, you know, you walk, it's very official, feels very official for a eight-year-old. So you know come up, light the candles, and then the way it would work is we it was two of us, we would sit over here. It felt like no one could see us. That wasn't actually accurate. And we tried not to talk too much, and I I just remember I mean this is years and years and years sitting here and I basically had two options. I certainly wasn't listening to what was happening. You I could fill in all the O's And the bulletin. I mean we all do that, right? Or I could time things. I had I have my first like digital watch. The Casio, you know, this is nineteen 79. And I would sit there and I would turn off the beeper and I would see if I could get it exactly on ten seconds Exactly on thirty seconds. How fast I could do it. Whatever variation of timing things I could come up with I did that every week. Church was boring. What if there were healings? What if there was the Holy Spirit rushing as fire? What if there were arrests? It would be very unboring if the police came in right now and arrested all of us, especially after someone just got healed. So this is the this is the Axe Church. Now this is not normal or regulative, right? But it is very unboring And it gets our attention and it gets everyone attention. And what is the response of the crowd of the officials who are there? Do it again. Greatly give me your greatly annoyed. Ah, greatly annoyed. So not everyone is super happy about healings. You'd sort of think they would be Greatly annoyed. And Luke mentions all these people that are greatly annoyed. The priests, the Sadducees. The rulers, the elders, Anus, Caiaphas, John, Alexander, these are important, powerful people. They have a ton of influence. And what had these people just agreed on to get done? Crucify Jesus. This group of people don't agree on anything. They came to a very strong consensus on this matter It hadn't happened very long ago, but that problem should be over. We have already dealt with this It's been at least a month, month and a half. And so they're greatly annoyed. And they ask, what power, what authority do you have to do this? How are you healing people? 4 7. And when they had them in their midst, they inquired, by what power or what name did you do this? And so Peter, he admit he says some other things, but in 11 and 12 he says this: This Jesus, you know, the one whom you crucified, that God raised from the dead. He's the one who healed this man. This Jesus is the stone which was rejected by you, the builders, which has become the cornerstone. And there is salvation and no one else, there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. This is the cornerstone, not just some dude. The foundation of everything. Now this matters really because we all, everyone in the world, has a cornerstone. Theirs certainly was not Jesus, right? But it's true for all of us, here in the church, people outside the church, I contend there's no real unbelief. You cannot believe in Jesus, but that means you believe in something else. You have a cornerstone Now, what is it? There's a lot of people that are very skeptical about Jesus. Fair enough, but they're not skeptical about their skepticism. They're very sure about it. Tons of people are very cynical about Jesus and the church. Church. They're not cynical about their cynicism. That's for sure. But we all have some sort of cornerstone Some sort of foundation, some sort of bottom line. Very often it's our careers, it's respect, perfect marriages, perfect kids, comfort, peace, duty, science. Logic. And so unbelief in Jesus is belief in something else. We all have our prophets Our scriptures, our authorities that we go to, that we believe in, right? And here's the thing. Some of us have become converts as adults, right? Not all of us have grown up in the faith. When Jesus starts to become real to you, it's wonderful and greatly annoying. Jesus. Dude, come on, man. I was doing okay. Now I got all this. Jesus, what right do you have to call me to do these things? To call me to think these things, to call me to act this way. You are shaking things up. By what authority do you think you have to come into my life this way? Again, we I think we talked about it's like it's okay if you're around, fine, but the cornerstone of my whole life, man. And when people see the church believing that It will get persecuted. The church will get persecuted because people don't like it when Jesus Is the Savior. Most people don't really have a big, huge problem with Jesus. You know, he was a prophet, he's probably real, historical, but the savior of the universe Whole nother deal. And that's who we say we follow. the suffering servant, persecuted Savior. And so when they see it this healed Man, and they are told the reason it happened is Jesus crucified, risen, cornerstone Jesus. They are not happy about that. And we, his followers, may also get persecuted. We, as his followers, may someday go to jail, be arrested. Now, I'm not looking to do that. Part of my I think it should be sort of cool at some point. Theoretically cool, actually not cool, right? But if you believed in him enough to do something that's not crazy At least we might get passed over. At least if you follow Jesus and you follow his commands, you might always be single. You you very well might be poorer than if you didn't follow him. Could you give money away You very mal well might get smacked on the other cheek because you turned one Now, I'm not saying we're trying to get persecuted. And I don't think as the church in America we're very persecuted, but we've got to realize that can happen. And all over the world, it certainly does happen, right? You want to look at the church in China, you want to look at the church in Cuba, you want to look at the church in Muslim countries. You can die if you get baptized. The gospel exposes a persecuted church. The gospel also exposes a brave church, doesn't it? Because they don't wilt. This is a little very tiny example, but I was in college, freshman, sophomore junior And the professor, this was a pretty big class, a hundred or so people, and the professor was talking about Christianity and Christian Christians and how crazy it was to believe in all this stuff that Christians believe. And I distinctly hear my there's no one here who believes in that, is there If there is, raise your hand. I did not raise my hand. I did not want to be the dummy. No one else raised their hands. One person raises his hand is an idiot, according to the professor. I don't think that was really wonderful behavior on my part, right? I didn't I wasn't even being persecuted, I was just being called out. If the church had been like me, we would not be here. They were brave, they were compelled, they were filled with the Holy Spirit. With power, with words, with courage. And remember, they're talking to the exact people that just crucified Jesus. Peter had just denied Jesus three times earlier, right? Not this day. Something changed in him, didn't it? But you've got to wonder, I mean, you know, he's not defensive, he's not mad, but it's gotta cross his mind what just happened These people aren't messing around. So what does he do? He says, and when they had set them in the midst, they inquired, by what power, what name did you do this? And Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said them, rulers of the people and elders. If we're being examined today concerning a good deed done to a crippled man, by what means this man has to be healed, let it be known to all of you And to all the people of Israel, that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, by him this man is standing before you well, this Jesus is the stone that was rejected by you, the builders, which is become And there is salvation and no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given unto among men which we might be saved. Amen. And they go from being greatly annoyed to astonished Astonished. Astonished. I I think I mean it says because they're uneducated men. I think they can't believe somebody stood up to them like that and said those things. They're shocked to hear that answer Expecting no answer. Like, I completely think they're like, I don't know, see ya. Just let us go, please. That's what anyone else would have done Not Peter, not John. They are astonished. So you know, just think they go from greatly annoyed to they have emotionally exhausting moments here, right? This is rough on the crowd And they get told there is only one way you can be saved. Only one. And then what do they do next? They shush these guys, don't they? They try to. This is what you were doing. Don't talk about this anymore, Peter, John, stop. They're bullied But they can't stop talking about it. About something that's very annoying, isn't it? Like, okay, we've heard this a million times. You have this hobby horse, alright. But they can't stop talking about it because they had been with Jesus They had been with him after he had died. I mean they can't even explain all of it. But they are gonna talk about it And they're threatened again and again, and they go and they get let go and they go and they ask for even more boldness Right? This is the part starting in verse twenty-three. When they were released, they went to their friends and reported what the chief priests and the elders had said to them. And when they heard it, they lifted their voices together to God and said, Sovereign Lord, who made all the heavens and the earth and the sea and everything in them, who through the mouth of our Father David, your servant, said by the Holy Spirit. Acts two. Why did the Gentiles rage? Why did the people plot in vain? The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and his anointed. And you know what you should do? Kiss the sun. We've kissed the sun, man. For truly in this city there was gathered together against the holy servant Jesus whom you anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, to do whatever your hand and your plan of predestined to take place. And now, Lord, look upon their threats and grant to your service to continue We want even more boldness. While you stretch out your hand to heal and signs and wonders are performed through the name of your holy And when they had prayed the place in which they were gathering together was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and continues to be able to do that. Speak the word of God with boldness. I'll tell you one thing. That is not boring. Right? That is not boring. Earthquakes are not boring They prayed for more boldness. James Boyce, a great pastor, in his commentary on the He tells a story about another pastor back in the 1860s, Peter Cartwright. Normal pastor down the south. And one day at Peter Cartwright's church President Andrew Jackson comes to church. Not normal. President Andrew Jackson has some front men who come before he comes to church and he says, Hey, yo, Peter, Cartwright, you might want to tone it down a little The president's gonna be here. Don't do your normal stuff. How do you think that's gonna go? So Andrew Jackson is there. Peter Cartwright's in the pulpit. And he said, I've it's come to my understanding that President Andrew Jackson is in church here today, and I've been asked to guard my remarks. So he said, so I will. I'll simply say this. Andrew Jackson, if you don't repent, you are going to hell. That's true for everybody. So no one knows what's going to happen next, right? After church, Andrew Jackson comes up to Peter Cartwright. And he says, Sir, if I had a regiment of men like you, I would whip the world She was impressed at the boldness, right? Maybe didn't like the actual words. So here in this little moment, they got arrested for a day, right? But it's about to get way worse, isn't it? This is the very, very beginning of all this stuff. And what's amazing is people watch and wonder How it's possible to die an excruciating death with a hymn on your lips With a prayer on your tongue for your persecutors. Joy in your heart for getting to die for Jesus Singing on your way into the Colosseum to be eaten by lions. That's not normal But we've heard this, I'll remind you, it is often said the church was built on the blood of the martyrs. The world was watching and noticing, greatly astonished and greatly annoyed At these very people. And I don't think they thought that much about it because they had been with Jesus. You know, Peter and John still were with Jesus because he wasn't dead. We're still with Jesus. The gospel exposes a persecuted church, a brave church, and a dependent We're going to talk about the end of Acts 4 next week. Which also talks about dependence on each other. But when we go back and look at four twenty-three through thirty-one, you know, this boldness thing They're praying for boldness because they're scared. It is scary. I mean, they're not oblivious They're not impervious. They might very well be a little freaked out afterwards. These people can really cause a lot of trouble. Can damage them, hurt them, hurt their families, hurt their reputations, hurt their freedom, and a lot is at stake. And you know what? In this prayer, at least, I I don't not say they never prayed about those things, but they don't pray about those things in this prayer, do they? I'm sure they did pray about them. But what we read is about God's sovereignty that He He's the creator and the ruler and the sustainer, and his plan has been predestined, has been acted out. Jesus' birth and death and resurrection. They quote from Psalm 2. W we church want to have big prayers and possible prayers. And we also want to have little teeny tiny prayers Because God cares about the hairs on our head. So it's all across the board. When I was an RUF campus minister, I led freshman Bible study. I always led freshman study Fresh from Bible study. Every year this exact thing happened. The first semester, most every prayer request, I would say ninety percent of all prayer requests from these, you know, fresh freshman was about tests and papers. I got a big test coming up. Can you pray for it? I got a big paper due. Can you pray for it? Okay, so first semester, fine. Second semester is like, okay, no Here's why I'm gonna pray something different. What about praying for you to study for your test That would be a good so you know. Are you worried? Are you anxious? I mean it's just not like God dumps all the knowledge into your head when you just like write automaton What about we pray for diligence to sit in front of your computer? What about I'll pray for you that you have the courage or whatever it takes to go to the writing lab and get your paper looked at beforehand. Let's be real. What am I praying about your test for? They all sort of laughed and did not like it when they had to think a little closer, right? But sometimes, you know, our prayer requests, which is fine, don't hear me wrong, can become what I call organ recitals Pray for this organ, this organ, this thing, this thing, it's all our ailments, which we do need prayer for. But there are other things we gotta remember To also add into the list of what we should be praying about. Repentance, heart change, transformation Of people, of communities, of families, release from bondage or addiction Reconciled marriages, pray for kindness and mercy and forgiveness and justice, right? I'm just saying they didn't pray for their immediate circumstances only. And and we also think we've been conditioned to Think and we do think that if things were better, I would love God more. If I had more wealth, I would do better You know, we can't keep that anyway, can we? If I was healthy, I would love Jesus more. You know, we're all dying I was thinking about um how how many of us can name our eight great grandparents. I think I can come up with two Unless you are like one of these DNA ancestry people, like Genie is. I think she can, right? She can. Anyone else can? Patty can. You know, my kids knew theirs, and I don't think they can If I had more stability, I would love Jesus more. I mean these are all very logical. I'm I I know what I'm saying is sort of depressing But those things are not the cornerstones of our lives, or at least they shouldn't be health, wealth, stability. Not cornerstones. Now this one also might be a little too soon, Steve. Called me out on Jackson Holiday The Wire. Season two. Season two on the wire. You know this is a show about Baltimore, I'm sure not All about shipping containers And and there's this Polish family, the Sabakas. And there's this moment when the dad, I think, is talking to the nephew And he's talking about how the sabakas will always be around. And then he says, Do you see that bridge? The key bridge It will always be around, just like us. You can bank on it. In the same week, Peter Angelos sold the Orioles. How many of you thought that was going to happen? And the key bridge collapsed on the same week. Well, what is the solid rock on which we stand? And what is everything else? Sinking sand. It's all shakeable. It's all sinkable. God is not. He shapes things. And he can shake any of it at any time We're all dependent on God. And remember, when Jesus died, there was an earthquake. The sky would pitch black. Even us, church, right? What what's gonna happen? We walk through this together. You know, I pray for good communication, I pray for good leadership. I pray for good preaching. It would be amazing. Good worship, good parties, good fellowship. I pray that we would flee sin and re Run to Christ, I pray for our outreach, I pray for an overflowing budget. That would be awesome, right? But not without Jesus as the cornerstone It is pointless. He is the rock. He is the fortress. And and and let's just also say this. I didn't raise my hand. He loves even fearful people He doesn't expect perfectly brave people. He doesn't expect that. He knows he doesn't have it He forgives us when we're not courageous. He knows because he took the persecution Persecution, didn't he? The worst form of the persecution, paraded through the streets, tortured, forgiving his enemies His love, his passion, his sacrifice, his courage, his dependence on his father, his commitment to you and me. That's what we're talking about. You know, Pay and M needed sacrifices. They in the Hunger Games felt like they needed blood to buy people's attention and affection. I in some sense it's like the Roman games, isn't it? The Colosseum where everybody watches. Forgetting sort of about what's happening And fear controls people, bread and circus. That's what the Romans believed. How do you control people? Bread and circus. But catnus evergreen, catnus evergreen. What is that her name? Everdeen. I like Evergreen better. She enters their agenda. She enters their agenda on purpose And completely subverts it, doesn't she? Topples it. Because she gave herself up in love for someone else. She sacrificed herself so someone else could be saved. She paid the price. She drew others in. People were watching. People were inspired not to live out of fear, but to live out of hope. She shatters her system of power with love and hope. Sandra McCracken has a hymn she wrote, The love of Christ is rich and free. Fixed on his own eternity, nor earth nor hell can it remove, long as he loves his own, he'll love. Love cannot form from its post withdrawal, nor death, nor hell, nor sin, nor law, can turn the surety's heart away, he'll love his own till endlessness. There's another really obscure hymn called In the Hours. This gets at the hymn that we sang um On Jordan Stormy Banks. Here we are on Jordan's Stormy Banks, right? In our lives. All the stuff's going on. We are bound for the promised land We are not there yet, but we know that's where we're headed, and nothing can happen to us there It doesn't mean we're not here. We've got to remember ourselves. We have to repeat over and over I am bound, I am bound, I am bound for the promised land. In the hours it goes this way. In the hours of pain and sorrow when the world brings no relief While blessings flee, Savior Lord, we trust in thee. When forsaken in distress, poor despised, and tempest tossed, With no anchor here to stay us, drifting, sail and rudder lost. Well, you know I like this one, right? Sailing. Then save us, thou who trod this earth with weary Brow. Jesus has been on this road. He knows Thou the haten and forsaken, thou the bearer of the cross, crowned of thorns, and mocked and smitten, counting earthly gain but loss. When scorned are we, we joy to be more like thee. Where are we bound? The promise Slam. Gotta keep that on our minds. Amen? And then