We talked about the dark night of the soul last week. So of my bag of tricks, which is gonna happen? help you in the dark night of your soul. A long reach or a short reach? Um you want to go around the corner? Go around the corner. But what helps you in the dark night of your soul? That's actually what Psalm sixteen is about. Let's stand. Let me read. It's the pathway out Of the dark night of our soul. Psalm 16. Preserve me, O God, for in you I take refuge. I say to the Lord, You are my Lord. I have no good apart from you. As for the saints in the land, they are the excellent ones in whom is all my delight. The sorrows of those who run after another God will multiply. Their drink offerings of blood I will not pour out or take their names on my lips. The Lord is my chosen portion, my cup. You hold my lot. The lines have fallen for me in pleasant places. Indeed, I have a beautiful inheritance. I bless the Lord, who gives me counsel. In the night also my heart instructs me. I have set the Lord always before me. Because he is at my right hand, I shall not be shaken. Therefore my heart is glad, my whole being rejoices, my flesh also dwells secure. For you will not abandon my soul to Sheol, or let your holy one see corruption. You make known to me the path of life. In your presence there is the fullness of joy. And at your right hand are pleasures forevermore. Father Focus our eyes on your light. Allow us to see where your light shines in our dark. Places enable us to see Christ Jesus, to hear His voice, to follow our Good Shepherd. To find our shelter in your presence. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. He may be seated. And you already know that um we've lived a number of years of our life without any electricity So we are familiar to the use of these devices, but I will say the LED has transformed what you can do in dark places. I wish we had them in the time that we needed them. But from my years, our years in Africa, there is a image that I think that this psalm speaks to and opens up. I have referred in the past to the fact that in my younger years I loved mountain climbing I still love it, but my body doesn't. So so I'm a little more limited. But I used to climb Mount Kenya um sometimes multiple times a year And uh we didn't always get the weather right. Uh you couldn't always plan your schedule around the weather. I don't know why that is, but It usually is. On the trail. And at that elevation, even though you're right on the equator, at that elevation, the rain was icy. And it rained all day. My pack was soaked, my head was soaked, my feet were soaked, my pants were soaked, I was soaked. And as the day turned to night, the temperature drops about thirty and then forty degrees. And you know what's happening? I'm starting to get cold And there's no dry place, and it's still raining. And I looked around and at that uh particular elevation, although you're going to a high peak, there is no sh Shelter. We couldn't reach the night shelter that was only a little farther away. There were places, but at that point I couldn't set a tent up. Soggy. But slightly ahead of me I saw an overhanging rock. And I looked under the overhang of that rock and I said, there is my shelter. There is my refuge It didn't take the rain away. It didn't take the cold away. But it gave me a refuge. And that's how the psalm starts. And I want you to see it. Without God's preservation, I am Helpless. And so the psalmist says, preserve me, for in you I take refuge. So I said that this psalm was going to lead us into the journey or the steps of dealing with the darkness of our night soul. Step one. Make Christ your refuge. Don't think that somehow the rain's going to stop. Don't think that the night is not going to come. Don't think that the temperature is not going to fall. But recognize that in Christ you have a refuge, a shelter, a place to flee. So the psalmist says, I will make God my refuge. In the dark night of your soul, determine to make Christ your refuge Refuge. And speak as the psalmist speaks, and say, without God's preservation, I am helpless. There is nothing I can do. A refugee see is not the same as being removed. Sometimes that's all a refugee. Refuge is. And that is the refuge is to be removed, or to have the pain, or the sorrow, or the difficulty removed. But sometimes, most often God simply says, I will be with you in the darkness of the night. In the darkness of the day, I will protect you. I will keep you. And it was true. When we walked on our pathways in our very rural village in Kenya. The light would make sure that the snakes went the other way. And I was glad for the light. I was glad to be able to shine it at my feet. Not in somebody's face, but at my feet. God says, I will be your refuge. And when you're walking a pathway of snakes, you've got to figure out how to get them to go. where your feet should go. God says, I will be your refuge. So my confession is that God is my Lord and He knows my need. It's not simply that I have a as we knew them in Kenya, the very British term, a torch, a flashlight. But God knows my needs, and He shines His light upon me, because He is my Lord. He is sufficient. And my sufficiency is only found in him. Well Verse 3. As for the saints in the land, they are the excellent ones in whom is all my delight. What's the psalmist saying? He's saying, in the dark night of your soul, you are not alone. You have the shelter of the Almighty, and you have the people of God. That are around you. Sometimes we distance ourselves from the shelter of the Almighty, we distance ourselves from the shelter and the encouragement of God's people, and no wonder we feel alone. We are So the pathway out of the darkness is to recognize both God's shelter and God's people. Make it delight. In both of them. And he will shine upon you. No? Alright? God's light above. Sometimes dang danger. Take that torch down to your feet. That's where the people are. That's where we all are. So God's simply saying, Listen, I want you to embrace Me. I embrace you. In the night, secondly, in the night of our confusion, we have to stop and recognize God's So here's the confusion. Verse 4. The sorrows of those who run after another God will multiply. Their drink offerings of blood I will not pour out. That's a determination. Struggle with it, but it's a determination to make. And I won't take their names on my lips. What is God saying? He's saying in the dark of our night, we are confused. We are confused with choices. We can choose to listen to the desires, the voices, the interests of those around us, and our hearts speak those out. Or we can choose God's voice. So we have a choice. Those competing desires are always around me. And it's often in the darkness of my nights uh and my soul's night that I get confused. I no longer can make a right choice. Maybe I say I know what the choice is, but I can't make it. I just can't bring myself myself to do it. So the psalmist says, false gods, they are attractive, but I cannot be attractive I can't pursue them. I can't fantasize about them. I must despise them. I must walk away from them. I have to stop diminishing God's good gifts. I need to lift up God's good gifts. So the drink offerings, the psalmist says, of blood, I will not pour out. I won't take their names on my lips. I won't let them into my heart. In the dark night of the soul's dark night, in your dark night, in your dark day, refocus your mind. Put it on God's gift Not on what you feel is missing in life. You might have wondered why in the world anybody in the right myself with a rubber hose. And it won't be any more painful. So why'd I do it? Because there was a summit that I wanted to see I wanted to see the grandeur and the beauty of the summit, the incredible depth of the valley that was out in front of me. From the amazing height, I wanted to climb over the snowpack and get to the top. And that's our journey. And if you feel the rain and you only focus on the pain, you will never sum it. And there is amazing view at the summit. Go for it. And so step two. When you're confused, recognize God's choice. He has something better. He has a purpose that's out there. Third step. In our nights, I need to choose. Not just to recognize God's choice, but I actually need to choose it. So Let's look at verse five. I choose Christ. The Lord is my chosen portion and my cup. You hold my lot. Now this The psalmist has it going both ways. The psalmist is choosing, deciding to choose God's goodness. But he's also recognizing that he is chosen. He's chosen by God. He's been given a gift. So this thing, this choosing goes two ways. Yes, I am chosen of God, but I also need to choose God. It's true for our children. It's true for our children's parents. I can pray that our children will come to a deep walk and will invite the presence of Christ in their lives. Lives that they might shine. It's also true for you, and it's true for me. Don't be without a battery. Your light doesn't shine. So I have to choose it. I have to actually embrace God's purpose. in God's choice. I choose Christ because He has chosen me. He holds my outcomes And because he holds my outcomes, I know I can trust him that they will be pleasant. And you say, no, wait a minute, they're not I've experienced pain. And they're not always pleasant. My relationships are not always happy relationships. Sometimes they end in pain. pain. They do. But remember where we started. God is a shelter His refuge. I find my refuge in him, trusting that in him there will be pleasure. and joy. My journey is not over until I'm in the presence of the King And at the presence of the king I have summited. In his presence is glory. Journey on. Embrace God's choice. Step four in our nighttime, in the darkness of our nighttime, we have counsel. Verse 7. I bless the Lord who gives me counsel. In the night also my heart instructs me. So here's the thing, God gives me counsel, but I have to listen to it. I have to listen to it I'm often busy giving myself counsel. There's God's counsel and Carl's counsel. Now, which counsel is the better counsel? Well, you know, and I know. But in the darkness of my night, which ear is listening? Now if you ask Debbie which of my ears listen, she'll say neither one of them. And that's the problem I take this thing off, I take this one off, and all of a sudden I don't hear anything. All I hear is my own voice It reverberates in me. I miss your voice. I miss God's voice. I bless the Lord who gives me Me counsel. In the night also my heart instructs me. I have set the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand. I will not be shaken. What doesn't shake me? Carl's voice, God's voice. It's God's voice that doesn't shake. That's what allows me to not be shaken in the darkness of my night I have to not only recognize God's choice, embrace God's choice, but I have to actually listen and follow His voice. He is at my right hand. We have a longing, we have a hope. We have a longing and a hope for security, for peace, for Good things. And our life journey often doesn't sort of follow along everybody's interest. level. One of the frequent things that's been in the news uh recently is uh the struggle that we all face with the economy. So okay, you're gonna go back to the store and you're gonna pay ten ten percent more, twenty percent more, whatever percentage is. And and maybe now instead of buying the best thing you're gonna buy something a little bit less so that you're saying budget budget stretches a little bit farther. But for those that have been hoping I I'd like to own my own home. You know, though the news is sort of full of it, well good luck about that. It's not likely. So what do I do? Does God provide me a place to live? I've counseled and I've watched as one of our uh residents from our international house has been struggling to find another place to to live. I feel the pain of that. The International House has five bedrooms and Gianta and his wife have been occupying one bedroom out of five. But they're expecting a child. And that doesn't fit in such a tight space anymore. So now they're asking the question And for months he knew it was coming. Like, well, you know, there's plenty of places. Well, if you're in Charles Village today, there aren't plenty of places. And he's had to move his sights from here to here to here to here. And now he's thinking, I just need a place To live. And I'll be happy for a place to live. Sometimes God brings us to reality by saying, okay, you want it up here. Rejoice in what I give you. Can I do that? Can you do that? In the darkness of your night, rejoice in what God gives you. Satisfaction. It's not simple. It's not easy. I'm not saying it is. But find your fulfillment So step four or step five, brother, is in our night we hope Uh we have to be glad and wait for the dawn of joy. I my expectations may be coming down. But there is a moment, there is a time, there is a fulfillment, and that's where the psalmist ends and brings us to conclusion. There is that moment where I recognize all that God has For me, all of it. Verse 9. Therefore my heart is glad. My whole being will rejoice, does rejoice. My flesh dwells secure. My body, my life is secure. For, and here's the reason I am secure You will not abandon my soul to Sheol, to Sheol, however you wish to hear that read. What is it? It's death. It's sometimes described as the state or the it's not about the place of death. We're not talking about a spatial What we're really talking about, what the psalmist is talking about, is an emotional and a relational state of emptiness. Emptiness, desolation, disconnected, aloneness, inability That those are the descriptors of death. You may not be dead, but you may feel emotionally, you may feel like all of the things of Conspired against you to bring you to a state where you are numb. And that's what the psalmist says, you, O God. Will not abandon me to that place of numbness. God will not let me go. He will not let you go. I can struggle with him in the night of my soul. I can struggle with, do I listen to his voice? Do I listen to my voice? Do I listen to the voices of those that are around me? Whose voice do I listen to? Whose voice will I follow? But what I know in the end is that God will not leave me in the pit of my despair. He will not. The psalmist so says, God so says, You will not abandon my soul. You will not let your holy one see corruption. There's a direct reference to the presence of Christ. This was applied to Christ crucified. Yes. He cried out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? He was forsaken on the cross. that you and I might not be forsaken. Christ took the burden. He took the penalty that you wouldn't take it. I wouldn't have to bear it. He For it. That forsakenness is therefore removed. It's satisfied. God will not forsake you because of Christ in you. Flashlight? Battery in you. The battery d the flashlight doesn't work If the battery is not in it, the promise, the hope, is when Christ is in you. When you can claim and you know that you are in Christ. That's where the flashlight analogy breaks down. You are in Christ, Christ is in you, and God will not abandon you in the darkness of Instead, he promises the fullness of joy. Not in the possession of things Not in a new house, not in a new car, not in a better job, none of those things. A new house, a new car, a better job, those are all good things. Maybe. But that's not ultimately his promise. His promise is that joy and eternal pleasure are in God's Presence, when I am in God's presence, when I have summited the mountain, and I see the splendor of who God is. Then I have the fullness of this joy. Joy and eternal pleasure are in God's presence. God has put in his hand all of history. And he takes his hand and he puts that hand in all of history. That's a Mystery I can't explain. How can history be in his hand and his hand be in history? But there it is. God in us. God in you. Salma simply gives you Five steps. Make Christ your refuge. Recognize God's choice. Listen to God's voice and be glad. And wait for the dawn of day. Let me pray for you. Father, this week we may pass into another dark night. We don't know the rain that's going to fall on us. We don't know the coldness that might set around us We don't know the isolation that we may feel from broken relationships. We don't know the pain. And we're thankful we don't know it in advance. When it comes, would you be our refuge? Help us to flee to you To call out to you, Lord God, you are my refuge. Shelter me. In our discussions within our own hearts. Help us to hear your voice, to recognize your way, and to choose that way. Father, to listen as we follow, that we might receive the thankfulness Your blessing. Come, Father, walk with us this week. Help us to fix our joy upon your peace. We're gathered here together. Today, to worship you, to hear your voice, though Father, give to us the joy Of being together in this sheltered place, that we might hear your voice and walk your way. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand and sing together our final song. E thou my vision, O Lord of my heart. Not be all to me. No rebest okay, Job Note. We keep not sleeping not present my life. We thou my wisdom and thou my true word And with me love Oh my great father, I thy true story And I will see one. Be thou my shield and my soy for the fight Down my social and not my child Raise down me ever of my power. Riches I feed not norman's deprav All mining percent now. My keynote, my treasure. I think of heaven when victory one. May I reach joy oh bright heavens Oh my own heart, whatever before. She'll be my vision order of You go on praying the psalm. Sometimes In the middle of the week, I hope you transition to praying and reading Psalm 19. That's where we're going to be next week. And if you want to pray it, pray it with us in Sunday school. Sunday's become a way, a time of being immersed in a psalm. Sunday school, church, are called to worship, all gather around the song. So We just sung of a new vision, a prayer, that God would be our vision. We've asked For his light to shine in us, around us, and through us. Receive the blessing. Blessing of God. May God make known to you the path of life. In his presence, may you experience the fullness of joy at his right hand. Receive pleasure forevermore. Now, this week, evermore. Amen. Oh we are actually fine. So we So these First, first