Well good morning. We are jumping back into Deuteronomy and we're gonna push through for about another month and a half and then we'll be finished. finishing up this book, but we're going to be reading this morning from Deuteronomy chapter 29. And we're going to go ahead and read the whole chapter together. So if you would, would you please stand as we honor the reading of God's Word this morning. Hear now God's word from Deuteronomy chapter twenty-nine. These are the words of the covenant that the Lord commanded Moses to make with the people of Israel in the land of Moab, besides the covenant that he had made with them at Horeb. And Moses summoned all Israel and said to them, You have seen all that the Lord did before your eyes in the land of Egypt, to Pharaoh, and to all his servants, and to all his land. the great trials that your eyes saw, the signs and those great wonders. But to this day the Lord has not given you a heart to understand, or eyes to see, or ears to hear. I have led you forty years in the wilderness. Your clothes have not worn out on you, and your sandals have not worn off your feet You have not eaten bread, and you have not drunk wine or strong drink, that you may know that I am the Lord your God. And when you came to this place, Sihon, the king of Heshman And Og, the king of Bashan, came out against us to battle, but we defeated them. We took their land and gave it for an inheritance to the Rubenites, the Gadites, and the half tribe of Man of the Manassites. Therefore, keep the words of this covenant and do them, that you may prosper in all that you do. You are standing to day, all of you, before the Lord your God, the heads of your tribes, your elders, and your officers all the men of Israel, your little ones, your wives, and the sojourner who is in your camp, from those the one who chops your wood to the one who draws your water. so that you may enter into the sworn covenant of the Lord your God, which the Lord your God is making with you today, that he may establish you today as his people, and that he may be your God, as he promised to you. And as he swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, it is not with you alone that I am making this sworn covenant. But with whoever is standing here with us today before the Lord our God, and with whoever is not here with us today, you know how we lived in the land of Egypt. And how we came through the midst of the nations through which you passed, and you have seen their detestable things, their idols of wood and stone, of silver and gold, which were among them. Beware, lest there be among you a man or a woman or a clan or a tribe whose heart is turning away today from the Lord our God to go and serve the gods of those nations. Beware lest there be among you a root bearing poisonous and bitter fruit, one who, when he hears the words of this sworn covenant, blesses himself in his heart, saying, I shall be safe, though I walk in the stubbornness of my heart. This will lead to the sweeping away of moist and dry alike. The Lord will not be willing to forgive him, but rather the anger of the Lord and his jealousy will smoke against that man. And the curses written in this book will settle upon him, and the Lord will blot out his name from under heaven. And the Lord will single him out from all the tribes of Israel for calamity. And the next generation, your children who rise up after you, and the foreigner who comes from a far land will say, when they see the afflictions of that land, and the sickness with which the Lord has made it sick, the whole land burned out with brimstone and salt, nothing sown and nothing growing, where no plant can sprout an overthrow, like that of Sodom and Gomorrah, Adama, and Zeboyam, which the Lord overthrew in his anger and wrath, all the nations will say, Why has the Lord done thus to this land? What caused the heat of this great anger? Then people will say, It is because they abandoned the covenant of the Lord, the God of their fathers, which he made with them when he brought them out of the land of Egypt. Therefore the anger of the Lord was kindled against this land, bringing upon it all the curses written in this book. And the Lord uprooted them from their land in anger and fury and great wrath, and cast them into another land as they are this day. The secret things belong to the Lord our God, but the things that are revealed belong to us and to our children forever, that we may do all the words of this law. This is God's word this morning. Let's pray together. Our Father, you have spoken to us and revealed yourself to us, revealed your word to us, revealed your law to us, that we may follow you and obey you. And we pray, Lord, now as we turn to your word, that you would open our eyes, that we might behold wondrous things from your law. For we know, Holy Spirit, that we cannot profit from your word unless you Give us the illumination we need to understand it. And we pray all of this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. Well we live in a restless society. There's a tendency for us to always desire to be somewhere other than where we are. And this shows itself in so many ways. We get a new job and before we even settle down into our desk, we're already thinking about the next steps to climb the ladder. We we do this with our relationships, taking to social media to pay attention to anyone and everyone except for the people who are physically in the same room as us. We we do this sometimes with with travel. Always wanting to be in a different part of the country or a different part of the world than where we are now. Well, we all have this restlessness to some degree or another, but I think where this restlessness shows itself most clearly in our lives is in a spiritual restlessness. We're always searching for a new experience to excite and to satisfy us. We there's a word for this restlessness, wanderlust. It describes the strong desire to wander about. Wanderlust. We're prone to wander, to drift away and search for other things to bring us satisfaction and comfort and security. But our passage this morning shows us that this is not a new problem. God's people have struggled with this all the way since the very beginning. And Moses makes clear that this is a problem that God that Israel struggled with as well. You see, the people have been wandering in the desert for forty years They're about to enter the land. God made the covenant with them at Mount Sinai after he brought them out of Egypt, and now he's renewing his covenant with them. And as the people are called to renew their covenant with God before they enter the land, he's reminding them of God's faithfulness to them and encouraging them not to wander from him in the future. And the main point that Moses is telling the people, and that we're meant to see today, is that God's faithfulness to establish his covenant with us is what motivates our faithfulness to him. And we see this in three ways. Moses emphasizes God's faithfulness in the past, in the present, and in the future. So let's look first at verses one to nine, where we see that God's grace in the past is the most motivation for our obedience. Chapter 29 starts a new section in Deuteronomy. The the first several chapters Moses has been explained Explaining and applying God's law, unpacking the Ten Commandments, showing them what it looks like to keep God's law. And then in the last several chapters, before we took a break for Advent, we were reminded that the people are instructed to renew the covenant again. Again, after they enter into the land, after they've been settled and gotten relief and rest from their enemies. And Moses was giving them instructions for how to renew that covenant in the future. But now they're stopping and pausing and renewing the covenant before they enter the land. And as they do this, they're being reminded of God's faithfulness to them. And we see this in these first few verses, God was faithful to them at three different points. In the Exodus, in the wilderness, and as they drew near to the land of Canaan. In the Exodus, God displayed his power through signs and wonders to deliver them from Egypt and slavery. In the wilderness, God showed his faithfulness through provision. Meeting every one of their needs. He led them through a land where there was no natural food or water, and yet he fed them with manna from heaven and with water from the rock. They didn't have anywhere to shop and buy new clothes, and yet he preserved their clothes and their shoes for 40 years in the wilderness. Now I don't know about you, but I it's a miracle if I can make a pair of shoes last a year And and these were preserved for forty years in the wilderness, God showing abundant provision to his people. And even as they began to drew near draw near to the land of Canaan, and enemies came out to attack them God showed his faithfulness in giving them victory over Sihon and Og, the two kings of these regions. God fought for his people. He provided for them and protected them from their enemies. And it's important to see that it's only after reminding them of all of these things that Moses then calls them to obedience in verse 9, saying, Therefore, keep the words of this covenant and do them, that you may prosper in all that you do. You see, in these verses, we need to be reminded that God's grace always comes before the requirement for obedience. God did not send Moses to the people to tell them, hey, if you get your act together and start keeping God's laws, maybe he'll deliver you from Egypt. And maybe he'll keep his promises to take you to the land. Land. No, no, God graciously delivered them, bringing them out of slavery, and then abundantly providing for them every step of the way. And then they are called to obedience as a response to God's grace. One theologian explains it this way. He says, Those whom God calls into covenant relationship, those from whom God demands covenant obedience are those whom God has already acted to save. God's love already is demonstrated. Ours is awaited God always takes the initiative. Showing his grace to undeserving sinners like us. We don't earn it. And we can't earn it. There's absolutely nothing that you can do in order to make God love you. He simply chooses to love his people and show grace to them. And so we must always look back and see how God has acted in our lives to be faithful to us and to show us grace. We've sinned and he sent his son to redeem us and poured out his spirit to call us out of darkness and into his marvelous light. Christ bore our sins in his body on the tree, and God's wrath towards sin was poured out on him in our place. He has reconciled us to God by his death and his resurrection. If we are in Christ, we have been adopted as God's children. Think about that. God loves you like a father loves his children. Think about what that means for your life. Think about the affection he has for you. Think about the delight that he has in you. Think about the joy that he has when you are joyful. The Lord of all creation, the one who created all things, who sustains all things, who providentially rules over everything that happens in this world. He cares about your life. And he genuinely wants what's best for you. And he has the power to bring it about. Think about how a father shows his love for his children. He leads them, guiding them where they need to go, helping them find the right paths to take. He knows them, taking an interest in their lives, no matter how trivial. Listening to what they say about their hopes and their dreams, about their worries and their fears. He feeds them, providing for what they need for their nourishment and their care. And he protects them, working to keep them safe from harm or injury. Church, if you have placed your trust in Christ, You are God's child by grace. All of these privileges and blessings are yours in Christ. This is what God has already done for you. You did not earn it, and you don't have to Maintain it. It's yours, an undeserved free gift that can never be taken away. When you reflect on these blessings, how can you not be filled with love and gratitude for all that He has done? How can you not be motivated to live a life in service to him? Obedience is the natural response when God's grace takes root in a sinner's heart. No, the reflection on God's grace in the past is one antidote to our tendency to wander. The problem though is that far too often we go through life without ever reflecting on what God has done and what God is doing And that's the point that Moses makes all the way back up in verse four. He's in the middle of highlighting all of these blessings that God has shown to his people and all the grace that he's given them. And he says, to this day the Lord has not given you a heart to understand, or eyes to see, or ears to hear. Calvin describes the situation this way. He says, the people had never seriously applied their minds to consider God's works. And when they had been aroused by some miracle, they had immediately sunk back into forgetfulness. And we have to recognize even the ability to see and understand what God is doing in our lives, even that is a gift of God's grace. Unless the Holy Spirit gives us the grace to see, we cannot understand and appreciate what God has done for us. We are blind until He opens our eyes. And so while we're called to reflect on God's grace in the past, we're and as a motivation for obedience, we have to remember that even the ability to do this is a gift of God's grace. It's God's grace from start to finish. But it's also important to pause and think that even as Christians, how often do we go through life like this? Seeing how God works in the world and in our lives, and then immediately forgetting Never pausing to reflect on the things of God. Just as one example, we we live in a time, maybe more than any other time in history That hinders self-reflection. We live in a culture of distraction through entertainment that progressively destroys any opportunity for Thinking deeply about anything that doesn't fit within the span of a glowing rectangle. Technology's brought so many wonderful gifts into our lives, but we all run the risk, as one author has put it, of Amusing ourselves to death. We must strive to take our eyes off our screens long enough to notice and reflect on what God is doing in the world around us and in our lives. So we need to look to the past to reflect on God's grace. But we must also look to God's faithfulness in the present. And that's what we see in verses 10 to 15. After reminding them of the past, Moses turns his attention to the present. And he wants to help the people understand the purpose of their covenant relationship with God. And the first thing he does is he gives a long and detailed list, with unusual detail, of all who are standing there to enter into the covenant. He highlights everyone in the community, the leaders, the elders, the men, the women, the children, even the sojourners who have come to live and work among the people. It's a comprehensive list that includes everyone in the community. And more than that, it even includes those who are not yet born. Moses says, it's not with you alone that I'm making the sworn covenant But with whoever is standing here with us today before the Lord our God, and with whoever is not standing here with us today. Here we see that the covenant includes everyone in the community. And that all stand equal before God. You see, when it comes to the state of your soul, it doesn't matter if you're a king or a servant. If you're rich or poor, strong or weak, if you're in a privileged position in society or living on the margins. The same salvation is offered to all. Everyone who will turn from their sin and embrace Christ by faith, because all of us are equal at the foot of the cross. And we see that the covenant not only embraces everyone in the community, but it also continues from generation to generation. The unborn children of the Israelites are understood to be entering into a covenant with God. God works through families. And the children of believers are rightly seen as being part of God's covenant family. The people here, it's interesting, the people here are renewing a covenant that was made with their parents before they were born. And it's understood that their children eventually will do the same. That's important for us to recognize. If you were born as a covenant child in this church, This is your church. You belong here. And in your baptism, God gave you a sign and a guarantee of his blessings that are yours by faith. It's a wonderful privilege, but it's a privilege that comes with a great responsibility. That every one of us must come to a point in our lives where we take responsibility for our own faith. To put your trust in Jesus and to ask him for forgiveness. Every one of us must deal with God on our own because no one can have faith for you. More broadly, for us as a church, it's important to see that the people are always renewing the covenant at significant points in their lives. They did this right after the Exodus. They are doing it now just before they enter the land, and we're we're told that they're going to do it again after they enter the land. See, we're saved once and for all. Our justification can never be taken away. When you are genuinely converted and come to saving faith in Christ, the Holy Spirit keeps us from completely falling away from the faith. And yet it's still appropriate that at significant points in our lives we will renew our commitment to follow Christ. Because it's not like we've we're converted and then never think about it again. We should always be recommitting ourselves to love and serve God with our whole being and to live every day of our lives in service to Him. And this is what we do each week as we gather for worship on the Lord's Day. The worship service is fundamentally a covenant renewal ceremony. As we gather to hear God speak to us through His Word. And we we speak to Him through our prayers and through our song, recommitting ourselves to love and serve Him. And so it's fitting that even today we're having the Lord's Supper, because the high point of our relationship with God is the fellowship we have with Him as we His table. Because he's here with us by the power of his spirit. And as we come and eat with him together, we not only remember what he's done for us, but we look forward to the joy that we'll have at the marriage supper of the Lamb. When we feast with him. And that really is where we see the heart of the covenant that comes out in these verses. These verses highlight God's faithfulness to keep his promise that he made to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. The promise is repeated all throughout Scripture, and it always takes the same basic form. I will be your God and you will be my people. You see, the heart of the covenant is a relationship. The infinite, eternal, and unchangeable God desires a relationship with you. The one who spoke all things into existence, who has the fullness of being in himself, he wants you. Consider that for a moment. God is not needy. He's not lacking in anything. He created the world out of his own free will, not because he was lonely. As a triune God, right? One God eternally existing in three persons, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, He has lived in perfect harmony and communion with Himself for all eternity. And he would have been perfectly content and satisfied had he never chosen to create us. And then on top of that, when we rebelled against him in sin, he didn't have to save us. He could have simply displayed his justice in punishing sin instead of also displaying his grace by sending Christ as our Redeemer. And yet he did all of those things. And he did them at a high cost to himself. The Son took on flesh and became a man. God, who cannot suffer suffered in our place as a man. Why would he do such a thing? He did it because he has set his love on his people and desires a relationship with them. And because he is glorified in reconciling sinners like us to himself in Christ. And as a result, now we are able to enjoy the relationship that we were created for: a life living in communion with God. The Christian life is fundamentally about a relationship with Christ Himself. It's not merely about believing a set of facts. Doctrine and theology is important, but it's about knowing and loving a person. A person who gave up all for our sake so that we might enjoy fellowship with him. And if we know and love Christ, that will shape how we live. Because Jesus tells us, after all, that if we love Him, we will keep His commandments. Finally, in verses 16 to 29, Moses looks to the future and he warns the people about the dangers of unfaithfulness. And he says that God's future judgment against sin demands our loyalty. And he does this by warning them of the dangers of idolatry. He reminds them how they were confronted with the gods of other that the other nations worshiped as they first by living in Egypt and second as they passed through all these regions in their wanderings in the wilderness. And he's clear here that idolatry of these nations is detestable to God. And he strongly warns them to be careful that they are not enticed to turn away from the Lord and to worship these false gods. Right? And it makes sense that God hates idolatry. The whole point, as we just saw, the whole point of the covenant is that He would be our God, and that we would be His people. Idolatry is the prime example of covenant unfaithfulness, turning away from God and turning to false gods. But before we go on to read the consequences that Moses warns, it's important for us to pause and reflect on the truth that this is our struggle as well. You see, by and large, our patient is not to bow down and worship a physical idol or parked image, just as the people of Israel were. But the impulse is the same. We all want comfort and security and satisfaction. And very often we desire those things more than we desire God Himself. And we're all tempted to turn away from God and pursue things that we believe can bring us the security and satisfaction that we crave. We chase after money, sex, our careers. We even look to other people, to our spouses, to children, to parents, all to give us the meaning and satisfaction that we want in life We all struggle with idolatry to some degree. How do we know when we have a big problem with it? I want to suggest that One way to find our idols is to look at how we spend our time and our money. What are the most important things on your schedule? Does your relationship with God have the most important place, or does it get pushed aside for other things? What do you think about? What occupies your mind day after day Do you ever think about the things of God? Or are you consumed with thinking about the things of this world? Now, don't misunderstand, I'm not at all suggesting that other things aren't important. But the question is, what is most important? Too often our love for God grows cold and gets choked out by a love for the things of this life. Our idols may not be made of wood and stone, but they are very real. And if we love these things more than we love Christ, they will destroy our soul. That's why Moses warns the people of the harsh penalty that comes from idolatry. He says, Beware lest there be among you a root bearing poisonous and bitter fruit. One who, when he hears the words of this sworn covenant, blesses himself in his heart, saying, I shall be safe, though I walk in the stubbornness of my heart. This will lead to the sweeping away of moist and dry alike. He gives the illustration of a garden where a poisonous plant springs up, and the consequence Is that it impacts all the plants in the garden. They have to all be swept away. Both the moist and the dry, or both the righteous and the unrighteous. The whole community will be impacted by idolatry. And yet, while there's a corporate impact of sin on the entire community, it's also important to see that there's a clear understanding of individual accountability. The person who defies God in this way will be singled out for judgment, and his name will be blotted out. You see, the consistent teaching of Scripture is that God will judge and punish sin. Those who refuse to submit to Christ, coming to faith and repentance in Him, who refuse to worship Him as their King, who refuse to love and obey Him, will face judgment We just spent so much time reflecting on Christ's first coming through Advent, where Christ came as our Savior to deliver us from our sins. But we have to remember that he's coming back. And when he does, he's coming not as a savior, but as a judge, to judge both the living and the dead. You have been given this life and this life alone to decide whether or not you will bow to Christ. When we die or when Christ returns, there are no second chances. Your eternal destiny will be sealed. And so if you're here this morning and and you've not embraced Christ as your redeemer, not turned from your sin, I urge you to consider these words from Deuteronomy. Future judgment is certain. But the curses in our passage this morning will seem like a light thing compared to living under God's wrath for all eternity. But even in addition to this threat of future judgment, we see that idolatry and unfaithfulness undermines our calling as God's people to be salt and light in the world. You see, the Israelites, one of the reasons that they were placed in the Promised Land was to be witnesses to a watching world of how beautiful it is to have God as your king. The nations around them would be watching. To see how they live. And if they were unfaithful and suffered the curses, then the next generation and all the surrounding nations will take notice. They'll ask questions: why has this happened? The answer in verse 25, the curses and the destruction came because they have been unfaithful and have abandoned the covenant, wandering away to worship other gods. You see, this picture stands in stark contrast to the alternative that Moses presented all the way back in Deuteronomy chapter 4. Back then he encouraged the people saying, See, I've taught you statutes and rules, as the Lord my God commanded me, that you should do them in the land that you were entering to take possession of it. Keep them and do them. Of that will be your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the peoples, who, when they hear all these statutes, will say, Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people. For what great nation is there that has a God so near to it as the Lord our God is to us whenever we call upon him? And what great nation is there that has statutes and rules so righteous as all this law that I have set before you today? See, the people had the opportunity. Are they going to be a witness for good by being faithful to God, or are they going to be a witness for God's judgment through unfaithfulness? Church, the world is watching. What will they think when they see our lives? Will they be led to think how great our God is, or will they look at us as people whose lives do not match what we confess with our lips? As the body of Christ, he has staked his name on the church. There is no plan B. And so we must strive to be loyal and obedient to our Lord, to show the world how wonderful it is to serve and love Him. But we also have to take comfort that the Lord will always vindicate his name. Jesus has promised that he will build his church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against it. And Moses, though the last thing Moses does is he makes it clear what faithfulness does and does not look like. What what is and is not our responsibility when it comes to Obedience. He warns them against idolatry, but then he turns in verse 29 to the well-known statement: The secret things belong to the Lord our God, but the things that have been revealed belong to us and to our children forever. That we may do all the words of this law. Think about how gracious God is in giving us our law, His law, rather than making us figure out on our own how to obey. You see, obedience is not a moving target. He doesn't require us to figure out the future and all that will come to pass in the future in order to know what it looks like to be faithful to him. Doesn't that take so much pressure off of you? The law is a blessing given for our good and for our flourishing. It's how we were created to live, and it's an act of kindness on God's part that He would reveal His law to us so that we might actually know what pleases Him. He is not some cruel taskmaster who keeps changing the rules on us midway through. He has made known his unchanging standard and has sent his son to fulfill it on our behalf And then poured out his Spirit to empower us to live lives that are pleasing to him. Even God's law is a gracious gift. See, when it comes to our relationship with Christ, we all suffer from wanderlust. We're prone to wander from Him in search of other things for the the peace, satisfaction, contentment. and security that we long for. But friends, those things that we long for cannot be found anywhere else. There is no other name given Among men by which we must be saved. Jesus Christ is the way and the truth and the life, and no one can come to the Father except through Him. And it's only when we remember His faithfulness to us that That we can faithfully follow him, because he is the one who humbled himself, laying aside the glories of heaven to enter our world as one of us. Living the perfect life that we failed to live Offering perfect obedience to God, he performed many signs and wonders to demonstrate his power and his glory, and ultimately he showed both by laying down his life in the place of sinners. To satisfy God's wrath on our behalf and to reconcile us to God so that we could enjoy the relationship with Him that we were created for For. He's delivered us from the bondage to sin at the cost of his own life. And he will not fail to meet your needs or to provide for you or care for you. What a faithful God we serve. How can we not love Him? And if we love Him, how can we not strive to obey Him and be fully committed to living for Him? Are you prone to wander this morning? Take a step back and look to Jesus. Remember what he has done for you. Remember who he is to you and how he has blessed you with every spiritual blessing as you're united to him in faith. And remember the glorious future that he has promised you. There is nowhere else to wander. Because if you have Christ, you already have what is most precious in all the world. Let's pray together. Holy Spirit, we praise you that you have called us out of darkness into marvelous light. Lord Jesus, we thank you that you have borne our sin in your body. on the tree that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. Lord, for it's by your wounds that we are healed. God, we praise you for this wonderful gospel that you have reconciled us to yourself through Christ. And we pray, Lord, that as we reflect on these wonderful blessings, what your grace towards us. And we pray all this in Christ's name. Amen.