Well good morning. Pastor Josiah asked me to pass along his his gratitude for all of your prayers and your love and support for him. as he's been uh in the hospital. Um he's he's recovering, I think, as the doctors are are treating him and they're they're uh trying to figure out exactly what's going on. But he was just so grateful to know uh how concerned you all were for him and that you were praying for him and that was So he wanted me to be sure to pass that along to you. Our text for this morning is from Luke chapter 24. It's different than what's in your bulletin. Um but if you're using the Pew Bible, you can find it on page Page eleven twenty-five. We'll be reading from Luke twenty-four, verses twenty-eight to forty-nine. This is towards the end of Luke's gospel, picking up just after Christ has made his first appearance, after the empty tomb has been discovered. He's been traveling along the road to Emmaus with two of his disciples, and at this point they don't recognize who he is. So I'll ask if you're able, would you please stand as we honor the reading of God's word this morning? Hear God's word starting in verse 28. So they drew near to the village to which they were going. He acted as if he were going farther, but they urged him strongly, saying, Stay with us, for it is toward evening, and the day is now far spent. So he went in to stay with them. When he was at table with them, he took the bread, and blessed it, and broke it, and gave it to them, and their eyes were opened, and they recognized him, and he vanished from their sight They said to each other, Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked to us on the road, while he opened to us the scriptures? And they rose that same hour and returned to Jerusalem. And they found the eleven and those who were with them gathered together, saying, The Lord has risen indeed, and has appeared to Simon. Then they told what had happened to on the road, and how he was made known to them in the breaking of the bread As they were talking about these things, Jesus himself stood among them, and he said to them, peace to you. But they were startled and frightened. And thought they saw a spirit. And he said to them, Why are you troubled? And why do doubts arise in your hearts? See my hands and my feet that it is I myself. Touch me and see. For a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see that I have. And when he had said this, he showed them his hands and his feet. And while they still disbelieved for joy and were marveling, he said to them, Have you anything here to eat? They gave him a piece of broiled fish, and he took it and ate before them. Then he said to them, These are my words that I spoke to you while I was still with you. Then he opened their minds to understand. And he said to them, Thus it is written that the Christ should suffer, and on the third day rise from the dead, and that repentance and the forgiveness of sins should be proclaimed in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem. You are witnesses of these things, and behold I am sending the promise of my Father upon you. But stay in the city until you are clothed with power from on high. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray together. Our Father, you have spoken to us, and we praise you for that. That you have revealed yourself to us. Holy Spirit, we ask now as we come to your word that you would open our eyes that we might behold wondrous things, for we cannot profit from your word unless you reveal yourself to us. And so we pray, O Lord, speak, for your servants are listening. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. Christ is risen. He is risen indeed. See, every week when we gather together on the Lord's Day is Resurrection Sunday, a celebration that Christ is risen And yet at at Easter we i it's a time when we take a little extra time to reflect on the meaning and the significance of Christ's resurrection. And there are so many different views on Christ's resurrection as we think about them. For many, the resurrection is an absurd doctrine. The fact that a man would rise from the dead is unthinkable. Some, maybe you're here this morning and you've grown up hearing about the resurrection, but if you're honest with yourself, you're just not sure you buy it. It seems a little far-fetched. For Christians, the resurrection is a precious truth. Our whole faith rests upon it Indeed, Paul tells us in 1 Corinthians 15 that if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile, and you are still in your sins. If in Christ we have hope in this life only, we of all people are most to be pitied. You may wholeheartedly believe And yet I think each and every one of us can still benefit from the reminder that this is true. And that we can be certain that we have a risen Savior. This is what Luke is all about. He writes to give us certainty concerning the things that we've been taught. And the main point he has in our verses this morning is to remind us that we can be sure that Christ lives because he reveals himself to us. people. And there's three ways in this passage that we'll see he reveals himself, and they're easy to remember. They all start with B. He reveals himself in the bread, in his body, and in the Bible. Let's look first at verses 28 to 35 and see how Christ reveals himself in the bread. You see, Jesus has been walking with these two disciples along the road to Emmaus, traveling from Jerusalem. Just to give you a sense, Luke tells us that's about a seven-mile journey that they're walking and talking with one another. And up to this point, they still don't recognize who Jesus is. We read in in verse 16 that but their eyes were kept from recognizing him. Even after he had opened the scriptures to them, that they still weren't quite sure who he was, because Christ had a particular way in which he wanted to reveal himself. They're nearing the end of the journey, and we're told that the day is almost over. It's about to get dark and evening is approaching. And Jesus seems as if If he's going to keep walking and going on his journey. But they invite him to stay with them, and he agrees. He allows himself to be persuaded to join them for the evening. And they sit down to eat, and here's the key verse for us. When he was at table with them, He took the bread and blessed it and broke it and gave it to them. And instantly their eyes are opened and they recognize him What is going on in these verses? Why then do they recognize Christ? Notice what Jesus does: taking, blessing, breaking, giving. Four significant actions that when put together scream, this is Jesus. You see, this was his custom when he sat down to a meal, that they recognized him in his actions. But even more than that, this is what he did at key moments in his ministry. Think about when he fed the crowd of 5,000. Though there was a hungry crowd that he had been teaching all day long and they had nothing to eat and his disciples come to him and say, Lord, send them away so that they can get eat. Get food to eat. There's nothing around here. And he says, you give them something to eat. And they come to him and say all we've been able to scramble together is five loaves and two fish. Mark tells us in Mark 6, 41, that in taking the five loaves and the two fish, he look up to heaven and set a blessing, and broke the loaves, and gave them to the disciples to set before the people He fed the entire crowd, and there were twelve basketfuls left over. Not long after that, when he was teaching a crowd of 4,000, though the same situation presents itself. And in this case he had only seven loaves. And Mark again tells us that he directed the crowd to sit down on the ground. He took the seven loaves, and having given thanks, he broke them and gave them to his disciples to set before the people. Finally, on the night when he was betrayed in the Last Supper, Luke tells us he took bread. And when he had given thanks, he broke it and gave it to them, saying, This is my body which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of me. Taking, blessing, breaking, and giving. Each of these moments was a key moment in his ministry, whether he showed his power in who he was, or whether he was explaining the significance And the importance of his death. And each time he used those words, taking, blessing, breaking, and giving. You see, these were disciples that were walking along the road to Emmaus with him. They knew him. They were likely present at least at some of these events, and if not, they had heard about him without doubt. And so it's no surprise that this is the moment when they recognize him. You see they recognize him because he acts the same same as he has always done. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever. The same Jesus who walked the earth and taught his disciples church is the same Jesus that we follow today, who guides his church, who sustains Us and who leads us. We can be sure that he lives because we experience the same loving care that we read about in the New Testament. He says, Come to me all who are weary and heavy. And I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. If you are in Christ this morning, is that not how He leads you and cares for you? Gently, compassionately caring for you and giving you rest as you come to Him. It's interesting, Jesus disappears almost as soon as they recognize him. They remember how their hearts had been burning within them. As that he had already begun to reveal himself. And it's interesting to look at their response. They have excitement and joy overflowing that comes to them from knowing that their Lord is risen. Remember, it's it's evening time. It's getting dark, and they're about seven miles from Jerusalem. Now just to give you a picture of how that is, that would be like walking from here to the Panera on Route 40. Which I have a lot of experience going to, but I don't walk. I mean it you might be able to make it in two hours if you're really at a good pace. It's evening, it's dark, the road's more dangerous, and yet they go right away to tell the other disciples. When they get there, they they find everyone is already excited because they already know that Christ is risen. He has risen and has appeared to Simon, Simon Peter, an appearance that Paul tells us about in 1 Corinthians. This joy they all experience has to be shared. They tell what has happened to them and how Christ has been made known to them in the breaking of bread. And they're gathering to rejoice in the resurrection. And so their fellowship and their testimony that they share together strengthens the faith of all who are present. It's so interesting to read through the Gospels and see how often Jesus' appearances after his resurrection. coincide with meals. I think it would be a stretch to suggest definitively that what's going on in our passage is the Lord. Lord's Supper. And yet I I want to suggest that it's it's no accident that Christ gave us a meal as a sign and a seal of his presence. That every time we come to this table, the promise that God gives us in Exodus chapter 20 still stands: In every place where I cause my name to be remembered, I will come to you and bless you. So as we come to this table later together, let's remember that Christ is risen. He is here with us, spiritually present to us, just as really as this bread and this cup are physically present to us. We can be sure that he lives, even though we can't physically see him, because he reveals himself to us Secondly, we see that he reveals himself in his body, and we see this in verses 36 to 43. The disciples here are all still talking and sharing stories with one another. And Jesus suddenly appears. They're all startled and frightened, thinking they saw a ghost or a spirit. We know from the other accounts of this appearance that the doors are locked because they're afraid of the Jews. It raises the question for us, how did Jesus get in? We don't know for sure, but clearly there's some difference in the properties of his resurrected, glorious body that are different. From his body before his resurrection. He vanished earlier and now appears in the middle of a room. You might wonder why are his disciples so frightened and scared if they already know he's alive? All I can say for that is, I have no doubt that Christ is risen, and yet if he were to appear in the middle of this room, I'd freak out too They think he's a spirit or a ghost. They're not sure what's going on. And so everything Jesus does in these verses shows that he has a real physical body. He says to them, look at my hands and my feet, where they can see the scars in his body from the nails, and prove who he really is. He tells them to come and touch him and see. He has flesh and bones, unlike a spirit. We're told that his disciples disbelieve for joy. In other words, they thought this was too good to be true. And Christ proves to them beyond all doubt, which is just a common ordinary question. He asks them for something to eat. And he sits down and eats in front of them to remove all doubt, because a spirit and a ghost cannot eat fish. And the whole point is that Jesus has been physically raised. I just want to draw your attention here to Christ's patience with his disciples. He doesn't rebuke them for doubting. He patiently, gently helps them to believe, guiding them until they recognize that he is with them. And Christ is no less patient with us. Every one of us struggles with doubts and fears and questions from time to time. But church, let me encourage you, don't let that drive you from him. Come to him with your fears and your struggles and your questions, crying out, I believe. Help my unbelief. I promise you he will. This passage is clear, and all of scripture is clear of the physical bodily resurrection of Christ. There's no doubt when you read the words of Scripture that this is what happened. But what can be unclear to us sometimes is why is that so significant? Why is it so important that Christ has been physically raised? I think the Bible is clear here that it is important. We think all the way back to the creation narratives in Genesis 1, and we read that God looked on all that He had made and said it was Was good. That includes our bodies. Having a body is part of what it means to be humans. We are not just souls, we are embodied souls. You see the separation of body and soul that happens at death. It's unnatural. It's a consequence of sin. And part of our hope in the gospel is that that separation is only temporary. That we look forward to the new heavens and the new earth when Christ will return and we will be raised in the Glorious bodies like Christ's. Bodies that are not subject to decay or destruction or failing. The resurrection of our bodies depends on the resurrection of Christ. Body. More than that, the resurrection is proof of our standing before God. Paul in Romans 4 tells us that Christ was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification. Christ died as a substitute in the place of sinners to pay for our sins and to satisfy God's wrath towards his people. But the assurance of our forgiveness depends on Christ's sacrifice being accepted. This is what the resurrection is. It's a reminder that Christ has defeated That God raised him in glory and he has been vindicated through his resurrection, shown to be the Son of God who accomplished the redemption he set out to accomplish and purchased the salvation of his people. If you are in Christ, the resurrection is proof of your forgiveness. That you have right standing before God. There is no condemnation for those who are in Christ. Church, your salvation depends on a living Savior. Because when we sin, as we all continue to do, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous, whoever lives to make Make intercession for us. You can be sure that Jesus lives. This is a truth that you can stake your life on. Finally, we see that Christ reveals himself in the Bible. We see this in verses 44 to 49. Christ proves that he has truly risen. He removes all doubt, but now he wants to show his disciples that this was the plan all along. He told them all about it before he died, but they didn't get it. And now he opens their minds to understand the scriptures. It says he teaches them all the things that spoke about him from the law, the prophets, and the psalm. That's a common shorthand to refer to the entire Old Testament. Everything written about Christ had to be fulfilled. And as he reveals himself, we come to see that the Bible is not a random collection of stories. It is one unified story about God's plan to save us. We see this all the way through. Jesus is the promised seed of the woman in Genesis 3 who will come to crush the head of the serpent. Jesus is the true son of Abraham, in whom all the families of the earth will be blessed. Jesus is the priest after the order of Melchizedek, who had no beginning and has no end, and whose ministry will never He's the true Moses who leads his people out of bondage to sin into freedom. He's the true David who reigns as king over his people. Maybe the one that they they most missed was that he is the suffering servant of Isaiah 53, who has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Who is pierced for our transgressions and crushed for our iniquities. And by his wounds we are healed. He is the fulfillment of the temple, the one in whom the fullness of deity dwells bodily. That's really the message of the whole New Testament, isn't it? That in Jesus all of God's promises find their yes and amen. In Christ, all of God's promises are kept and fulfilled because he triumphed over the grave in his resurrection. And this is what the apostles are witnesses of. They have seen the fulfillment of his promises, and they're sent as witnesses to tell others. They're to go out and proclaim the truth that Christ has died and risen again, and that because of this we can repent and have our sins forgiven. They're to carry this message to the ends of the earth. But in order to do that, they need more than just certainty. They need the power of the Holy Spirit. This is the promise that Jesus tells them to wait for. And it's another promise that Jesus kept, sending his spirit on Pentecost. And we see the aftermath of that as the disciples go out and witness to Christ's resurrection in the power of the Holy Spirit, taking the gospel to the ends of the earth. We have this witness recorded for us in the New Testament. The whole Bible, the Old Testament and the New Testament, is about Christ. This is our source of certainty, church. This is how we know because God has spoken, and we take him at his word because it is sufficient for us. God's word is living and active, sharper than any double-edged thing. Sword, able to pierce us to the division of soul and spirit, of joint and of marrow, and every one of us stands exposed before the eyes of him to whom we must give account. This is a living book where the living God speaks to his people through it. And as his sheep, we hear his voice when he reveals himself in his word by his spirit. You see, when you need the assurance that Christ lives, look to his word. You'll find it to be a firm foundation that you can build your life on. We all struggle with doubts and questions from time to time. We all need that certainty and that reminder that our faith is not in vain. This life is a life of faith, not of sight. We see through a glass dimly, longing for the day when we will see face to face. Though we don't see Christ, we can have confidence because he reveals himself to his people. Maybe you're here this morning and Christ has revealed himself to you for the first time. You've heard him before, but you never really recognized him until now. If that's the case, I call you this morning to believe in Jesus. Jesus. Turn from your sin and for a life of living to yourself and put your trust in Christ, submitting to Him as your Lord, and I promise you you will find forgiveness and you will be saved. On the other hand, maybe you're here this morning and you already know Christ. Maybe you've known him for years and years. This morning, you can rejoice with confidence that you have a reason. risen Savior. He's revealed himself to you. He's demonstrated that he lives and that is a reason to rejoice. Church, Christ is risen. He is Risen indeed. Let's pray together. Oh Lord Jesus, what joy it brings us to be reminded of the certain hope we have that you are risen. You live, ever live, to make intercession for us in the hope we have that one day you will return in glory Lord, we long for that day. We thank you, Father, that you have spoken to us through your word. We thank you, Lord Jesus, that you are a God who reveals Himself. In your word, by your spirit. And we pray, O Lord, that you would continue to strengthen us in our faith and in the joy that we have in a risen Christ. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen.