His people on this mountain, the Lord of hosts will make for all peoples a feast of rich food, a feast of well-aged wine. Of rich food full of marrow of age well refined, of age wine well refined. And he will swallow up on this mountain the covering that is cast over all peoples. The veil that is spread over all nations, he will swallow up death forever. And the Lord God will wipe away tears from all faces. And the reproach of his people he will take away from all the earth. For the Lord has spoken. It will be said on that day: Behold, this is our God. We have waited for him that he might save us. This is the Lord. We have waited for him. Let us be glad and rejoice in his salvation. The word of the Lord this morning. Father, we cannot wait to declare and to say together with your people: this truly is our God. We have waited for him And we can rejoice and be glad because of what you have done for us. Father, would you help us to hear your word this morning? Would your word penetrate every aspect of our lives? Help change us, transform us by your gospel. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Peace be seated. Even the darkest nights will end and the sun will rise again. Even the darkest nights will end. And the sun will rise. The author of the musical drama, La Miser La Miserable, La Mis. It's a musical drama, a a beautiful musical drama by which is based on a novel by the same name and it's a story about an ex-cundic who steals bread To care for his family. He becomes a criminal, yes. His name is Jean Valjean. And Jean Valjean meets this kindly bishop who helps him kind of turn his life around. And helps him to change his behavior, his character, his being a a uh a thief. And what happens in the story in this beautiful musical drama is that Jean Valjean changes his life. He becomes the mayor of a town. He even owns a factory. He even owns the city's factory. But Jean Valjean must live in fear. In fear every day of his life that he is going to be one day captured by this police inspector, ruthless police inspector by the name of Javain. That's the French way of pronouncing it, thank you. And so this man lives in fear, knowing that one day he's gonna be in trouble. See, it's such a surprising story because Javer, as I've been told. Believe that lawbreakers cannot have a second chance because they cannot change their lives. He's got to get them and destroy them. But Valjan is a changed man. He's aiding the poor. He's even part of the revolution that's taking place to help the poor. He shows his kindness and mercy to Javer when he had it had has an opportunity to kill him And Javere, just confused and overwhelmed by the act of kindness by Jean, John decides to plunge himself into death and die. Do you know what's invet inevitable for Jean Larjean? Is that he also has to face death, his own mortality. Living in fear as to when he was going to die, but one day he knew that he must face death. See, death is the end that awaits all of us, isn't it? That's a reality for every one of us. But you see, it's not just death dying and our hearts stopping to beat that is so frightening to us. What is so frightening to us? Us is more than just facing death itself. It's the fact that there seems to be this cloud that hangs over us, not knowing when death will strike, that we may be joyful today And tomorrow we'll mourn. And so Victor Hugo writes and says, even the darkest night. Will end and the sun will rise. That's what we celebrate on Easter Sunday morning. That's our hope. That's our hope that one day, one day Christ will return and he will make our salvation complete. See, the prophet Isaiah here in verse 6 begins by giving us an invitation. And so we're going to look at an invitation that he gives to us, but also the promise that he gives to us. What's the invitation? It's a feast. And he says, on this mountain, what mountain? Which mountain? Think he's referring to Mount Zion, right? The prophet Isaiah and the other prophets speak of it The the the the place where the Lord has made a sea of his presence, the place where his church worships. If you go back to chapter twenty-four of Isaiah, I can read verse eleven Look at uh if you are there, if you want to turn there, there's an outcry in the streets for lack of wine or joy has grown dark, the gladness of the earth is banished and then The end of the verse says that then the moon will be confounded as a sign of shame, for the Lord of hosts reigns on Mount Zion, and in Jerusalem and his glory will be before his elders And so, what the prophet is here declaring is that God is reigning. It's a picture of God reigning from Mount Zion. It's a picture presented of this fruitfulness, of plenty, of blessings, of prosperity. But the verse that I just read in chapter 24, verse 11, it's such a stark contrast, isn't it? Of desolation and death. There's an outcry. There's no food, there's no wine, there's no all these things, there's ruin But this feast also reminds us of something else that we see in Exodus chapter twenty-four, verse eleven, as God's people are celebrating the Mosaic Covenant, the elders Get together and the trumpet sounds and all the people are invited together to celebrate this feast what the Lord has given to them. There's a difference, however A difference here is that this is a messianic banquet that is prepared before them. And the difference is there is no restriction here. The Jews and the Gentiles are all invited, they are all bid to come welcome and enjoy this beautiful feast. And so this is not just a feast of celebrating food and wine and all these things, it's actually a spiritual feast. Think of it. When repentant sinners come before God and proclaim him as Lord, this is what's being symbolized here: the full enjoyment of the blessedness of God in the perfected kingdom. What a one of the the one of the greatest and the chief glories of the gospel is this. That the gospel of Jesus Christ is offered to all people, isn't it? But there are no restrictions. And Isaiah, throughout his prophetic message, has been reiterating this point, speaking not just of salvation that comes to the Jews, but salvation that includes all people. peoples from every nation, tribe, and tongue. And that there is a feast that is prepared for them. And a feast is always prepared during a time of victory, during a time of of moments of great joy. And we see here Just this two uh twofold uh sense of the feast that that God is preparing for his people. It is an an occasion of great joy, but in abundance there is a whole lot of provisions that God's people are called to enjoy. Fat things. Meat. Well refined wine that has been kept for years and years, and it's just ready to be enjoyed. The best of all. It's an example of abundance of provisions of divine mercy that God gives to his people. Indeed, it's a picture of nourishment. Of God nourishing his people with rich food. And the feast is here really resembling the means of grace, right? The means of grace that we receive as comfort that God gives to us as his people. Psalm, the psalmist in Psalm 22 will kind of capture this as he speaks of the grace of God that is revealed to all people. And Psalm 22 is a messianic psalm, it's speaking of Jesus Christ. And again the message is that there is no one who is exclude excluded from this big party. Not because of your class or your status or your race. It's an invitation for all that have been excluded from this big party. Now they can come and enjoy a good time before the presence of God. But who is the host? Who invites them? Who is preparing the table for God's people? Again, I think Isaiah is longing and looking forward to Christ himself as the one who invites as the host, who invites all the people to come into his table, to come and dine with them, to come and enjoy this feast. That Jesus Christ is the sum and the substance of the feast itself. That we come to enjoy, to feast on him. Where does that happen? It is in the church, isn't it? And by the church I don't mean this building. By the church I mean the body of Jesus Christ where we gather together is people from all backgrounds and races and people with different accents like I do and I can't pronounce French names. It's at the table that Christ has prepared for us that we taste his goodness. Isaiah elsewhere we say in chapter fifty-five, verse one, he says, Come. Come everyone who thirsts, come to the waters. He who has no money. You don't need no money to come to him. Come and buy and eat. Come buy wine and milk without money, without price. And then he goes on and it says, Why are you wasting your money to buy bread which does not satisfy? Come to me. Because those who come to Jesus, he says in John 6, they will never hunger Because Christ is the living bread that comes from heaven, they will never thirst either. Because I'm the bread of life, whoever comes to me shall not hunger. Whoever believes in me shall never thirst. Whoever drinks of the water that I give They will receive me, a fountain of water, springing up to eternal life. Isaiah speaks of the sun not being able to strike them, nor the deadly fire. of his heat burning them that God will be their shelter from the storm, a shade from the heat. But there's more. Look at verse 7. So he's prepared this huge feast for them, but he also he says I and the and he will swallow up on this mountain the covering that is cast over the peoples The covering and the veil that has spread over the nations, what does he mean? A veil is a veil here of darkness that is being removed from people's eyes. It is sin. Sin being removed, being taken away, and the light of the gospel shining upon them that they can receive it by grace and in faith. Those who are once dead, as the as Paul says, those that were once dead in their trespasses, their sins, they are being raised to life again. And he promises to take away the veil that kept them in blindness and in ignorance, that the light of the gospel of Jesus Christ would bring about light and dispel darkness. See the veil and the covering that Isaiah is speaking of here is a symbol of spiritual blindness, isn't it? That we are completely unable to accept to see the gospel of Jesus Christ until unless he comes and takes it off. Paul again in 2 Corinthians 3 says, Yes, to this day, whatever Moses has read, a veil lies over their hearts. But when one turns to the Lord, the veil is removed. Right did not come on all men until Christ appeared, right? Until on resurrection morning when Jesus rose again from the dead, the Son S-U-N of righteousness came and took away the veils and covering the dispelled and dispelled our darkness. Whatever blinded our eyes, it is the gospel of Jesus Christ, his message of salvation that enlightens us. Gives us light in our hearts. Gives us life. And again, it is not on the streets. It is right here. In the body of Christ that he has called and invited to come and feast, it is in the church of Christ that God dispenses his spiritual blessings to his people. Through the preaching of his word, through the hearing of his word, through the sacraments that he gives to us. These are the means of grace Which provides spiritual nourishment to his people. So by forsaking meeting and being with the body of Christ, we're denying ourselves the very nourishment that God has provided for us. Because that's what we need. In order to live for him, we need his means of grace to provide for us. What a beautiful language. of comfort, of assurance that God is giving to us through this word. And you see, it is in the church that we are fed this spiritual food. Spiritual food for our souls that is exquisitively good, that we desire nothing else Food that is so sumptuous, that is so sweet, that nothing else tastes better Yet this is not the end. You would think that having a party that Christ has prepared for us, that's enough. Is war. It is a promise. Because what give what God gives is followed by what he takes away. What God gives is followed by what he takes away. Look at verse 8. Although the feast is on the earth, it is on earth which has been transformed into heaven for the party wall that that kind of divided God and the world has been taken away. There is no more death No more tears. They are wiped away forever. He will swallow up death forever. He will swallow up death forever, and the Lord God will wipe away tears from all their faces, and the reproach of his people, he will take away from all the earth for the Lord Has spoken. Grief is banished forever and ever Perfect and endless joy awaits God's people. It's a complete disappearance of death. God abolishing death so that no traces, no traces of its former sway will be left. I love how Paul captures this again in 1 Corinthians 15, 55. He says, When the perishable puts on imperishable and the mortal puts on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written, death. is swallowed up in victory. See, before that day comes, we still remain in this world living in its shadows We are born in it. In a dark, sinful world. And and you know it's so hard for us to recognize light because we've never seen it, because what we see as light is only a twilight But how would we know real light if we've never seen it? But a time is coming when God will banish everything that darkens life, death itself. See, death is not just a consequence for everyone on earth. It's just it's not just a reality that we face that one day our st our hearts again will stop breathing. See what is so tragic about death? Death is the curse of sin on all humanity Death is evidence that we are sinful people, that there's a curse that was imposed on humanity in Genesis When God tells his people not to eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, and he says, the day that you disobey, what's going to happen to you? You shall surely die. Death is evidence that there's a curse that has been given on us that are sinful people. As Romans 3. 23 says, the wages of sin is death. You see, Paul says that the law does give sin power. How does the law give sin power? See, the law gives sin power by the fact that the law commands only by its letter without the Spirit. The law only commands by its letter without assistance of the Holy Spirit. But when the death is defeated When there is no more death, then there is no sting. There is no victory. There is nothing for us to contend with, right? No evil desires, no lust. No covening, no fear if if we're gonna fail or if we're gonna come out victorious because every temptation is taken away. No more sin, no more struggle with this mortal body, with its weaknesses and flaws. Death is ended. Sin is ended. Satan is defeated. Isn't that good news for you, brothers and sisters? When God rules in his kingdom, death will have no power no more. No more It's the perfected kingdom of God, where there's perpetual joy in all of eternity, a never-ending joy. See, not even death or the prospect of death can diminish the joy that fills our hearts when we are in this kingdom. Now, again, you would think that that would be enough, right? He's a party. He's destroying death. That's not enough. It's not. There's more. What else is he gonna do? He's going to wipe away, to remove all tears from our eyes. Now you you think about that for one second. Think about that for one second. That God will remove every tear from all faces. Tears that you've shed for loved ones. Tears that have been shed because of oppression. Tears that you've shed because of sickness that no doctor will provide any cure for. Tears that you've shed because of pain, pain unknown. Tears that you've shed because of disappointment. Disappointment because you feel that you're not the man or the woman that you ought to be. Disappointment that you have not achieved the thing that you think that you should have achieved by this time, tears of loneliness. Loneliness in your marriage because your marriage is not working right Loneliness because you desire to be married, and God has not provided that for you. Loneliness, whatever you may describe it, because you feel like you're all alone in this world, God will wipe it away Tears of rejection. Being rejection because of the color of your skin, because of your size, because of so many other things. Going into a church and you're being told you don't belong here because you don't act like us. You don't talk like us. You don't dress like us. Rejection by those that you really wanted for you to love. And yet they returned your love and your gestures of acceptance with rejection. Tears of defeat. You have struggled with sin time and time again, and you fail, and you fail, and you go to the darkest of all places, and yet Jesus raises you up and you go back down, and he raises you up and you go back down. And you keep asking, when would this end? Tears of dealing with financial troubles. Always never making this. And wondering when will I ever get a job that is going to provide for me and my family Tears that you have shed because you loved your child so much, and yet God took them away. Tears you've shed because of any experience that you've had on this life that you cannot explain. Brothers and sisters, do you recognize the thoroughness of this action that is God is taking? Does he say God will take the tears from eyes, from their eyes? Said he will wipe away all tears from all faces. Doesn't that sound like God Himself coming to you? As Greg, as Mion, as Nancy, and saying, my child, you have cried for so long. It's all done. You don't have to cry no more. Each and every one of us. Those who mourn for sin will be comforted. I cannot imagine the Christians in West Africa in North African, Asia, and parts of Europe, and I would even argue even here in America, that are being persecuted for their faith. What a joy it will be for them to know that their suffering was not in vain. As Jesus brings them home and says, My child. No more tears. How encouraging is it for us as we bear life's sorrows So one day, one day it's gonna be all taken away. God Himself will come for His people. He will replace our disgrace with honor by sharing His honor with us. Verse 9. See, all of God's promises that He has made for us, they will be made a reality. And we can say with the people in Isaiah, Behold, this is our God. We have waited for him. All credit, all glory, and honor goes to him because salvation was his own initiation. You are not there, you did not do anything. God Himself chose to come and renew us, to rescue us, to make us his own, to restore us into his kingdom and to bring us under his rule. Do you sometimes feel like you are the object of derision, of mockery, of shame? Do we as a church sometimes feel how the world just looks at us? It's as God's people that we we We're nobodies. We we are nothing. And sometimes we feel like the trials of this of this life would just never end, right? One thing after the other. The encouragement is for us to wait in confident expectation. A confident expectation. To be willing to put the times in God's hands. See, that it seems like we we're living in a long interval, right? I don't know how many times we cry and ask, Lord, how long? How long, Lord? How long is it gonna take for you to fix this? See, for those who trust in Jesus Christ, they know that He is sovereign, that He is in full control. And that whatever He has promised to us, He He will get it done. Now the times may be confusing for us because we we really can't explain why things happened the way they that they happened, but listen, his timing is perfect. It may be confusing for us, but it's not confusing for him. Because we are the recipients of God's grace Do you remember what Simeon, the old man, when he held Jesus in his arms, do you remember what Simeon said and declared? Lord, man, let me go home right now. Because I've seen your salvation. Salvation that you brought to us. A light for the revelation to the Gentiles and a glory for your people, Israel. I'm ready to go home. See, we may sow in tears now, but one day we shall reap in joy. Christ will give rest to his people. There is a certainty that ought to be in our presence this morning because his presence, his promises are true and amen. And you know what? God never lies. So we wait in faith. We wait in patience. And God never disappoints. His people will wait in patience. It's a resurrection Sunday. It's Easter. What does Easter mean for you? What is Easter? Why are we here this morning? See, Issa is about Jesus Christ carrying us through death and bringing us into a glorious hope. What is death? Death is a realm. Death is the place where we've all been consigned to because of a rebellion against God. We deserve to die. We deserve to be in darkness. We deserve to be completely disconnected from the fellowship of the Father because of our disobedience. See, the true horror of death is not that our hearts one day will stop beating. The true horror of death is that death is the hell of a truck where nobody emerges. Yet, Jesus Christ entered the dungeons of hell, of death itself, so that those who believe in him May never have to experience the pain and the darkness of death itself because he rose again. He rose again, never to die again, so that one day you and I who believe in Jesus Christ may rise again with him and never die. Death is ended in the death of Jesus Christ. And that's our hope. That's our hope So when we cry, O death, where is your victory? O death, where is your sin? As Jesus lay on that cross and with this with the nails on his hands and feet, he cried out, It is finished. He did not say that when he was resurrected. It was finished before his death. Why? Because Jesus' death was not a defeat. Jesus' death was a victory for you. Death is ended. Father, we do thank you because we recognize What you have done for us on the cross, that truly death is ended. That by your death and resurrection on the third day, you defeated death. Sin and Satan. What a glorious day for us as we come before you this morning. And in fact Remember in a real way by these signs and symbols that you've given to us through communion, to remember what you've done for us. Would you, Lord Jesus, speak to our hearts as we celebrate this feast that you have prepared for us? A feast that you tell us we will celebrate with you when you return. We cannot wait for that day. Thank you for your word. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.