It's a familiar passage, but it's still always good to hear it again. Who has believed what he has heard from us, and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For he grew up before him like a young plant, and like a root out of the dry ground. He had no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. As one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted. But he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities, upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace. And with his wounds we are healed All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all He was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth, like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep that before its shearers is silent, so he opened not his mouth By oppression and judgment he was taken away, and as for his generation, who considered that he was cut off from out of the land of the living, stricken for the transgression of my people. And they made his grave with the wicked and with the rich man to his death, although he had done no violence and there was no deceit in his mouth. Yet it was the will of the Lord to crush him. He has put him to grief. When his soul makes an offering for guilt, he shall see his offspring, he shall prolong his days The will of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. Out of the anguish of his soul he shall seek and and be satisfied. By his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant, make many to be accounted righteous. And he shall bear their iniquities. Therefore I will divide him a portion with the many, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he poured out his soul to death, and was numbered with transgressors. Yet he bore the sin of many and makes intercession for the transgressors. We're talking about being in the presence of greatness. We have three more sermons in Isaiah, one next week, and then you get three other pastors. You'll get um tripp beans Stay in long and chuck Garriott and they'll be here. And then I'll come back for the last two and then we're gonna start an our Advent series. That means we're getting close to December. Which is sort of crazy. In the presence of greatness. That's our theme. Really comes out of that Isaiah 6 passage where Isaiah meets God himself. We're talking about other great things. And I have two in mind, two categories in mind this week. The first is someone is great because that person points you to something great. the the pointer to the th great thing is also a great thing. Um I think I've maybe mentioned this before, but I have a friend and he introduced his roommate in college to his then gonna become wife. And their first date was these four, these two couples, and one of them on a first date went to the OU football game And so then they started going to OU football games, and this this guy got married and became wealthy, and he said to my buddy John, You are going to every OU football game ever again, and I'm taking you So he has not missed any game wherever in the world it was for free for like the last 25-30 years. That's pretty awesome. Because they went to some pretty good ones. And we're all Sooners fans now, so now you're thinking like, whoa So John was great because he introduced and pointed the future wife. I I love my buddy John because he introduced me to brewing beer, which I loved. Julie was sad that John did that. I remember who introduced me to running. reading good books. I remember who introduced me to Reform Theology. The person who encouraged me to go to seminary, to come to University of Oklahoma to to do RUF, that's Chuck Garriott, who you're going to hear from. And then to plant churches, and I'm thankful for the person that pointed us to move to Baltimore. That lady right there. So we're in a similar situation, and you should be thinking about who pointed you to key moments or key things. Things in your life, but especially who pointed you to know and love Jesus? Because that's the greatest pointer There could be. We are in a situation here in Isaiah. Remember, Isaiah, we're trying to figure out how it applies to our lives. 700s BC, 2023, and Maryland. Very different situations But I want to start today in the 30s A. D. in the book of Acts. And the reason I want to start there is to ask this question. Is reading the Bible easy? Is understanding the Bible easy? Sometimes yes, sometimes no. Probably in the main, not so much. So in Acts 8, there is a man named Philip. Philip was one of the apostles, right? And this is taking place after the death and resurrection and ascension of of Jesus. And Philip rolls up on this man because an angel tells him to go there. This is verse twenty six. Now an angel of the Lord said to Philip, Rise and go towards the south to the road that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza. Interesting. Interesting to hear Gaza, right? And he rose and went. And there was an Ethiopian, a eunuch, a court official of Candace, queen of the Ethiopians, who was in charge of all her treasure. He had come to Jerusalem to worship and was not was returning, seated in his chariot, and he was reading the prophet Isaiah And the spirit said to Philip, Go over and join this chariot. So Philip ran to him and heard him reading Isaiah the prophet and asked, Do you understand what you're reading? And he said, How can I unless someone guides me? And he invited Philip to come up and sit with him. Now the passage of the scripture that he was reading was this. Like a sheep he was led to the sh slaughter, and like a lamb before its shear is silent, so he opens not his mouth In his humiliation justice was denied him. Who can describe his generation? For his life is taken away from the earth. Isaiah 53 6 seven through eight. He is reading our passage. He's in the middle of the passage we're going to be talking about today. Which means he would have read, unless he just opened up the scroll to a random place with scroll. The worlds don't exactly work that way. He had read all about these servant songs. They start coming. The first one is in he would have read in Isaiah 42 about how the servant is chosen and has God's Spirit put upon him. In chapter 44, he would have read about how God will bless this servant with many descendants. He would have read about in 49 how this servant will be effective in word and deed, and the servant will gather people to himself, and he will be a light for the nations. And he would have heard in Isaiah 50 that this servant will be obedient to the Lord. This servant will be like no one else ever before. So will God open this man's eyes and ears to know who the servant is. Because when you get to Isaiah 53, it's a curveball. It's a curveball. This is the last of the servant's songs. I've I've told you what they have been And as you hear those things, you're like, whoa, this servant is going to be awesome. It's going to be so powerful to redeem and defeat the enemies. It's going to be overwhelming with might. It has to be. That's how the only way these things can happen. And then you start in this last one, in Isaiah 53. But we're going to start in Isaiah 52. Isaiah fifty-two in the very end this is rolling into Isaiah fifty-three starting in verse thirteen. Behold, my servant shall act wisely, and he shall be high and lifted up and shall be exalted. Now that's exactly the words we think we're going to hear. Those ones But it continues, as many were astonished at you, his appearance was so marred beyond human semblance, and his form beyond that of the children of mankind So shall he sprinkle many nations. Kings shall shut their mouths because of him, for that which has not been told them they see, and that which they had not heard they understand. People are going to be astonished, appalled, shocked, beyond human recognition. So they're not going to see this guy and go. Is it him? They're gonna see hit this thing and say, Is it human? That's how disfigured It's going to be deformed. A mangled man will be lifted up and exalted. And this tortured body will sprinkle the nations. Like a priest. He will cleanse the ones who dehumanize him, and the kings will behold him, because they got nothing compared to him. This servant lived in rejection. three. Who has believed what he has heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For he grew up before him like a young plant and like a root out of the dry ground He had no form or majesty that we should look on him, no beauty that we should desire him. He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows, acquainted with grief. As one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised, and we esteemed him not. This arm of the Lord The servant of God will be despised, rejected, a man of sorrows, well acquainted with grief. How's that sound? I mean just think in your own life, do you want to be rejected, well acquainted with grief, despised? That's not a real hot way to describe a new pastor. I'm not hoping for all those things. So it feels like It's it's like whoa, what's going on? We're not measuring up. But then we we move a little closer, four through six. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows Yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God and afflicted, but he was pierced for our transgressions, he was crushed for our iniquities Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and by his wounds we are healed. All of us are like sheep, we've gone astray, we have turned every one to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all Oh, amen. Those are good words, right? We made him sick. He's sick because we made him sick. He's wounded for our transgressions. That's why he's so disfigured and marred. He got laid our iniquities on him. So this servant is doing something vicarious. Okay, vicarious. He was crushed and pierced. And these are some of the harshest words for death in the scriptures. It really means ripped apart, run through. So this vicarious death is also vicious and violent. But it's purposeful. 7 through 9. Oh, I already read that. 7 through 9. So this is the lamb to the to the slaughter part. And um so this is where Isaiah is talking about how this servant knows what's going to happen. And goes willingly, calmly toward this death, submitting his mind and tongue. So this one is voluntary. Voluntary. And he was crushed, but it says he will be victorious. Victorious, that's the last one. The one who is killed for sin will see his offspring The one who was killed for sin will prolong his days and be satisfied and get portions like a king, divine spoils like a conqueror. He will accomplish his purpose Vicarious, vicious, violent, voluntary, and victorious. So who is this person? That is what The Ethiopian eunuch wants to know. And now I know you know, but think about it from his point of view. Like who are we talking about? And Philip is going to say, this person has come. This person has come. Let me tell you about his lowly birth Let me tell you about how nobody cared about him. Let me tell you about the miracles he did, the things he did, and the death he took And the resurrection, and then the ascension. I mean, let me tell you that he is a prophet, a priest, and a king. Let me tell you that he made sacrifices. He was the sacrifice. He had the strength and meekness of a shepherd. He's the good shepherd. He was rejected for sure by his family, by his community, by the religious community, by his friends. By the government, he faced the cruelest torture ever devised It was vicious and it was violent because forgiveness is costly. And Ethioan, Ethiopian eunuch guy, he was the Lamb of God Hebrews 9 says that Jesus is the mediator of a new Covenant, and Jesus mediated it by laying down his life willingly. And you know, Ethiopian eunuch guy You've seen the crosses. If you came up to Jerusalem, you saw on the roads the lines of c crosses, you know, because they're insurrections And the Romans are serious about it, and so they don't want you to do insurrection, so they're gonna show you what happens to insurrector insurrect insurrectionists. And that's what they said Jesus was doing And he was on that cross. And you know how everyone's saying, Get me down? You know how everyone is cursing their torturers? You know how every one of them is blaspheming God? That's not what happened. Jesus did not do those things. He was in control of every moment, of every moment while he was up there And so Philip showed this man Jesus. He pointed to him from Isaiah 53, right? She showed him that your transgressions can be paid. Your iniquity can be placed on him. He can carry your sorrows. So what's the response? It it's really our what is our response? And a lot of our response, maybe not today, maybe not in church, but in the world is eh. Tell me a different story But this came at a staggering cost, and we're talking about our sins that he bore. Our sins. It's a beautiful Rembrandt painting of Of uh putting Jesus up on the cross and Rembrandt paints himself in the painting as one of the people lifting Jesus up. The movie The Passion of the Christ that Mel Gibson did years and years ago, he's in the movie one time. He makes a cameo. His hand nails Jesus' feet. Okay, so if this is Jesus, what happens to us? And the supposition is, my proposition is, it changes everything. The gospel changes everything, it rearranges our lives, our hearts. our world. And I want to show you that by going into a far less familiar piece, because it doesn't end there. Isaiah 53 jumps to Isaiah 54. Sing, O barren one, who did not bear. Break forth into singing and cry aloud, you who have not been in labor For the children of the desolate one will be more than the children of her who is married, says the Lord. Okay, let's think about motherhood now as a big deal. Motherhood in the ancient world Way bigger deal. It's still a big deal today. I was reading about Hamas and um They really need more soldiers and workers. And so there they have told the women, stay home and make babies Because those babies are going to become soldiers. That's your job for the cause. That's what we need you to do. Maybe not the most healthy advice But it's still happening. Because in the ancient world, especially, bearing children was everything. Everything And you had to have a lot of them. You know, maybe get four, you had to have twelve. And you started real young, so there was lots of time. But you could die easy. You could die easy. So it's super risky Not like the Duggars having nineteen of them in a row. But you might you wanted to have nineteen if you could But you needed to not have none. Having none was not an option. There was no young woman who said, I don't plan to have kids. That never came out of their mouths. And so this became an idol. This was an idol in everyone's minds. It became an idol to attain. This was their everything. We talked about those a lot last week. And even like Rachel said this to Jacob, give me children or I'll die. Well we were using that as a like metaphor. Give if I don't have this, I'll die. Well she says it, right? And it is oppression, but but remember this We have idols. And I would hazard the guess, back in the ancient world, no females had eating disorders. Right? They weren't committing suicide. Um they had very different idols, and these idols are more communal instead of individualistic. But we say, give me skinny or I die. Give me beauty or I die. Give me freedom or I die. Give me popularity or I die. So I'm going to apply this to this, but it can apply to lots of stuff. And it applies in this case to this barren woman. Faith in God, faith in Jesus, belief in the gospel rearranges ourselves. Because a barren woman, really bottom of the totem pole, and and she would hate that Destroy her. She would have no comprehension of why that should happen. And and and Jesus says You can sing, you can be joyful. And in fact, what does the verse 2 say? Enlarge the place of your tent. And let the curtains of your habitation be stretched out. Do not hold back, lengthen your cords and strengthen your states. For you will spread abroad to the right and to the left, and your servant will possess your offspring will possess the nations And we will put and we'll people the desolate cities. You are going to have way more than you can handle. Your tent is not going to be big enough. Because I am going to bring you Children, spiritual children. I'm going to bless you beyond what you could imagine. The promises of Genesis, be fruitful and multiply, are not only physical, they can be spiritual. And your husband can be your maker. Behold, I will set your stones and answer my I will lay your foundations with sapphires, I will make your pinnacles of agate, your gates of carbuncles, and all of your walls of precious stones, all your children shall be taught by the Lord, and great shall be the peace of your children. In righteousness you shall be established, you shall be far from oppression, you shall not fear, and from terror it shall not come near you. If any one stirs up strife, it is not for me. Whoever stirs up strife with you shall fall because of you. And then it says, Where's the maker one? I'm gonna missed it. Well it's in there. The Lord will be your maker. Your maker will be your husband. This is a picture of total beauty, unbroken peace. It's a picture that salvation is a community experience. It's not a denial of reality at all. It's a proof of renovation, reversal, and renewal for people that didn't think they had anything going at all. Now when we go back to the Ethiopian eunuch, the text tells us, right? This person's in charge of a queen's treasure. This would have been a court official, and what they did was they castrated court officials. This helped a lot c a lot of problems go away. So this man, this Ethiopian black man, had paid a big price in his body and in his future And he had paid a big price to travel to Jerusalem to see the temple. That would have been fifteen hundred miles. It probably would have taken three or four months. So he sacrificed to get there because he wanted to know about God. You know, he's reading the scrolls. He's a seeker. And what would have happened when he got to the temple? He would have been turned away. Temple has rules. This is where God dwells, so it's not just every man for himself, there are rules And some of the rules we don't fully understand. But but people that have blemishes don't get to go in. If you're blind or lame or you have a mutilated face or a limb too long, which I don't know exactly how they measured that. If you have an injured foot or an injured hand, if you're a hunchback or a dwarf or you have an itching disease or scabs or, this is the last one, crushed testicles. You cannot go in. This is a barren man. It's not a barren woman. He's a barren man. And this barren man in Acts 8 is super important. Because this is really one of the coolest pieces where we see the gospel going out to places it never had been before. And going out to people that it hadn't touched before. And really Acts 2, with all these people and all these nations, starts taking the gospel everywhere. And this man would have stood as a complete marker. The Jewish people would not have expected this at all. And God is saying, with this guy, I'm doing way more than you thought. Way more than you thought. The gospel is stronger than you thought. Because Jesus was crushed for us. Jesus paid our sins. He ripped the veil. He broke the barrier to God. And so, Ethiopian eunuch. You can sing. You are barren, but you can have spiritual children. God can enlarge your tense when you go back. You can have children in the Lord. And as we give our lives away, as we release our idols Give me this or I die. God releases us so we can sing too. So we can disciple others too. So we can help others too. And that's what needs to make our hearts sing. My heart sang a lot for the Orioles in the last five, six months. Sometimes our hearts sing for sports teams. Sometimes our hearts sing for power, vacations, intimacy. But at least here, Isaiah is saying your heart should sing for substitutionary atonement For Jesus, the suffering servant, paid for your sins. Glory. Hallelujah. God's holiness punishes sins, and God's love sent Jesus, the suffering servant So, because of that, we can have really a humble confidence, an unshakable assurance, and a rearranged universe. We can sing in the barren places of our lives even. It's not all one thing, it's not all Just one category of actual children. The Ethiopian eunuch can sing, and can it be that thou my God wouldst die for me? And can it be? Wow. I'm still amazed at the wondrous cross. So may we, church, have more spiritual children. Amen? May God enlarge our tents. Amen. May God bless our people on our minds. May God use us in people's lives that we're thinking about and praying about and trying to bless. Or maybe also we may want to say today, who how can I unless somebody shows me? I want to learn more about Jesus. Or maybe I don't know him at all. So I mentioned two two ways to see greatness. The one is the point to greatness. The other is when we see soul Singing sacrifice. Soul singing sacrifice. On the same week in nineteen ninety seven, two women died. One on August thirty first, the other one on September fifth. One of them was Lady Diana. Fascinating person, and I would sorta guess at some time in their lives every female wanted to be her at one time. Um little girls certainly wanted to look up for her. And we're still completely fascinated with her, right? We want to know more about her all the time. And she did a lot of good philanthropy, but she ruled the world for a while Well, the other person, um, her name was Agnes Gongska Bajaksu. I don't know if I'm saying that right. She was Albanian and Indian and she never had kids. And she moved and she gave her life away And what it we what do we call her? Yeah, Mother Teresa. Mother Teresa impacted so many people. By giving her life away. And she was great. But she was a nobody. She became great by becoming a nobody and by giving her life away to others I know someone who went to meet her and um they brought him and his wife in to see her and he was giving her a donation of like a hundred bucks. It was And she she said, Oh, thank you, thank you. But really, um I'm so glad you're here. Will you pray for my art arthritis? She put her hands in his and he prayed for her He'll never forget that day. She gave her life away for others. One more story. You probably heard it already. This is In the River Kwai, which was a real place, there was a Scottish uh troop that had been caught by the Japanese. And um one day a shovel was missing. So they called the whole troop out and this guy was livid about this shovel and he said if they don't if someone didn't step up and admit to losing it the whole troop would die And they had the rifles ready and they were going to do it. So a man stepped up and said, I did it, and they shot him They went on and they found out that shovels had been miscounted. That shovel was there. It was a big mistake. And so that man gave his life so the rest of them could be saved. That's what we're talking about, right? Substitution. He took iniquity, he took death, so they could live. And when when they came and got rescued, Instead of killing all their tormentors, they insisted the the men who were left behind became brothers. They had been saved by this man and they said, No more killing, no more hate. We must have love. Sacrificial love has Transformative power. Sacrificial love has a transformative power. And we see it most in the suffering servant, Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. We have several ways to respond the first