I want to again express my appreciation. Um when I was in seminary I got this inkling that maybe I wanted to do this thing of delivering messages to bodies and um the craft and art of delivering a sermon is not something that I took lightly And your feedback and Carl's have indeed been a blessing to me, so I thank you for that. The name of the message for today is The Map of Righteousness Through Suffering. And I thought, remember that we're in 1 Peter, the entire letter really focuses on suffering. And we're now in the third chapter, um verses eight through twenty-two. And um before we get started, I had this metaphor of a map. Now no one's a greater appreciator of GPS than I am. I mean I love it. I just and so just last weekend I went to a conference in Lancaster, Pennsylvania. Pennsylvania and I did two things. I went to my cell phone and I put in the address of my uh hotel and then the address of of the conference. So I made it right to my hotel, I parked, I checked in, and I decided to walk over to the conference. And so I walked outside and a squiggly line didn't seem to be and so I turned and then it seemed to be you know, flapping back and forth. So I turned and I walked and I walked and I walked. And and it wasn't a really cold day. I enjoyed myself But then I noticed that it was looking a little less city centerish. There was a hospital there and I looked down and I noticed point five miles to where I want to go. Oops. I was just at point four. Something doesn't click here. So long story short, I walked two miles to get a block and a half From my hotel. Um now a map, you don't worry about that because you have north and south You have east and west, um, and you can see that the road that you're passing if you're going the wrong way. Not so much with GPS where I had a solid line, a little blue. Well there are three points that I think this passage in First Peter, focusing on righteousness, is going to unearth for us. Number one, that righteousness needs to be in our hearts and in our home. It needs to be a predisposition. It needs to be in us before our head comes off the pillow Second, we need righteousness to help us navigate the quagmire of our convoluted relationships with others People. But third, and just as importantly, maybe most importantly, righteousness is a part of what will enable us to get to the destination. of Christ Jesus in our salvation. So the point of origin, the way, and the destination. That's where we're going. Now, for those of you who are able, please stand while I read 1 Peter 3, 8 through 22. Finally, all of you have purity of unity of mind, sympathy, brotherly love, a tender heart, and a humble mind. Do not repay evil for evil or reviling for reviling. But on the contrary, bless For to this you were called that you may obtain a blessing. For whoever desires to love life, And see good days. Let him keep his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking deceit. Let him turn away from evil and do good. Let him seek peace. And pursue it. For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and his ears are open to their prayer. But the face of the Lord is against those who are evil. Now, who is there to harm you if you are zealous for the good? But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you will be blessed Have no fear of them nor be troubled, but in your hearts honor Christ the Lord as holy. Always being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you, yet do it with gentleness and respect. Having a good conscience, so that when you are slandered, those who revile you, your good behavior in Christ may be put to shame For it is better to suffer for doing good, if that should be God's will, than for doing evil. For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit. in which he went and proclaimed to the spirits in prison, because they formerly did not obey, when God's patience waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was being prepared, in which a few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through the water Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the body, but as an appeal to God for a good conscience. Through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, who has gone to heaven and is at the right hand of God with angels' authorities and powers having been subjected to him. To him. This is the word of the Lord. Father God, most high, Christ told us to And when it comes to righteousness, Lord, we get so wrapped up In all the convolution of six hundred and fifty separate regulations, Lord, what are we to do? And yet, Lord, I pray that through this scripture today you will help to unravel for us The goodness and power that Christ has put in our hearts, that we may see, that we may believe, and that we may follow and find Good days and a loving heart through Jesus Christ. Amen. You may be seated. So what is righteousness? There are three things I want to say about this at the outset. First is that God honors righteousness. Psalm thirty-three, five reads He loves righteousness and justice. The earth is full of the steadfast love of the Lord. Second, righteousness does have to do with the law, and it does have to do with how we get along with others. Deuteronomy six twenty-five, Meg Moses exhorts, and if we are careful to obey all this law before the Lord our God, as he has commanded us, that will be our righteousness. And third, Proverbs 28, that ultimately our destination is in Christ. On the way of righteousness there is life. Along that path is immortality. So, praise be to the triune God, that he doesn't leave it up to us to do what is unattainable by our own will. Christ came to us, and in the Beatitudes, in Matthew 5:6, blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness for they shall be satisfied. R. C. Sprohl pointed out that it sure is an interesting thing Take note. He doesn't say, oh my goal is for righteousness, and if you really, you know, work at it, you'll have all you need. No He uses very visceral, very vacillating, very constantly at us descriptions, hunger and thirst. Now, most of you probably had your cup of juice or coffee and are doing just fine, but in another hour, you're going to want that seltzer water. You might have had a good breakfast, but round about noon or two o'clock, you're gonna feel What is coming? You know, I need that bite to eat. Well this, Jesus is m making a wonderful metaphor, is the way we need to look at righteousness. It is something embedded in our being that we need to carry with us in the world and use it to inform our lives. So it's not a um it is not walk your walk, it's not talk to talk, it's not Not name it and claim it. It is actually righteousness is our path for life. So to start off point one, our point of origin, where we start from. The first Really, the first couple of verses give us a predisposition to righteousness that I think will help to serve us well. In verse eight three eight, Peter show um finally, all of you have a unity of mind, sympathy, brotherly love. A tender heart, and a humble mind. So unity of mind tells us that we are to be disposed. to others, that we are a body, that we are to use each other and accompany each other. This is followed by sympathy. Sympathy is another word for compassion. Just imagine how much chatter would be on the television if there was none. One word that was not building up, that was not encouraging, that was not blessing other people We would spend a lot of our time looking at a soundless screen Because so little of the conversation that goes on in the wide world is actually sympathetic This is followed by brotherly love. Now, notice that we have the great commandment here brought before us by Peter Where we love the Lord our God with all our heart, soul, and mind, but we love our neighbor as ourselves. And so he's bringing the two of those together. This is followed with tender heart. Now, tender heart is actually Iuspanchoy. Ius means good. Spanchoy means foul. So what he's really saying is good to the gut. It's really a strong pronouncement Of how we're to take this goodness and apply it in our life. It ought to be our foundation. And of course, the climax to this list of things that we are to walk toward is humility. And humility Is not merely meekness. It means that the way we assert ourselves is first pay attention to God. Then pay attention to our families, then pay attention to the body, then pay attention to the city and the state and the nation. And then assert ourselves powerfully for the good of the Lord And we need to do this as we go on in the Beatitudes. Matthew 5:20 reads. For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. So, what Peter is doing is he's doing just what Christ did in the Sermon on the Mount, which is to take the law and turn it into from the heart. So that now we are pulled toward the law by a heart renewed in Christ Jesus. And Paul is doing the same thing. Now how can we do this? Well we can't, unless we have a heart renewed by Jesus. So, following this, Peter then offers a caution in verse nine. Do not repay evil for evil or reviling for reviling, but on the contrary Bless for this you were called that you may obtain a blessing In a fallen world? Are we gonna meet up with malfeasance? You bet we will But he wants us never to respond in kind. Now, evil is bad. But more than that, it's rotten, it's foul, and it is filled with malice. When this comes to us We are to bless. This is followed by reviling. Now, reviling is a personal attack. It has to do with insult and abuse. Really? Bless? The disclaimer is That like the banker, we can't give away the bank's funds for our good intentions. So where we have an office To uphold, we need to respond powerfully on the basis of the office and on the basis of God. But when it comes to an attack on ourselves We need to develop the ability to take a breath and to bless. Now, Peter's now going to repeat the same thing, but in a more nuanced way. So in verses 10 through 12, For whoever desires to love life and to see good days, let him keep his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking deceit Let him turn away from evil and do good. Let him seek peace and pursue it, for the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous. And his ears are open to their prayer. But the face of the Lord is against those who do evil. Righteousness is a defense against suffering inherently in and of itself. Do we seek to love life? Yes. Do we seek good days? Of course. We do. The path to that is through righteousness. It requires that we turn our backs on evil But seek good. It requires that we refrain from deceit, but instead seek peace. Because the Eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and his ears will hear the prayers of the righteous. Okay, so back to my map. Uh Up to this point, I think what Peter's been doing is saying this is how your heart needs to be before you even leave Howsome ever. We need to take our sanctified selves out into the wide world and figure out how we're going to get from here to there. Peter is telling us that righteousness cuts a swath between the problematic bushwhacking that goes on between us and other people. In verse thirteen and fourteen, Peter continues. Now who is there to harm you if you are zealous? For what is good. But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you will be blessed. Have no fear of them, nor be troubled. So who is there that can harm us? Well, there's thugs, there's There's Kraplice, there's incompetent medical staff, there's that irksome boss, there's that Thoughtless family who doesn't bring a sting to us. And that's not even including The aches and bakes of growing old and of being mortal. But what Peter is telling us in this Is that none of these can come between us and Christ? I wanted to think about a man who. typified a life of righteousness. Elijah Tyson. He was Baltimorean. He lived between seventeen fifty and eighteen twenty-four. Well his story goes back, he was Quaker. His story goes back to 1688, which was when the Quakers first came up with a res resolution saying that we ought To abolish slavery. Tyson's father was brought to Christ through William Penn And he went to meeting houses his entire life. When he was still a young man in um eighteen thirty. Pennsylvania where he was born was the first colony to Make it illegal to have slavery. So they were the first ones to abolish slavery. So this was his norm. He moved in 1772 down to Gunpowder Falls. He set up a mill, and it became very successful. After another nine years, he moved to Druid Hill Park, set up another mill. It also was successful. He was a trader and a man of business. Later on in his life, he even started a bank. He was very wealthy. But throughout his life he had this passionate belief that slavery was an abomination against a grace filled, generous God. It did not compute He was a big man, a person of substance, but he was also often attacked. One time, a guy just came up and slugged him in the face. According to the newspaper article, he did not hit him back. Rather, he held him, and the term was vigorously enough so that once he let him go, the man was positively civil. Later on, and this is when he was in Druid Hill Park. A slaver was walking out in front of his house and he was dragging an African American girl And he had a gun in his ha other hand and he threatened to shoot Elijah Tyson Elijah ripped his shirt apart and he said, Shoot me if thee dare. But thee dare not, coward as thou art, for well does thee know that death shall be your portion. He followed that slavery, and he determined that this African American girl was indeed free. And so she was freed as a result of him. It is estimated that two thousand African Americans Were freed by Tyson over his life So this apolitical man, I guarantee you his family was not engaged in the revolution Revolutionary War. But nevertheless, he created the Maryland Society for the Abolition of Slavery. which was the first organization in Maryland dedicated to wiping out slavery. They were able to overturn a law. Someone passed a law. saying you can't manumit, you can't free a slave once you have a slave. So they overturned that law, and he continued to teach and to reach and to talk to anyone he could and get them to free their slaves Also, this Quaker, this pacifist, set up a group of vigilantes. One of the common practices in those days was. To see an African American, get him uh give him a few uh drinks, and then grab him and say that he was an escaped slave. Excuse me. Me. This was done all the time. And they would, this group of vigilantes would chase after uh people that would do this. It was a quick buck for somebody that didn't know what else to do for them. So in other words, his Quaker scruples were less than his desire to follow the righteousness of God He started the first school for African Americans called the African Academy in uh 1797 Um he started other schools. He set up a dispensary for anyone who didn't have enough money. Whatever their race was. He freed thousands by using the law to overturn. um the improper uh theft of pe of free people Now the last thing I want to say about Elijah Tyson is that he was not a man of his Times. What he was doing was not the norm in Baltimore. In fact, oh, the other thing that he did, I just want to mention this. was he set up safe houses all the way to Pennsylvania so that slaves who were escaping could go and be and find our way. And he is credited with being one of the first people in the Underground Railroad. So realizing that he died 35 years before the Civil War began, when he was an old man, he went to all the African American churches. And he said, I am now old and weak. In a few days I'll be gathered to my fathers. The great portion of this audience will never see me. my face again, and I know not who will befriend you after I'm gone, unless you befriend one another. When he did die, ten thousand African Americans came to his funeral. It was held to be the largest funeral in the history of Baltimore. What causes a man to do this? You can only say God. But notice how it was a hunger and a thirst for righteousness. One that didn't go away, one that wasn't, oh, that's done, I'm willing to rest. Tyson had 11 children, six of whom made it into their adulthood. lives. That was very common then. Tyson suffered like any man, but he refused To bow before a line lie that most in Baltimore ignored. So back to our map. If we're going to Frederick, it's probably west on 695. If it's Virginia, it's probably south on 95. If it's Catonsville, we're going to take smaller roads west. Let's follow what Peter says in verses fifteen and sixteen. But in your hearts honor Christ, the Lord, as holy. Always being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you. Yet do it with gentleness and respect, having a good conscience, so that when you were slandered, Those who revile your good behavior in Christ may be put to shame. So whether we're going 65 miles on a road Highway or fifteen miles in the parking lot, we are in Christ. Righteousness or right-mindedness Always is involved with engaging others. Peter says, be prepared to make a defense. The word for defense, apologian, is the word that's come to mean apologetics. It is Then it was then the word for the logic and the persuasion that you hand to a court that allows the judge to make a right ruling in the case. So how do we prepare? Well, first step is we pray. We ask that God give us opportunity. My brother and sister in law are syncretistic to the point of nonsense and I often pray before I talk to them Then we go to God and we ask that the Lord may give us words that speak from the Spirit. Then we live our lives in the hope of Christ. We need to be like St. Francis of Assisi, who said, Preach the gospel constantly when you need to use words. And if we talk and we find that eloquence eludes us, that we didn't make the mark, then ellipsis. Return back to prayer, re return to go get a book like Tactics or Um mere Christianity, prepare yourself and and keep at it So Peter tells us that there are worse fates than suffering. Peter knew that our thoughts would not be welcomed by the pagans. He cautions us to deal with gentleness and respect. Why? He follows with the uncomfortable um conjunction, not if, not and, not while, but when. So that when you are slandered, so that when you are reviled, treated wrongly, insulted, rebuked Christ will be the lasting influence. He ends up this section in seventeen, verse seventeen. For it is better for doing good, if that should be God's will, than for doing evil. Here, Peter is not telling us that suffering is good. But in this world, suffering is unavoidable. Remember what Keller said to us Christianity teaches that contra fatalism, suffering can be overwhelming. Contra Buddhism, suffering can be uh suffering is real. It's actual, it's tangible It's something that embraces us. Unlike karma, suffering is often unfair. But contra secularism, suffering is meaningful. There is purpose to it, and if faced rightly, it can drive us Like a nail into the love of God, and out of this we can discover stability and spiritual power that otherwise we can't even imagine Imagine. This is the heart of what Peter's telling us to follow God. Suffering may be our lot. For seasons, suffering will be our lot. But we are not not not to follow evil ever, even though it might relieve our suffering So now back to our map. We've talked about how we start at our point of order origin with righteousness inside of us. We've talked about how on the way we use righteousness in our relations with each other. Now we're coming to the conclusion where we're going to talk about righteousness delivers us to a destination that was not of our making. Verses eighteen and nineteen. For Christ also suffered once for sins. the righteous or the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the Spirit, in which he went and proclaimed to the Spirit's prison. So regardless of our suffering, we can find solace that we have suffering, that we have serve a suffering Savior. Remember, we have inherited to us a sinful frame. Before I was a Christian I just cringe at what was normal to me. But even since there is inadvertent sin that I never am able to To escape, regardless of the fact that I have come out of vast hab uh habits of sin In our in the end, Christ is our destination. So, in conclusion, in verses twenty through twenty-two. Because they formally did not obey when God's patience waited in the days of Noah. While the ark was being prepared, in which a few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through water. Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the body, but as an appeal to God for a good conscience. Through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God. With angels' authorities and powers having been subjected to him. So he goes back to the Old Testament. No doubt about it God is fed up with unrighteousness. But Peter shows that even at humanity's lowest God reached out with grace and gave us a way out of the mire. Then he brings us to the New Testament times into baptism. Remember, John the Baptist told us, repent, for the kingdom of God is at hand. The first in my first message I showed how the new heart is actually the result. Of two things. Thing one is repentance, where we realize our wrongdoing, and the second is faith, which is So it's not the removal of sin as if If there's an eraser taking it away, it is rather a good conscience that God gives us. We are his The French say, on at all, we're here. She God. This is our destination. Our ultimate destination is not in this world. However, with repentance, we're with God in this mortal life and will be with God in our eternal lives. The paths we trod, the side roads we trumble, the highways we race, and with God's grace we will be Be it heaven. So my friends, looking over the map, let us don the breastplate of righteousness. In our homes with those we love as we go into the wide world. Let us not be befuddled by the blinders of a society that Says, whatever is okay. It's not. John was right to remind us that the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Belief in Christ and a hunger and a thirst for righteousness will bring our suffering, will be transformed. Our aches and our pains will disappear. Our disappointments will vanish. Hallelujah, Hallelujah, Hallelujah to our God Okay, so we are now at the end. Um come on up, music group, and I will I think save Prayer at the end.