Our series is Life in the Household of God, which is the phrase we'll look at from the third chapter in a few weeks. But today we're going to be talking about we jumped into this third chapter. In this book, the Apostle Paul is charging his spiritual son in the faith, Timothy, who was leader of the Church of Ephesus. The church that they were part of planting, Paul was a leader, but F Timothy was part of the team in the book of Acts Uh he's charged him, he's left him there and charged him to set things right, to to straighten out some things that have gotten out of order. Uh first three chapters are foundational to the book. And in the first chapter, they needed an accurate understanding of the gospel. There's some heresy that's script in. And so Paul is reminding him of the truths of the gospel, the implications of the gospel. It's about doctrine. Then the second chapter, um the there's maybe some problems with worship that are happening. And so he gives them some guidelines about how to structure worship, reminding him of some things that may be getting out of hand That's the second chapter. And now this third chapter, the need uh uh for an accurate understanding of Christian leadership. Is where he goes because there's been a problem with leaders who have brought this these other problems. And so in chapter 3, as we begin, that's where he's going in this chapter. He talks about the leadership Elders deacons. Let's pause and read the passage, the ESV translation, verses 1 to 7 of 1 Timothy 3. The saying is trustworthy. If anyone aspires for the office of overseer, he desires a noble task. Therefore, an overseer must be above reproach, the husband of one wife, sober-minded, self-controlled, respectable, hospitable. able to teach, not a drunkard, not violent or but gentle, not quarrelsome, not a lover of money. He must manage his own household well, with all dignity, keeping his children submissive For if someone does not know how to manage his own household, how will he care for God's church? He must not be a recent convert, or he may become puffed up with conceit and fall into the condemnation of the devil Moreover, he must be well thought of by outsiders, so that he may not fall into disgrace, into a snare of the death. God's word. Let me pray. Well, I pray for for us as we look at over this passage. Well, it's a very important passage for us as a church as we as we uh ponder your calling on the next lead pastor. So I pray you would teach us and instruct us that we might uh uh serve you well in Jesus' name amen The overseer of God's church. That's my title. The overseer of God's church, the leadership. Of course, Grace as a church is on the verge of erecting a search team for the next pastor. And some of you will be called to serve on that team. This is a very, very sobering responsibility. And we believe elders Leading the uh uh should lead the church, but we also believe that the people of God have a strong say in who their elders will be, who will lead them. This passage today reminds us Of this truth. God calls and chooses leaders. But there are objective qualifications, objective criteria that the church is to recognize In potential leaders and discerning those qualifications, select men to lead. And I say select men to lead in a particular sense, and uh Eric talked last week in chapter two about the particular calling that God has that men should lead. If you do work if you didn't hear that, check out the the sermon audio on the website. We record all the sermons as recording this Recently, there have been in the news some sad stories of Christian leaders who have failed to live consistently with the Word of God before the watching world. Many many young believers, their faith was rocked by the news of uh Justin Bieber's hipster pastor, Carl, his mentor, Carl Lentz, who uh uh has had a moral failure. is in adultery. Many many of us who are a little older uh have really respected the ministry of of the late Paul just Robbie Zacharias, and yet recent news of his Frailties have surfaced as true. These are sad, and these sad events remind us that God has chosen to use Broken vessels, flawed people. Why? Well first because that's all he has to choose from. It's all we all are flawed. We all are broken. In various ways. And only Jesus is worthy of absolute allegiance. Only Jesus is worthy of our absolute loyalty. The church learns from men and follows men that God's called into leadership, yes But the church as well, as we who are called, must always remember that we're flawed, we're sinful. We're broken vessels. These sad situations, of course, disturb us greatly and often cause us to ask the question that Elijah asked, Lord, can anyone remain faithful? They remind you that there are many who have not yielded to bail. There are many who take the calling very seriously, who do love God. Who do love their wives, who do watch their behavior carefully, who are accountable to others. Do not believe that Satan's lie, that no men are faithful to God and their wives. God can and God does sanctify those who desire to seek his face. In our day, many long-term baby boomer pastors are retiring. And there is unfortunately a lack of men who desire to fill that void. Many who do desire to fill the void and be pastors unfortunately have a weak understanding of God of the church and of the high call to to the pastoral ministry, even to the eldership. I still believe God is equipping and calling and setting aside men who will by the Spirit of God lead his people with skill and with integrity God calls a man to pastoral ministry in general and to a particular ministry. And the passage here reminds us that the church must confirm that calling. Jesus Christ leads his church through spirit-filled men who are called, qualified, and chosen by God's people. I want you to notice the flow of those first three chapters. The gospel, you see, creates believers. It's by the gospel that we are saved and we come to Jesus. The believers cluster in local fellowships for the purposes of worship and witness to their community. That's chapter 2. And as they organize into local fellowships of worship and witness, leaders emerge, and the local churches organize and becomes effective. To become effective, you need mature leaders, men who are appointed and who are anointed by God. And the church selects those. So these are three very foundational building blocks of the church, the household of God. As you look at these first seven verses of chapter three I want you to see a couple, see three things today about the office of leadership in God's church. First is the nature of leadership, and then the calling to leadership And then we're going to look at these verses that give us some of the qualifications for leadership. And that's where we spend the bulk of our time today. It's God wills. First is that the nature of this office, the nature of the office of elder, I'm using the term elder. Verse 1 says: the saying is trustworthy. If anyone aspires to the office of overseer He desires a noble task. The word overseer is in some translations the word bishop. In the original language, it's the word episcopas. Episcopas, Episcopalians, Episcopas, though b bishops, overseers. Now, different churches understand this differently, but let me talk about these words and the nature of this office. Um office overseer, elder, shepherd, pastor. There there's several passages in the New Testament which shines a light on the fact that the that these are talking about the same person. person, the same leader. We can look at Titus chapter one, we can look at first Peter chapter five. I want us to look at uh the other Bible turn to Acts chapter twenty. There's two verses in Acts chapter twenty. In Acts chapter twenty Paul is is passing But near Ephesus and he caused the leaders of Ephesus to come to a little coastal town, call my leaders. And uh he wants to talk to the leaders of Ephesus. And so Acts chapter 20, verse 17 says now Well now from my leaders, he meaning Paul, who's com uh who who who who he he sent to Ephesus and called the elders of the church to come to him Okay? So in Acts 2017, he called for the elders. And by the way, the word elders is the Greek word presbuteros. Presbuteros. Sounds like Presbyterian. Yes, that's where we get the term Presbyterian. from Cresper. He called the friend the elders of the church to come to him. He didn't want to stop in Ephesus. He was going towards Jerusalem. He said, have them come, I'll talk to you at the shore and say goodbye to them. Because he had a sense it was going to be his last time. Don't worry about all that. The passage goes on. And then in verse 28, as he's continuing to talk to these same people, he says this. Pay careful attention to yourselves and to all the flock in which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers to care for the church of God, which you obtained with his own blood. He's talking to elders. He says pay attention to the flock. That's shepherd language. That's sheep language. The flock So these elders have a flock because they are shepherds, they are pastors. And he says, the flock to in which the Holy Spirit has made you Overseers. They are overseers. So they are pastors. They are bishops. They are elders. They're all the all the same people are called all three of these phrases. That's very important in our understanding of what's going on here. Okay The nature of these office. We'll talk more about the implications of those three terms. In the PCA, we have three uh ordained offices. There's teaching elders, ruling elders, and deacons. We believe in the plurality of elders in a local church. Historically, most Baptist churches believe in the the pastors are the elder in a church. Pastors are elders. And the lay leaders are deacons. This however is changing. I believe more on now seeing that plurality of elders is not only in a local church is not only quite helpful, it's quite biblical. I I I'm a teaching elder. By the way, maybe you don't know this. In 1983, I was ordained as a ruling elder first in at Forest Fork Church. And then in 1991, I was ordained. as a teaching altar. Back in the eighties when I joined we was thinking about denominations and what which denominations we connected with I was intrigued and I appreciated this idea of the plurality of elders. That really attracted me to the Presbyterian tribe. I saw that there was much less potential for pastoral abuse. I saw that there was a structure of personal accountability, which is helpful. Very helpful. We all need accountability. It's a good thing. Though sometimes we don't want it, it's a good thing. So there's teaching elders And there's ruling elders, and then there's deacons. We'll talk about that next week as we go on from verse 8 and following. But those are the three ordained offices in our denomination As the Messiah, Jesus had three offices, prophet, priest, and king. And he leads his church through three offices. In fact, Christ's prophetic gifts are given to us through the teaching elder. Christ's kingly gift is given us through the office of the ruling elder who rules. Christ's priestly gift is given to the church through the deacons. We'll talk more about that next week. The nature of this of this office. The duties and I'm not going to in general, the general duties, I'm not going to get very specific about what the duties are, but I want you to look at these three. titles of this man. He's an elder. He's called to be spiritually mature. Example to the flock. He's an elder. And of course in tribal societies, an elder was the old person who who had wisdom and maturity and who was sort of the leader in the tribe. And of course, in in in in in in in biblical times, uh even in the in the Jewish tradition, the elders were those who were the mature older ones in the in the tribe, in the clan. Bishop, he's called to be an overseer or administrator, one who manages the flock The elder is examples of the flock, and the bishop is a manager of the flock, and that probably comes from the the the world not of the religious world, but from the secular world, that phrase. Overseer, manager, ministry But he's also pastor or shepherd. He's called to feed the flock, to feed the flock, to take care of the sheep, protect the sheep, provide for the sheep. No the sheep. Now, let's talk next about the the calling to this office. The pastor says, the passage says If anyone aspires to the office of overseer, he desires a noble task. Aspiring, desiring to be an officer is not wrong. In fact, it's it's a noble task that's being pursued. And this is still true, although In the greater culture around us, it is not perceived to be that way, as something that's noble. Pastors, you see, are special representatives of God. And so are elders, of his authority according to the scriptures. We live in a day when those who are wise according to the world's standards wrongly think that all authority, especially God's authority, is to be questioned, is to be discarded But no. To aspire to lead God's people is still a good, godly, noble desire. But no one wants to serve by force or compulsion, as 1 Peter 5 says. No one's to serve because their daddy or their mama or their wife think it's a good idea if they were had a title by their name. No, those are those are not proper motives for serving in God's church. Of my many years of experience, I have seen many things. And I've seen it is wiser to lay hands on no man than it is to lay hands on the wrong man. A person not qualified or who desires to serve for the wrong reasons. In Acts chapter 8, there's a story. I won't look at the story, but there's a story of a man in the Samaritan church Who weren't to serve because he wanted power. The apostles addressed that situation swiftly and sternly. But aspiring to serve is not bad in and of itself The leader must aspire. A leader must also be called and equipped by God. Called and equipped by God. Even in the Old Testament, think of some of the Old Testament uh saints. Moses was called and equipped by God. Many look at his life, his 120 years of life, and divide it into three sections of 40 years for 40 years he was in in Egypt becoming uh a leader leader in Egypt and and and then he had this this very interesting incident that happened And he was rejected by his people. He he went off to to the Midianites. He got he got married there and he was a shepherd. And that's all he was doing for the next forty years of his life. And then he had the burning bush experience And so for the next 40 years he led God's people who were the the sheep of his sheep. He'd been the shepherd, now he had God's flock, the people of God. Of Israel, leading them out of Egypt and into the wilderness and towards the promised land, which he was not able to go to. He went from leading sheep to leading God's sheep So God prepared him. David was also a shepherd. He was prepared. Again, he was Jesse's youngest, his most unlikely son. Remember they were looking for Jesse's son who will be the one and he looked at all his sons and says, Well that's all the prophets it it just doesn't seem like that's the one that God's called. Do you have any more? You know, oh yeah, yeah, yeah, this this this David, he's with his sheep, but n No, he's not the one. No, no, go get him. And he went and found found David, and that was the one. He was the one. The prophet Samuel. He's the one that God's called. God was preparing him out there in the wilderness. The apostle Paul was equipped and prepared by God. He was radical. He was zealous against the Jewish faith, the Christian faith. He was very strong in the Jewish faith, passionate. Willing to to destroy those who were who came against his Jewish faith. But God prepared him with an incredible education, incredible mind, uh some cultural skills, and when he got saved, he became The prophet to the Gentiles for the Christian church, the first one. But he he first was prepared and then he was called. And then this Timothy, and we've we looked at in the introduction of this book, we looked at Timothy, some of his background. He was a covenant child, raised with godly mother and grandmother, and he was raised around the faith. the Christian faith and he probably came to faith under the ministry of Paul or his faith took off under the ministry of Paul when Paul came to town. He was a kind of a covenant gift. I can really identify I really identify with him myself Um, because like him I was raised around God's people, around God's church. And like him, I also needed to own the faith for myself to to say, I will be born again, I will trust Christ for myself, as Timothy at some point had to do do. He needed to make his family's faith, his faith. We all need to do that. To make the faith that we're around our own personal faith. Till he did that And God prepared him. I'm thankful that God did a work in my life early. I'm convinced that he kept me from much heartache and much pain by saving me at the early age of twelve years So this calling involves having a desire to serve, having a sense of God's anointing in your life. And he's equipping in your life and your heart. But there's one more thing that's needed. And that's what that's that's what the rest of our that's what our passage is really about. Jesus leads his church through spiritual men who are also chosen by God's people, who say, yes, God has gifted you. Yes, God has anointed you with leadership abilities and skills. and with the character that exemplifies Jesus Christ. So chosen by God's people, selected by the church. In the book of Acts, when Paul was rounding up his first missionary journey and he came back going towards Antioch, which was the headquarters. Um they stopped. Um it says in Acts chapter fourteen, verse twenty-three. And I uh Paul and his team had appointed elders for them in every church with prayer and fasting they committed to them to the Lord in whom they had believed. So They've been there and and and and and P Timothy's town was one of those towns so he came back to. And they they they they they did ministry there and then he went on to other ministries and then on their way back towards the end of the yacht, they went and by that time there had been enough people they said, Okay, here are the elders, here are the leaders. Of the church. So early in the first missionary journey, we see Paul and his team understand the importance of establish local elders in the congregation. And in the PCA we have we don't have um bishops or cardinals or district supervisors. Who appoint or assign pastors, like in some denominations, or even elders or deacons. No. We don't have those above the local church doing that The people of the congregation make the decision carefully and hopefully prayerfully. The congregation nominates and selects ruling elders and deacons. And pastors. They select a search team of representatives who do a thorough search and recommend to the congregation who vote for their pastors. Some of you, again, will be called to serve on a search team. That's why we're being so careful in this passage, in this book, in this passage to talk about these issues. But all of us need to be wise, discerning voters for the next pastor and for the ruling of future ruling elders and deacons. So now let's look at the qualifications, particularly for this week for elder and next week for deacon, that Paul lays out. The qualifications, verses 2 through 7. Now Proza lists 15 things here, 15 qualities or items, and I want to divide them into five sections for clarity's sake. First is in verse 2, is what I call the overarching quality. Henderson calls it the caption or the heading. It's one that's very important. Then come five, and five, these are five kind of relational character qualities. Then comes one primary skill. We'll talk about that primary skill. Then comes five more character qualities, relational qualities that maybe look a little bit broader into how this man can relates to society and the community. And then Paul gives us three in verses four through seven, there are three things that he adds and he adds, he amplifies those three things, if you will notice And they seem to be three things that he's already touched on, but now he wants to go deeper on them. We'll we'll look at that. Okay? That's where we're going here in this last point here First is this overarching characteristic. Verse 2, above reproach. Above reproach. It's a general summary phrase that Paul uses here. To me, those who know that man have no cause to think of him as being a hypocrite or a phony. Or someone who is not worthy to be followed. This has to do with consistency of character. I believe that this overarching quality has been spoken out in the rest of the paragraph, the other 14 things. Now, now, above reproach, this raises a very, very interesting question, doesn't it? How should we view this list? How should we view this high calling to be above reproach? Must a man be perfect? No. Otherwise, only Jesus qualifies to lead the local church. And he's not walking through the doors. Well, right now, none of us are walking through the doors. But you know what I'm saying here. So it's not absolute sinless perfection that Paul has in mind when he says above reproach. Now some think since it's not Jesus, and none of this is perfect, they think that What qualifies you is to just be a person, to just be a sinner like all of us, to identify with us as a sinner And that qualifies everyone. That's not what Paul's getting at. Sadly, I have heard people say we're discussing pastoral scandals, for instance They appreciate a pastor who's a sinner just like us, who identifies fully with our weaknesses. They almost make it seem like scandalous sin is part of the qualifications. No! I'll come back to that very soon. But an uh another way of we might view this, uh aren't we all called So to implif to do these qualifications, to live up to these qualifications, are we all called to live up to these standards that are listed here? Well the answer is yes. Yes. In fact, there's sometimes a subtle feeling in teaching about spiritual gifts That if I'm not gifted to do something, then I'm off the hook. I don't have to worry about it. No! No! If I'm not gifted in hospitality, then I don't have to be hospitable. No, that's not true. If I'm not gifted in giving, I don't have to give. No, that's not true. If I'm not gifted in evangelism, then God doesn't care if I don't share my faith. No, that's not true. Now that that's a whole other teaching on the what the gifts are all about. But I want you to see That all of us are called, men, women, boys, and everyone who names the name of Christ is called to live a holy life. Not just the preacher or the missionary or the deacon or the elder In our present training, we have a mission statement that we just come out with, a new mission statement. And it is a definition of a disciple. A disciple is a Christ follower captured by the grace of God, compelled to the worship of God for obedience to the word of God. Who prays after the kingdom of God, loves the people of God, displays the unity of Christ's body, and is empowered by the Spirit of God. To make disciples of all peoples for the glory of God. Paul is seeking to describe what it looks like when a sinful man is consistently filled with the Spirit of God. A man who has experienced God's grace such that his life reflects Christ-like love. A man whose mind and heart hungers and thirsts for the Word of God and to know God more deeply. A man who's aware that he cannot truly love God, nor love people in his own strength. A man who's aware of his heart weaknesses and not satisfied with that measure of sanctification That God has done in his life. He walks humbly. He is joyful at the power of the cross that is working in his life, but he is humble and joyful. The old slogan, which we've heard you so often, It's simply this. I'm not what I'm going to be, I'm not what I want to be, but thank God I'm not what I used to be. That's what it means to be a disciple. Never reach sinless perfection. No. But we're progressing. I always appreciated the ministry of the of the of the late Al Martin, who was a Baptist pastor in New Jersey years ago. I listened to his sermons years ago on on qualifications for the leader when I was wrestling with it years ago. And uh he talks about uh again about being a blubber pro that a pastor needs to be a man who who walks in humility But also a man who's a model of godliness and his example to the flock, which is one of the part of the cards of what it is to be an elder. Often because we as saints appreciate the gospel of grace so much, we forget that grace should lead to a life of godliness. Al Martin talked about, be careful about the pronouns you use when you preach. I've always been, I've not forgotten that. He says there are times when the preacher must say we He's calling him and his family and his congregation to progress in certain areas. He said there's times when you when if you need to say we, say we. If you need to say you're weak in the area, say you're weak in the area. And and say we need to grow. But he said there's also times when a pastor needs to say you. There need to be times when a pastor is saying, Follow me as I have followed Christ. And Martin is so right there. He says if a pastor never has the boldness to challenge his congregation to live up to God's standards as he has lived up to some of those standards, Then it means he's not having the gospel's not working in his life. He's not having the victory of the gospel working in his life. And if the gospel's not working in his life, he's Not qualified to be dipping pastoring He needs to sit down. And those are sobering words, but they are true words that many, unfortunately, have forgotten. Because I believe this that there's a sense in which the gospel works in a man's life And because he has has grown uh in humble obedience to the word of God, he becomes an example to flock. And he can say, follow me as I follow the Christ. Above reproach. Now, the Apostle Paul is next gonna um uh address what I said five kind of relational characteristics They describe how this man lives his life. He's giving some examples, descriptive examples. This is especially within the body of Christ, this this character comes out And the first is of utmost importance. Husband of one wife. We'll come to that. Let me look at the others for then we'll come back to that one. Sober-minded. This means serious, clear thinking, able to make wise, clear decisions. Self-controlled. Stock uses the phrase self-mastery. But it really has to do with the filling of his spirit. The spirit is is self-control, having the spirit give you the control of your life, of your of your life. of your of your spirit. Respectable, carrying oneself with a certain level of dignity that there weren't Christ Um and hospitable, lovers of strangers. You know that in that day there uh often visiting the visiting missionaries and pastors would would would stay with the leaders of the church, the pastors. Um the the all the the end that hotels were seemly places in those days and you didn't w you didn't want the pastor to stay there. when they were traveling through. So but so those are those are character qualities that are important. But I want to come back to this first one that I overlooked. And this is a husband of one wife because it's it's vital. It's it's it's it's one that merits much discussion, which we're going to give it in the next few minutes. It also needs an explanation. Because it's there's lots of ways that people have looked at it throughout church history. I'll give you about seven ways it's been looked at. Six ways and then the seventh one is one of the I'm gonna propose. Um uh husband of one wife. The wife is the church. This is a Catholic view that the the the the the leader of the church, the priest It's married to the bride and the bride is the bride of Christ, the church. You are married to one bride, so you can't have this celibacy, uh the whole fast priestly celibacy. For that. Because you can have a wife. The church is right. That's the Catholic view. Another view is that husband and one wife excludes unmarried men. That you have to be married. That you're it's commanded that you be the husband of one wife. So if you're single you're not qualified. And unfortunately some churches have a de facto rule like that, but that's not a biblical rule It's not a biblical rule. In fact, let's never forget that Jesus never married, and Paul was not married. In 1 Corinthians 7, he may have been married at one point, but he's in chapter 7 of 1 Corinthians, he says he's not married. So, Protestants, we can't say that it means that a pastor must be married. Next, that it includes a remarried widower. That view says that his wife is in heaven. He'll join her in heaven. That's a view. One view is that it excludes remarried divorcees. The first wife still is his first wife. Um and and and some suggest that only if she is is dead is he now free to remarry. I knew someone who believed that. Maybe you were divorced, so that's if a wife was still alive, you could you could not remarry. Another view is that this excludes any man who has been guilty of fornication or marital unfaithfulness even before marriage. Another view is that this is just talking about polygamy. That you can't have multiple wives, you have to have one wife In a pagan world, that was probably a very important application as Paul took the gospel to Gentile people. Because yes, it was much political. We don't have as much of a problem with that in our world today, but that is an implication of this. But it means more than that. So th those options are there as people wrestle with it. I I ascribe to the PCA's uh general belief that that Paul is simply demanding that a man must be totally committed to the wife to which he is married He must be totally committed to the woman to which he's married. He's a one-woman man, which is literally what it says. He's a one-woman man. I don't believe that there are legalistic prohibitions against a man divorced as long as he has a more current history of faithfulness to the Lord and to his present wife, if he's removed. Married. In chapter 5, verse 9, we'll see that the widows in that in that list, we'll look at that later, were to have be have been the wife of one man. It's a very similar construction. Okay? Marital faithfulness thing is very important to God. This is very important standard. Let me say more about it. We said earlier that there's lots of scandals continuously that that that surface in the the Christian church in the church and uh Men who are supposedly representative of Christ. And that has done incredible damage to the witness of the gospel, the witness of the church in the world. This is not just a historical reality, that's a current, present reality. And that it impedes the church's message in the world. Why do people scoff and not listen to the church's message? Because they're looking at the church, particularly the leaders of the church. Those are a few years ago, people in our society were just shaking their heads in disgust. at things that were servicing about uh Roman Catholicism and the priests. And uh unfortunately when people think about it now they don't just think about the Catholic priests, they think about clergy in general When a Christian leader falls into sexual sin, the world understands, sometimes even more than churches, that he's doing damage to his wife. His children, his parents, his extended family, his denomination, his own reputation And most of all, he is doing damage to the name of Christ. If you allow me to be a bit personal, today is uh January 3rd. This is uh 40 years ago Terry walked down the aisle of Glendon Methodist Church in Ricestown. Her dad handed her over to me, quote unquote. That might not be a good phrase, but that's what happened. We set our vows to one another in a hearing of many witnesses, the hearing of the devil who hates us, and most of all We say our vows in the presence of God. And despite all the devil has thrown at us, God has been faithful, and He's helped us to be faithful. Let me say a word, particularly to young people who may be listening. Don't believe the lie that love can only be for a season and then you find somebody else. It's not true. True love endures in tough seasons because true love comes from God. This is very important. In those years before becoming committed to the PCA After we got married, we we had a little season of thinking about not being in uh Presbyterians. Uh between getting married and becoming a ruling yelder a couple years later. We actually decided we were going to leave the PCA. And uh we began to hunt around for churches that we liked in Baltimore. Went to a Baptist church and um visited a few. We think we were more Baptist back then We walked into one and we liked it. We went the next week. We liked it. The music was very nice. The worship was a little emotional, more emotional than we liked, but it was okay. We could handle it The preaching was all right. The pastor was older. You got to learn from him. He seemed to stay in the text. We were almost convinced Near the end of this very long service, however, they had a moment where they passed the peace, where they greet each other. And during that greeting moment, as the band was playing, I said, Terry, I need to rest go to the restroom. Let me go, I'll be back in a few minutes. Minutes. Came back in a couple minutes. I came back and Terry was both disturbed and fearful. She said, I can't believe what's happening. Look at the pastor. He's kissing all the women on the lips. I looked around, and he was. He's kissing all the women. And I did I looked around and said, you know, and I don't see a lot of men here either. We scratched that church off our list. And that was the last, that was the end of our search. We returned to our pastor, who was a man of integrity, who loved the Lord, and he may have lacked some style, he may have lacked some charisma, but he knew, we knew But he sought to preach the word of God and to live the word of God. And from that moment on, we didn't look back Husband of one wife. The next requirement or a list of the qualifications is just one that I said is it's the primary skill, particularly of the preaching home. preaching-teaching altar, able to teach. This is a man's relationship to scripture, his relationship to to his to his wife, relationship to scripture. When I was serving with university, uh Christmas, a birthday party one day, the students gave me. And it was a birthday card and that was given to me uh uh in I'll never forget her name was Bella Ramirez. She handed it to me and she read the verse, and the verse was Ezra 710. I can never read that verse without thinking about that moment standing there at UNBC at the lecture hall. And the first time that this verse really jumped out at me. And the verse is Ezra 7. 10. Ezra had set his heart to study the law of the Lord and to do it and to teach his statutes and rules in Israel. And there's just three things there. Ezra studied the law, to do it, I think the New America says to practice it. And then to teach. And there's an order there. It's vital. So many people want to study the law and then teach it. No, no, no. We're saying you study the law and then it becomes part of you, and then you teach it. Well, I can say more of that. David Platt, who is is is pastor in in in Virginia now. He says this. An elder must know the word and spread the word throughout the church and from the church throughout the world. He must be able to persuade people with the word, plead with people from the word. Comfort people with the word, encourage people from the word, instruct people in the word, and lead the church according to the word. This is non-negotiable. Able to teach Teach, right? The one skill, much of this passage is about character. There's one primary skill, the word. The word of God. And then he follows that with uh verse three. There's there's five more relational kind of uh things, particularly it seems that they're more how you relate socially and in the community. Because look at what it says here. Not a drunkard, not violent, but gentle. Not quarrelsome. Not a lover of money. Commentators think this isn't dealing more with your community reputation in life. Not a drunkard. Literally says not given too much wine. Here in 2021, let me uh when you interview a person, you better ask him about his thoughts on marijuana. John Scott says Paul did not require them to be total abstainers, since Jesus himself changed water into wine and made wine the symbol of his blood. Yet there are strong social arguments for total abstinence. Since much reckless, violent, and immoral behavior is due to excessive drinking. And what Paul requires, however, is moderation as an example of the self-mastery already mentioned Not least because pastors are invited to many social functions at which wine flows freely. So that's right. Pastors need to be careful about wine. I was at a a webinar a few months ago about uh uh a a a a leader over pastors in New York was having a webinar for different uh pastors around the country and he was talking about what COVID has done with pastors and how it's just messed up our It's just com it's brought so much change. And one of the things he talked about was some of the the trauma that many pastors are experiencing because everything's different You have to figure things out, things you never learned in seminary. You gotta learn on the fly. You gotta think outside the box. And he's noticed that a number of pastors are having serious marriage problems, pornography problems, alcohol and drug abuse problems 2020 has not been a good year for pastors, he said. Listen, a pastor must find joy outside of his ministry, or he's a ticking time bomb. Among many things, make sure you ask your pastoral candidate, what does he do for fun? What does he do when he He's off the clock. And make sure there are times when he is off the clock. What are his interests? What are his hobbies Make sure he's not totally married to the ministry. In fact, don't ask him, ask his wife. Now we move on. The last one here is is not a lover of money. Again, thinking again speaking more about how he deals in community. Many people reject the gospel, reject Jesus because they feel churches are merely a sham game for pastors, for greedy pastors. And sadly, sometimes they're not off base. Some pastors actually teach that unless the people are committed to prospering the pastor, God will not prosper the people. This is not a New Testament truth. We'll see later in 1 Timothy that the people of God are to take care of the pastors, but not to the point of the pastors becoming rich. Paul talks about contentment. We'll talk about that later when we get to chapter 6 Lord willing. Well the last thing, these last the last of the five things that I've categorized is verses four to seven. And there's three things let me read it. Let me read He must manage his own household well, with all dignity, keeping his children submissive. For if someone does not know how to manage his own household, how will he care for God's church? He must not be a recent convert, or he may become puffed up with conceit and fall into the condemnation. of the devil. Moreover, he must be well thought of by outsiders so that he may not fall into a disgrace, into a snare of the devil Now those are three things there, and they kind of I think they're he's amplifying a few things. He wanted to give us some bullet points. And he wants to amplify these and some of those points and go further. The first one, again, we talked about husband and one wife, and now he goes, not just the not it's not just the like, it's the total families. How does this man manage his family? Okay? So he goes further into this family thing. Um passion wife or a team, they need to figure out how to raise their children together. And that's that's a challenge. Some pastors' wives are very involved in the church, and some are not. They pull back because they want to focus on on just the family. There's different roles, pastors' wives see their roles differently It's not a right or wrong. It's based upon their gifts, based upon their desires, their motivations, their energy level, based upon a lot of things, how they as a household have decided to manage um l work for both of them possibly and church and children. And as a as a church thinking about hiring a a a a pastor um Be alert to that. Don't get fixed on one mode of doing it and putting trying to fit them into a mold. Figure out what they're figure out how figure out how they have figured it out according to the word of God. Make sure it's in the work the boundaries of scripture. But but there's some flexibility in how that works out Most of all look at the outcome. Is what is the way they figure out they want to do it, is it working? Are their children under control is what it says is the young children, are they Are they under control? Are they showing some discipline? Or are they out of control? And we know all children are sinners, like us. But is there but there is an unhealthy out-of-controlness that's there And many have have have noted that this the word for child child young children when a child leaves the home, they kind of want their own. And yet, even then What's the relationship of of of adult children, if there are adult children, to that uh that man and that wife Household management. You know, my first church, I've got my time getting alone here, but my first church uh I was ordained in 1991. And in that fall, Christ, uh uh a Terry um became pregnant And we discovered very early that there were not one, not two, but there were three there. We don't have triplets. Our family's gonna go um from being a four of us to being seven of us. And so my first few years of ordained pastoral ministry were quite chaotic. Thankfully I had a church that was quite understanding. In July of 92, which is uh 15 months after I was ordained, the trippets were born. And to be quite honest with you, the first few years I understood, and the church understood, they only had really one goal for the next couple years after they were born. Prepare to preach each Sunday. Sunday. Boom. That was it. Make sure I had something to say when I stood up in the pulpit each week. And the elders were great. They delegated much to them, much more than they probably wanted, but I wanted to make sure I was ready on Sundays. Other aspects of ministry could be delegated. The church understood that. I understood that. The Lord understood that. We survived those first years of ministry. Household management. Then he talks about not a recent convert, not a novice. This I think gets back into the idea of his own spiritual maturity when talked about That the Spirit of God is working in his life, and he's growing, he's mature. Or, contrast, he's puffed up with conceit, full of the con fall into the condemnation of the devil. Spiritual warfare, notice that that aspect of this. I've been reading in my devotions through Jeremiah. Jeremiah talked in chapter 1, God told reminded him that He was ordained he was called to be a prophet from his mother's womb. And it's interesting in chapter twenty that he goes back to that. He talks about w in his anger, in chapter twenty, he's been beat he's by by the priests, by the religious leaders, because he's been beat the truth and nobody wants to hear the truth. He's been beaten and and persecuted and discouraged. He's very discouraged. And he goes back to this idea of being called in his mother's womb. And he he he begins to curse that day. It's very interesting But spiritual warfare in Jerizmide's life is very real. It's true for pastors. Pastors have ups and downs and they and And and and sometimes uh we get very discouraged. That's why we're called to pray for pastors. Pastors need prayer. It's easy to get depressed and discouraged as a pastor. Um so not a novice, because the devil can deal can have hay can go haywire with a person who's not mature spiritually And then last is is again outsiders. Verse 7. You must be well thought of by outsiders. Again, we He talks about drunker, not a drunkard and how you handle money. These public things, you know, if he's in debt and the debtors know, that's a horrible testimony. But here Paul comes back to he must be well fought up by outsiders so that he may not fall into disgrace. And again, into the snare of the devil. Spiritual warfare Look, Satan hates Jesus and hates all who will live for him and serve him. You have to understand that Our confidence is that some will fall, but the gates of hell will not prevail against the church, because it's Jesus Church. But when you interview someone, find someone who's not in the church, an outsider, maybe. Get a reference from someone See what's this person's reputation like? Well, David Platt, again that pastor in Virginia, says there are three things that are not on the list, and I thought this was helpful. Three things that are not on the list. Age. Older men should not automatically be elders, and younger men should not automatically not be considered. It's about spiritual maturity, not age. Second, business success. Jesus warned about Gentile worldly leadership attitudes. He warned that humility, servanthood is most important, not the ability to be assertive and so forth. Jesus talked about that. So particularly when we talk about ruling elders, you know, just not just looking for men who are successful in business. It's more than that. And third, likability. In other words, being popular. That says uh being a good pleasant guy is helpful, but it's not listed as a qualification. I think that's great Like ability. Well, Charles Ehrman says this. Such then is the list of qualifications for the pastoral office enumerated by the Apostle Paul. Again, pastor office and elder, office of elder's law. It is not regarded as exhaustive. These qualifications, he says, demand moral rather than mental excellence. Moral rather than mental excellence. They refer more to temperament, tact, experience, and reputation than to intellectual gifts. The latter certainly are not to be regarded as unnecessary. Let me let me as a PCA pastor I would say that's true, but as a PCA pastor, I think I would say um We tend to err on that being more true than it is. I'll just leave it there. We don't want pastors who are not theologically sound. But but but as he's as we as he as Ehrman says, it's not it's more than that. The latter certainly the is not are not to be regarded as unnecessary. Nevertheless, Erman says However, exacting the conditions which the church at any time may impose upon candidates for the ministry, none will be more essential, more supremely important than that of a high Christian character. If you look at that list, it's mostly what it's about. Well, Jesus Christ leads his church to spirit-filled men, called, qualified. Chosen by God's people. And uh think about Psalm 24. Psalm 24. Um it's a great psalm. It's a messianic psalm, but it's more than that. In Psalm 24, it says this. Who shall ascend the hill of the Lord? Who shall stand in his holy place? Historically, the holy place, one of the implications of that is standing in the holy place is standing in the pulpit. It's more than that in the test, but it means that as well. Who shall ascend to the hill of the Lord? Often in church architecture, the pulpits were high. They were raised. They were high. Who shall ascend that holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart, he who does not lift up his soul to what's false, and does not swear deceitfully. He will receive blessing from the Lord and righteousness from the God of his salvation. Such is the generation of those who seek him, who seek the face of the God of Jacob. May God help us to find that man, the next man, to rise to the holy place A man who, not a perfect man, but a man who seeks the Lord with all his heart, who's qualified above reproach, willing and able and called. stand in the holy place. Let's pray. Well this is a very important time in the life of of Grace Church So I pray that uh I've been faithful to your word, faithful to uh to what this congregation needs to hear as they as they pursue um your next man. Help him to to be be prayerful for him right now, for him and his family. That uh you he would find us, we'd find him. We thank you that you you you're the one who places men in in incredible ways And you seal in their hearts the the assurance that they're where they belong by the Holy Spirit if we if we trust you. I pray you'd use this also in other ways, Lord, as we think about future elders, we think of future deacons, we think of as some of the young people who who may think of what it means to lead in the church. They say, oh, your pastor, but Lord, you may call them to other levels of leadership For women, if they think about their responsibility to lead in the church, maybe not be ordained, but to be leaders. We're all called to walk with you, to be people who fill your spirit to exemplify what it means for Christ to live in our lives. We're crucified with Christ, yet he lives in us In this world. May that truth be not only precious to us, but may we apply it each day. That you're living through us, blessing others through us. But use this work in our church's life. We'll give you thanks in Jesus' name. Amen.