If you're visiting with us, my name's Eric. I'm one of the pastors here. We're glad to have you joining us for worship. And even if you're on the live stream but not visiting, we're still glad to have you joining us. So uh we're going to continue on. Uh if you've been worshiping with us recently, you know we've been going through uh this New Testament letter written by Paul to the Ephesians. We're gonna continue on in our study of Ephesians. We've been going really slow because it's a it's a rich book, but it's really a dense book. There's lots to unpack, even in just a couple short verses. So last week Pastor Stan got to give you a really encouraging, uplifting message about God's power at work in our lives and the way that Jesus is ruling and reigning over everything. And I have to talk to you this morning all about sin. So it'll be It's important to hit on all the things that God's Word touches on. And so with all that, please stand as we honor the reading of God's Word from Ephesians chapter 2, verses 1 to 3. Hear now the reading of God's word. And you were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked. following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit, that is now at work in the sons of disobedience, among whom we all once lived, in the passions of our flesh. The word of the Lord this morning. Let's pray together. Our Father, these uh these are hard words to hear, hard words to digest, and yet they're your word. Words that you've given to us because you love us, because you know we need to hear them. And so we pray, O Lord, now that as we turn to reflect on these words, Holy Spirit, would you open our eyes? Would you open our ears? Allow us to see and hear what it is you would have us. Learn from you this morning. And above all, Lord, would you show us Christ, the only Savior of sinners, the one who we desperately need and who loves us dearly? And we pray this in your name. Amen. Please be seated. We've Lee and I, I guess, have been in our house for a about six years or so now and And when we moved in we tried to do some work to the house, some more major projects, some a little more minor. And uh I remember especially in those those first several months when anyone came over to to visit our house we would always Show them around the house and then say, but but look at all these pictures of what it looked like when we moved in. We we always wanted to show people the the before and the after pictures. pictures, right? Because it's really nice to sit in your house and look around and see, oh wow, it it looks great. I like what we've done with the place. But when you see it right next to the before picture, it really brings it out in stark contrast, just how much work has been done when you see them side to side. Well, I think Paul is doing a similar thing with the Ephesians in this section of the letter. He's just talked about God's power at work in their lives and uh how God is uh so powerful the the immeasurable greatness And of course, the clearest example that he's going to bring out in this section is his work in their salvation. His work to bring them out of their sins into faith in Christ. But in order to really highlight and emphasize the power of God, he wants to remind them just where they were before Jesus worked in their lives, before Jesus saved them. And so he shows them the before picture. So they don't forget just how much Christ has done for them. I think that's a really important lesson for us this morning. Because you might be here and maybe you've been a Christian for a long time, walked with the Lord maybe for decades and decades. And if you're anything like me, sometimes you can be dulled to the grace of God in your life. You can be desensitized to his mercy and his kindness towards us. To put it frankly, sometimes God's grace no longer amazes us. We take it for granted instead of being moved by it and being in awe of him. Paul says God's grace won't amaze us unless we remember how much we need it. Maybe on the other hand, you're not a Christian and you you keep hearing that that Jesus is your Savior. And you feel like I feel like I'm doing okay on my own. I'm not so sure I actually need to be saved. And so why would I look to Jesus as my Savior? If that's you this morning, Paul says, you can't appreciate the good news that Jesus offers until you fully grasp the bad news of where you are without him. So, regardless of where you are this morning, these verses are important because Paul wants us to understand just how desperate and helpless we really are apart from Jesus. And so Paul says three things that were true of us before Jesus worked in our lives. He says, first, we were spiritually dead. He says we walked in sin. And he says we deserved God's wrath. Let's just look at each of those in turn. Number one, we were spiritually dead. He says there in Ephesians 2, verse 1, you were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked. He says, you were dead. No, they were they were obviously breathing. They were walking around talking. He's not talking about physical death. He's talking about their spiritual condition. They were physically alive, but spiritually dead. They were zombies. They were the walking dead. There's no spiritual life present, even though they had physical life, and we're we're walking around. Charles Hodge in his commentary says he helps us understand the way life and death are used in the Bible. He says, in Scripture, the word life is the term commonly used to express a state of union with God. And death a state of alienation from him. Life, therefore, includes holiness, happiness, and activity, and death, corruption, misery, and helplessness. You see, spiritual death means that we were cut off from God, alienated from him, no way to do anything on our own to get back to him. And that's because Paul says this deadness is caused by our sin. When he says you were dead in trespasses and sins, probably a more accurate translation is you were dead on account of trespasses and sins. Sin is the cause of this spiritual death. Now don't misunderstand, we're not saying that all people are as bad as they could be, but we're saying that sin has infected every part of us. I had a professor who gave an illustration of saying, you know, if you if you have a glass of water and you put some poison in it, you wouldn't say you have a glass of poison. But you have a glass of poisoned water. There's no part of that water that is pure and drinkable. It's all been tainted by poison. The same is true of our spiritual state. It's not that we are as sinful as we could be, but God mercifully restrains some sins that we would commit, right? But there's no part of us that has not been tainted by sin. And one key way this plays out is in our wills, in our desires. We are no longer able to want what we should want. We are incapable of loving and desiring God. of serving him, of trusting him. And even when we do things that seem good, we don't do them from a desire to honor God or to glorify him. You see, the Bible says it's not just your actions, but the heart behind it that matters. Paul says in Romans 14, whatever does not proceed from faith Is sin. You can do the right thing for the wrong reason, and God says it's sin. Isaiah 64. Isaiah says, We have all become like one who is unclean. And all our righteous deeds are like a polluted garment. We all fade like a leaf, and our iniquities like the winds take us away. There is no one who calls upon your name, who rouses himself to take hold of you. For you have hidden your face from us and have made us melt in the hand of our iniquities. You see, friends, what Paul is saying here, what Isaiah said in that passage, is that we are naturally opposed to God. and all that pleases him. And we are unable to change ourselves or to make ourselves desire anything of spiritually good. Of spiritual good. See, Paul's saying by nature you were trapped in this spiritual death, in the bondage of your wills. He's saying your your will's not free, but bound in sin. Now, of course, you can make choices. And he's not saying you can't choose what you want to do. The problem is you can't make yourself want what you should want. It's your desire that's broken. And we can't free ourselves. We can't make ourselves love God. We can't make ourselves serve God or believe in God any more than a corpse can make itself breathe, is what Paul's saying. You see, it's not as if you're sick and just need a little help. It's not even like the Princess Bride where Wesley is taken to the miracle worker, and we're told he's not completely dead, he's only mostly dead. No, friends, spiritually speaking, we're not just mostly dead. We're completely dead. No signs of life. Paul says to the Ephesians, This is who you were before Jesus worked in your life to make you spiritually. Alive. But Paul doesn't stop there. He's not just talking about their spiritual state before Christ. He also reminds them how they lived and what their lives looked like and what influences they followed after. He says, not only are you dead in sin, but number two, you walked in sin. Sin was the pattern of your life. Your life was one of chasing after sin. And he gives three ways that sin pressed in on them, three ways that that, three influences where sin closed its grip around their lives. The world, the devil, and the flesh. He talks about the world. He says you were following the course of this world. You lived according to the course of this world. And in this case, world stands in stark contrast with the ways of God. Charles Hodge again, he says, to live after the manner of men or according to the spirit of the world is to live wickedly. Psalm 1 famously sets out this difference between the the way of the world and the way that pleases God. We see in Psalm 1, verses 1 and 2, Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat. Blessed is the man who doesn't follow the course of the world, but follows the way that pleases God. This is what Paul has in mind, th the world as a system of influence that oppos that is opposed to God. Mike Allen in his commentary says that the language of world here speaks predominantly of what we might call systems or systemic malformation. Ways in which particular cultural structures incentivize us or nudge us toward particular behaviors. Bodhi Balcom gives this this example of a fish in a water. He says, d does a fish know he's wet? Not until you take him out of the water, right? Uh until that happens, he doesn't know any different. He says, when you are apart from Christ, you are part of a world, part of a system. That is opposed to God at every turn. You see, friends, the influence of this world encourages us. It prods us. It pushes us or inclines us towards sin. Living in the world means that sin is the path of least resistance. It's like the undertow at the beach, right? I remember growing up going to Ocean City and you had the you had the rocks on either side of the lifeguard stand and you had the flags. You had to make sure that while you were swimming in the water you didn't get too close to the flags or the the lifeguard would blow his whistle at you and tell you to move back more more central in front of the stand, right? The natural course of the ocean is to move you up or down the shore in one direction or the other. And it's subtle. You don't even know what's happening. You you go in the water, you swim around and play, and then you turn around and realize You can't actually find your umbrella anymore because you've drifted so far down the shore. It's subtle. You barely notice it until you look up and realize how far you've drifted. The world is is incentivizing sin. It's the path of least resistance. There's always a natural direction that the world pushes us. And Paul says it's always a direction that's opposed to God. Paul says, apart from Christ, you were just drifting along with the current of the world around you, following its course as it led us to sin. But the world, he says, is only one key influence. Temptations come at us from all around. It's not the only influence, though. Paul says the devil himself tempts us to sin. He says, not only did you follow the course of this world, but you were following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience. Now, maybe an important caveat here is Paul makes clear we are responsible for our actions. By highlighting satanic oppression and influence, he's not saying that gets us off the hook. Right, the devil made me do it is not an excuse that works before God. Nevertheless, he is at work. Particularly here, he's at work in the lives of those who don't know Christ. of unbelievers, what Paul refers here as the sons of disobedience, those who are marked by disobedience. You see, friends, one of the things that this passage teaches us is that Satan has real power. Jesus calls him the prince of this world. Peter says he prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking who he might devour. Satan has real power, but the good news is his power is always subject to Christ. His power is nothing compared to Christ, and he can't do anything without Christ's permission. Calvin on this passage says, Paul does not allow Satan the highest authority. Which belongs to the will of God alone, but merely a tyranny which God permits him to exercise. One picture of how Satan tempts us is that of Jesus in the wilderness. Jesus goes out into the wilderness to to fast and pray for forty days and forty nights, and Satan comes to him and tries to tempt him in all kinds of different ways, trying to uh pick up on his hunger and and his uh Trying to suggest alternative ways for him to get the glory that can only come through obedience of his suffering and his death. Trying to set before him another more enticing way. Now of course with Jesus it's different because Jesus was sinless. He had no sin nature, and so Satan could only tempt him with things from the outside. he can pick up on and and and bring to our minds and tempt us from from within us. But the point is that he would tries to incite us to sin. The world and the devil. But he mentions a third influence. It's not just from the outside. It's not just the world and the devil. It also arises from within us, from our flesh. He says, You did this among whom, the sons of disobedience, among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind. He says, before Christ, we lived in the passions of our flesh. Not just that you fell into them occasionally or that they they got the better of you once in a while. You lived there. That was the air you breathed, that was your your life. Another translation is to call these the the lusts of the flesh, the strong desires of our sinful nature. The New Living Translation help helpfully brings it out. Following the passionate desires and inclinations of our sinful nature. And notice, Paul says it's not just physical impulses, it includes our minds. Paul gives a comprehensive picture of this life devoted to the passions in Galatians 5. Before he gets to the fruit of the Spirit, he says the works of the flesh are evident. Sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger Rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. That's n that's just the start of the list. It could go on and on He says, I warn you, as I warned you before, those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. Again, he's talking about a lifestyle, not the occasional uh succumbing to temptation, but this is the pattern of your life. And it includes Physical things as well as mental temptations in the life of the mind. It's important to see not not everyone's life will look the same. Right? Some some may clearly pursue passions of the flesh in a way that's obvious to all around. Some might fall into destructive lifestyles and patterns of addiction, but others might look pretty good on the outside They might look well adjusted and successful and polite. And so it's important to see that regardless of the specific circumstances, what Paul's saying is your entire lives were governed by and ordered according to your sinful desires. For some, sure, this was physical pleasure. For others, it might have been success. It might have been wealth or status or reputation or it might have been any number of other desires that might be what naturally appeals to you. And some of those desires might be inherently sinful, but others might just be longed for and pursued in an unhealthy and disordered way. He says, we're influenced by all these things, the world, the devil, and the flesh. And he says, just because these are influencing you, you still have no excuse. You bear responsibility for your sin because you willingly carried out these desires. He says that apart from Christ, you were dead in sin, and you walked in sin. You lived under the constant destructive influence. But he goes on, he doesn't stop there, he lists one more thing. Where they stood with God. He says, You were by nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind. It's important to understand wrath. I think it's a concept that's uh we hear a lot, but we don't always understand all of what it means. The word just means anger or displeasure. So when we talk about God's wrath, we're talking about God's anger. But friends, God God doesn't get angry like you and I get angry, does he? He's never overcome by emotion. He's never out of control. God never flies off the handle in a blind rage. Sometimes you and I are right to be angry. Other times we get angry at the wrong things. Our anger is not always sinful, but it often is sinful. Our anger can be out of control. Our anger can be misdirected at the wrong person at the wrong situation. Our anger can be the wrong response entirely at times. Not so with God. God's wrath is controlled. God's wrath is appropriate. It is a holy, righteous anger. To put it another way, our sin is so bad that it would be wrong if God was not angered by it. We know this in certain ways. Imagine in a marriage where a spouse is unfaithful. How disturbing would it be to hear the other spouse say, no big deal, not a problem. No, sure we want to see reconciliation and healing, but but you should be angry. Anger is the appropriate response in that situation. Parents, if someone harms your child, I hope that makes you angry. It would be disturbing if it didn't. I hope it incites your wrath You see, friends, we intuitively know that sometimes wrath, anger, and indignation is the only right and appropriate response. When if you weren't angry, something is clearly wrong with us. Our issue is not that we we don't understand anger. I think our issue is we don't understand just how offensive our sin is to God. Our sin is cosmic treason. It's the ultimate betrayal of the one who made us. We owe our existence to him. He cares for us, he sustains us, and because of that, he deserves our loyalty, our love, our devotion, and our worship. And our sin is a betrayal of all that. Father's Day is coming up. Imagine having a good father, right? I I know some of us have have fathers that that would not be good, but imagine that that you have a good father A Father who raised you, who provided for you, who cared for you, who clearly loved you. And you come to him on Father's Day, and instead of honoring him and thanking him for all he's done, you walk up to him and spit in his face. What father wouldn't be angered by that? At such blatant disrespect. And yet, friends, this is a picture, a small picture, of how we treat God. He says, this is who you are by nature. Adam represented all people before God. When he sinned, his guilt was counted to us, and his corruption was passed on to us. And so before we took our first breath, we stand before God as guilty and condemned, deserving his wrath. This is what David brings out in Psalm 51. He says, Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity. And in sin did my mother conceive me. Right? He's not saying my parents were sinning when they conceived me. He's saying I've been a sinner since the moment I was conceived. That means we stand in a hostile position towards God. We are children of wrath, objects of God's displeasure. By sin we have angered God in this way, and apart from Christ, we're under his wrath. We were talking about this in Sunday school this morning. And it's not merely future. Right? Yes, there is a day of judgment coming where God will judge all people according to their lives and how they've lived, and we'll all give an account Those not found in Christ will receive God's wrath. But but God visits his wrath on people now, in this life. That's what Paul says in Romans 1. The wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness How is it revealed? Paul says they rejected God, so God gave them over to their sins. He gave them over to the world, to the devil, to the flesh. To indulge in their sinful desires. Hear this, friend. There is no more devastating thing that God could do than to give you over to sin. to wash his hands of you and say, have at it. Loving fathers discipline their children And there's no greater sign of a lack of love for your child than to refuse to correct and discipline them when they disobey. It's a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. We have to always remember that the same Bible that says God is love also says God is a consuming fire. These verses are a heavy indictment that we get of how we were and where we stood before Christ worked in our lives. We were dead in sin, Paul says we pursued nothing but sin, and we were the object of God's righteous holy anger. What does all this mean for us? This really is is part one. Paul gives us the bad news. I hope he'll come back next week as we It'll be a much more uplifting, encouraging time together as we we see the the riches of God's mercy towards us in Christ. And about how God brings us out of this terrible condition. But for now, at least there are a couple things that we should take from these first few verses. I think the first is this: if you're a Christian, remember where you were before Jesus saved you. Right, Paul says this is how we all once lived. It's not just an Ephesian problem. It's not just a Gentile problem. It's all people. That means you and that means me. This is how hopeless our condition was apart from Christ. Let this humble you because no one becomes a Christian because they're smarter, because they're better, because of anything else. Before you were a Christian, before Christ saved you, you were in the same boat as every other person No better in God's eyes, no more able to save yourself than the worst, most heinous sinner that you can imagine. You were trapped in your sin, but praise God that He has nailed your sin to the cross. You followed your sinful passions, and by his grace, he has enabled you to crucify your flesh with its passions and desires. You were children of wrath, and now in Christ you have been adopted and made children of God Friends, don't ever lose sight of your sin because the moment you forget of how sinful you were, you forget your need for grace, friends, it's going to be less precious to you, less amazing to you. Remember where you were and remember that Christ is the only reason you're not there now. And worship him and thank him for saving you. If you're not in Christ, if you're not a Christian, friends, I think the challenge of this passage is to believe what God says about you This passage is a universal indictment, no exceptions. You might think you're pretty good. Maybe by the world standards you are There's a lot of people that do things that we would call good. You could support charities, you could be a philanthropist, maybe you've you've given technological and scientific advancements to improve the quality of life. Maybe it's just general, quiet, caring parents or faithful friend. The reality though is that people look on the outward appearance. But God looks at the heart. So while you might think you're pretty good and that you measure up okay, friends, the painful reality is that God says different. He says you're trapped in your sin and you have no hope to save yourself. Even the best things you do have the wrong motives because they're not done to honor and please God, which is why he made you. Isaiah says our best deeds are like using a filthy rag to clean up. It doesn't do anything except smear around the mess. Friends, you have to feel the weight of your sin. You're living in disobedience to God. And what this passage says is that God looks at your life and he's angry with you. You're living as God's enemy, and every breath you take is a breath of defiance against him. And yet he mercifully lets you keep breathing. Friends, you you need a savior, but the good news is that's why Jesus came. He never sinned. And he died in the place of sinners. God's anger was poured out on him instead of on his people. And the promises that all who trust in Christ will be spared God's wrath. Friends, think think about it. By nature, you were no different from any other person. This is a universal indictment. And that means that Jesus has already saved people just like you. Why shouldn't He save you as well? Come to Him. Because with the universal indictment of our sin comes the universal promise where Jesus says, if anyone comes, I will never cast him out. He makes clear that he is the only way to the Father, but he also promises that he is able to save to the uttermost all, not some, not most, all who draw near to the Father. Through him. Come to Christ. Sometimes sometimes we forget just how much has changed, and we need those before and after pictures To remember how things looked in order to fully appreciate where we are now. With the gospel, it's no different. We need to understand the bad news of our sin in order to appreciate the good news of our salvation. We need to remember where we were in order to appreciate how God has worked graciously in our lives to bring us to Christ. Friends, as we take an honest look at how bad things were apart from Christ. May he become all the more precious to us. Let's pray. God, you truly are so gracious to us, so kind, that you would take Sinners like us, those who were dead in our sins, who pursued the passions of our flesh, who had nothing to offer you. And yet by your grace you would choose to save us and draw us into a relationship with your sons and make us your children, simply because it pleased you. We thank you for that. We pray, Lord, that you would help us to remember where we were apart from Christ. So that we might glory in the salvation that He gives us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen