Well, good morning. Hope you all had a Merry Christmas and it was a joyful and hopefully a restful time celebrating Christ's birth. We will be jumping back into our series on John this morning. And just kind of a reminder of where we've been, we've gotten through uh all the way through the end of John chapter 10 and so we're beginning now to look at John chapter 11 which we'll look at over the next several weeks together. This morning we'll read from John 11 verses 1 to 16. So if you have your Bible I'd invite you to to open there with me. And just to kind of set the context a little bit for us, there's an important transition that takes place as we move from chapter 10 into chapter 11. You'll notice if you have have spent much time reading John's gospel that that chapter 1 begins talking about John the Baptist early on in that chapter, and chapter 10 ends by telling us that Jesus again went away across the Jordan to the the place where John had been baptizing at first. It's almost as if John intentionally bookends chapters 1 through 10 with references to the ministry. of John the Baptist as as a a literary device to remind us that one major section of the book has come to an end and now a major transition is taking place. And so chapters 11 and 12 are a significant Transition as Jesus now from this point forward begins to fix his eyes on Jerusalem and make his march to the cross for his final trip there to Jerusalem. So, with all that in mind, I'd invite you to please stand as we honor the reading of God's Word this morning. Hear now God's word from John eleven, verses one to sixteen. Now a certain man was ill, Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary and her sister Martha. It was Martha who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was ill. So the sister sent to him, saying, Lord, he whom you love is ill But when Jesus heard it, he said, This illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it Now, Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. So when he heard that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days longer in the place where he was Then after this he said to the disciples, Let us go to Judea again. The disciples said to him, Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone you. And are you going there again? Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If any one walks in the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world. But if any one walks in the night, he stumbles, because the light is not in him. After saying these things, he said to them, Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I go to awaken him. The disciples said to him, Lord, if he's fallen asleep, he will recover Now Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought that he meant taking rest and sleep. Then Jesus told them plainly, Lazarus has died, and for your sake I am glad that I was not there, so that you may believe. But let us go to him. So Thomas, called the twin, said to his fellow disciples, Let us also go that we may die with him. The word of the Lord this morning. Let's pray together. Our Father, what what an ordinary thing it is that we find ourselves doing at this moment. Someone stands up to read from a book and we all listen. As I speak about it. It's an ordinary thing, and yet it's one of those ordinary means of grace to which you have established and attached extraordinary blessings Because Father, you tell us that this is no ordinary book, but it's your very word, living, active, sharper than any double-edged sword, able to pierce us to the division of soul and spirit That as we read this word, you change us and shape us and sanctify us in the truth, for your word is truth. That you promise through the reading and especially the preaching of your word is an effective means for convincing and converting sinners and for those of us who come to know you, of building us up in holiness. and comfort and hope unto salvation. And Lord, it's those things that we ask that you would do in this time as we read your word, as we reflect on your word. Speak to us, Lord. For we're listening. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. I don't know about you, but as I read through the Gospels, it often strikes me that sometimes Jesus just acts very strangely. He just does things and says things that just don't make any sense. We find ourselves sometimes reading through the gospel accounts and almost scratching our heads wanting to say Lord, are you, are you sure you know what you're doing? This passage, I think, is maybe a classic example of that phenomenon. That we find. As we walk through this passage, it seems like at every turn, Jesus is doing or saying something and not acting like we think he should. He just doesn't seem to be making any sense. And I think that's one of the things that we're meant to learn from this passage. I heard one pastor, Kevin DeYoung, say, as he preached on this passage, that it reminds us of two things. On the one hand, that Jesus loves us, and on the other hand, that he knows what he's doing. And because of those two things, because Jesus loves us and he knows what he's doing, this passage teaches us that being a Christian means following Jesus even when we don't understand him. Even when we don't understand his actions, even when we don't understand the way that he's leading us in our lives or the work that he's doing in our lives, we're still called to follow him Trusting in him and following him by faith. So I don't have a formal outline for us this morning. I just want us to walk through this passage together and just see several things that Jesus says and does that don't make any sense. And then to see what it looks like in response to follow him. First thing, let's look at verses 1 through 4. Jesus says in verse 4, this illness does not lead We see the context there in those first four verses. We're told that a man, Lazarus, was sick. This is the first time that we really find anything out about this guy, Lazarus. So John tells us that he's the brother of Mary and Martha. Now those are familiar figures to those of us who have read the Gospel of Luke. Mary and Martha were friends of Christ. We're told that they even hosted Jesus in their home at one point on one of his travels. And the story, if you've read that familiar story, goes that Martha was busy cleaning and getting everything ready, just active and busy all the time. And Mary quietly sat at the feet of Christ and listened to his teaching. And when Martha came and complained and said, Lord, aren't you going to tell her to help me? He says, Martha, Martha, you're anxious about many things. But one thing is necessary. Mary has chosen right by sitting to pause to sit and listen at my feet. These are people that Jesus deeply loved and had great affection for. He was close with this family. We also know John tells us in verse 2 that Mary's the one who anointed Jesus and washed his feet with her hair. It's interesting that John hasn't actually told us about that story. He'll tell us about it in chapter 12. But evidently that was such a well-known story in the early church that John could assume we had heard of it, even if we hadn't read that far along yet in his gospel. Assuming that his readers would know about that. So this is the family that we're talking about, Mary, Martha, Lazarus. And they lived in a village called Bethany. Bethany was a small village outside Jerusalem. About two miles east of the Mount of Olives. In terms of proximity, it's basically about how far we are from the city line right now. Maybe on the other side of the city to the east, but about that far away. And Jesus, interestingly enough, is in another town called Bethany. Same way that we have cities that have the same name. I think I read this week that there are 88 towns and cities that have the name Washington I remember having a conversation with someone one time. We were both talking about Greenville, and only after a while did we realize that one of them was talking about Greenville, North Carolina, and the other of us was talking about Greenville, South Carolina If we're not careful, these two towns with the same name can cause us some confusion. So it's important that we understand that Jesus is in Bethany, but it's a different Bethany. We're told that at the end of John 10 that Jesus went back across the Jordan to where John had been baptizing. And John 1 tells us that that those things took place in Bethany across the Jordan where John was baptizing. So if the Bethany where Lazarus lives is kind of like Relay in proximity to Baltimore, the other Bethany where Jesus is is kind of like Philadelphia About 90 to 100 miles away, about a three-day journey to get back and forth between the two Both in Bethany, different places. And the sisters send a message because Lazarus is ill. They know the only thing they have to do is to reach out to Jesus. And they send, I love the simplicity of their message. Lord. He whom you love is ill. Simple. There's not even a request or an or asking him to do anything. They don't say, come and heal him. They just say, Lord, he's sick. They they trust him and they know he cares for them. They trust him to do what is right. They trust his judgment. And notice their their request is not based on their love for Christ. It's not based on Lazarus's. Love for Christ. It's not, Lord, we who love you have a need. No, it's based solely on Christ's love for Lazarus. He whom you love is ill. Interesting to me that Jesus all of a sudden knows who they're talking about. He had a special relationship with this family. I think that's a really important example for us as we think about our own prayer lives How often do we do we go to God thinking that we have to have lengthy prayers with lots of words, detailed requests, as if we don't hit every contingency, Jesus might mess it up in answering our request? Maybe that's just me. And yet this stands in stark contrast to that, a simple request, Lord you love him and he's in need. Would you answer? It's the picture of a child who's just scraped his knee coming and saying, Mommy, daddy, I'm hurt. They don't come and say, Mommy and Daddy, I'm hurt. Can you go get the neosporin and bring me a band-aid and put it on my knee? And I know that's really inconvenient to you, so if you do that, I promise that from now on I'll clean up my toys the first time you ask. No, they just say, I'm hurt. I know you love me, I know you care about me, and I know that you know what to do. Can you help me? And yet Jesus' response is so strange. This illness doesn't lead to death. I just want to paint the picture for us and just help us to see how Mary and Martha may have felt. We said it's a three-day journey. So this man sets out this messenger to to go to find Jesus three days later. When he gets there, Lazarus is still alive. And it's only, we'll see in a few minutes, only after two days that Lazarus dies, when Jesus sets out. So the man has made most of his return trip before Lazarus dies, and yet by the time he gets back, Lazarus has been dead for probably about a day. So he he may have very well been carrying this message to Martha and Mary. Don't worry, Jesus said this illness doesn't lead to death. Walks back into the town to find them all. Mourning because Lazarus has died. Imagine how Mary and Martha must have her have felt when a day after their brother died, all they hear is, well Jesus said, don't worry, it doesn't lead to death. Taking their breath away. Maybe felt confused. Maybe there was a tinge of hope there, as we might see later on, but Confused, hurt, wondering what's going on. This illness doesn't lead to death. Because of course Lazarus does die. That's why this is so strange. And Christ knows that Lazarus dies. He says so himself in verse 14. The point that Jesus is making is not Lazarus won't die. He's saying this doesn't end in death because Christ knows that he's going to raise him up. And we'll see that as the passage goes on over the next several weeks, but I think there's even a deeper point that we're meant to see from this comment. Jesus goes on and says, this isn't just about Lazarus. This is for the glory of God, that the Son would be glorified through it. You see, Jesus knew that while he could have just simply said, go in peace, Lazarus is well, like he had done for so many others. He could have healed him on the spot without even leaving where he was. That would have been impressive. But Jesus knows that raising Lazarus shows his divine power in an even greater way. And it's important to see here that the glory of God in John is not simply the praise that is owed to God because of who He is, that's true. But the glory of God in John is a special way, his self-revelation, the way he reveals himself as God, and that's found supremely in Christ. We think of John 1. 14, the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, the glory of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. Goes on to tell us that the only the Father, God Himself, no one has ever seen him. And yet, the Son of God, he has made him known. Jesus reveals God's glory in a unique way. And ultimately, Christ is glorified through his own death and resurrection And that's what I think we're meant to see from this comment. Lazarus' resurrection doesn't end in his death. He's raised from the dead, but Lazarus' resurrection leads directly to Christ's crucifixion We see that in the end of the chapter in John 11, 45 and 46. We're told that many of the Jews, therefore, who had come with Mary and had seen what he did, believed in him. But some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done. And then jumping down to 53, so from that day on, they made plans to put him to death. They saw Jesus raise Lazarus from the dead and decided, we gotta do something. He can't be allowed to go on like this, or the whole world's gonna go after him. We have to put him to death. And yet, even that doesn't end in death, because Christ rose from the dead three days later, defeating sin and death and Satan And he rose from the death not just for himself, but as the first fruits of all of his people, that one day we would be raised with him. This doesn't end in death. Friends, I think that's good news for us because every single one of us is sick. With our sin, both our original sin that we inherited from our first parents, and our actual sins that we commit day in and day out by thought, by word, and by deed. And we're reminded that because of Christ's death and resurrection, this does not end in death. That's what Paul speaks about in Romans 5, and he says, Therefore, just as sin came into the world through one man. and death through sin, so death spread to all men, because all sinned. For if because of the one man's trespass, death reigned through that one man Much more will those who receive the abundance of grace and the free gift of righteousness reign in life through the one man, Jesus Christ Therefore, as one trespass led to condemnation for all men, so one act of righteousness leads to justification and life for all men. For as by the one man's disobedience the many were made sinners, so by the one man's obedience the many will be made righteous. Friends, are you struggling with sin this morning? Just weighed down by the fact that as Paul says in Romans 7, there's a war going on inside of you. You can't do the things that you want to do, and you find yourself always doing those things that you hate If you're in Christ, this passage should comfort you greatly because this sickness, your sin, does not ultimately end in death, but in resurrection and eternal life and freedom from sin forever. Sickness doesn't end in death. If verse 4 kind of makes us scratch our heads a little bit, I think verses five and six just make our jaws drop. Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus, so when he heard that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days longer in the place where he was. Christ loved them so much that when they were in great need, He did nothing. It doesn't make any sense. I mean think about the situation if you were the one receiving the news. If you heard that one of your loved ones was sick. You would rush to their side. You would leave here right now and go straight to be with them. But not Christ. He stays two whole days. And it's interesting, we we've kind of touched on the timing a little bit and the distance for how far he away he is. It actually seems from the text that he deliberately waits until Lazarus dies before he sets out. He knows that Lazarus is alive when he receives the message. This doesn't end in death. And yet it's only down there in verses 12 and 14 that Jesus says plainly, Lazarus has died. It's time to go see him. Christ waited for Lazarus to die before going. And notice it. The text makes it pretty clear. It's not even though Jesus loved Lazarus, he didn't do anything No, it's because he loved Lazarus. He waited. Christ's love for them is what motivated his waiting. Does that bother you? Bothers me a little bit. What struggles are are you facing in your life right now? Have you spent time praying and gotten no answer? Do you feel like David in Psalm 13, how long, O Lord, will you forget me forever? It's so strange and so comforting in a mysterious way for us to remember that our suffering and struggles come not in spite of the fact that Christ loves us, but because he loves us Christ loves you so much that he lets you lose your job, that he doesn't bring healing to your chronic pain That he lets loved ones die, relationships end. Christ loves you so much that he allows you to have conflict in your life. How can that possibly make sense? I think there's only one way, and this I think is maybe one of the most important things to grasp this morning that helps us to understand the way God works in our life. It's because salvation is about more than just forgiving your sins. It's about making you more like Jesus. And God has things to teach us through our suffering and through our pain and through our struggles. Calvin explains this. He says, some of the things that God wants to teach us in the midst of suffering and pain are teaching us simply to pray more fervently. He wants to grow us in our patience. He wants to show us our need for him. And he wants to teach us to trust in his wisdom and goodness, even when we don't understand. One of my favorite theologians, the Anglican bishop J. C. Ryle, writes this. He writes it about sickness, but I think it includes our struggles and our suffering. He says it's generally sent for the good of our souls It tends to draw our affections away from this world and to direct them to things above. It sends us to our Bibles and it teaches us to pray better It helps to prove our faith and patience, and it shows us the real value of our hope in Christ. It reminds us early that we are not to live always. And it tunes and trains our hearts for our great change. This is exactly what Paul writes about in Romans 8, right? And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purposes. That doesn't mean if you love God that only good things will happen to you. It means that God will use even the bad things for your eternal good to bring about your salvation. Right, isn't that what Joseph said to his brothers in Genesis 50? As for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good to bring it about that many should be kept alive, as they are this day. Friends, do you believe this? This is not simply looking at your suffering and finding a silver lining. This is the promise that God works for his glory and your salvation in everything that he does. In order to grow your faith and to help you cling to Him. That's the same idea Jesus is bringing out in verse 15. Lazarus has died, and for your sake, disciples, I am glad that I wasn't there. So that you may believe. You've seen me heal all kinds of people over and over again, and you're still pretty dense. So I'm going to try something even a little more astounding so that you may believe. Christ wanted to show his power and to strengthen their faith And he does it by the most impressive miracle that he had done up to this point in his ministry. It's strange, but Christ delays out of love for them so that they would know he worked. Because think about it in your own life. When God answers quickly, You and I don't always notice, do we? Sometimes God gives an answer to a prayer before you even think to pray it, and if you're anything like me, too often you find yourself Praying for something, God answers and you forget to even go back and thank him. By delaying, he helps us to see how he works and to learn to trust in him. Strange and yet somehow beautiful. After two days, Christ knows that Lazarus has died. And so he tells his disciples: let's go back to Judea. And his disciples are shocked and confused. They're thinking that Jesus is out of his mind. They remember what happened in chapters 7 through 10, that they have just come from there, and the people tried to arrest and kill him every time they saw him. And yet Jesus' response seems almost cryptic to them. Are there not 12 hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world. But if anyone walks in the night, he stumbles, because the light is not in them. Huh? This is one of those classic responses that if we're not careful, we're almost tempted to kind of brush off as Jesus just kind of, I don't know what he's saying, he's just kind of rambling. But no, it it's an important thing that he's saying here. And it's designed to comfort them and encourage them and to explain why he's doing what he does. Think about the the metaphor, just as basic as it gets. If you walk around in the daytime, you see the things that are laying across your path, so you're not gonna trip. But if you walk at night, Just like I do, so often you bump your toes on things, you stub them and trip and fall over and all kinds of things because you can't see what's lying in front of you. The point that he's trying to make is to say, my earthly ministry is like the daylight. The Jewish people in that time divided the day into two 12-hour periods. 12 hours of daylight, 12 hours of darkness. Right? And that's why so many of Jesus' parables talk about things happening at the third hour, the sixth hour, the ninth hour, the twelfth hour. Those are the the key times of the day. The sixth hour is lunchtime. It's noon. It's the middle of that 12-hour block of day. That's why the 11th hour is right before the day is over, right towards the end. Jesus is saying that 12-hour daylight period is symbolic of my earthly ministry. There's a definite time that I have to carry out the Father's will, a definite period. Nothing can trip me up so long as I'm following the Father's will. We can go to Judea and know that we'll be safe for the period of the daytime, until the time is right, until the hour comes when I should lay down my life. No one's gonna mess with me. Because I have a mission to accomplish and nothing's gonna stop me from carrying that out. So let's go to Judea. Lazarus is sleeping. We need to awaken him. That's how he explains why he wants to go. And again, the disciples just they just don't get it. They should have. If they had read their Old Testament, they would realize that sleep is a common metaphor for death throughout the Old Testament. So they should have understood, but they didn't. The disciples say, well, if he's just sleeping, Don't worry, he'll wake up. We don't have to go back to the danger. We can just kind of hang tight here and wait to hear that he's better. And then just you know send a get well card and we'll be good to go. He'll wake up. They're desperately trying to avoid going to Judea because they still don't understand what Jesus is doing. And Jesus makes it clear: Lazarus has died, but I'm going to raise him up. Thomas gives just such a great response. He knows at this point there's just no changing Jesus' mind. So we might as well go and die with him. Commentators point out that Thomas's response here has the has a mix of despondency and devotion. There's no hope, but let's just follow I really like Thomas. He's kind of a curmudgeon. He's kind of cynical. We read about him later. We don't know much about him except from John's gospel, but we read about him later. He's he's the same one that we've come to know as doubting Thomas. The one who sees he's not there when the Lord appears after his resurrection, and they try to tell him Jesus is alive, and he's like, no way. Unless I see him with my own eyes, unless I put my fingers in the nail marks, I will never believe. He sees the situation is hopeless. Glass half empty. It's good for me to be reminded that Jesus is willing to surround himself with people like that. That's good news for me. He's also called the the twin, by the way, that's kind of the the idea. We don't know whose twin he was, there's just no clue for us. But Thomas is the Aramaic word, Didymus is the Greek word. They both mean twin. So essentially his other name is twin. But he sees this situation as hopeless, and yet he's still devoted to Christ. He thinks there's no hope, and yet he refuses to let Jesus die alone. Sometimes Christ calls us to follow him somewhere we don't want to go, doesn't he? Maybe it's a literal move to some other part of town, some other part of the country. Maybe it's calling to the mission field. Maybe it's simply not to move your location, but simply to make a stand for him in your school, in your workplace, in your family. And it's important to see that it might cost us. It might cost us our reputations. It might cost us our job. It might cost us that relationship that we value so highly. The question for us, in light of Thomas' response, is Do you see him as worth it? Are you so devoted to him that you can't bear to see him mocked? You can't bear to see his name taken in vain. You can't bear to see him just dismissed or ridiculed without at least joining him and taking your stand next to him. I've been reminded this week of the the persecution going on in China surrounding early reign covenant church. We saw just a year ago, last December, that that church was was raided and many of their uh the pastor and his family, many of their elders and members were taken to jail. Pastor Wang Yi, the pastor of that church, has been in prison, separated from his family for over a year now. Been denied all attempts from his attorney to come and meet with him to help him. And reports came out on December 26th that he was tried in a secret trial by Chinese officials. And there's not really any way that they've been able to get news to find out what's happened for him. But this is a brother who was unwilling to compromise the gospel in order to preserve his peace. And his personal safety. He wouldn't bear to see Christ's name taken in vain or dismissed without making clear that there is one king. Who is over all governments, and that's the Lord Jesus Christ. And for that, he's been imprisoned. You see, our calling is to follow Christ even when it's hard Even when we don't clearly see all the details, even when we don't fully understand. This isn't blind faith, but it's trusting in His goodness and His wisdom, knowing that He loves us. And that he knows what he's doing. And that calls us to have a posture that says, when suffering comes, when difficulty comes, when persecution arises, instead of saying, Lord, why are you letting this happen? To realize that Jesus is doing work in our lives and ask, okay, Lord, what can I learn? How can I honor you through this? Thomas didn't want to let Christ die alone. Yet it's fascinating to see his intentions were far better than his actions. Because all the disciples, except for John, abandoned him at the end. They weren't anywhere to be seen when he died. Maybe, I don't know, maybe that's why he doubted so much when Christ reappeared. Couldn't believe that the Lord that he had abandoned after speaking so strongly could possibly be there again and that he might get a second chance to be faithful. What a beautiful thing it is that God gives us so many chances, even when we mess up like Thomas. Even when our words are stronger than our actions. Jesus does so many strange things in this passage and so often that they don't make sense and they're not how we would do it if we were in charge. This passage reminds us that we might not understand all that he does. But the Bible is crystal clear about how Christ feels about us. He loves us. And he orchestrates everything that he does in the governing of his world for our good and for his glory because he cares about us. Friends, he is a God that you can trust and a God that you can follow, even when you don't always understand. Let's pray together. Our Father, what a beautiful thing it is that you love us so deeply. That you've shown your love for us. In sending your son to live for us and to die for us. And that because you have not spared your own son, but given him up for us all, you promise that how much more will you graciously give all things through him All things that we need for life and for godliness to follow you. And we pray, O Lord, that you would help us to know these things, that you care for us, and that you are wise and good in all that you do. Give us faith to follow you even in the midst of life's difficulties, we pray. Holy Spirit, would you strengthen us? And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen.