Well good morning. If you have a Bible with you, I invite you to turn to John chapter 12. We'll be reading from verses 12 through 19. Uh if you don't have a Bible, you can find it on your pew Bible on page uh 1143. As you're finding that that passage there from John 12 this morning, just wanted to Help us remember where it where it fits in in the context of John's Gospel. We've been going through this gospel according to John for a while now. We've seen as we've gone from chapter eleven into chapter twelve, Pastor Stan highlighted this last week for us, that chapter twelve really is a hinge that the whole gospel kind of swings on. As we come into chapter 12, Jesus begins to move towards Jerusalem, move towards the cross, and John really zooms in on this last week of Jesus' life for the last several chapters, going through in great detail. And this passage that we're going to look through this morning, the triumphal entry, it's one that that shows up in all four of the gospel accounts. And there are some stories that do that, not many. And anytime the Holy Spirit needs to tell us something four times, it's pretty important. But but I want you to see the the the function that this passage plays in the whole gospel as as we read it. That it's connected to Jesus raising Lazarus from the dead as he's grown in popularity and as opposition begins to arise, as we've begun to see already But Jesus in this passage enters in in such a way to make it abundantly clear that he is in control of everything that happens. As he goes to the cross, he lays down his life. No one takes it from him. And he ensures that it's going to happen on his timetable according to his schedule, not upon anybody else's And it's going to be a public affair, not private. This isn't going to happen off in the distance, hidden away in a corner. No, it's going to be something for the whole world to see. And so with all that in mind, I invite you to stand as we honor the reading of God's Word. Hear now God's word from John chapter twelve, beginning in verse twelve. Feast heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem. So they took branches of palm trees and went out to meet him, crying out, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel. And Jesus found a young donkey and sat on it, just as it is written: Fear not, daughter of Zion. Behold, your king is coming, sitting on a donkey's colt His disciples did not understand these things at first, but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things had been written about him and had been done to him. The crowd that had been with him, when he called Lazarus out of the tomb, and raised him from the dead, continued to bear witness. The reason why the crowd went to meet him was that they heard he had done this sign. So the Pharisees said to one another, You see that you are gaining nothing. Look, the world has gone after him. The word of the Lord this morning. Let's pray together. Our Father, we come to you hungry. Lord, we've been fasting all week, as we've lived in a world where there is a famine of knowledge of your word. And of love for you and acknowledgement that you are God and you are good. And so, Lord, we we come here on this, your holy day, we come to feast upon your word. Because we do not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from your mouth. And so we pray, O Lord, would you feed us? Would you strengthen us from your word? Would you sanctify us through your word, which is truth? And Holy Spirit, would you give us eyes and ears to see and hear what it is you would have us say, have us learn from your word, what you what you would say to us. Speak to us, O Lord, for your servants are listening. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. Well looking back over my school career, uh I've never been uh an outstanding amazing student, I would say I was, you know, somewhat average overall. Not the the worst grades in my class, but certainly not the best by any means. But that there's one moment that really stands out in my memory as a time when it was just a a real low point in my academic career. career. And it was calculus one, my first year on campus at University of Maryland. You see I wa I went to campus to be a computer science major to study and uh found out pretty quickly that if you're gonna study computers you've got to take a lot of math classes. And they so conveniently structured in such a way that they have what they call these weed out classes to make sure that, you know, if if this isn't for you that you find out early on. Well let me tell you, these classes serve their purposes. I stand before you today not as a computer science major. But I remember struggling with with calculus so often, right? It was one of those things where every exam I would think I did great, get it back, and find out that I did not do well at all. And I would I would go back and study even harder and feel even better about the next time, and it turns out I would do worse than the time before. There's one distinct exam, I think the last one that I took in this class where I I went and found my friend who was an engineer, really good at math, studied with him, he tutored me. I came in, man, I was ready for this test. Came in, feel like I just did so well, like I crushed it. Got my exam back, looking through it, lowest grade I had gotten all semester. Flipping through, see one question, circle the the answer. The professor writes, right answer, wrong reason. Two out of twenty. See, I'm I'm sitting there thinking, but I got the right answer. That's gotta be worth more than two points. See the thing though is my professor wanted me not just to get to the right place and the right answer, but to understand why it was the right answer. Got the right answer for the wrong reason, and in my professor's eyes, that didn't really count. You see, the same thing is true with Christ. There are so many people in our world who look to Jesus for all kinds of things. Look to him as a great teacher, a great example to follow. We look to Jesus for so many things, but so many look to him for the wrong reasons. Either a misunderstanding of who he is, or not fully grasping what he's done or what he's all about. And that's what we see going on in this text that's before us this morning. People say and recognize true things about Jesus. But they don't understand what he's all about. They get the right answer, but for the wrong reasons. And this passage wants us to see this morning, the reasons really matter. Because if you come to Christ for the wrong reasons, then you won't find what you're looking for. You see, the point that we we have to see in this passage is that we need to look to Jesus for who he is, not merely for what we think he can do for us. We need to look to him for who he is, not what we think he can do for us. Otherwise, we'll find that we're not ready when he comes. And I just want us to look through this passage this morning and just see two things. I want us to see what they get right, and then we'll turn and see what they get wrong. So let's look at what they get right. The background, as we've said, is lies in chapter eleven with Jesus coming and healing Lazarus. He did it just on the outskirts of Jerusalem, where there was a great crowd that witnessed it. soared in popularity after doing this amazing sign, to the point that the Jewish leaders, the Sanhedrin, organized a plot against him, deciding we we finally got to do something about this guy. Otherwise the whole world is going to go after him. So Jesus withdrew for a little while and then comes back. We saw last week he was again in the outskirts of Jerusalem in a town called Bethany. And now he's coming to Jerusalem for the Passover, to celebrate it as as he was required to do under Jewish law. And there are many others coming to Jerusalem at this same time for Passover that the Jewish historian Josephus uh wrote about Passover and estimated at one point that as many as two point seven million people would come to Jerusalem for the time of the Passover. Now that that's probably an exaggerated figure, but the point is there were a whole lot of people in this city And as people come to Jerusalem for the feast, the crowd begins to hear that Jesus also is coming to Jerusalem. And so they go out to meet him. As they go out, They go out and they grab palm branches. Now the palm branches are an important symbolic thing, right? They're they're connected, as we've seen in in past chapters, with the the Feast of Tabernacles, a feast where the Jewish people would come and live in tents in Jerusalem for a week and celebrate how God had provided for them through the wilderness and taken care of them. And and so these palm branches also began over history to be associated with all Jewish celebrations. And that they were really associated with joy and rejoicing in God and what he has done. But they also began to develop this symbolism of victory. A symbolism of not just of joy, but of victory, of God defeating his enemies. And so this scene is one of great celebration of joy, but waving these palm branches symbolizing the idea of rejoicing in the victory that God has accomplished And in addition to waving these palm branches, they say there in verse thirteen, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the king of Israel. The bulk of that statement comes from Psalm 118, verses 25 and 26. Save us, we pray, O Lord. O Lord, we pray, give us success. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. We bless you from the house of the Lord. Psalm 118 is known as a messianic psalm. A collection of a handful of Psalms that are that are most specifically about becoming Messiah and about what his kingdom would come and accomplish. And it's an emphasis here as the Messiah comes. Of God delivering his people from their enemies, that he would be the king who would come and deliver his people And so the people quote this passage as Jesus is coming into Jerusalem showing that they are beginning to see that Christ is the Messiah. He is the long-awaited king of Israel. The one in whom all their hopes have been stored up. And it's clear there because they add, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the king of Israel. They're explicit about it. Hosanna. That's essentially the same word there is translated in Psalm 118. Save us, we pray. A cry for God's deliverance, but also kind of evolved throughout time to be a shout of praise to the Lord's anointed. Almost like saying, God save the king. They're rejoicing in Christ. They see him coming as the coming king, ultimately in their minds, to deliver them from Roman oppression. This atmosphere is one of joy and excitement. But it's also important to see here that it's an atmosphere that's intensely political. You might maybe the the best analogy in in terms of our own history might be to see this the same way that it would have been seen To see George Washington riding into town, followed by his Continental Army, everyone comes out waving American flags, rejoicing in the one who came to deliver the people from their oppressors. That's kind of what's going on here. A tense moment full of joy, and yet also words that could be seen as treasonous if offered to the wrong person. It's important to see here that they did have wrong views about the Messiah, and we'll unpack that in a little bit. But they were right to recognize that the Messiah was Jesus. And more importantly, he accepts their praise. The account of this story from Luke 19 tells us that some of the Pharisees in the crowd were angry that the people were praising Jesus, and they said to him, Teacher, rebuke your disciples. Luke tells us that Jesus answered, I tell you the truth, if these were silent, the very stones would cry out. They were right to phrase Jesus. He accepted their praise. But as we'll see, they deeply misunderstood who Christ was, and they misunderstood the nature of his kingdom and his rule. But for all that they got wrong, they were right to praise him as the Messiah and the King. And in fact, there was more truth than they knew behind the words that they spoke. They said, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, and Jesus truly is the one who came in the name of the Lord. That's one of the main points that Jesus is trying to make about his ministry throughout the Gospel of John. Right? He's the one who's come in his Father's name to do the works that his father gave him to do. He doesn't do anything of his own, but only what the Father tells him to do. He's the one who's been sent by the Father to accomplish the mission that the Father gave him, to save the people that the Father gave him. He's not just the one who came in the name of the Lord, but he came to make the Lord known. Because Christ is the Son of God, the one who was the Word, who was with God in the beginning, who was God who was at the Father's side, who came to make him known. That's why John says in in verse 14 of chapter 1, the word became flesh and dwelt among us and we have sinned. His glory. Glory is of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. Right? He hasn't just come in the name of the Lord, he is the Lord. They recognize that he comes in the name of the Lord. They also say, Hosanna, save us, we pray. And Christ indeed came to save. Not as they expected, right? Not from Roman oppression, not to establish a physical kingdom. But it's clear that Christ came to save. The very first thing the angel tells Joseph about what is going to happen when Mary has a son in Matthew 1:21. She will bear a son. And you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. Right, Jesus came not to change their circumstances, but to bring salvation. They even recognize that he is the king of Israel, the son of David. All of these things that they say are true, right? The psalmist makes very clear that Jesus is the rightful King. Christ in Psalm 2 is the king who was reigning over the ends of the earth, the one who will have the nations as his inheritance. Psalm 110 highlights that the Messiah is the king who defeats his enemies, who rules and reigns over them, making his enemies a footstool for his feet. Maybe most clearly Isaiah 9, for to us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulders, and his name shall be called wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and of his peace, there will be no end on the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish it and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness from this time forth and forevermore. The angel makes it clear to Mary that that's the passage that's being fulfilled when Jesus is born. He tells her, He will be great, and he will be called the Son of the Most High, and the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David. And he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. And of his kingdom there will be no end. You see, they nailed it. Right? They got it. Jesus is the Christ. He is the King. And yet, as much as they got, they completely missed the fact, as Jesus would teach later, that his kingdom is not of this world. And because they didn't get it, Jesus acts deliberately to reframe their understanding of who he is and of what he's done and what he came to establish as his kingdom. You see, they they were all ready for Jesus to come and ride into Jerusalem and start a revolt against the Romans. So what does Jesus do? He found a young donkey and sat on it. That's obvious, right? No. See, even the disciples were clueless about how to understand what Jesus is doing. But for a careful reader of the Old Testament, and what the disciples would come to see later on, that they would see that what Jesus is doing here is a significant action because he's acting in such a way to deliberately fulfill Old Testament prophecy. John points that out in verse 15, where he actually combines two different verses to make the point of what Jesus is doing. The first passage that he highlights, which is the most obvious one is Zechariah 9. 9. We read for our preparation for worship this morning. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, your king is coming to you, righteous, and having salvation as he, humble and mounted on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a donkey. You see, this is a prophecy that was given to the people of Jerusalem. That's what it's meant by the daughter of Zion there. It's a prophecy that the king would indeed come. But it's a promise that this king that would come would be a peaceful king. You see, the context is that right after that verse comes Zechariah 9. 10. I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim, and the war horse from Jerusalem, and the battle bow shall be cut off, and he shall speak peace to the nations. He's coming not as a warrior, but to end war and bring peace to the nations. And that's why Jesus doesn't ride into Jerusalem on the war horse, but he rides in on a donkey. The animal that kings would ride often in times of peace. In fact, the Messiah that was promised in Zechariah ends up becoming the shepherd who was struck, and the sheep are scattered. He's the one who said of him, look on him who they've pierced. The Messiah who comes to suffer for his people, a suffering Messiah who delivers his people by dying for them. Jesus deliberately fulfills this prophecy in Zechariah 9, showing that he is the Messiah King, but that he's very different than what they expected. That's also clear from other passages that John cites. Notice Cry in 9. 9 starts off, rejoice greatly. And yet, when John starts off quoting this passage, he changes it to fear not. I think most likely the reason he's doing that is because he's citing another verse. Fear not comes from Isaiah 40, verse 9. We'll read it in just a second, but it's important to remember that when when people in the New Testament quote the Old Testament, they're not just picking verses out of context. They want you to recognize the whole context of where that verse comes from and bring the meaning with you to understand how they're using it in the New Testament. So the context of Isaiah is really important. Chapters 1 to 39, God warning through Isaiah: judgment is coming upon his unfaithful people. You're going into exile because of your idolatry. And yet there's a big change that happens as we come to Isaiah forty. As Isaiah forty starts off in verses one and two, comfort, comfort my peace. says your God. Speak tenderly to Jerusalem and cry to her that her warfare is ended, that her iniquity is pardoned, that she has received from the Lord's hand double for all her sins. And John or Isaiah forty Goes on in verses three to five, the promise, the famous words that come to describe John the Baptist's ministry, right? A voice is crying in the wilderness, Prepare the way of the Lord, with the promise that the glory of the Lord shall be revealed and all flesh shall see it together. And then verses 9 through 11, the passage that John is citing in our passage this morning, come and highlight the coming of the Lord. Go on up to a high mountain, O Zion, herald of good news. Lift it up, fear not. Say to the cities of Judah, Behold your God. Behold, the Lord God comes with might, and his arm rules for him. Behold, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him. He will tend his flock like a shepherd. He will gather the lambs in his arm, he will carry them in his bosom, and gently lead those who are with young. You see, by pointing to this passage, by saying, Fear not, John is telling us that that Christ is not simply the one who comes in the name of the Lord, but he is the Lord who comes, and who comes to deliver his people and to establish his kingdom. Not a political kingdom, but a spiritual kingdom. Not a nation, but a church. Not to deliver us from our circumstances, but ultimately to deliver us from our sins. Now sometimes it's important for us to remember, he does indeed change our circumstances, and praise God for that It's right to pray for that. We have the example of the Psalms as David cries out over and over again for God to change his circumstances, relieve his suffering, and deliver him from his enemies. But the point that we need to take is that must we must never think that our circumstances and our suffering and the trials we face in this life, we must never fall into the trap of thinking that that's our greatest problem. Friends, our greatest problem is our sin. Everything else we deal with in life is a symptom of that one great problem. Not that everything that happens to us is a punishment for our sin, but the reality that all of our suffering and difficulties that we deal with in this world happen because we live in a fallen, broken world where the curse of sin is very real and very evident. And so it's good to pray for relief. Yet it's more important that as often as we do that, make sure that we pray for relief from our sins. Confess our sins. Pray for holiness, that God might sanctify us, making us more and more like Christ, and helping us to rest in the promise that He will complete the good work that He started in us. And that one day when he comes again to cure the disease of our sin and take it away forever, all of the symptoms will be dealt with as well. Just like the crowd, we can have wrong expectations of Jesus. Sometimes this does come out in our prayers. We can pay attention to our prayers and what we pray for, and it often shows the type of expectations that we have of Jesus. Sometimes it's really easy to tell that our expectations of Jesus are wrong, right? There are things that are just obvious abuses, like the prosperity gospel, the false teaching that teaches that the Christian life is all about pursuing health and wealth and happiness. And yet we can fall for that same lie in subtle ways, can't we? Following Jesus will generally lead to my life being more comfortable. Following Jesus should lead to success in various areas of life. If I do the right things, all will be well. Friends, here's why this is important. If, like this crowd, we look to Jesus for the wrong reasons, Then we might find, like this crowd, that we don't really like the Jesus that comes to us. You see, they had such high expectations. The crowd saw Jesus raise Lazarus from the dead, and they went out and bore witness throughout all of Jerusalem that the news spread like wildfire of what happened. And that's why this crowd comes to see Jesus on this day. And it's interesting to see it it infuriated the Pharisees, right? They say the whole world has gone out after him They had high expectations, but they didn't understand that Jesus rode on a donkey that would take him not to a palace, but to a cross. That Christ comes to defeat a greater enemy, to defeat sin and death and Satan on the cross, that he wages war by dying. And rising again. To reconcile sinners to God, to make peace by the blood of his cross. They were so, so right. And yet so so wrong. They got the right answers, but for the wrong reasons. Because of that they they misunderstood What Jesus was doing and what he was all about. And in less than a week, their hopes were dashed as they think that Jesus is nothing more than another failed deliverer in a long line of failed deliverers. Yeah, that's exactly what Jesus that what God uses to accomplish his purposes, isn't it? As Jesus comes and dies for our sins and rising again in glory. And only then did the disciples understand when they looked back on it after Jesus has been raised. He came to die and rise again to establish his kingdom, which starts so small, like a little mustard seed. And yet grows and grows until people from every tongue and tribe and nation come to him. Indeed, the whole world will go after him. From every corner of the world, he has people to gather to himself. And so the knowledge of the glory of the Lord will cover the earth as the waters cover the sea. Friends, this passage teaches us that Christ truly is the King. He's the one who is seated at the right hand of God, who's ruling over everything, who's protecting and defending his church, who's restraining and conquering his enemies, making them a footstool for his feet. And this triumphal entry reminds us that a day is coming when Christ will make a triumphal return. And he will come in that day not as a savior, but as a judge. As Revelation makes clear, not as a donkey, not on a donkey, but on a war horse. As John says, Then I saw heaven open, and behold, a white horse. The one sitting on it is called faithful and true. In righteousness he judges and makes war. His eyes are like a flame of fire, and on his head are many diadems. And he has a name written on it that no one knows but himself. He is clothed in a robe dipped in blood, and the name by which he is called is the Word of God. And the armies of heaven, arrayed in fine linen, white and pure, were following him on white horses. From his mouth comes a sharp sword, with which to strike down the nation And he will rule them with a rod of iron. He will tread the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God of the Almighty. On his robe and on his thigh he has a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Friends, the King is coming, and we need to make sure that we are ready from Him, for Him. Because if you don't turn from your sin towards Christ in faith and repentance now, if you don't turn to Christ before then Scripture is clear that at that point it will be too late. We have this life and then comes judgment But if you do, the promise held out for you in Scripture is that you will be acknowledged as God's own on the day of judgment, that you will be vindicated from all your enemies and from the accuser himself, that you will be delivered from your sin once and for all So that you will be fit to glorify and enjoy God forever. Behold your God. We must look to Jesus for who he is and for what he has done. God in the flesh who has come to save, God who will come again. Behold, friends, he is coming soon. The question for you and I is, will we be ready? Let's pray together. God indeed, you are coming soon. And we thank you, O Lord, that even now you are seated on the throne. Ruling and reigning over all things. That though sometimes it doesn't look like it, Lord Jesus, you are the King who is in control. Nothing happens apart from your perfect rule and reign. And we thank you, Lord, that you are coming again. We pray, O God, that you would work in us, fill us with a great love for you, that we might. Love you and praise you and rejoice in you for who you are and for what you've done, the one who has come to save us. That we might be like this crowd in this passage who goes out and bears witness of all that we've seen you do. So that people from every tongue and tribe and nation will surround the throne with us on the last day and sing praises to you forevermore. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen.