He says, if you have seen me, he said earlier in chapter 14, you have seen the Father. Jesus is the one sent from the Father. That's the Jesus of John's gospel. He's the one who has been sent from the Father. In John's Great Commission later in chapter 20, he's going to say, as the Father has sent me, so do I send you. In John's gospel, Jesus is the sent one. And the disciples, we are the sent ones into the same world that he died for. He came to his own, said in chapter 1, but his own did not receive him, received him not. But to those who did, he gave power and authority to become children of God. This world hates Jesus. The world hates the Father. Oh, they like what Jesus can give and what Jesus can do and what the Father can do and what the Father can give. But the Father just loving him for who he is. Th there's a hatred of that and we see that, particularly in a time in our world like this, when people are there's so many questions about why is this happening? Isn't isn't God powerful? Can't things can can't a powerful God keep pandemic from happening And and and for some people, their hatred for God comes out. Maybe you've heard some of those those uh uh exclamations from people, their frustration with the universe and the God who supposedly controls the universe. And Jesus wants us to know they hated him and they hated the Father, and guess what? They will hate the those who love him and the Father, the disciples. The children of the Father. This is where the discussion comes to us, doesn't it? Just as the disciples represented him when the word goes forth and is received with joy. We also represent him when the word is rejected. And the disciples that night, as they heard that, I'm sure they remembered Nazareth, Jesus' hometown. where Jesus preached and the people didn't like it and they took him to the cliff to stone him, but he slipped away I'm sure they remember Gede, where Jesus did this incredible miracle with the this demon-possessed man and this man was healed. And rather than rejoicing that Jesus had healed this crazy man, the people of the town said, go away. Go back to your land. Because of the it was the the farmers because of the economic problems of the pigs and all that is what happened there. But they but all self-interest And so the disciples remembered that there yeah, there's a there's a there's an antagonism, an opposition to Jesus inherently, and it was going to be towards them if they represent Jesus. And they were beginning to feel that very weak in Jerusalem. The verse we began our service with is a daunting verse. All who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution Wow. All who live godly for Christ will suffer persecution. Now some persecution isn't always being martyred or or slain for the faith, often there's the subtle persecution. And that's what we in our in our land uh uh uh begin to feel the subtle persecution that begins to grow and grow and grow and get harder and harder You mean you don't smoke pot because you're a Christian? Come on, buddy, get with it Why do you judge people who they choose to love? I thought you're a Christian. Don't you love everybody? What gives you the right to judge? You mean you don't think I'm going to heaven? Who made you God? Everybody needs a little chick on the side, needs a little side action. What's wrong with you? Don't judge me. Variety is a place of life, buddy Real disciples of Jesus will feel that persecution. It may not be death, it may not be imprisonment yet, but there's the persecution that grows and grows in a disciple that more and more rejects God, Jesus, his son, and those who are disciples of Jesus the Son. The second thing, we're going to talk about the the the commitment of the disciples, verses 26 and 27, these two verses. When the helper comes, whom I will send to you, again, this is the sent one, from the Father, the Spirit of Truth who proceeds from the Father, he will bear witness about me. Jesus tells them that they will be enabled in this mission of making disciples to exercise a strong commitment to Him and to the gospel despite the antagonism of the world. The reason will not be because they're good people. The reason will not be because they have natural courage and loyalty. No. It will be because they have supernatural aid. They have assistance. They're assisted by the one who gives them help. In fact, he's called the helper. The helper This is the Holy Spirit, the third person of the Trinity, the helper. The original language, it's It's it's a it's a compound word, pericleto, paraclete, one who comes alongside, one who's comed alongside to give help and give assistance. It was used actually a legal word for one who gives legal aid or legal assistance, but Jesus uses that word for the Holy Spirit. He's our helper who comes alongside of us Let's talk a couple things about his origin and his identity. His origin, because this is an important verse in church history, these verses. He is from the Son, he says, the Spirit whom I will send to you. And he is also from the Father, the Spirit who proceeds from the Father. Wayne Gruden is a theologian in uh Arizona, a similar professor in Arizona. He writes this in a fur in his theology. Um the the you there's a Latin word called philoque, philoque, which is this is called the philo philoque controversy in church history. The Latin word means filoquity means f end from the sun. Okay? Sun-S-O-N If you know the Nicene Creed, the Nicene Creed says that the Holy Spirit proceeds from the Father and from the Son. Okay? If you know that Nicene, that ancient creed that many Christians recite even today. Well, it was not, Grutham says this, it was not included in the Nicene Creed in either the first version in AD 325 or the second version in AD 381. Those versions simply say that the Holy Spirit proceeds from the Father. But in A. D. 589, It's the fi that's five eight five hundred years after Christ, not three hundred years. Like like in the Nicene Creed. At a regional church council The phrase and the Son was added. So that the creed then said that the Holy Spirit proceeds from the Father and the Son. And this verse is the verse that sealed the deal. Whom I will send, who proceeds from the Father, his origin, the Spirit's origin, the Spirit's identity. And the Spirit, let me just say something like I always say this when I talk on the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is a he, not an it. We'll say it again. The Holy Spirit is a he, not an it. He is the third person of the Trinity. He gives us power. The power we have isn't it, but it comes from a he. He is a helper, the one who comes alongside to give aid. He's a spirit. That means he's non-material. He is a spirit of Truth, which means he's always consistent with what we have in God's Word The Spirit's enabling presence. I like to think of prepositions. He enables us. I think of prepositions. He is for us And he wants us to live a righteous life. He's with us. He has not abandoned us, but he's alongside us, right there beside us. He is in us, it says we are filled with the Holy Spirit, Philippians 2, that that God is in us to will and to do of his good pleasure. Romans 8 says, if the Spirit doesn't dwell within you, you don't belong to Christ. He's for us, he's with us, he's in us. But here's what we want to know, and here's what the exciting part. He's through us, that fourth preposition The Spirit comes and we will be witnesses, you see. The ability to witness, the ability to stand in the face of hatred and opposition is not ours. It's a supernatural uh uh ability because the spirit works. through his people. He says in Matthew's gospel, don't worry about what you're going to say in an hour. The Spirit will tell you what to say. Again, it's a parallel passage to this in one sense. And we have the promise. Some of you might feel, you know, what would what would happen if if persecution in our world gets gets real strong in our generation? And we don't have to worry about that. If we truly have trusted in Christ and we're tr and we're and we're prayed up, in that hour, he will give us the supernatural grace to to stand in ways that probably in our own strength we wouldn't be able to do The commitment of the disciples. They have a commitment because the Spirit works through them. And we have the same confidence. And the last thing I want to see in this passage is verses From verse 28 and on to verse 4. This is the prediction of the Lord, the predictions that the Lord gives here. They're gonna face persecution. They're gonna face persecution. Look at verse, he says, I I said these things. I don't I want to keep you from falling away. You don't want you to be surprised when the persecution comes, he says. Verse 2 They will put you out of the synagogues. Indeed, the hour is coming when whoever kills you will think he's offering service to God. There will be people who think, he says to the disciples, that they're serving God by killing you. He says they're going to face that kind of persecution. They're going to kill us. As you read that, if you know your Bible, your mind must run to the book of Acts and Saul of Tarsus, this This committed Phariseic Jew who thought that it was God's will for him to put the followers of the way, the followers of Jesus, in prison. And and the other good book of Acts and even on beyond the book of Acts, we see that the people who thought they were doing God's service by at by arresting and even killing Christians. Saul thought he was doing God's work. And the implication of verse 3 is that any religious zealot who seeks to destroy the message of Christianity Not just Saul is that kind of a person that they don't know God. They don't really know God. They haven't known the Father, nor him, the Son. Look, if this is true of a Jewish zealot like Saul, it's definitely true of those who embrace other religious systems. Because our faith comes from the tree, the roots of uh of Judaism. It's a sad truth of history, isn't it? Religious people are the quickest to kill other religious people. That's a sad truth of history. Religious zealots, religious extremists are very dangerous. So also are some who seek uh for total separation of church and state. They're dangerous as well Verse in 1 Peter is very important. 1 Peter chapter 4. This is again we're talking about persecution and hatred of the world. And Peter says this about being being Ready to be suffered to suffer for Christ. He says this. If you're insulted by for the name of Christ, you're blessed, because the spirit of God of glory and God rests upon you. In other words Jesus said you're going to suffer if you suffer you know for Christ You know the glory of God a special presence of a glory rests upon you Verse 15 first Peter 4 but Let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or evildoer or a meddler. In other words, if you're suffering for things that you're doing that are wrong, don't say I'm suffering for Jesus. He says verse 16, if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed. Let him glorify God in that name. And I raise that because in our day, this very interesting time in our history, in our country Um, I I noticed in the last few weeks a few people who are who are claiming that they're s they're being persecuted for their faith. But deciding to worship together as a congregation in a sanctuary, all of them together. And the the government authorities are saying you shouldn't be doing that. You shouldn't be doing that. You should practice social distancing by staying apart from each other and and more than you should stay at home. You cannot worship together. And so some are calling this persecution. Let me be very blunt here. I'm very concerned about government intervention and religious freedom. Those are issues in our world and in our country. However, the government's mandate has nothing to do with their opposition to our faith. It's about God using government to get us to love our neighbors as ourselves. Let me say that again. God is using the government to tell us as Christians that we need to love our neighbors as we love ourselves. And simplistic cries of we're being persecuted for gathering are very sad. Yes, there are a few situations I heard of where leaders are taking advantage of the situation to silence believers in ways that are not good. Yes, there are a few situations in our country, but 99. 9% Of a situation. That's not what's going on. By and large, disciples of Christ in this nation still know very little real persecution like that. If we want to see persecution that's really serious, look at China, look at Nigeria, look at the church around the world, and thank God that we are not yet at that point. Because we need to remember, though we have our nation that has some roots in Christianity, it is still true that the world hates Jesus. The Father, and ultimately the world hates those who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus. Jesus' prediction is that some will face death. Most of the disciples died for their faith This is sad, but it's not surprising. He tells them so that they won't get discouraged when it happens, and he says that to us so that we won't get discouraged when it happens to us. Us. So Paul told Timothy, those who desire to live godly in Christ will suffer persecution. In light of the opposition that Jesus says is normal for disciples, the question is, what does this mean for us? What does this mean for us? As a theologian of our own probably 80, 70 years ago, named Richard Niever, he laid out five ways that followers of Christ have sought to relate to the culture around us. His book was called Christ and Culture. It's a classic book, 1951, I think it was. I'm going to give you a much simpler version, uh a rubric for uh how the church and the culture are to relate how how the church relates to the culture around us. Um I want to imagine and I'm going to use a little uh just an application as we as we try to apply this. The application I'm going to use but it maybe apply it applies to maybe your field of work or your your your gifts The application is for a person who's a gifted singer-songwriter. God has given you gifts as a singer-songwriter. and you're a follower of Jesus and you want to live a life of serious Christian discipleship. And there are three ways that you can relate to the world. See I've narrowed his five down to three. To make it simple. And um if I have time I'll show I'll show a little uh little PowerPoint with the three here. The first is this the cybership model is this is what I just call isolation. It's isolation It's staying apart from the world. You're as a musician, maybe you want to win a Dove Award. Dove is the award they give for Christian artists It may be to just play in your own church or to play in your own denomination tribe and get some th some some renown there. But you are certainly not interested in in having a secular record company produce your songs. You're certainly not singing any song that doesn't directly mention Jesus. That's the model of isolation The second model is what I call the model of imitation. Imitation, where you are imitating the world. Again, as a musician, you want to win a Grammy Award. You want to win a Grammy Award. And so you say music is an art form, it's part of God's good creation. So the goal of is to create great music, to celebrate great music, to celebrate the gifts that God has given you and all musicians. And so this th this and so your desire is to to do as much as you can to to to to to to buy into all of the the the the the the musical values of our s of our society so you can win a Grammy. And glorified God. This thought ignores sin and the fact that music in all art forms are tainted with sin. They're not all that God wanted them to be. And that God wants and that that got not all of God wants them to be. Music like musicians are f is fallen Sin has permeated all we are and all we create. And so this is the musician, maybe you watch the Grammys. I try to watch the Grammys as much as I can each year. This is the musician who goes to the Grammy Award stage And he performs, he's asked to perform a high-energy, very sensual dance piece with dozens of words that are or should be bleeped out. And they win the Grammy Award. And they go up to the stage. They thank their producer. They thank their mama. They thank their daddy. They thank their significant other. And they say, but most of all, I want to thank my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And when you hear that, you want to throw something at the TV or puke. Because you see, how does how does what I just saw for five minutes in your song Mean what I just heard you say in 20 seconds. How do they mix? But this is the word this is the person who has a model of Imitation, an extreme imitation understanding of what it means to live in this world. Well, honestly, I think there's another way. It's my third way. It's the third way of Nebra, but it's my fifth, it's my third way. And this is this is to seek to be a missionary to others in the music world. proclaiming Jesus and living a life consistent with that proclamation of Jesus, to seek to change the culture of pop music And to point people in that culture to Jesus personally, but also to change uh that that system, that culture for good So that pop music will won't be the kind of things that we have to not say, kids you don't want to see that. You want to mute it, you don't have to turn the the the camera off or or or or mute the the sound You want to see pop mus pop music change to the point where people of goodwill or people of faith are the ones who are deciding who gets the Grammys. And so the people who want to win Grammys don't have to go there That can do music that's wholesome and that glorifies God. Maybe not glorifies Jesus specifically, but glorifies that in human beings which is wholesome That's the the the model of what we call infiltration. Not isolation. Stay away Not imitation, buying into it all, infiltration. Infiltration. Well, my time is tight, so I'm not going to show the PowerPoint, but let me just close with um a quote. From the early church. It's a letter to a person named Dicnidas. He's an early church apologist or defender of the faith. Christians are indistinguishable from other men, neither either by nationality, language, or customs. They do not inhabit separate cities of their own or speak a strange dialect. Or follow some outlandish way of life. Their teaching is not based upon reveries inspired by the curiosity of men, unlike some other people They champion no purely human doctrine with with regard to dress and food and manner of life in general. They follow the customs of whatever city they happen to be living in, whether it's Greek or foreign. And yet, there's something extraordinary about their lives. They live in their own countries, as though they were only passing through. They play their role, their full role as citizens. But labor under all the disabilities of aliens. Any country can be their homeland. But for them, their homeland, wherever it may be, is a foreign country. Like others, they marry and have children, but they do not expose them. He's talking about the fact that Christians adopted abandoned infants. That's what he's talking about. They share their meals, but not their wives. He's talking about the fact that you don't keep adultery. They live in the flesh, but they are not governed by the desires of the flesh. They pass their days upon earth, but they're citizens of heaven. Obedient to the laws, they live and yet live in a level that transcends the law. Christians love all men But all men persecute them, condemned because they are not understood. They are put to death but raised to life again. They live in poverty, but enrich many They are totally destitute, but possess an abundance of everything. They suffer dishonor, but that is their glory. They are defamed, but vindicated. A blessing is their answer to abuse. Deference their response to insult. For the good thing they do, they receive the punishment of malefactors. But even then they rejoice as though receiving the gift of life They're attacked by the Jews as aliens, they are persecuted by the Greeks, yet no one ex can explain the reason for this hatred And so he ends, to speak in general terms, we may say that the Christian is to the world what the soul is to the body. As the soul is present in every part of the body while remaining distinct from it, so Christians are found in all the cities of the world, but cannot be identified with the world. From this quote came the phrase you probably heard before, that we're to be in the world, but not of the world. It's a letter from the second or third century Let me conclude. Our Bible teaches us that the world hates God, the world is dead And cannot come to Christ apart from God's quickening them. The Bible teaches that God has not abandoned the dead world, but is quickening, saving, sanctifying a people for himself from out of this world. That's his church. Now, the Bible tells us that it is through the words and the deeds of the believers of the church that God accomplishes the task of saving sinners from out of disorder. world. So may we be the salt of the earth, a world that's the earth that's decaying and needs to be salted. May we be the light of the world, a world that is dark and needs the light of Christ. And may our light so shine before the world that they see our good works and give glory to our Father who's in heaven Amen. Let's pray. Father God, I pray you would use this in each of our lives, Lord, to remind us that We're pilgrims in a strange land. We're citizens in a strange land. And yet we are dual citizens. We have responsibilities to this world to infiltrate it for you. Whatever that might cost us as followers of Christ. Lord, seal this word in our heart. Help us to know what it means for us in the days ahead. We'll give you thanks. In Jesus' name. Amen.