Grace Church as we uh continue in our sermon series through the book of First Timothy, the letter of the Apostle Paul to his son in the ministry Timothy at Ephesus. And uh we're gonna we're starting in the first uh in the fifth chapter today, the first sixteen verses of the fifth chapter. If you have a Bible you can you can read along you can read along with me as I read in a hearing uh ESV translation. 1 Timothy 5. 1 starts like this. Do not rebuke an older man, but encourage him as you would a father. Younger men as brothers, older women as mothers, younger women as sisters in all purity. Honor widows who are truly widows. But if a widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn how to show godliness to their own household and make some return to their parents, for this is pleasing in the sight of God. She who is truly a widow, left all alone, has set her hope on God and continues in supplications and prayers night and day. But she who is indulgent is dead even while she lives. Command these things as well, so that they may be without reproach. But if anyone does not provide for his relatives, and especially for members of his household, he's denied the faith and it's worse than an unbeliever Let a widow be enrolled and she is not less than sixty years of age, having been the wife of one husband, and having a reputation for good works. If she has brought up children, has shown hospitality, has washed a few of the saints, has cared for the afflicted, and has devoted herself to every good work But refuse to enroll young widows for younger widows, for when their passions draw them away from Christ, they desire to marry, and so incurred condemnation for having abandoned their former faith. Besides that, they learn to be idlers, going about from house to house, and not only idlers, but also gossips and busybodies, saying what they should not So I will have younger widows marry, bear children, manage their household, and give the adversary no occasion for slander. But some have already strayed after Satan. If any believing woman has relatives who are widows, let her care for them. Let the church not be burdened so that it may care for those who are truly widows. God's word. Let's just pray. Well, there's so much in this passage. Help us to be clear and to be concise at what you would have us to learn. Thank you for the early church and the things they wrestled with and how to how to care for people. And Lord, as as we here in the 21st century continue to be your church, to care for people in the church, we pray that we'll be faithful. Bless us as we hear your word. Help us to hear your truth and to commit ourselves to not just be hearers, but be doers of what your word says we're to do. In Jesus' name. Amen. Simple title. It's called The Widows. The Widows. Got a sobering call yesterday from a friend from Faith Christian Fellowship Who said that uh uh a woman is in the hospital, her name is Yvonne Harris. Yvonne Harris. Uh Yvonne was never married. She's in her eighties, I believe. I'm sure she's in her eighties by now, and she has had a profound influence on both Terry and myself. Um's been in and out of the hospital for a while. And uh now they're talking about hospice care, so we know that that Her life is is soon she'll be with the Lord. She's not technically a widow, but um I can't help but think of the impact of her life as I Look at this passage today as we talk about widows. I was a freshman at at Frostburg years and years ago when I went to my first anabarsity conference And um my small group leader was a short woman, namely Vaughn Harris, who I just knew she was a staff in Baltimore within a varsity. That's all I knew Later I learned that uh she was single, she'd never married, she had not married, and um I later learned when I came to Baltimore to work with university I and got began to get to know her that that she knew someone that I knew that I was going to know. She sh I I little did I know that she that that she was the spiritual mother for a woman named Terry Martin, who you know as Terry Long. She was discipling Terry, one of the she among many of the women who she who she was having influence over Terry, uh a new new her new faith in f in Christ. And uh little did I know that, that this woman that I was when first contact with university black leadership was one who also simultaneously knew my future wife. was was discipling her. Little did I know that when Terry and I got married, this Yvonne Harris would be the one to sing the closing song that great song by the Hawkins uh uh uh uh that was a that was uh a invitational song for those in our regret in our marriage who are there to to to really know Jesus uh the Lord. She sang the closing song in that ceremony. Little did I know Yvonne Harris that she would uh her she would adopt a daughter and her daughter Kwan would uh Would help Terry when Terry had triplets and needed child care. Quan was was there to help. She took her turn. Little did I know that in 2000 when I became pastor at Forest Park She was there. That was her church. Excuse me, at faith, at Faith Christian Fellowship. She was a member of faith. She was one who was excited that we were there, that we were coming to pastor the church there at faith. So I became her pastor for 20 years I was her pastor. What a shift, what a twist. Over the last few years though, she's uh she's aged, she's experienced memory loss In the nursing home, and now she's in a hospital. She never married, but she had a great impact on us, on many people, for Jesus Christ. God has a special place in his heart for women. who serve him humbly. And the church needs to be alert to their needs and to the potential they have to be a blessing to us. Caring for widows is a good godly thing. Caring for widows is a good godly thing. And Paul reminds Timothy of that. Timothy, this young pastor. It's easy to ignore women who who who are who who have years on them and and and they maybe they can't speak into the the life of the church or whatever. It's easy to ignore them. Paul says no no no no The church early on learned that widows are very important. Women who are wise and experienced and godly are very important the life of the church. In chapters five and six, Paul is shifting, okay? He's been talking that he talked about Elder and Eric took us there last week And uh in 5 and 6, he's going to address different categories of people in the congregation more specifically. Widows And then elders, and then the first part of chapter 6, he's going to talk about slaves. So chapter 5, widows and elders, and chapter 6, slaves. And all three have something in common. They serve. They serve in various ways. And that's what kind of connects them. First, Paul's going to remind us, we can see today, that that that that we're to care for the church because we're family. You can see the the phrases he used here. And then Paul's going to say that there's specific members of the family we're to care for in specific ways. And that's your widows. Okay? First, caring for the family, caring for those in the family of God. Verses 1 and 2. He says, Don't rebuke an older man, but encourage him as you would a father, younger men as brothers, older women as mothers. Younger women, the sisters in all purity. Firstly, the appropriate posture towards older men, Timothy, Paul says, is to think of them as your father. Now we know from Acts chapter 16 that Timothy had a father. We saw in the introductory passage sermon that Paul In Acts 16, he came to the cities of Derby and Lisra, and there was a disciple named Timothy, the son of a Jewish woman who was a believer, but his father was a Greek. So he had a father. His father was in the home, but it was a it was a mixed marriage of a believer and an unbeliever, a Jewish believer and an unbeliever who was a Greek. But he knew his father. He had a father in his life And Paul says, treat older men in the congregation as you would your father. And he says, uh, don't rebuke, and that word rebuke is a strong word. Some say it brings a strike. Don't come aggressively at older men as you as you relate with them. It's a very strong word. He says, rather, uh exhort. This is a very slow. It means to encourage, exhort, to come alongside. Paracletas. The paraclete, the Holy Spirit, comes alongside. That's the word that's used. Don't come aggressively, but come alongside in a gentle way, in a way that shows respect, like you would if you're talking to your dad. He says secondly a pro appropriate posture would be towards younger men simply treat them as brothers. We don't know we don't know if Timothy had any siblings. We know he had a grandmother and and and mother, but it doesn't say anything about siblings, but he says, brothers, we're you treat younger treat treatment as equals. Treat the younger men as equals Thirdly, the posture towards older women, verse 2. Treat them as mothers. And again, we know from 2 Timothy 1. 5 that he had a grandmother named Lois and a mother named Eunice. They were the key influences in his life, as we saw. His father was was was a Greek and not a believer, not even a Jew. And his mother's so so he he knew how to relate, he had a good relation with his mother and his grandmother. And Paul says, treat the older women as you would your mother. That's something that that that that every p every minister must learn. As a young pastor, one of my um Early memories as a young pastor at my first church forest park was with a woman, I'll call her Mrs. Wilson. Ms. Wilson was one of the women, she's she was my mother's age. She was uh she was uh Outspoken. She was a very uh assertive, outspoken woman. She had she loved the Lord. She her husband husbands in the church. Her kids were grown, but they were in the church. Um, Ms. Wilson, we would sit and we would talk. We had a probably one of the major conflicts I had was with her. The Lord blessed it and worked it out. Let me tell you what about that Um there were there were some concerns. She was uh teaching the um the the the teenagers in Sunday school and they would and and and The Sunday school class was before the service. The choir would come down to rehearse their song at 10 minutes to 11. Business Wilson tend to go a little long. So the choir would be waiting outside to come in, to come out the door, and it would be kind of, yeah, you know, as as time went on, she would she would not finished as abruptly as she should. This went on for a few weeks. I didn't even know about it. Then one week there was a conflict and I heard about it. from her. And she she would she she insisted that I do something about it as pastor, as a young pastor of the church That the teaching the children was more important than the choir coming in at 10 minutes before the service to warm the song when they rehearsed on Thursday anyway. So I had this task of respecting her and yet trying a and trying to tell her, you know, let's not get too upset about it Well, to make a long story short, the next, we had not solved it before the next Sunday service. So in the next Sunday service While the choir is singing their song, Mrs. Wilson rises to her feet to stand up, hoping to be recognized. This was a major problem as she stood there. And then the announcements followed the choir, and she still stood. And one of the elders who was helping me, who was beside me leading worship, handed me a note as I was giving finishing announcements. One of the biggest mistakes I ever made was that Ms. Elders note said, Do not recognize Mrs. Wilson. I recognized her and then I read the note which said do not recognize her So anyway, it was the only the only time in over 30 years of ministry that I've had to actually challenge or rebuke somebody in in in a worship service. Every worship leader fears having to do that. It's only happened once to me. It was Mrs. Wilson. And uh long story short, I mean I can go on I could talk for ten minutes about this story. But um We we sh she said her piece. I I asked Elders the deacon to take her away, but she sat down, so I didn't take her away. We went back, we we had a little meet a brief meeting after the service with her. It was very brief because during that meeting We solved the problem, but also during the meeting, she wanted to challenge the authority of the elders. And at that point, this I will never forget this. At that point, she fell to the ground in pain. And they and we said, oh my goodness, she's had a heart attack. We call 911 She did not have a heart attack, but her blood pressure was low and she hadn't eaten lunch. She had health issues. It was the scariest moment of my ministry. But but the the Lord taught me the Lord taught me treat women treat women gently, which I think I had done that. I sought to do that But also told me that if I do that, he will back me up. Long story short, we reconciled, I did her husband's funeral, I did her funeral, I did her time. We reconciled, but it took it took a long time But but but my point is that that that every young pastor must learn to to be gentle and but but but but aggressive uh gentle but truthful And how he balances this idea that Paul has said the timidity of don't let anyone despise your youth. But also treat older people with respect and gentleness, particularly older women and men. Anyway, the posture towards older women, very important. She doesn't as your mother. And then fourthly is towards younger women, the posture towards younger women. Again, Timothy was a young man. We don't know if we ever married. It never comes up in the New Testament. But treat them as you would a sister. Again, we don't know if you had a sister or not. I have four sisters. So I know I know what it means what it's like to uh to to deal with sisters in all purity One thing it said to me is when I was in ministry, is that don't when I was a single man in ministry, don't look at all women as potential wives. Tuna mission sisters, don't look at your sisters as potential wives. You let God worry about that. The posture towards towards young women. And and whether you're a a young single minister or a married minister, you have to have a the right posture towards young women. Many have talked about what's called the Billy Graham rule of pastors who who put protections around themselves and their interactions with women. I believe that's a very important thing that we do We're looking at things in the world. It is much, it is very important during our day that pastors take that very seriously. John Scott summarizes these two verses this way. The local church is rightly called the church family, in which there are fathers and mothers, brothers and sisters, not to mention aunts and uncles, grandparents and children. Leaders should not be insensitive and treat everybody alike. No, they must behave towards their elders with respect, affection, and gentleness, their own generation with equality. The opposite sex with self-control and purity. And all ages of both sexes with that love that binds together members of the same family. We are family Verses one and two are a transition for Paul. He goes from the from elders' ministry in chapter four, and then these two verses, he reminds Timothy as an elder who shepherds the flock that he's to to be pastoral in the way he relates to people in general. And he now gets more specific about a certain kind of person. the the the widows, a certain category in his flock. The caring of widows is verses 3 to 16. Much attention is given to this by Paul In the Old Testament, just Google Google widows. There's a lot in the Old Testament about God's concern and care and how the church needs to care for widows. In fact, one verse Psalm 146. 9 says this. The Lord watches over the sojourner, he upholds the widow and fatherless, the way the wicked he brings to ruin. Very often in the Old Testament, in the New Testament, you see these three categories lumped together. Sojourners, fatherless, and widows. Those who have no land are aliens or sojourners. Sometimes you see it trans aliens. They have no land. Those who have no father are orphans or fatherless. Those who have no husband are widows. They have a lack All three of these categories. It's very interesting to me that the Old Testament in particular doesn't really talk about widowers. Again, we could talk about the economy of the Bible, the Old Testament, New Testament, but one thing that this might be controversial, but I'll just throw it out there for discussion. That um I believe in in in the Bible I can argue that in that that biblically men must work and women may work God has called men to provide for their families. Men must work. Well women may work. They may help. They may help. Gonna g because men don't have the don't don't have the privilege or responsibility of having babies. And and so men must work to provide for their family. Women may work, too. Many women do work for them Paul is telling Timothy and the entire church that not all widows are the same. So he's taking 16 verses to play that out. The bulk of this passage. He's going to look, we're going to look at five categories of women, of widows. The five categories of widows. You can maybe circle each one of these in your bo in your in your text. The first one is uh verse three. Honor widows who are truly widows. These are the ones who are truly needy. They are truly needy widows. Verse 3. Verse 3. Verse 5 says, um She who is truly a widow, left all alone, set her hope on God, continues in supplications and prayers night and day. So there's widows, then there are those who are truly widows, and he's talking to a certain category of widows, those who who are alone, they have they're hoping and trusting in God to be their provider and they're praying they have a a life of prayer and godliness in pursuit of him. Those are those are those he's called those are truly needy widows who who the church has responsible to give special care and attention to even uh helping with their their their tangible needs. Can you recall in the book of Acts, chapter six, how the there was a need that surface in the church of Jerusalem as as the gospel was being proclaimed and people were coming to Christ and Neighborhood churches were popping up all over the place and there arose a uh uh complaint by the Hellenists uh against the Hebrews, the the the Greek Christians and the Hebrew Christians Because their widows were being neglected in the daily distribution. So there was a daily distribution to the widows that was taking place early on in the church in Jerusalem. And that was the continued practice to take care of the needs of widows, those who didn't have someone, uh a spouse to care for them as in their past. The problem there was more not just widows, there was cultural communication problems in Jerusalem. But the point is simply this. Early on, the church saw the need to care for widows All people are created equal, but all people don't have the same temporal circumstance. And the same can be said of widows. The Apostle Paul is going to take care of this chapter to lay off for Timothy before the entire church, God's perspective on this. This is important in that day, and it's important in our day. Life was tough, especially for men. And and and and many died. Many died young But both death and often even divorce to those uh uh uh sad situations, women were often left without a man That they had married. Children were often left without a father. Again, we looked at James, we saw James 1, 26 to 27. True religion is what? To care for orphans and widows That's what it means to not just say I'm a Christian, but it means you care about those who are left without the resources that they need. That's what the church is all about. So in general, we should realize that women often experience great pain in life. It's true today, even We see in the badges we in in in life we see that women can be widowed. We see that women can be divorced You see pain, women can have painful uh experience because they never marry. They're unmarried. That can be painful. There's a pain of feeling, what's wrong with me? Why won't anybody love me That that that's painful when when the when you go down go there. This the pain of of of Being married to someone who isn't a believer and and you d the the pain of hoping that they will come to the faith and and maybe the regret that maybe Maybe you made a mistake. That's pain there. Many women experience that pain. 1 Peter 3 addresses that because that's a reality It's a reality on the other side too. Sometimes men are believers and women are not, but more often it's the other way, as you know, if you've lived long enough to see that But there's not there's also the the pain of of of believers that are that we're there's two people who are believers. We have all the hope that your b that your marriage is gonna be gonna work, it's gonna be great, and It's not a good marriage. It's just pain a painful marriage. That's real pain too That's painful too. So there's a lot of pain among women. And pastors, elders, deacons, we need to be alert to that pain. It's pain in our in the church. Some of you, I'm sure, experience some of these categories of pain. The second category is verses four and eight. These are widows with responsible families that will take care of them. Because the issue is, Timothy, the church needs to take care of widows who have no no one to take care of them. He says there's some who are truly in that category. He says, next, there's some who have a family And if they have a family that can take care of them, that's the first vital defense. Verses 4 and 8. If the widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to show uh goddiness to their own household and to make some return to their parents, well this is pleasing in the sight of God. They return the the care their parents gave that the mama gave them by when mama needs help, you help mama You see that? Verse 8. If anyone doesn't provide for his relatives, and especially for members of his household, he's denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever. Even if by common grace the unbelievers know you take care of your parents. Even unbelievers know that. The commandment, Exodus 12, honor your father and your mother. You know the commandment. Exodus 20, verse 12. Dr. Bruce Winter says this about the economic issues here. The dowry, which was provided by the bride's father, always accompanied a woman to her marriage It constituted an important legal aspect of marriage. In the event of a husband's death, the laws governing that dowry were clearly defined. A woman was cared for by the person in charge of that dowry. Two options were open to her. There she she would be maintained by her by the new lord of the household, possibly her son. Or she could return to her parents, taking her dowry to the family. So her son, if he was old enough and had and had resources, could be the one to take care of her. Or she could return to her family. That was the the old that was the system in the Roman world You may recall a passage in the Gospels, Mark chapter 7, where Jesus is talking against the scribes and Pharisees, the religious leaders. And it's an interesting passage as he's condemning them for their practices. And in that practice, in that passage, he says this, again, to the religious leaders, you have a fine way of rejecting the commandment of God in order to establish your tradition. For Moses said, honor your father and mother. Again, the commandment. And whoever revolves father and mother must surely die. But you say, you, the religious leaders, say to the people, If a man tells his father or his mother, whatever you have gained from me is Corban, that is given to God, then you know you then you no longer permit him to do anything for his father or mother. What's Jesus talking about? So, the scribes people were to give money to the temple, to the Levite, to the scribe, to the priests, to the religious leaders. They would give money to the church, okay? And what was happening was the religious leaders were saying Give us your money, even if you have parents who need your money. Don't worry about giving the portion to your parents, the portion of the church. Give it to us And so Jesus is saying that they have responsibilities to take care of their parents. And yet you clergy are saying, give it to us. Sound familiar? That kind of scam's going on by clergy today. Jesus said, no, you're getting people to disobey the word of God. Which says to honor your parents by saying, no, this portion is devoted, it's Corban, it's devoted to God. So again, there's a responsibility to to care for parents for for those who who can who can't care for themselves. Um again most of you know that last year my mom passed away. Oh last three years my mom was a little for for 13 years. And she, you know, my dad took care of her even after she was gone. She lived in house by herself for 13 years Um eventually she moved down to Richmond with my sister, and my sister had set up her house, she her husband had set their house up uh with an in-laws uh room and all that. And uh it and so for the last year and a half she was there Um, we took that very seriously. I I you know I was a cl I was a a year I was an hour away from them. My sister was two hours away from them, my other sisters were in Dallas We wanted to care for mom as best we could. And Lord willing, by God's grace, I hope he would give us a well done in that. Um many people, by the way, they look at this teaching about caring for mom and think or mom and dad, whatever, and they say that is it wrong to put them in some sort of facility, an assisted living facility I would say no, that's if that's the best way that you can care for them, then it is not out of God's will to do that If you have resources that can help towards that, help towards that. But this is not a this is not a uh a prohibition against that kind of situation. They're very good situations to care for for mom and dad when they need it. But I think the scriptures are telling us that ideally if if if if the family if the family can can can take care of the situation without having to go to another uh formal uh place like that. That would be best. That would be best. Again, the second category is is widows who have risk who have families that can take care of them. The third category is in verses 6 and 7. It's very interesting But she who is self-indulgent is dead even while she lives. Command these things as well, so that you may be without reproach. Self-induct. He's talking about sometimes a widow, uh husband's gone, and and now she is she's trying to find another man. She becomes very Self-indulgent is this translation. She becomes very flirtatious and very, she's not proceeding in a godly way in her widowness She's she's she she's flirtatious and she now she's she feels now I'm free, now I can find a man. That's the attitude that she has. And we need to be alert that uh many think that the hedonistic attitude of of of immorality is is only confined to men. You know, I heard the other day that um Uh Larry Flint of Hustler magazine fame. He finally passed away. Don't Google him. Horrible, horrible demonic uh uh man and who uh was very much part of the the proliferation of pornography in the uh in our culture. Uh and many people think that only men have hedonistic immoral attitudes and feelings. Don't don't don't be don't be deceived Women that that all have sin, not just men. You know, many talk about the Jezebel spirit. Someone got in trouble a few weeks ago for talking about the Jezebel spirit. But there are not just men, but there are women. And so Paul talks about some some widows that the church shouldn't be caring for them because they're they're not like the the the the the widows who are true widows who who who are godly, who search seeking God uh day and night in their prayers and supplications. They're not doing that You're not godly women. The church should not use its resources for widows who aren't godly widows, even if they might profess Jesus. That's what he's saying. The fourth category, verses 9 and 10. Let a widow be enrolled if she is not less than 60 years of age, having been the wife of one husband If she um and having a reputation for good works, if she's brought up children, turn hospitality, watch a few of the saints, care for a and the afflicted and devoted herself to every good work. Again, a godly life, a a life of service, a life of a reputation. But not just a reputation for good works. She has devoted herself to good works. You know, some folk can have a reputation that they that they don't they ever earn. He said, Paul says, not just a reputation, but a life that clearly is devoted to it. I like that. You can look at Titus chapter 2, where he says, older women train the younger women to love their husbands and children, to be Self-controlled, pure, working in home, kind and submissive to their own husbands, that the word of God may not be rebelled. Similar thing. That there's a a clear role for older women Now, Paul doesn't t but doesn't say what the cutoff age is for when a woman becomes an older woman. I'll let a woman I'll let the women's ministry decide that. I'm not gonna I'm not gonna I'm not gonna touch that. When are you the when are you now old versus young? I don't know. But this this is this the big issue for Bible students in this passage is he's talking about, he's just When women are enrolled, when there's there's a role, there's a list, there's some registry that he is clearly talking about where the churches has a list of widows, okay? And is that list The list that he has just talked about, which is the list of women that widows that the church is to assist financially and in other resources. Is he still talking about that list? Or is he talking about a list of women who are to serve? Not ones who are going to be served, but women who are servants, official servants of the church And I I lean towards the fact that the latter, that this is an official list of people who are servants in the church, who are who because of their godliness, the the the elders have said, yes, these are women who we look to as to to lead us and to lead the to lead younger women and to to kind of um to help the elders to to to to pastor the the uh congregation And it's clear in early church that the church fathers, Tetullian and Polycarp, within 100 years of the church, there were godly widows who served the church That there were widows that the church served in giving resources, and there were other godly widows that served in the name of Christ, the poor, in the community, in the church. John 13, you know the passage, he talks about women who have washed the feet of the saints. That's referring to John 13, where Jesus did the job of the slave to wash the feet. which was something that slaves did constantly. I believe this is a symbolic thing. He's talking about those, just those who have a servant heart, a servant spirit. Not who literally wash feet, though that could be part of it. I think it's broader. I think it's the symbolic usage of the phrase, they wash the feet of the sun. Well, the fifth category is widows who are young and still marriageable. And this, I'm not going to go into a lot of details on this one because, but he does, but This is what he says. Refuse to enroll younger widows. But when their passions draw them away from Christ, they desire to marry. And so encourage condemnation for having abandoned their former faith. Besides that, they learn to be idlers, going about from house to house, not only idlers, but also gossips of busybodies. saying what they should not. So I would have younger widows marry, bear children, manage their household, give the adversary no occasion for slander, for some have already strayed after Satan Is marriage bad? No, marriage is not bad. I mean, 1 Corinthians 7, we know that. We know that from the Bible. Marriage is not bad But we know that Paul was single in 1 Corinthians 7 he says, To the unmarried and widows, I say that it is good for them to remain single as I am, but if they cannot exercise self-control, they should marry. For it's better to marry than to burn with passion. Now you have to remember that part one of the problems in Ephesus, we talked about it earlier, was this asceticism, this idea that the flesh is bad, okay? And uh it was pr s somewhat this this pre-Gnostic attitude that was there. Um they felt that marriage and sexuality was evil, and so there was a lot of discussion about that. In fact, younger widows were encouraged to seek to remarry. Marriage is not evil. So you have you have the that it's okay if you if you want to remarry. It's also okay if you decide I want to serve God and and not worry about marriage anymore. And uh you who are who are married, you know that marriage, again, marriage it takes a lot of focus and energy. And Paul in 1 Corinthians 7 talks about that They of course if the young women's women wanted to marry, they could say I want to marry, but they need a little bit of help. They have to have to find somebody, which is again that's part of the whole dilemma here Verse 14, marry, bear children, manage households. Well, that's not a problem either. That's something that God wants that's part of the job description. that that that's a normal job description that that uh women it's okay to marry, it's good to marry, it's good to bear children. It's it's and manage household. Again, that's a strong word. That's that's where leadership abilities and skills are very important in within the context of the house. Doesn't mean that the woman can't use her skills outside the house, but it means you have to use them, you definitely must use them inside the house He talked about the problem of idleness and laziness, and again, often that's a problem. 2 Timothy 4, 5, and 6, he alludes to that again. There are among those who creep among evil pastors who creep into households and capture weak women burdened with sins that are strayed by various passions. Look, they're there the Again, some would say that Paul's being being hard on women. No, he's just focusing on women. Paul can be hard on men too, but in these verses he's focusing on on women. And let's not deny. Women also have sinful natures. And he's reminding Timothy to be alert to that. There are men who take advantage of women in this way. Don't be one of those and be alert to those who do that. Finally verse 16. By the way, this whole idea of uh of uh of uh slander and gossip uh uh some of that nowadays is is not just going door to door, but sometimes it it's Social media is a very important aspect of that. Be alert to what you post on social media and that you speak graciously and not uh in ways that are unhealthy. Well finally verse 16 If any believing woman has relatives who are widows, let her care for them. He reminds us that there's some women that can have enough resources that they can care for widows. Okay? So if an un if a believing woman has relatives who are widows, let her take care of them. So it so if you're if you're a widow, a woman who who has resources, don't say it's the church's responsibility to care for for for those in your family. No, as part of the family, you are the first violent offense. That's what he's saying there. So he adds that, that last point. And there were women who had resources. Luke chapter 8. We know women had resources. We know that the ministry of Jesus was financed By women with means. Look at the first part of Luke chapter 8. Okay? Paul's talking about women. Talking about widows in particular, but but uh talking about women. We know that um Jesus, Mother Mary, was married to Joseph. At age 12, Joseph was there. when J when Jesus was at age 12. Sometime between age 12 and Jesus ministry 30, Joseph disappeared. Probably he died. We don't know how Jesus' mother was a widow. We're called to honor godly women. Godly women who serve are called to or who are called to serve. What makes a woman godly. This is a phrase from from Mary in in Luke 1, the magnificent God. My soul magnifies the Lord. My spirit rejoices in God my Savior. Look Mary recognized that she had a soul. Mary recognized she had a soul. Have you recognized that you have a soul? She recognized her soul had a need. Her soul needed to magnify the Lord. Mary realized that God was her personal savior. My soul rejoices in God, my Savior. But you don't believe that Mary was a sinner. Mary was a sinner. Mary needed salvation and God was her savior. Amazing that she carried her savior in her womb. Have you realized that God is your Savior and that his name is Jesus? Call on his name. Mary realizing that God, and God alone is our Savior Rejoices in that. Have you rejoiced in? Are you rejoicing in your salvation? Jesus Christ has come to you and brought salvation and hope and eternal life. Now you're part of his church with responsibilities to care for one another, who are the parts of God's family. Let's pray Well we thank you that you are Father. You're the leader of the church. You're the head of the church. You're the father. Help us as as as your family to care for one another, particularly care for those who need special care Thank you for this passage. It reminds us of that. But it seems imbalance, doesn't it? Yes, it is. Because some of us have some have greater needs than others. May we as leaders in the church understand that. work towards that. Thank you for the gospel. It's united us into one family. In Jesus' name. Amen.