Well we're continuing our series uh this morning. Book of Hebec and our series this book waiting in faith during difficult days. Waiting in faith during difficult days as you turn there we talked a l last week a lot about violence and injustice that was taking place in in Judah where Habakkuk is giving his prophecy and we've Of course we know there's a lot of the same thing going on in our world today. Injustice and violence. But back to one. Today we're going to look at verses five to eleven. Five to eleven Look among the nations and see, wonder and be astounded. For I am work I'm doing a work in your days that you would not believe if told. For behold, I am raising up the Chaldeans, that bitter and hasty nation, who march through the breath of the earth to seize dwellings not their own. They are dreaded and fearsome Their justice and dignity go forth from themselves. Their horses are swifter than leopards, more fierce than the evening wolves Their horsemen press proudly on. Their horsemen come from afar. They fly like an eagle swift to devour. They all come for violence, and their faces all their faces forward. They gather captives like sand. At at kings they scoff, and at rulers they laugh. They laugh at every fortress for a pile up earth and take it Then they sweep by like the wind and go on, guilty men, whose own mind is their God. Let's pray again. Lord, we thank you that your word help us to be faithful in explaining, expositing what is here, that we might uh dwell in our lives and we might uh use it to your glory as we live for you in our generation. In Jesus' name. Amen. The child is the county in crisis, the county in crisis. Back in nineteen eighty-seven, Terry and my little son my first son Joshua and I, we backed up for Chicago area to go to seminary. After eleven years of intervarcy here in Baltimore, we went to to to get our seminary training, pre pre preparation for ministry, for pastoral ministry. Came back and and and several years with another child, Timothy. What do you do in seminary? You're studying and you know you're with your family, right? Came back with Timothy, four of us. We came to Baltimore excited. We you know we did our internship here in Baltimore and uh waited and tr trusted God for the next our call to to the ministry, a pastoral ministry. And in those two years we um we we Several options. The Miami area. We uh candidated a church down there and um these were looking very good. They were looking very good, and we were excited, and that church called us to be pastors to be the pastor and to move to relocate our family to Miami. We were excited during that summer of uh of nineteen uh ninety one excuse me, nineteen ninety. And uh and then something happened that summer. So some things happened with the the nature of what that call was going to be. And we were given the option of coming or not coming, and we decided that it would probably be better if we didn't go And the and so there was a time when we had to make a decision. Are we going to go and trust God, or does God have something else better for us? And we were sure So we went through a period of time and said, Lord, what are you doing? Well we we things were moving in such a direction for months and months and months that we thought we were going to go to Miami and and and kind of start over and re-replant plant a church And and then the door just seemed to shut. What are you doing, Lord? What's going on? You ever been there? Just wondering, look, w what are you doing? Wha why why'd it happen that way? I thought I knew your will. I thought I knew where things were going. Well Families often face a major fork in the road like that. And will we have to simply trust God? Will we call on God and cry out to God? And we we wait on God. And that's where her backup is. And in this passage, we're going to see that God answers to our His answers to our cries, they're always wise And they're often surprising. God answers all of the cries of his people, but they're always wise. But sometimes they're surprising. In this passage, we're going to see three things. First, that God is calling all of us to an alertness, an alertness, to keep an eye on what's going on. Secondly, God is working to fulfill his wise purposes. He's working. He's calling us and he's working. And thirdly, God is evaluating us and evaluating our character and our actions, and not just ours, but the character and action of even unbelievers. Around us. God's calling us, He is working, and He is evaluating. That's what we talk about. He's calling us to an alertness. Look at the text. Verse 5 Look among the nations and see, wonder and be astounded. There's four verbs there. Look, see, wonder, be astounded. God's calling us to open our eyes and realize what's happening. And he because he'd about to do something he says. But you know, I I talked about this a few weeks ago in in in the introduction that you know sometimes believers, we have we sort of have a sense of, well, things are going crazy and well I'm just going to ignore it all I'm just gonna be like the ostrich who puts my head in the sand and doesn't re- and don't don't worry about what's going on. I'm just gonna keep my eyes focused on on me and Maybe my family. But I'm not going to worry about all the noise that's going on because I don't understand it. And uh God says, no, no, no, no. Look. See. Wonder. Be astounded. One uh commentator says he says, um, God says, I will work a work in your days which you would not believe. We understand the idea of something too good to be true, but that isn't what God meant here. This was something too bad to be true. A work of judgment, so astounding that Habakkuk would have a hard time believing it. God is about to do something that's going to surprise him, and he's and he's not going to like what God's about to tell him that he's going to do. He we we're to be alert, we're to watch and pray, we're to watch, we're to, you know, in Matthew 25, the parable of the ten virgins, we're to be watchful about the things that were happening, knowing that the son of the coming of the Son of Man was was was on the horizon In that parable in Matthew 25, it says, watch. We're to be watchful. And then in the next chapter, in chapter 26, we're to be prayerful. It says, watch and pray. Pray as you don't enter into temptation. You know, as we watch what's going into the world, we need to pray. Watch and pray. And the more you watch, the more you say, boy, I'd better pray. What is going on in this world? We're to watch current events with biblical theological eyes. Now that means first we're reading the Bible, right? And we're really thinking about what God has said in His Word. W you know what when I when I when I prepare sermons, when I think of scripture, um I I I uh I I know that I'm a sinner, my mind is Totally sanctified, none of us are. So we need we need the help of others. We we need others in the church and others in in in the world uh of of Christianity and others not just in this generation but in the past That's why pastors are are are trained to dig in and to also look at church history and how church history has looked at the passage so that we don't we don't realize so that we don't think that we have all the truth And we do that. And of course, we are as a church are what we call reformed in our theology, our perspective of God. And it's important that we do that. It's also important that we look at other perspectives What do the charismatic wing of the church say about this passage? What does the um the dispensational, these different theologies, what do they say about it? It's important That we do that, that we get a get the full perspective, and that we see what where some of the the holes are in other positions. We need and then we're able to look at the scriptures and look at our world with God's eyes It's kinda like uh uh as I've gotten older I've had to wear glasses. I see some of you have glasses on too. And and and I can see some things about my glasses, but I see more things with glasses on We're just saying the phase here. And and we need to look at our world with with God's glasses on. You see? What's really going on in the world? But I'm saying we're we look broadly so that we can see the the different perspectives and then see what God has said in His Word But then when we begin to look at to say, okay, what's going on out here in the world with the watch and phrase? As we're trying to watch One of the things that this is my practice when it comes to how do I understand what's going on out here in the world is so much we've heard so much about how the media is slanted and biased and and I don't want to go into all that, but here's what I do. This is my practice, okay Every day I make sure that I that I hear something about what's going on, the important news from CBS, one of the major networks, which I believe leans towards the left. And Fox, the cable network, with I believe things towards the right. I want to hear both sides. I don't want to just put my scriptures on, my glasses on, the scripture, and then look at one of those sides and evaluate, okay, that's what's going on. No? I don't want to just look at the other side with my biblical glasses on and say, okay, that's how I understand it. No That's another thing I said. We as believers need to have what I what I call this third voice. We need to look at the data, look at what's happening, look at what they say is happening, look at what they say is happening, and put our third voice glasses on And say, okay, Lord, that's what you're doing. Look, see, wonder, be astounded. God's calling us to an alertness And for those with a third voice, with these biblical prayer glasses, it takes more work. It takes more wisdom. It takes more discernment. The second thing, God is working to fulfill his wise purposes. And we said this last week. It looks like God is not at work, but God was at work. He's at work. Verse 6. He says, verse 5, I'm doing your work in your days that you would not believe if told. Verse 6, for behold, look, I am raising up the Chaldeans that bitter hasty nation who march through the breath of the earth to seize dwellings not their own. God is doing something, Habakkuk. The Chaldeans. Now, Chaldean is a we you know is is an interesting term. Well really the Babylonians. See some background uh here um from a couple commentaries. One commentary says um The Gabias were people who lived in southern Babylonia, the southern part of the Babylonian Empire, which would be the southern part of Iraq today Sometimes the term Chaldeans is used to refer to Babylonians in general, but normally refers to a specific semi-nomadic tribe that lived in the southern part of Babylon. The land of the Chaldeans was the southern portion of Babylonia or Babylon or Mesopotamia, but generally thought to be an area about 400 miles long and 100 miles wide alongside the Tigris and Euphrates river, the Mesopotamia, the Tigris and Euphrates river. At the height of the Babylonian Empire, the Chaldeans were an influential and highly educated people. Some Christian, some historians believe that Persia conquered Babylon, and the term Chaldean We use more often to refer to a social class of highly educated people more than a race of men. But literally it's it's it's a portion of Babylon And I was thinking about, you know, this portion is is is used for the whole. And we do that all the time. You might hear in the news, they might talk about Moscow. Well they talk about Russia, but they say Moscow They may say Beirut, they're talking about Lebanon and what's happening in Lebanon. They may say Tokyo, and they're talking about what's happening in Japan. Often uh the the uh uh a small portion becomes the bark of the whole. And that's so the Chaldeans was a portion of Babylon. That's how we need to understand uh uh that usage here A couple quotes from a couple of comment commentators about this. God answers Habakkuk 1, 6-11, that a terrible day of retribution was coming. that he himself would raise up the Chaldeans as instruments of his chastisement. Terrible. Self-dependent. owning no law or authority, but their own will, deifying their own power, sweeping the whole breadth of the land, possessing themselves of it, taking every fenced city and gathering taxes And it's scattered up. Another commentary. When the Babylonians, the Cadeans, eventually came against Judah, they came and sent by the Lord It wasn't that they themselves did not want to come, but God allowed their sinful desire to conquer Judah to come to fruition. If God had not allowed them to do it, they never could have conquered Judah and exalted God's people, excuse me, and exiled God's people Out of the promised land. So yes, they in their own will say we want to take that land. But the commentator is right that God is the one who's doing, God raised them up for a purpose. to take that land because he has purposes in his mind for his covenant people. Yesterday I understand was the seventy-fifth anniversary of uh of uh the Hiroshima Hak in Nagasaki, the the bomb in Japan. I heard that yesterday on CBS or Fox. I don't remember which one I heard of. No, the the the World War II now look I I I might look I might be old but I wasn't alive in World War II. I'm not I'm not that old. Maybe I'm New York. But I know a lot about uh you know uh a lot about that war and it's interesting if if we were alive it's it's very startling to some people to know that uh Hit Hitler was such a force, such a a strong dangerous force in our world that pretty much most of the nations of the world says we gotta stop that guy. And and and and it and it's interesting that the alliance against uh the Hitler and and and and and uh uh Mussolini And I can't remember the next uh leader in Japan. But basically the whole world said we gotta and part of that coalition was Russia. That's one of the most fascinating things about World War II. That even the Russians said, we don't like that guy. They had they had their own reasons. So you had this coalition of uh here's the point. Without the Russians, we may not have won that war. God used Russia to stop the Nazis. Let me say it again. God used Russia to stop the Nazis. How can God use Russia? Godless communist people who were to solitary to kill people God used Russia to stop the Nazis. And that's that's as astounding as that is to uh to our ears now, that's how Habakkuk is feeling as God says, I'm gonna use the Chaldeans To judge you, my people. That's how astounding it is what God is up to in the text. It's unlikely vessel The scalden's used for God's purposes in the world. God's plans are always surprising, always, always right, and sometimes, often, they're surprising. God does that in our lives as well. We cry out to God, Lord, that football coach, he pushes us too hard. He's unreasonable. He has no grace at all. He won't let us go get away with anything. And most of all, Lord, his language. It's horrible. You're the one who said that no unwholesome communication comes from your mouth. So how can I even think they could use that man to mold me? To direct me. Or that Army drill sergeant lord. Or that boss at work. Or my dad, or my mom. Lord, they lack godliness or humility or the fruit of the Spirit. It's not present in their life at all They don't have godly character. How can you use them to mold me? Doesn't their lack of character disqualify them? Doesn't that name Lord that I don't have to listen to them? Well God raises up Chaldeans in our lives. Unlikely people. Unlikely incidents. Unlikely things that mold us. Things that we wouldn't ask God to do it that way. But He chooses that way. Don't miss this very important biblical principle in this passage. God is going to eventually deal with the Calvinist, yes. But first, he's going to deal with his covenant people. Okay? The last thing is that God is evaluating the ch the character and action. That's what's uh not just of us, but of even the unbelievers, even the Chaldeans. And in this in in as we read the text, we notice that God is Point out things about this the Chaldeans. Look at what look at the things his description of them. The Chaldeans, bitter, hasty nation. They marched through the breath of the earth, see his dwellings, not their own Dreaded, fearsome, their justice and dignity go forth from themselves. Swiftness like horses. Verse 9. They they all come for violence. Again, violence we talked about violence last week. They not only is Judah violent, but they are very violent and aggressive. Gathering cats like they're aggressive, but they annex uh uh regions quickly. Verse 10, at kings they scoff. They see a king over there who thinks he's got power. They just laugh. They will we'll take care of him. They laugh. They laugh at every fortress. You see the fortress that's supposed to protect that city? They just laugh. Oh, we take care of that Verse 11, they sweep like a wind. You see a Doratio that came through a Midwest Hill Day. Like a wind. They just plow through the land. Last phrase, verse 11. Your own might is their God. They're proud because they said we're mighty. No humility at all. So you see they're aggressive, they're violent, they're proud, they're dreaded. Their God is their own might Now see I'm sure Habask will say, yeah, Lord, amen. That's who they are. That's who those guys are. He would not disagree with that But he would say, Lord, if that's who they are, why are you going to do what you said you're going to do? I can say amen. Yeah, no, they're really bad people. Everybody knows that. So why are you going to give us them? That's the dilemma. That's what perplexes him You know that perplexity is is very normal in scripture. Do you re you might remember Psalm 73 Where the the psalmist is perplexed because the wicked seem to be prospering. God is blessing those Who don't call on God, don't claim to call on God, don't claim to know God. And he and David says, I was David. Not really ASAP. One of the promise The psalmist says, here I am, Lord. I serve you, I worship you, I trust you, and and and I'm not blessed like they're blessed. He didn't believe in the prosperity gospel. Maybe he did believe it, maybe that's his problem. I don't know. But but but that that that that perplexes God's people. We think that if God is love and we trust God, he's gonna love us more than those who don't trust him. That's the way we think And so perplex us when things happen that don't seem to make sense. And if you if you remember that psalm, in the middle of that psalm, he says, but then I I I I went to the temple, the place of worship, and I it got my perspective right Because I began to have an eternal perspective. Look at Psalm 73, great psalm. But uh Habakkuk is perplexed He's perplexed. But God is forming his character. God is watching his actions. And we're going to see in the next speech, the rest of this book, the actions and the character of Habakkuk. But don't miss that God is also noticing the character of the Chaldean people as well. You know, God All people are created by God. God doesn't just create people to say, well, it doesn't matter what you do. No, he's also evaluating the character and actions of those whom he's created. All people. He's the judge of all people. Believers and unbelievers. But the reality is that God is shaping us and molding us, using circumstances and using unbelievers even to mold us and shape us. He's judgable. One person who I thought of an example of someone who experienced kind of this perplexity. And probably one of the most famous Christians in America at these days, uh, is is as Johnny Aronson Fadah. She's from Baltimore, by the way actually but she's out in the west coast now. But if you know her story, she was uh swimming on the on the uh Chesapeake Bay and broke her neck. Per she came prayer of Legion. Um and uh she's lived all she's lived all her life pretty much, her adult life. Um she's now I guess she's in her sixties, I don't know. Um but she is She didn't become bitter. Well she did for a little bit, but god worked in her life, God worked in her heart. Um and she became an artist with her mouth and now she needs a ministry called John again friends to to people who are disabled. All over the world, a worldwide ministry. But there were times, if you know her story, there were times when she said, Lord, what are you doing? Why am I here? What are you doing here? What what why are you bringing this circumstance into my life? Is this to mold me and shape me? I didn't ask for this. Yeah, Lord, I was a I was a she was a young Christian. I I yeah I wanted to be holy, I want to I I want to be I want to follow you, I want to be serious about you, but I didn't know it was going to take this to do it God does that. God brings a crisis in our lives sometimes. And that crisis begins to shape us and mold us beyond what we would think. Years ago I went to some seminars by a man, I call it the The Little Man with the Big Red Book Some seminars that were about uh uh youth conflicts. That's some had some pretty good stuff in those seminars. There's some things I didn't agree with, but some things I really like. But one of the things that I took away was his teaching about the ways of God. He talks about the fact that God often gives a vision to someone, gives a sense of what your life's going to be about, what your ministry's going to be all about. He calls it the birth of a vision. God births visions in us. He births in us a sense of where he's leading us. And then, rather than fulfilling that vision, the next phase is death of a vision. God gives you the vision and then he seems to kill it. The the vision seems to go y you you you run into a wall and you say, Well, I guess that's not what God wanted. And then the third phase is what he calls the supernatural fulfillment of the vision. God fulfills the vision in ways that only he that you say, God did that, not me. And I hope in your life you can look back on your life and see times when that happened. Well, you thought you were going here. God took you here and then here. He took you on a detour, but you got there. In fact, you got there in a better place than you could have imagined you would be That's what God does. God always hears our cries. He always hears us when we call. But often, often, there's a surprise. Often there's a surprise. You know the story of um in in in the Gospels of um Matthew twenty-five Where Jesus is in the middle of his ministry and he's he he he go his his disciples are given kind of a kind of a what I call a midterm examination Since then they're they're they're retreating in the North Country. Who do people say that I am? Remember that? And and and and and I think one said, well some say you're You're uh Jeremiah or Elijah, one of the prophets. But who do you guys who do you think I am? Peter stands up. Says, you are the Messiah Messiah, Christos, you're the Messiah. You're the Son of the Living God. Peter said that. And Jesus says, Peter. Flesh and blood didn't give you that. God gave you that. He says, Yes, I am the Messiah. He was the first one that one of them said, Yeah, you are the Messiah. See, they followed him because he's the Messiah He's going to bring this kingdom. And that kingdom is going to go to Jerusalem, and Jesus would reign with his great power. And Israel would again be the top of the world, like it was back in David's days. And that's what they signed up for. And Jesus says, okay, Peter, let me tell you what it means that I'm the Messiah. Yes, I'm the Messiah. Yes, we're going to Jerusalem. And when we get there, they're going to mock me, beat me, they're going to make, they're going to put me on the cross, and I'm going to die I'm not going to reign immediately. I'm going to die. And you remember what Peter does, right? Peter says, Jesus, I don't think you remember the Bible. No, Jesus, that's not what's gonna happen. That's what Peter says to Jesus. And do you remember what Jesus says? Get me behind me, Satan. A lot of reasons why he says that. A lot of reasons. But see, Jesus was not fulfilling the vision the way Peter thought it was going to be fulfilled. He didn't know it. But he Jesus had to go to die. There would definitely be a kingdom. He would definitely reign, but Peter wouldn't be with him. Nobody would be with him. Sin had to be taken care of for us to be part of the kingdom. Peter, you don't understand that. If you're to reign with me, your sin has got to be taken care of first So Peter in his perplexity just I guess sat back to go, okay, whatever. And he kept continuing to follow Jesus, though he nor the others totally understood the plan. Living in perplexity. Perplexity, even in the upper room, when he says, This is my body broken for you. You know, Peter says, I'm gonna fight for you, I'm gonna no no when they come out, I won't forsake you. What happened to Peter? What happened to all the all all all the men? Some of the women were saved by and John, but most of them fled. And yet, three days later, we know what happened. Jesus reigned. Jesus rose and he reigned. And indeed, the kingdom did begin. And they became messengers of the kingdom. Their vision was fulfilled. They were at his right hand. In a different way than they thought. God does that. God does that. You know, back in 1990, 91, we were in that place of perplexity saying, there's a crisis here, this Chaldean crisis. What are we going to do? What are you doing? Within six months, we stayed here in Baltimore. The church that we've been worshiping at for over for 10 years called me to be pastor. We didn't know that back in that July when we said, no, we're not going to be able to take that call. We were completely completely perplexed and befuddled. And yet God, in his wisdom, had another surprise for us. Not only weren't going to Miami. We were standing right here in Baltimore. And looking back again, here's the wisdom of God as we begin to close. Here's the wisdom of God. We went when we were in Miami, Terrany, the second time we went, um We took took Terry and uh we began looking at houses in the community where they had wanted us to to to to to plant the church. It was an area called Homeland. Within a year and a half, homeland community, Hurricane Andrew came and wiped it out. When we heard that, you know, the hurricane was there and the homeland community was uh homestead, homestead, I'm sorry, homestead was wiped out. We said, that's where we were gonna Buy the house, look for a house. We said, wow. What if we were still there? It would be homeless or we'd be but we weren't there. That's one thing. Second thing Within two years, Terry became pregnant with triplets. So we went from having two to having five children. We said, well, what if that had happened while we were in Florida, away from our parents here in the mid-Altantic area? What would have happened? When we we didn't know that when we when God shut the door, but God knew that And the third third of many reasons was because through the years of ministry, in ministry, sometimes there's tough times. You know that. And during the tough times, you need to know that you're called somewhere. And I needed to know that I didn't just stay in Baltimore because it was convenient. I knew I'd want to get out of Baltimore God called me to Baltimore. I knew it because of this incredible circumstance of God keeping me here to protect us from going to Florida, which would have been total chaos for our family. What are we saying? You might be in the middle of a Calvin crisis right now in your life where you're saying, look, what are you doing? What's going on here? And I don't know, I don't have the answers for you, but I know that God has an answer. God is all wise. And yeah, you're in a surprise mode, maybe, but just continue to trust God. And uh You will begin to experience the wisdom of God. And much of God's wisdom for all of us, for all of us, is that God is not in a hurry, and God is eternal Sometimes aren't we in a hurry? Lord, I want it, I want it now. And God is eternal And some of our some of our prayers are only going to be answered in eternity. Sometimes we don't like that. But though that's some of the wisdom that I think God continually wants us to understand. You know The gospel reminds us that we are a loved people, that the things that are happening in our life, the crises we face in our life, that God might bring something or someone in our life that's an irritant, that bothers us It's because he loves us. It's a sign of his love. Not that he's abandoned us. Not that he's playing around with us. No, he's molding us. He's shaping us. All things were together for good for those who love God, for those who are called according to his purpose. The next person, those who he foreknew, he'd be destined to become Conform to the image of his son. Don't forget verse 29. God is conforming us to the image of his son. And he does it by bringing circumstances together. To make us like Jesus. Says maybe you're in the middle of a crisis. Maybe. Maybe you hadn't been in a crisis. And now you can see, as you look back, the providential wise hand of God. Maybe you've never had a Chaldean crisis in your life. Hang on. In this world, Jesus says, you will have tribulation, but be of good cheer. What do you say? I have overcome the world. Let's pray. Lord God, we thank you for your word, which gives us hope, gives us it's a guide to our lives, reminding us that no, we're not crazy, the things that we think we see, but that you are lured, you're in control You're in control of this world, you're in control of our lives. You have a destiny for our lives, a destiny for this world. The history is his story We rest in that. Thankfully, we're not in charge, but you are. But I pray for anyone who's going through a hard time, even this day, this week, this month. Well we're all going through a hard time in winning in many ways with uh this this crazy gear that we've had, but some maybe going through incredibly hard time. Look I think of the I think of my of the neighbors near where we live, where this bomb went out the other the other day. Some of our neighbors. Well their their their lives are just devastated. Well I I I pray they would know you. Thank you for for for saints that will be helping them today and churches and citizens that'll be helping them in if we don't go Lord, we know that you are Lord. We know that Satan has power, but you have all power. Remind us of that in those times. Seal this word in our hearts. Give us hope that you trust in Jesus. Amen.