And um we are continuing today after taking a week off to talk about uh first Peter. Today we're going back into this uh chapter three of First Timothy as we look at the officers. The office of deacon is our title today. We're looking at verses 8 to 13. The series is the life and the household of God. We'll see that phrase next week, the household of God. Government Bible, verses 8 to 13, ESV translation begins like this. Deacons likewise must be dignified. Not double-tongued, not addicted to much wine, not greedy for dishonest gain. They must hold the mystery of the faith with a clear conscience. Let them also be tested first. Then let them serve as deacons if they prove themselves blameless. Their wives, which is literally the women, the women likewise must be dignified, not slanderers, but sober-minded, faithful in all things. Let deacons each be the husband of one wife, managing their children and their own households well. For those who serve well as deacons gain a good standing for themselves, and also great confidence in their faith That's in Christ Jesus. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, thank you for this portion of the word, Lord, as it reminds us of the calling of The office of deacon. We pray you would help us to be faithful, to proclaim you through this passage as well as to instruct us into how we can be more faithful in our church responsibilities. In Jesus' name. Amen. In um Luke chapter 24, after the resurrection, Jesus is having a conversation with two people on the Emmaus Road, and in that conversation They said this about uh Jesus said to them, what things? They said to him, the things concerning Jesus of Nazareth A man who was a prophet, mighty in deed and word before God and all the people. Jesus, who was a prophet, is more than a prophet, but he was mighty in deed and in word. Deed and in word. The local church is the visible body of Christ in the world today, after Jesus has been resurrected and gone back into heaven, back into glory. He is now in the earth through his body, the church. The local church is the visible expression of Jesus. Jesus still desires through his church to minister through deed and word God is calling godly men to come alongside elders to serve the church. He's also calling women. We'll see that in this passage as well, in a different kind of way. He calls elders to minister to the world in sense of word, and deacons in the sense of deed. We're going to talk today about the similarities between elders and deacons, the differences between elders and deacons, and then we're going to look at verse 11, which is just about the women. First is the similarity. The similarity between the office of deacon and elder. Again, we're looking at most of the verses here as we as we talk about this Because just like in the we saw several weeks ago in the passage about others, it's about godly character. It's about godly character. Here uh Paul lists four qualities in verse 8. Dignified. Not double-tongued, not addicted to much wine, not greedy for dishonest gain. Character. Just as with the elder, we saw a list of 14, 15 different qualities here. Character is what counts. And again, he said likewise. So again, he didn't doesn't have as long of a list, but some of the same qualities are there. And he just gives a little sampling of some of the same things. here. In verse 9, he talks about a sincere faith. A sincere faith. Remember verse chapter 1, verse 5? The aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure heart and a good conscience and a sincere faith. Not a hypocritical faith. Not a faith that just says, I believe these things, but is not living a life that's somewhat consistent to those things. sincere faith with a clear conscience before God. It also says the deacon is to be uh uh men who are good family managers. He comes back to that in verses 12 to 13. And we saw again, we saw in the elder passage several weeks ago, managing the family. Here he says, let the deacons each be the husband of one wife, managing their children and their own households well. For those who serve well as demons do as well themselves. Also it's in Christ. Jesus. So again, some similarities between those who are called to the to this office of Deacon and elder. Very similar. But now I want to look at there's some differences. We'll talk about the differences. Verses 8 to 10 again. And by the way, the word uh deacons in um the original language is the word diaconos, diaconus. I just just want you to know that that root word, the root of it is de is that diacca, because we'll come back to that And they're to be dignified, again, dignified, double-tonked, not addicted to wine, not greedy for gain. I want to talk about the difference in the tasks Because we've seen the the as we did last time, two weeks ago, the character qualities are the goals for everybody. Okay? We've said that. We've established that. And so again, he's reminding us that godly character is a requirement for these offices. But but the tasks are different The tasks of elder and deacon. Let me look at the look at our our denomination's Book of Church Order. I'm going to read from chapter seven of our Book of Church Order. You can listen carefully to the different to um what it says here The ordinary and perpetual classes of office in the church are elders and deacons. Within the class of elder are the two orders of teaching elders and ruling elders. We talked about that. The elders jointly have the government and spiritual oversight of the church, government or ruling and spiritual oversight of the church, including teaching. Only those elders who are specially gifted, called and trained by God to preach, we serve as teaching elders. Eric and I are teaching elders. The office of deacon is not one of rule, but rather of service. Both to the physical and spiritual needs of the people. In accordance with scripture, these offices are open to men only. So what do we hear? What do we hear? That the office of ruling elder is one of rule and spiritual oversight. The office of deacon is the physical and spiritual evil people. Okay? The elder. I like to use three S's for this We're responsible to care for the salvation of sh of souls and our uh as we as we um just the individual souls to salvation and the well the the spiritual well-being of of people Secondly, the sanctification of souls. That people are growing in grace. That we're growing in grace. And then the shepherd of the flock as a total herd of people, as a herd of sheep. Are they relating in godly ways? Okay? The deacon. I like to think of deacon in terms of three B's. So the elders of three S's is the deacons of three B's. Bodies, buildings, and books. Bodies, buildings, and books. Bodies, the physical bodies, the tangible, these these bodies that we have. The elders are the deacons are responsible for to care for the physical needs of people, food needs and things like that, health needs. Buildings. They're responsible to take care of, make sure that the building is taken care of. of and bucks the the finances of the church they they have the the um responsibility to care for those things essentially the the deacons are are are assisting the the elders in in in certain tasks. The classic passage is is chapter six. One of the differences is in in i i is in theological depth, by the way. One of the things that we saw that we saw in He lists for elders is they must be apt to teach. They must be able to handle the word, uh, to teach the word. That is not here for deacons. Part of their calling is not to handle the word, okay? The classic passage in is Acts chapter 6. You might recall in Acts chapter 6 there was a problem in the early church in Jerusalem. Things were born pretty well. They had a problem in chapter 5. Ananas and Sapphire had a little problem It was a big problem, actually, and God had to judge them. But then in chapter 6, there's another problem. It was uh the second major internal crisis in the church in Jerusalem The the the the Greek speaking Greek culture widows uh were uh were not the food their the distribution of food they were being neglected in that distribution, okay And there was probably a a cultural gap. There was a language gap, clearly. There was a relational block. They probably, you know, people tend to cluster around people who speak the same, same language or dialect or same experiences. And it was probably an unintentional miss, but it was clearly a miss. The Hebrew-speaking Christian elders were not taking care of the Greek-speaking Christian widows. In Jerusalem. That's clear. The problem rose up to the uh ears of the apostles or the elders over the church in Jerusalem. And they say, we've got to solve this problem. And so you looked in the Acts chapter 7. They listed seven men, men who were Greek-speaking. So they must be men of full of the Holy Spirit and wisdom. Okay, and the men of integrity. Full of the Holy Spirit, wisdom, and sincerity, of genuineness, integrity. And um call those men and laid hands on them and and they they're they're classically called the first deacon. They're the ones who and if you remember that passage it says they called those men to wait on tables, which is kind of a technical term for taking care of these physical needs of the the food. They're to wait on tables. While we are to continue to focus on the Word of God and prayer. Okay? So again, you begin to see that distinction of the of the deacons taking care of the physical needs of people so that the elders can be freed up to care for the spiritual needs. Okay, the B's and the S's, as I said earlier. Now here's what's interesting. Even though being apt to teach was not a qualification for deacons It doesn't mean they can't teach. It doesn't mean they can't have the ability to handle the word. In fact, it's as good as they can. And what you notice in the book of Acts. is that Acts chapter 8 and 9 and 10 are dominated. Actually, 7, 8, 9, and 10. are dominated not by the ministry of the elders, but the apostles, but the ministry of the deacons. Stephen and Philip dominate the next couple chapters. So and and so there's probably a little more going on than just uh their calling to wait on tables. These are probably some of the leaders of the church uh in those the the Hellenistic subculture of Jerusalem who were not giving the authority. To have ministry and yet and now they're given authority to have ministry. So what am I saying? I'm saying that even though theological death is not listed as one of the requirements for deacon It's not bad to hand it. It's not bad to be able to handle the word of God and proclaim the word of God because again, deacons are responsible for physical and spiritual needs of people. But that also gets us to the issue of there's a difference of authority of deacons and elders. It's not a difference in dignity or honor or worth But there is a distinction of authority. The Book of Church Order says this. In the discharge of their duties, the deacons are under the supervision and authority of the session Do you do you hear that? There is a uh being coming under the session. Um now, then again, coming under the session does not mean that they're lesser, they have less dignity, less honor. Let's let's think about that. Don't we doesn't our Orthodox theology say that Jesus came under the Father? He submitted himself to the Father Not in terms of supervision, but in terms of function. There's unity of essence, but there's a there's a uh there's a hierarchical function going on Coming under him. Don't we also talk about when we speak of husbands and wives? Don't we we should talk about the fact that there's equality in Christ There's equal dignity between man and woman, husband and wife. And yet a wife is asked to come under, to submit to the authority of That's what it says in Scripture. Well, likewise, it's the same way. When we say that a deacon is under the supervision of the elders, as it says in our book of their children, that's not that doesn't mean they're not equal in dignity and honor and and and and and and uh and the in in worth no no it's a it's a it's a it's function in giftedness He says that they're to be tested. Deacons are to be tested. You know, some people kind of they see Unfortunately, they see being a deacon as kind of a stepping stone to try your gifts to see if you can be an elder. It's not the way the New Testament views it. That's not the way New Testament views it. Now that it can happen that way. You can't have a person who becomes a deacon and then they realize, you know, this person really believes it should be an elder. Or it can go the other way around. Someone who's an elder can become a deacon. That's that's happened here in grace But no, it says it says they should be tested. What I'm going to talk about here is that you do not ask someone to serve so as to you don't you don't ask them to serve in an office so that they can serve the church. You don't do that. You ask someone to take an office in the church because they're serving the church. Big difference. You don't say, here's a man who needs to serve the church. Let's make him a deacon. You don't do that. What you do is you say, here's a man who is serving the church. He loves the church. He cares for people. See, what we say about both the elder gift and the deacon gift is that God basically gives the man the gift and then the church realizes the gift. Realizes that the person is gifted and confirms that calling in a person. He should be tested. Tested, not by having some kind of an office, but maybe having lesser responsibilities in the church. But maybe not even having a role in the church, but having a heart to serve the body of Christ In fact, assistance to deacons are encouraged in our system. Here again, Book of Church Order, our Presbyterian Book of Church Order. It is often expedient that the session of a church should select and appoint godly men and women of the congregation to assist the deacons in caring for the sick, the widows, the orphans. The prisoners and others who may be in any distress or need. These assistants to the deacons are not officers of the church, and as such are not subjects for nation. So these are not ordained people But they're already helping the church, they're helping the deacons to under to implement the needs of the body and serve the church And that's good. And again, you notice that he said that he didn't just say that these assistants can be men, but women as well, which gets us to the next passage. But first let me read a um Something that Stott said about elders and deacons, about deacons in particular. He says, looking back, John Stott says, looking back, it's clear the qualifications for the elder and deacons are very similar. There's a core of Christian qualities which all Christian leaders should exhibit. Putting the two lists together, we note that there are five main areas to be investigated. In regard to himself, the candidate must be self-controlled and mature, including the areas of drink, money, temper, and tongue. In regard to his family, both faithful to his wife and able to discipline his children. In regard to his relationships, hospitable and gentle In regard to outsiders, highly esteemed, and in regard to the faith, strong in his hold on its truth, and gifted in teaching it. So those are the the The start narrows those lists into five things, five qualities. Which gets us to verse 11. It's a very interesting verse that's sandwiched here Their wives, literally the women, likewise must be dignified, not slanderous, but sober-minded, faithful in all things. Women. Why do I translate it women? Because it's the Greek word Dynakis, which is the in the Greek there wasn't a word really for wife. It was just women. Women. And I I I give that word because you might hear the G Y-N in the beginning of it, Dynatus. G-Y-N. So if you know what that means. Some of you don't, but that's okay. Dyne Who is Paul talking about when he says and the women? Now if you have an ESD translation like me, it says their wives. But again, literally it's just the women. Who's talking who's Paul talking about? Okay. Well, first the structure of the passage is significant. I give you a little bit of the Greek. The structure of the passage, I think, is very significant, more significant than the Greek. We've seen verses 1 to 7, he's talked about elders. And then he's talked in verse 8, 9, and 10 about deacons. And then he has this verse here. And then he has verses 11 and 12. Okay? So structurally, I think that's very important because uh because some people have taken this in very interesting ways. Let me give you Four ways that it's taken. They argue the way that I think it it it should be, and we'll you know we'll we'll talk about that. Uh first, one option. That it it's simply the wives of deacons, which is the way the ESV translates it. Jerry Usan. It's it's wives of deacons. Now, I don't think that's what it is. That's why I try I would translate new women Now why? Why would Paul single women the wives as deacons out, but say nothing about the wives of elders? That's something that bothers me. That bothers me that he he has something to say about the wives of deacons, but but he doesn't say anything about if he had said something about the wives of elders in in verses in in the first paragraph and then said something about the wives of of of of of deacons. Then I say, okay, this word women is for the the wives of the do of the officers. But he doesn't do that. That that troubles me. So I don't I'm not sure he's talking about wives of deacons. Secondly, another option That there he is talking about the wives of elders and deacons. Um, okay, uh but but why only in this paragraph would he would if he meant to say something about the wives of elders and deacons, why would he just mention it in this paragraph? The first paragraph says nothing about the wise of uh about women at all. Um Why would he sandwich it right here in the deacon section? That's my issue with that. So I don't think that's what's going on here. A third, some people think it's it's ordained female deacons That female deacons can be ordained. There's some discussion about that among PCA pastors, but I don't think that's what's going on either After verse 11, he goes to husband of one wife. Okay? Deacons were women, also, he would have said it differently. He wouldn't have said husband of one wife. He would have made a different phrase. In fact, he uses a different phrase in chapter 5. We'll look at that later, where he says must be a woman of one husband. He's talking about the widows. I just don't I don't think that's what's going on. I think because of the nature of ordination as well, I don't think that's what's happening A fourth option that people use is that there he's just talking about women in general. So he's just, and the women, he's just talking about women in general, women who serve the church. They need to be qualified in their service. Well that's true, but I don't think that's right. I don't think he was structured that way if you if you right there in the middle of the deacon passage. I don't think that's what's going on Why would you insert it right there? If it's just the word for all women who who serve the church. I don't know if that's right. What makes sense to me is this fifth option that I have To me, it's women who serve as non-ordained deaconesses or deacons assistants or deacons helpers Mature women in the church. It may relate to the people, the women who are the widows list of chapter 5. I'm not sure. But I think he's talking about that there are women who particularly are helping the deacons in their tests. Just as there can be men who assist the deacons in their chest, as we saw in our book of tutorial about that. I think that's what he's getting at. Again Do all PCA pastors move in that direction? No. That's what I believe is going on there. And um I think it's in this deacon paragraph for a reason. Okay Now, again, as I said, in our denomination, there's a lot of discussion about the role of women. In some denominations, women are allowed to be elders. In some denominations, women are deacons. Uh among some PC pastors they say, well, maybe there's we did we need to study the deacon thing again and see if there's possibility there. So in twenty seventeen, it was four years ago, three and a half years ago, our denomination finished a study on the issue of of the role of women in the church. You want to see that, just continue a copy of it. Or you can go on the on the PCA website and find it. It's a 2017 document. But let me just read a couple of paragraphs from that document, okay, about women in the church. The Presbyterian Church in America is joyfully and confessionally committed To the Bible's teaching on the complementarity of men and women. As a denomination, we believe that this teaching is true, good, and beautiful We affirm the full dignity of men and women as created in the image of God, Genesis 1, 26, 28. We also humbly and happily embrace Scripture's clear teaching that the eldership is to be composed of qualified men, first Timothy two twelve, three one to seven, five seventeen, who are entrusted by Christ with the ministry of the author authoritative teaching and ruling of the church for the building up of the whole body. of Christ, Ephesians 4. Some in our denomination believe that the office of deacons should be open to women, and thus that women should be ordained as deacons. And this would require a book of ritual of change. Others favor a distinctive ordained office of deaconess, which would also require a book of ritual change. change. While some simply view Deaconess as a title for qualified unordained women who assist the officers of the church in their work. Still others have installed an unordained Deaconate, made up of women and men, a disputed practice in our denomination. Okay. So the study paper, again, it's 50-60 pages of just explaining and goes through all the passages and all this kind of things. But that's just a summary of just again, my position is not outside of the PCA position. It's one of the positions, but there's some freedom in a re uh in this in this topic The report gives space for women to serve alongside elders and deacons in a non-ordained manner. I believe we should do that. This passage does not prohibit it, but it does not mention it in the elder paragraph. And I think that's significant. Now It's important to remember here. This is about the church, not about the greater society. Let me say that again. This restriction of the office of elder and deacon to men is about the church. It's not making a blanket statement that women cannot lead men in society. You need to hear that because some people don't believe we believe that. Okay? What about politics, military, law enforcement, the business world? Well, my plea is that we that we be charitable about those issues. Some might have very strong opinions against it. Some might have very strong opinions for it. I urge you, don't argue over that matter. I have convictions personally about it, but we are in a nation that allows it, and it's not worth the energy it takes to argue against it. I'm concerned that there's a ridiculous attempt to declare that men and women have the same physical potentials. We do we got God creates to do different things physically Eric didn't have the baby. Lee did. God saves us differently. Normally men can do what women can't do in certain areas. That's why the idea of whi w women in the in in in football is not only stupid but dangerous. A lot of us are mourning about football right now in Baltimore. It's preposterous as the idea of a man having a baby is ridiculous. We really should stop attempting to go against our Creator and his design. However, for me, It's not even in the top five issues, cultural battles that the church is facing. So let's not make a big deal about it. The church has the church the the the world is going in a certain direction and there's some bigger battles that we need to fight This is also not a denial of women's worth nor giftedness. It doesn't say women can't serve in these offices because they're not gifted. That's not what it's saying. In fact, women are to use their gifts In the body of Christ, to serve the body of Christ. Titus chapter 2 talks about women training the younger woman, older women training the younger women. First Timothy five, we'll see that later. The widows, the widows have responsibility But I want to look at a very interesting passage, chapter 8 of Luke, the first three verses there. Here's what it says. Here's what Luke says Soon afterward, Jesus went on through the cities and villages, proclaiming and bringing the good news of the kingdom of God. And the twelve were with him, the twelve apostles. And also some women who had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities. So they are with him. And with him is used in the book of Mark, the gospel of Mark, for the disciples were with him. They were in training with him. is his disciples. So women are being trained as disciples here too. Not apostles, but as disciples. Mary, called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had gone out And Joanna, the wife of Shazah, parents of household manager, and Susanna, and many others Who provided for them out of their needs. So there were women among the men. By the way, that had potential for great scandal in that day Think about it. But Jesus didn't care about that. He empowered women. He said, I want women to be discipline. I want women to learn too. They need to learn. They need to learn as well. That's one thing. Two. Women disciples women were allowed to be disciples even if they weren't linked to a man. Now, again, in that day, if you were a woman who wasn't with a man, you were a kind of zero. Now, Jesus had women who weren't married that were part of his team. Mary and Martha passage. You remember how Jesus reaffirms The discipleship learning role for women. Remember that the Mary Martha Passes, which is in chapter 10, two chapters later. Okay Jesus affirms the learning, discipleship of women, even single, even women who aren't with a man. And it says, Mary has chosen the good portion which will not be taken away from her. Luke 10, 42. But the other thing is, the women who followed him were women who had means. What does that mean? They had an economic means. Now, maybe they were widowed, or maybe they were not. Maybe they had their own economy. We don't know. We know in the book of Acts that there was a woman named Lydia who was a seller of purples Now maybe she inherited from her husband, we don't know. Maybe she's a widow. But my point is simply this. Let's not take the idea of what it says here about leadership in the church being only males. Let's not take that the way some have taken it. The women can have no leadership, no, no authority, no usage of their gifts in society. It's just not true. And Jesus always He pressed the issue of equality of women more than the religious leaders of his day. Don't forget that. And as you share with your friends who talk about Jesus being oppressive to women, remember these things. Remember these things. Also, that word diaconia, that diaconus that I saw earlier, well the the word diaquonia is the root word of deck is used all of the New Testament in several ways. We need to understand It's used for the word deacon, the word servant, the word minister, all of who have that diakka root. Now, there's different nuances and ways of use, but you need to understand that those concepts are very close Sometimes it's used in just the action, and sometimes it's used in more of a technical term for an office. But they're all very similar. There's a lot of ambiguity and difference of opinion about that, by the way. Romans chapter 16. He says, I commend to you our sister Phoebe, a servant of the church at Cancree. The word servant is diaconon. Some would say that she's not it's translated as servant, some would say it's she's deacon. She's deaconess. I don't know All I know is that the words are very similar in the Greek, and I'm not a Greek scholar. In chapter 10 of Mark, Jesus says that he came to serve. Is it in verse 10, 43, 45? But it shall not be among you, like the Gentiles. Whoever would be great among you must be your servant. Whoever would be first among you must be slave of all. For even the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve. That's the Aquinace. There's a Diakabo again. To give his life as a ransom for many. Jesus, you see, he served. Jesus was a deacon. Do you feel that? Do you hear that? Because there's this linguistic ambiguity, here's my plea. We must exercise charity as we talk with other people about the nature of these offices. particularly other people of other tribes, of other tribes of the church, who just might take it differently. You might think, yeah, women can be deacons. I'm not going to argue that. If that's the way you look at that, I'm not going to argue with it. I lean this way. And this is where this is where I will serve. All right, um just a couple quick applications here about the whole issue of officers. He's addressed in these verses elders, deacons, and women. The ultimate difference in the elder and deacon is about giftedness and not rank. Deacons are not inferior with less significant roles. It's not a testing ground for future elders. No. I've seen men who were elders and didn't discover that they should have been deacons, and I've seen the other way around. Second reminder Where will we find future elders and deacons and future leaders of women? Where will they come from? Well they might come from outside, but We need to train up our young people to think that I want to become a godly person and maybe as I grow in godliness, God will call me to serve and to be ordained into an office. to have a specific role or task in his body. Some of us, none of us will be here forever. Some of us won't be around, some of us will be around longer than others. Lord will me. We need to train up the next generation of elders, deacons, women leaders. Train them with that mindset. You don't train them to become ordained people You will train them to become godly people. And out of the godly people who are who are walking with God, God will cause some. to positions of leadership. We pray that God will lay hands on some of the children of the congregation. And the third thing is all of us are called to that godly character. I want to remind All of us are called to godly character. Elders, deacons, women, young people, old people. We're all called for that. And leadership in God's church is not because we know the Bible better than other people, not because we have more money or we have prestige or because we have popularity. Not because you even have age. Not because you have worldly wisdom. It's about spiritual maturity. Godly character. For those who serve well as deacons gain a good standing for themselves and great confidence in their faith that's in Christ Jesus. It comes back to Christ Jesus. It's not just great confidence in yourself as a deacon or confidence among others in the body because Because we are the body of Christ and we serve Him and we are brought by Him. And He ministered through both deeds and words And the watching world needs to have confidence in the church. And that will only happen as they see the invisible church being the invisible church, being the body of Christ. And I believe that the deacons, more than even the elders, are the face of the church. They are the ones who touch the world. Think again about the ministry of Jesus. Jesus didn't roll in the town all the time and begin to teach. Usually He would heal people. He would cast out demons. He would touch people in their psychological and physical areas of need. And then he would preach, teach the word of God. The kingdom of God is spread through deacons and elders, through people who. Through the church, the visible church ministering to people through deed and through word. And maybe there's an order there. Maybe it's deed first and then word. I don't know. In Luke, that's the order, by the way. Deed and word. Jesus came powerfully in deed and word. I believe that the world around us is sick of hearing about Jesus from us. I believe that's where we are, 21st century America. But if we can touch the world, care for the people of the world, love the people of the world, serve the people of the world through the ministry, through our deeds, maybe, maybe they will stop and listen. And be drawn to him. Because to know him is to know life eternal. I trust you know him. I trust you know life eternal. Because it only comes through Jesus. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you call us to be a church, to be a local congregation, a visible expression of the gospel. We thank you for deacons. Thank you for the deacons of grace who serve us. Well, we need a few more deacons. You know that. Pray you would have your hand on That we would not lay hands too swiftly on people, but the but but that that the the godly men would rise up to to to answer the call Pray you would uh seal this word in our hearts, Lord, as even as we as a congregation are part of the responsibility of confirming those whom you call. Maybe remember these qualifications. It's godly men, the part to serve. We think of women as well. This passage talks about women. Women need to lead in their own way, in their own role. We'll see that later in chapter 5. We pray that you'll be raising up leaders in this church. Lord, thank you for Grace Church and its history and for its future. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. And let's let's uh close our time