Well good morning. We'll be continuing on in our series in Deuteronomy this morning. And we'll be looking at chapter 25, verses 11 to 19. So if you have a Bible, I invite you to turn there with me. And as you find it, just as a refresher of where we are in in our study in Deuteronomy, God's people have been wandering in the wilderness for forty years, and they're standing at the plains of Moab about to inherit the land that God has promised to give them. And as Moses nears the end of his life, he's giving these series of speeches as his parting words to the people. And in doing so, he's taking the law that they were given at Mount Sinai and explaining it and applying it to their new life in the land. And the past several chapters we've looked at in Deuteronomy have highlighted God's concern for the vulnerable and the neglected and the importance of pursuing justice. And so we continue with that theme this morning in in our passage. So if you would stand as we honor the reading of God's Word. Hear God's word from Deuteronomy twenty-five, starting in verse eleven. When men fight with one another, and the wife of the one draws near to rescue her husband from the hand of him who is beating him. and puts out her hand, and seizes him by the private parts, then you shall cut off her hand. Your eye shall have no pity. You shall not have in your bag two kinds of weights, a large and a small You shall not have in your house two kinds of measures, a large and a small. A full and fair weight you shall have, a full and fair measure you shall have, that your days may be long in the land that the Lord your God is giving you For all who do such things, all who act dishonestly, are an abomination to the Lord your God. Remember what Amalek did to you on the way as you came out of Egypt, how he attacked you on the way, when you were faint and weary. and cut off your tail, those who are lagging behind you. And he did not fear God. Therefore, when the Lord your God has given you rest from all your enemies around you, in the land that the Lord your God has giving you for an inheritance to possess You shall blot out the memory of Amalek from under heaven. You shall not forget. This is God's word. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you that you have spoken to us through your word, that we might know you. We thank you for the promise, Lord, that you will sanctify us in your word, that your word never goes out and returns to you empty, but it always accomplishes the purpose for which you And so we pray, Holy Spirit, now that as we turn to your word, that you would open our eyes to understand it. Lord, that you would enable us to behold wonderful things from your law, and that you would Convict us of sin where we need it and encourage us with the gospel where we need it. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen. You may be seated. Well we live in a world where injustice is common. It's everywhere. And Because it's so common in the world we live in, it's become it's possible to become numb and even desensitized to it in in so many different ways. And and this shows itself in our lives in different ways, right? We We try not to think about it sometimes. We we tend to ignore it. We might even come to the place where we begin to tolerate it as the status quo, feeling like there's nothing we can do about it And in some cases, we even find ourselves embracing it as the normal way of life in the world. Right? We believe in the slogan, look out for number one. And when we do these things, we find ourselves often manipulating and mistreating others in order to do what's in our own best interest. We might even find ourselves overreacting when we've been wronged and desiring to respond in such a way that we teach people never to mess with us again. Well, Deuteronomy, as we said, has been highlighting God's care for the poor and the oppressed. But as we turn to these verses, Moses is a little bit more blunt, and he makes it clear that God hates injustice. And that as his people, we must turn away from this wickedness and pursue justice. And we see in this passage two different ways. We see first that we're called to pursue justice within the context of God's people. And second, that we're called to pursue justice outside of the covenant community. So let's first look at how we must pursue justice within the community of God's people. And we see that in verses 11 to 26. This passage starts off with a little bit of an odd scenario. We're told about two men who are fighting, and we're told that if if the wife of one of the men step one of the men steps in to help out her husband, And in doing so, if she grabs the other man by the private parts, that her hand is to be cut off. If we're honest, this sounds like a medieval form of punishment for a really weird offense In fact, nowhere else in the Old Testament is mutilation prescribed as a punishment for any kind of sin. So what's going on? I think in order to understand what's happening, we need to understand it in the context of all that's come before, especially in the context of everything Pastor Josiah said last week in the discussion of leverett marriage. Right. Pastor Josiah explained how those verses highlighted God's care and concern and his providential care for his people. And it's that same theme that runs through our passage this morning. God allowed this practice of leverate marriage for a specific time in Israel. Where uh a brother-in-law would marry his sister-in-law in order to perpetuate the name of a husband who's died. Right? And and we saw last week that that was done for the specific purpose of ensuring That the people of God could enjoy the covenant blessings that He had promised. The blessing of living in the land throughout their generation, that no family would lose their inheritance, and that the family line would continue So that eventually Christ could come from Israel as Abraham's offspring. And it's only in the context of the importance of preserving the family line. for God's people, that we can really understand what's going on in in those passages and why it's so wrong for the woman here to act as she does in our passage Right, this is not primarily an issue of of chastity or modesty. There's no sexual overtones to this passage. The issue is that the woman's actions Threaten the man's family line. She could cause damage by grabbing him in this way and effectively make it impossible for him to have children. And as we saw this last week, that wouldn't merely humiliate him. That would put his entire family in jeopardy and make them vulnerable after he died. And they could very well lose their inheritance in the land. Right, so in other words, she's going way over the top in her reaction. She's overreacting in a vindictive way that far surpasses what's necessary to help her husband Right? It's the idea that if someone slaps you, you turn around and shoot them in the face. Right? Her reaction is excessive, unjust, and uncalled for. And it's because of that that she's given such a harsh and shameful punishment. And the people are warned that they're not to avoid carrying out punishments out of pity. And and it's easy to see why they'd be tempted to do that, right? I mean this is a permanent punishment. There's no way for her hand to be restored. She would carry that shame with her for the rest of her life And it's possible, in the case of this hypothetical example, if if it really happened, it's possible to imagine a scenario where she didn't actually inflict the damage she intended. And so the people might be tempted to say, well, we're not going to really carry out the punishment in this case. But God makes it clear that this injustice must be punished, and that the people must be faithful to carry it out. Right? And The point isn't that God's being vindictive here, right? The point is that this punishment, and the reason it's actually written in Deuteronomy, is to function as a deterrent so that this situation never actually happens. And that if it does happen, that it doesn't happen twice. Right? God is not being vindictive. He's emphasizing the severity of this crime through the punishment prescribed. And we need to think of that in context of the church today, right? The church is not given the use of force. We don't carry out physical punishments and And yet the church is called to exercise discipline over her mem members. Right? And and that discipline is not vindictive. It's not to punish someone for doing wrong. The idea is the goal is restoration, to restore and reclaim the person who's been sinned. So that they can become back into the fellowship of God's people and to warn the rest of us not to sin in the same way. Because sin has a way of working its way through the body. And sin that goes undisciplined threatens to destroy God's people. And so this situation is a way of God protecting his people from a sin that would threaten to destroy them. And that's the same goal in these verses. This act of injustice would undermine God's covenant promises, and he will not stand for that. He is a faithful God who will be sure to bless his people as he's promised, and he will not allow anything to stand in the way. And the same goes later in these verses for how people are to relate to one another in everyday life. Let's look at verses 13 to 16. We see that they highlight the need for just and honest interactions with others in everyday life. Moses says, you shall not have in your bag two kinds of weights, a large and a small. You shall not have in your house two kinds of measures, a large and a small. A full and fair weight you shall have, a full and fair measure you shall have, that your days may be long in the land that the Lord your God is giving you. For all who do such things, all who act dishonestly are an abomination to the Lord your God. Right, these weights and measures were used for buying and selling in everyday life. And the idea here is that if you wanted to cheat someone out, you could have two different weights or two different measures. You'd have one weight that's just a little bit heavier than the other. And if you were buying something, you'd put that heavy weight on the scale to make it look like whatever you were buying didn't weigh as much as it did. But you could rip someone off through selling by putting the lightweight on the scale and making it look like they're buying more than they are. So you could underpay and overcharge. And the same goes with these measures by selling for volume. If you're buying something, use the larger measure, you can fit more in. But if you're selling, give them the smaller measure, and it makes it look like they're buying more than they are, so you can shortchange them. And the people here are commanded not to have multiple weights and measures. Now, here's the point. These aren't inherently sinful to own, but You're putting you're setting yourself up for sin, right? The only reason to have them is if you intend to use them to rip someone off Right? At best, you're unnecessarily tempting yourself. And at worst, you're going out of your way to be dishonest and unjust. The idea is, you know, we've all had that experience at the grocery store, right? Where we check out and the cashier accidentally gives you too much change. And as you walk out to the car, you're having that internal debate with yourself. Should I return the money? Should I not? It's only a couple dollars. They're probably not really going to miss it. And we we know in that situation the right thing to do is to return the money, right? But you didn't actively set out to rob the store. It's far different if every time you went shopping you intentionally handed the cashier a few dollars short, hoping she wouldn't notice, trying to rip them off and seeing if you can get away That's the picture of what's going on with these dishonest weights and measures. So God commands that the people be fair and honest so that they can be just in all of their business transactions. Right, we all know those people, don't we? That that person that's always trying to game the system in their favor. It seems like their entire life is lived in that gray area of Trying to manipulate other people for their own gain and seeing just how far they can push it. And if we're honest with ourselves, I think we find ourselves doing that from time to time as well, don't we? Right? We withhold portions of the truth in order to make ourselves look good. And if we get caught, we say, I wasn't lying, I just didn't tell you everything that happened. And Moses says this kind of dishonesty and intentional manipulation of other people is an abomination to God. He hates it. And the people can't expect to live like this and still live in the land that he's blessing them with. So he calls them to be just and honest so that they can enjoy a long life in the land that he's promised to give them. Right, and just as a side comment, right, this is a good place to be reminded, what we've seen throughout Deuteronomy, that God's law is not given to be a burden to restrict our joy and freedom and happiness. It's a blessing that's given to us for our good, because it's only when we follow God's law that we can enjoy long life and true flourishing. But this injustice isn't just a problem with Israel. And it's not just a problem with wickedness out there in the world either. Every single one of us is prone to act unjustly and wickedly towards others, even our own brothers and sisters. Right, we may not physically harm one another, but how often do we cut one another down with our words? How often do we gossip and slander one another behind their backs, saying things that we would never be bold enough to say face to face? Or things that we don't even know if they're true. We may not actively rob one another through shady business transactions, but in how many of our relationships are we actively pursuing the good and well-being of others? Even at our own expense. The reality is that we are all tempted to selfishness in the way that we interact with others. Always wanting to have a relationship where we can receive and get more than we're required to give. I think if we're all if we're honest with ourselves, we have to also recognize that too often we approach the church in the same way, don't we? We think about our relationship with the church in terms of what can this place and these people do for me? Rather, and what do they have to offer me? rather than thinking, how can I use the gifts and talents that God's given me to serve these people? Don't get me wrong, right? There is nothing wrong with needing and expecting to be ministered to and cared for by God's people. The Bible expects that as part of the normal Christian life. But the Bible's also clear that we're sinning when we approach the church with a consumer mindset that effectively says, If this place doesn't live up to all of my expectations, I'm going to take my business elsewhere. We need to be a people who promote justice in our relationships with one another. And that means not just watching how we live, but also speaking up when we see others acting unjustly in the church. But this passage also says that we need to pursue justice outside of the covenant community as well. And we see that in verses 17 to 19. In these verses, Moses reminds the people of the persecution they suffered at at the hands of the Amalekites on their way out of Egypt. You can read about this story in Exodus chapter 17. The people had just left Egypt and crossed through the Red Sea. They were on their way to Mount Sinai, and we're told that the Amalekites, who are descendants of Esau, came and attacked them. And if you remember this story, it's where Moses was told to hold up his staff over his head. And as long as he held up his staff, the people of Israel would be victorious. But every time he got tired and his arms started to fall The Amalekites started to win. And so he had to find people to help hold his arms up so that they would be able to stay up. And eventually the people won the battle, the people of Israel. And at the end of that battle in Exodus seventeen, we read that the Lord said to Moses, Write this as a memorial in a book, and recite it in the ears of Joshua, that I will utterly blot out the memory of Amalek from under you. And Moses built an altar upon the name of the Lord, and named it the Lord is my banner, saying, A hand upon the throne of the Lord, the Lord will have war with Amalek from generation to generation. So as the people are about to enter the promised land, Moses is reminding them not to fail and not to forget to wipe out the Amalekites. And he does this in a way that highlights the excessive wickedness that the Amalekites did to the Israelites Right, the Israelites are described as faint and weary. They just left Egypt, crossed through the Red Sea. At this point they've been traveling for at least a few days, if not as much as a couple weeks. And Amalek didn't merely come and attack them face to face, but our passage makes it clear that Moses says they cut off their tail, meaning they came up from behind them, attacked them from behind, surprising them. Now imagine if you have this whole nation traveling for a few days or as much as a few weeks, who do you think are the ones that are lagging behind in the back? The elderly, the weak, the sick, the children. The ones lagging behind are the most vulnerable. And so again we have this picture of heightened over-the-top injustice and wickedness. Right? It's bad enough for the Amalekites to come and attack the Israelites. Not only are they distant relatives, but they haven't done anything to you. But it's far worse to sneak up behind them and try to kill the weakest and most vulnerable. Moses made clear that the only reason they can sin in such a bold way is because they have no fear of God. And so Moses warns that once the people are settled in the land and God has given them rest for all their enemies, that they are not to forget to destroy the Amalekites. And just as a as a place to pause, we we should also recognize this is such a comforting promise, right? Moses doesn't say You know, if if by chance you happen to be able to defeat all these enemies and and maybe you're able at some point to settle in this land that God's promised to give you, then try and defeat the Amalekites. No, he says, when you have been given rest from all your enemies, when God has placed you in the land and established you in the place where he's promised you, then go on and do this. Right? The future hope that God's promised to his people is not left a chance. It's a guarantee that they can plan on and count on. He will settle them in the land, and there is no doubt about it. And I think that's such a comfort for us to remember that the one who has promised us a But sometimes when we read through the Old Testament and see these stories and commands where God commands his people to wipe out an entire nation. We really struggle to understand what's going on there. And so I think we have to remember at the point in the history of Israel where we are, right? God's people were primarily confined to one nation that was governed directly by God. So the first thing to say is it should go without saying that this is not how the Lord leads the church to act today, right? God's people are no longer one nation. We're a family of nations. And Christ is still the king of his church, but he does not give his church the use of force. And so our battle is not against flesh and blood, but against the spiritual forces at work in this world. Right? We fight against sin that arises from the world, the flesh, and the devil. But we have to think of this in order to understand it in line with a few different themes of scripture. And then the first is just the reality of our own sin. The Bible is as clear as it can be that the wages of sin is death. That even though we're we're really good at downplaying the reality of the evil that we commit and how offensive it is to a holy God, we have to remember That all sin deserves death. I saw a study this week. There was a study of self-professing evangelicals in the United States. And one of the troubling things that was revealed in this study is that A majority of people who identify as evangelical Christians in the United States now would say that simply committing one small sin does not mean you should deserve the wrath of God for all eternity. And setting aside for a moment the fact that no one of us really could just commit one small sin. If we just put that off to the side for a minute, that totally misses the way Scripture speaks about the holiness of our God. And how offensive sin is to him. And so we have to remember as we come here to this passage that every breath we take as sinful people is a merciful gift from God. Right? The reality is not that the Amalekites didn't deserve to be treated this way. The reality is that every single one of us deserves this kind of death. And so this passage is simply God's way of using his people as an instrument of his just judgment. And it's one of the ways that the Bible warns us about the fate of those who reject Christ. But the second point, and the one that I think touches even a little more closely to the context that we're looking at in this passage, is the way that this relates to God's covenant promises. You see, the reason that God commands that Amalek should be destroyed is because they had tried to destroy God's covenant people. Right? These verses and everything that we've been talking about recently about protect is about God protecting and preserving his people and his faithfulness to keep his promises. Listen to the way that one pastor explains this. He says The Amalekites are viewed as an existential threat, not simply to Israel, but to the covenant promises of God, that He will bless the whole world through His chosen people. The Amalekites are not simply threatening a people group with their determination to wipe out Israel, but they are a threat to the salvation plan of God for all other nations. As descendants of Esau, they had despised the covenant themselves, and now they were determined that no others could have access to what they had rejected. You see, the Amalekites' attack on Israel was a direct assault on God Himself. And God hates any kind of injustice that threatens to destroy his people and undermine his covenant promises and faithfulness And so he commands that they must be destroyed. But if you read through the rest of the Old Testament, you'll come to the conclusion that the people of Israel never actually did this. They had an opportunity in 1 Samuel 15 where Saul, after becoming king, is commanded to go out and destroy all of the Amalekites. We find out that he disobeys that command, and that ends up being one of the key reasons why God rejects him as king in turns to David. Because God's people need a king who will defeat their enemies. And we see them show up again in the story of Esther. If you remember Haman, the court official who has a sinister plot to destroy the Jews, we're told that he's an Agagite, which is another name for an Amalekite. Again, we see God step in to fight for his people and deliver them from their enemies. And as we think today, right, God's people have always been persecuted. And that's no less true today. Some of our brothers and sisters around the world are following Christ at the cost of their freedom, of their families, and even of their lives. We've been reminded of this recently with the release of Pastor Brunson from prison in Turkey, right? And we rightly rejoice in that. But as we rejoice, we have to also remember it doesn't always have a happy ending Many Christians throughout the world give their lives for following Christ. And even here, though it's rare for us to be in physical danger because of our faith, can still be costly. It can lead to us being alienated by others. We can lose relationships. And It seems that unless the Lord intervenes, this discrimination will only increase in the coming decades. And as we think of these verses where the people are reminded to destroy the Amalekites, it's an opportunity for us to take comfort that we have a perfect king. A king who fights our battles for us and who has promised that he will reign until he has defeated every last enemy. And that should give us great great comfort in our struggle with with persecution and with sin and just with all the painful realities of living in a fallen world. But in addition to giving us comfort in the face of persecution, it should also encourage us not to ignore the injustice we see around us in the world. Injustice is everywhere. And sadly, the church has often been guilty of turning a blind eye to the wickedness around us. As the people of God, of a God who clearly hates injustice and oppression, we should be the first people to speak up on behalf of the vulnerable and to call out sin when we see it. That's simply an extension of what it means to love your neighbor as yourself, isn't it? You see, the Amalekites never fully wiped out the Israelites, and even though we're called to pursue justice in every area of life We're never going to get there this side of heaven. And that's not an excuse for not trying, but it is a comfort for the days when it feels impossible. Because it is impossible for you. But not for God. And He has blessed us with the privilege of working towards this goal of justice, a goal which He has promised to establish on the last day And so when we pursue this, we can recognize that if you're doing God's work, you cannot fail. Even if it feels like we take one step forward and three steps back, we can rest in the confidence that He will be faithful to accomplish what He's promised. Because the goal of the universe is headed towards a kingdom of justice and peace. Christ will return as the judge of all the earth. Sin will be punished. Satan will be defeated and righteousness and peace will be established for all eternity. We read in Scripture that God is love. But as a loving God, there are things that he rightly hates. And he makes clear that one of those things he hates is injustice. Especially heinous, over-the-top acts of injustice. And he calls us to hate it too. As we reflect on this passage, we must remember that we sin in the same ways. We can't live up to God's standard, and so we need to praise God for the fact that He has been faithful to overcome our sin. And to ensure that we receive the blessings that He's promised us. That He sent His only Son to die in our place, to make atonement for our sin, to live a just and righteous life, the life that we failed to live. That he perfectly obeyed all that the Father had given him, fulfilling all righteousness and justice. And then suffering in our place, he bore the punishment on our behalf. Christ suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God. And he died to justify unjust sinners like us. And he's poured out his Spirit to sanctify us, to change us and make us more holy and righteous. So that when we sin, we can take comfort because we have an advocate with the Father in Jesus Christ the righteous. And we have the promise that the Spirit's work in our lives to break the power of sin and to make us holy, that this work one day will be brought to completion. That Christ will return. And one day we'll see him face to face. And in that moment, when we see him as he is, we will be made like him, free from sin forever. He will establish his kingdom of justice and peace, and that kingdom will have no end, and we'll serve him there forever. That's the great hope that he's given to his people. But we're not there yet. And so until then, let us strive together to put off what is earthly in us And sinful. To turn away from injustice and to put on as God's people those things that make for justice: compassionate hearts, kindness, humility, meekness, patience. Bearing with one another. And if anyone has a complaint against another, forgiving one another as God has forgiven us. And above all these things, let's put on love which binds everything together in perfect harmony. And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed we have been called in one body. And be thankful. Let's pray. God, you are a just and holy God, and you've made it clear that that as your people, we are to be holy as you are holy. We are to love the things you love and to hate the things you hate, Lord. As we reflect on your word, we can do nothing more than acknowledge that our spirit is willing, but our flesh is so weak We struggle in all these ways, Lord. And so we pray, Holy Spirit, that you would continue to work in our lives, to make us a people after your own heart. People who look more and more like Christ and act more and more like Christ each day. And we pray that you would do this. We thank you, Lord, for the promise that you've given us in your word. the sure promise and the guarantee of your spirit until we acquire the possession of our full salvation on the last day. We long for that, Lord, and we thank you for the promise that Christ will return. And we pray all of this in his name. Amen.