Well good morning. As Jim mentioned, we'll be reading today from Deuteronomy chapter two. verses 1 through 25, and it's another lengthy passage, so it's not in your bulletin, but you can find it on pages 186 and 187 of the Pew Bibles. As Pastor Josiah preached last week, we saw about the people's rebellion and unfaithfulness as they were about to enter the land. And as we turn to our passage passage today, we we see the aftermath of their rebellion and how the Lord's at work in their lives. So if you would, would you please stand as we honor the reading of God's Word? Hear God's word. Then we turned and journeyed into the wilderness. In the direction of the Red Sea, as the Lord told me, and for many days we traveled around Mount Seir. Then the Lord said to me, You have been traveling long around this mountain country long enough. Turn northward and command the people: you are about to pass through the territory of your brothers, the people of Esau, who live in Seir, and they will be afraid of you So be very careful do not contend with them, for I will not give you any of their land. No, not so much as for the sole of the foot to tread on, because I have given Mount Seir to Esau as a possession. You shall purchase food from them for money that you may eat, and you shall also buy water of them for money that you may drink. For the Lord your God has blessed you in all the work of your hands. He knows you're going through this great wilderness. These forty years the Lord your God has been with you. You have lacked nothing. So we went on, away from our brothers, the people of Esau, who live in Sair, away from the Arabah Road, from Elath to Ezien Gebur. And we turned and went in the direction of the wilderness of Moab. And the Lord said to me, Do not harass Moab or contend with them in battle, for I will not give you any of their land for a possession, because I have given R to the people of Lot for a possession. And the Amim formerly lived there, a people great and many, and tall as the Anakim. Like the Anakim, they are also counted as Rephaim, but the Moabites call them Amim The Horites also lived in Seir formerly, but the people of Esau dispossessed them, and destroyed them from before them, and settled in their place, as Israel did to the land of their possession, which the Lord gave to them. Now, rise up and go over the Brook Zerud. So we went over the Brook Zerud, and the time from our leaving Tadesh Barnia until we crossed the Brook Zerud was 38 years. until the entire generation, that is, the men of war, had perished from the camp, as the Lord had sworn to them. For indeed the hand of the Lord was against them, to destroy them from the camp, until they had perished So as soon as all the men of war had perished and were dead from among the people, the Lord said to me, Today you are to cross the border of Moab at Ar, and when you approach the territory of the people of Ammon, do not harass them or contend with them. For I will not give you any of the land of the people of Ammon as a possession, because I have given it to the sons of Lot for a possession. It is also counted as a land of Rephaim. Rephaim formerly lived there, but the Ammonites called them Zanzamim, a people great and many, and tall as the Anakim. But the Lord destroyed them before the Ammonites, and they dispossessed them and settled in their place, as he did for the people of Esau who live in Sair, when he destroyed the Horites before them, and they dispossessed them and settled in their place, even to this day. As for the Avim, who lived in the villages as far as Gaza, the Kaftorim, who came from Kaftor, destroyed them and settled in their place Rise up, set out on your journey, and go over the valley of the Arnon. Behold, I have given into your hand Sihon the Amorite, king of Heshbon, and his land. Begin to take possession and contend with him in battle. This day I will begin to put the dread and fear of you on the peoples who are under the whole of heaven, who shall hear the report of you and shall tremble and be in anguish because of you. This is God's word. Let's pray. Our Father, we we thank you for your word. We believe that all of Scripture is breathed out by God and is useful for teaching, for correcting, for training, for rebuking, that the the people of God that we may be Fully equipped for every good work. And we believe that no word of Scripture was ever brought about by the will of man, but men wrote as they were carried along by your Spirit. And so we thank you, Lord, for your word and for the promise that you reveal yourself in your word, and that though heaven and earth may pass away, your word will remain. And so, Lord, we ask now that as we turn to your word, that you would speak to us. Speak, Lord, for your servants are listening. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. And you may be seated. Well, promises are a big deal. And and for God's people in the Old Testament, their very identity was wrapped up in a promise. God had spoken to Abraham and to Moses and throughout the Old Testament, and this promise repeats itself. I will be your God and you will be my people. And in Genesis fifteen, God promised Abraham that he would bring Abraham's descendants back to the land of Canaan. The Lord said, Know for certain that your offspring will be sojourners in a land that is not theirs and will be servants there And they will be afflicted for four hundred years, but I will bring judgment on the nation that they serve, and afterward they shall come out with great possessions, and they shall come back here in the fourth generation You see, all of God's work up in their lives up until this point has been done in order to fulfill that promise. That's why he had done all the things that he'd done. But the people's rebellion and refusal to enter the land, as we saw last week, has called all of that into question. As Pastor Josiah talked about last week, they failed to believe and to trust in God's promises to give them the land and and to establish them there, and they rebelled against him. And the result was that the Lord said that no one from that generation would live to see the land, except for Joshua and Caleb, who had remained faithful and trusted in the Lord. And so the people had to literally wander around in the desert for 40 years until everyone died off. I mean, how do you think they were feeling at this point in their history? They had 40 years to think about how they had failed the Lord. And this was not a small failure. As I said, God had promised Abraham that he would establish the people in the land. And at several points in the Bible, at several important transitions, we read about how God remembered that promise and how that was the basis for all he was going to do. That was why he brought the people out of Egypt. In the Exodus. He brought them out to bring them into the promised land. And they got right to the edge of the land, and God was finally about to fulfill the promise that He had made more than 400 years before that. And the people choked. They doubted God and rebelled against him at the most crucial moment in their history. This is no small failure. This is a big deal. And they continued to fail repeatedly throughout those wilderness years. So I'm sure at the end of this time in the wilderness that there were there were some people who were wondering if God was ever going to let them enter the land. Or if he was just gonna eventually get tired of them and forsake them altogether and move on with other people. Do you ever find yourself feeling that way in your own life? I mean we all fail, don't we? We fail often and and we we don't do the things that God commands us to do. And so often we also do many things that God commands us not to do. We've seen how he's cared for us in the past, how he's met all of our needs and watched over us, and yet we're so quick to doubt that he'll continue to provide for us with all the challenges that lie ahead. Maybe you even get so discouraged by your sins that you find yourself wondering if God could really love you at all. I mean, how can we have hope that God will keep his promises to us when we have been so unfaithful and so rebellious? And how can we move on from our failure without letting it consume us and drive us to despair? I think these are some of the questions that the Israelites were asking at this point in their history. And these are some of the questions that many of us ask from time to time. And for fortunately, these are the questions that this passage is addressing. The main thing that Moses is showing us in this passage is that God restores his rebellious people by pointing them to his own faithfulness. And we see this in a few different ways, but the first way we see this is that God restores his rebellious people by pointing them to his faithful discipline. This passage starts on a low note. They're told to turn back and head into the wilderness in the direction of the Red Sea. You know, they're heading back to where they came from, back toward Egypt. Every rebellion against God is a return to slavery. And with every step, the people are acting out this reality. All of this is the result of their unfaithfulness. The Lord is punishing them and disciplining them for their sin. God is a righteous and holy God who punishes sin. But we also see in this passage that God is a gracious God. Psalm 103 highlights this grace by saying, He made known his ways to Moses, his acts to the people of Israel. The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love. He will not always chide, nor will he keep his anger forever He does not deal with us according to our sins, nor repay us according to our iniquities. And we see this grace on display starting in verse 2. The Lord tells Moses that the people have been wandering long enough. And he tells them to turn and begin making their journey back to the promised land. The punishment is complete, and now it's time to move on. Moses expands on this a little bit later in verses 14 to 18. And he says there that their journey from Kadesh Barnea, which is where they rebelled against God, their journey from Kadesh to the brook of Zarod, which was at the end of their wanderings. Took 38 years. You see, their wandering lasted until the entire generation had perished. And it's clear that God was the one punishing them and disciplining them. Moses says that the hand of the Lord was against them to destroy them from the camp until they had perished. God does not take their sin lightly. Their rebellion has disqualified them from inheriting the land. But it doesn't cause God to reject his people altogether, and it doesn't lead him to turn back from what he had promised The Lord punished the rebellious generation, but as soon as they had all passed away, it was time to resume the plan to enter the land. He is faithful to keep his promises, and he shows that by punishing them And if he keeps his promises in the way he punishes them, that serves as assurance for them that he would keep his promises To keep the land and establish them in the land because he swore it to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. The punishment lasted as long as it needed to, but no longer. But the thing is it this wasn't just a punishment. This time in the wilderness was also a time of preparation. And it was ultimately for the people's own good. Matthew Henry, in his commentary on this passage, highlights how even in the midst of their punishment, God was faithfully preparing them for their inheritance. He says that God not only chastised them for their murmuring and unbelief, but prepared them for Canaan by humbling them for their sin, teaching them to mortify their lusts, to follow God, and to comfort themselves in Him. He says, it's a work of time to make souls ready for heaven, and it must be done by a long train of exercises. You see, there's a lesson for all of us here this morning. If you're a Christian, if you're trusting in Jesus Christ alone for salvation, then this message is one of great hope and comfort You see, we sin, and oftentimes that sin carries with it heavy and painful consequences. But for the Christian, those consequences are not signs that God has stopped loving you. In fact, they're evidence that God loves you. Do you realize that God doesn't hold a grudge against you He disciplines you when you sin, but it's for your own good, and it's actually an expression of your of his love for you. The writer to the Hebrews brings this out when he says: God is treating you as sons For what son is there whom his father does not discipline? If you are left without discipline, in which all have participated, then you are illegitimate children, and not sons. Besides this, we have had earthly fathers who disciplined us, and we respected them. Shall we not much more be subject to the Father of spirits and live For they disciplined us for a short time as it seemed best to them, but he disciplines us for our good, that we may share his holiness For the moment, all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant. But later, it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it You see, sometimes you act rebellious and your heavenly father needs to give you a spanking. But it's because he loves you and because you're his child. He doesn't go around disciplining those who are not his children. By disciplining you for your sin, God is graciously and lovingly preparing you for heaven, for an eternity in his presence. That doesn't mean that it's not painful, but your loving Heavenly Father wants you to know that He disciplines you because He loves you. That lesson ought to be a sort of source of great comfort for us. But if you're not a Christian, and if you're not trusting in in Christ for your salvation, but putting your hope in someone or something else, then the reality is that this lesson is not one of comfort. It's one of warning. You see, the suffering that you endure as a consequence for your sin is a wake-up call from the Lord, who is warning you that if you do not turn from your sinful ways, And come to him for forgiveness, then you'll be under his wrath for all eternity. If you will not submit to his discipline, then you will have his hand against you to destroy you. And so I urge you to heed this warning and be reconciled to God. God disciplines his people, but it's a faithful discipline rooted in love Its design is not to destroy, but to restore rebellious sinners. God restores his people by reminding them of his faithful discipline. But he also restores us by reminding us of his faithful presence in our lives. You see, as the Lord gives them instructions, about where they're to go, God tells them how they're to interact with the people that they they come across and how they're to go through their lands. They're not to attack and they're to pay for everything that they need. And in verse 7, the Lord explains, and he says, For the Lord your God has blessed you in all the work of your hands. He knows you're going through this great wilderness. These forty years the Lord your God has been with you. You have lacked nothing. What an incredible statement that is. I mean, as as we just saw, their whole reason for wandering in the wilderness was because they had rebelled against God. And yet the Lord says that he's blessed them in all that they've done, and that he's been with them the entire time, that he's been meeting their needs. He provided water and food for them. He continued to dwell in their midst in the tabernacle. And he's accepted their sacrifices. He's even ensured that their clothes and sandals did not wear out throughout the forty years. I don't know about you, but it's a miracle if I can make it two years in a pair of shoes. Forty years is extraordinary provision. But don't lose sight of this. It's God's presence that is the incredible thing here. The reason that they've had all that they need is because the Lord was with them. That's exactly what David expresses in Psalm 23, when he says, The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters. He restores my soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. You see, God's presence serves as the basis for having all of their needs met. Because the Lord is their shepherd, they will have all that they need. Now I know this can be challenging for us sometimes. We know that God is with us and that he's in control of all things. That he promises to work all things for our good and for his glory. But we still have trouble, don't we? We still struggle to pay our bills, to make ends meet, to provide for our families. And oftentimes that's not even the result of a particular sin. It's just the reality of living in a fallen world. And that's why, like the Israelites, we need to remember that God's presence is also the foundation of our hope. God did not abandon them, even in their rebellion. You know, sometimes you might turn away from the Lord and live in sin for a time, but God never turns his back on you. That's the great promise of the gospel. If you're a Christian, Christ bore your sin and died on the cross in your place. And he asked, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? You see, because he asked that, that's something you'll never have to ask. Because Christ was forsaken in your place, you can have confidence that God will never forsake you. The Lord has already met our greatest need in the forgiveness of our sins. And he did that while we were still his enemies. If God would do that for you, he will not neglect to care for you. God did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all. How will he not also with him graciously give us all things? You see, the death and resurrection of Christ, among so many other things, is the definitive guarantee that God is for you and not against you. And that's why Moses reminds them of God's presence precisely at this point in their history. You see, in order to believe that God will keep his promise to give them the land, they need to be reminded that he has never left their side. Psalm 23 again reflects that same confidence. Because the Lord is with him to meet his needs, the psalmist has confidence to hope in God's abundant provision. He says, you prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil. My cup overflows. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. So, where do you find yourself struggling to trust in God's promises this morning? Do you worry that your sin is too big and too bad to forgive, and that God will abandon you? Well, He has promised never to leave you and never to forsake you. And he has put his money where his mouth is by sending his son to die in your place and to rise again. And as if that wasn't enough, he then sent his spirit to dwell within us as the guarantee of our salvation. And Paul talks about that in Ephesians 1. He says, When you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, you were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance. until we acquire the possession of it. This is the Spirit who teaches us to cry, Abba, Father, the one who bears witness with our spirit that we're children of God. And of children, also heirs. Heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ. You see, God is present with his people through Christ by his spirit. And his presence guarantees that nothing can ever separate us from his love. So God restores us when we fail by pointing us to his faithful presence. And finally, he restores us by pointing us to his faithful provision. Have you been wondering why why Moses spends so much time talking about other nations in this passage? He talks about their journey through Seir, through Moab, and through Ammon. And he makes it clear in each of these cases that they are not to expect God to give them any of this land. You see, Sair was a territory of the people of Esau, who is Jacob's brother, and Moab and Ammon were territories who were descendants of Lot, who was Abraham's nephew. You see, these nations are related to God's covenant people, but they're not part of his covenant people. And in these verses, God is showing his sovereign provision for these nations, and showing that if he can and has provided for them, He most certainly can and will provide for his special chosen people. And God goes even a step further in these verses. He doesn't merely show that he's willing to keep his promises. He shows that he's able to keep his promises. He shows it by highlighting his sovereignty. In the ancient world, many local tribes had had local deities that they worshiped. And they they believed that they had some power, but that they weren't all powerful. And so when you had wars, it was often seen as a battle between one God and the other, and whoever had more power was going to win. You see, but Yahweh is not just the God of Israel. He is the Lord of all the earth. He's the only true and living God. And he works all things according to the counsel of his will. He owns the cattle on a thousand hills He is the one who established the boundaries of the ocean, telling the waves where to stop. And he most certainly has the power to determine the boundaries of the nations. It's not only Israel who receives for land as a gift from the Lord. Every nation that has ever existed only does so because God has established them. And he shows this by telling the people that he's given the land to Seir, to Moab, and to Ammon, and that even his own chosen people don't have the right to take it from them. He has the power to give them any land he chooses, but he also has the power to defeat their enemies. The description to the history of these territories and the people who live there is really interesting. We get a glimpse of what peoples lived in the lands before those living there in Israel's day. In Moab, we're told the Amim formerly lived there, a people great and many and as tall as the Anakim. Like the Anakim, they're also counted as Rephaim. And in Ammon, we're told that it it's also counted as a land of the Rephaim. The Rephaim formerly lived there. A people great and many, and as tall as the Anakim. But the Lord destroyed them before the Ammonites, and they dispossessed them and settled in their place, as he did for the people of Esau who lived in Sair You see, this is so significant because as Pastor Josiah pointed out last week, the people who were living in Canaan were one of the main excuses that Israel made for refusing to enter the land. They said, the people are greater and taller than we. The cities are great and fortified up to heaven. And besides, we have seen the sons of the Anakim there. You see the Anakim, the Rephaim, the Amen, they're all related peoples to one another, and they were all known for their massive size. Goliath is somehow related to these people. People. Um there's another king that we'll read about in in chapter three, and we're told that his bed was thirteen and a half feet long and six feet wide. I mean, these people were huge. And fighting them was no joke. But think about the point that the Lord is making here. He's saying, you know those people that you were so terrified of 40 years ago? I've already defeated them multiple times. You can trust me to do the same for you since I've already done it for these other nations, and because I've promised it You see, church, we serve a God who is completely sovereign, who's able to do more than we could ask or imagine. In the Old Testament, God's people belong to one nation. And so oftentimes their enemies were physical. For us, now that the gospel has gone out into all the world, God's people have gone from being a a nation of families. To being a family of nations. And as a result, Paul teaches us that we don't wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness. Against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. You see ours is a spiritual battle, not a physical one. As Peter reminds us, our adversary, the devil, is prowling around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. So what a comfort it is to know that we serve such a great and powerful King in the Lord Jesus Christ. As the Westminster Shorter Catechism reminds us that Christ is our King, He subdues us to Himself, He rules and defends us, and He restrains and conquers all His and our enemies. You see, sometimes you still suffer and struggle. Sometimes it feels like your sin is constantly getting the victory over you. But you can have confidence that your Lord will never turn his back on you. And you can hold fast to the promise that the God of all grace, who has called you into his eternal glory in Christ, will himself restore, confirm, strengthen, and establish you. You see, we all fail. Sometimes we fail hard. But thanks be to God that He doesn't abandon us. Instead, he restores us. Not by pointing us to ourselves, by pointing us to his faithfulness. He doesn't leave us in our sin. He disciplines us and he trains us for glory. He remains with us and he guides us. And he shows us his provision, reminding us that he is able to do anything that he pleases, and he most certainly has the power to keep his promises. So if you find yourself broken this morning or overcome by the realization that you have rebelled against your Lord, then I want to encourage you to look to Christ. Though you are faithless, he remains faithful. He's telling you this morning not to wallow in your sin. You see, it's it's time to move on. It's time to forget what lies behind and strain forward to what lies ahead. It's time to lay aside every weight and sin which cling so closely and to run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking to Jesus. The founder and perfecter of our faith, who, for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross, despising the shame, and is now seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Press on toward the goal of reaching the promised land, and I promise your God will not abandon you. Let's pray. Our Father, what a comfort it is to be reminded of your great faithfulness. That morning by morning we see new mercies coming from you, that you have provided for us all that we have needed, and you promise never to leave us or forsake us. Our Father, we thank you for Christ, for sending your Son to die in our place and to rise again, and for the great comfort and hope it is that we know that right now He is seated at your right hand, interceding for us And that He has not left us alone but sent us His Spirit to dwell within us, to train us, to prepare us for glory, to transform us from one degree of glory into another until one day we will behold your face and be like you free from sin. Father, we just thank you for all these promises. I pray for all of us that you would just encourage us with your word this morning. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.