Well good morning. If you have a Bible, turn to First Timothy, the book of First Timothy in the New Testament, as we begin a sermon series that's going to take us into the uh next year. We're gonna go through the book of First Timothy. First Timothy. We're gonna actually today have there's two scriptures you might see in the bulletin. There's First Timothy chapter one, the first two verses, and then Acts chapter sixteen. the first few verses there. You find that you can if you find it you can stand as we as we read together publicly God's Word All right. First Timothy one, one to two. I, Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus, by command of God our Savior. And of Christ Jesus our hope. To Timothy, my true child in the faith, grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. And then Acts chapter 16 of the first five verses. Paul came also to Derby and to Lystra. A disciple was there named Timothy, the son of a Jewish woman who was a believer. But his father was a Greek. He was well spoken of by the brothers at Lystra and Iconium. Paul wanted Timothy to accompany him, and he took him and circumcised him because of the Jews who were in those places. For they all knew that his father was a Greek. As they went on their way through the cities, they delivered to them for observance the decisions that had been reached by the apostles and elders who were in Jerusalem. So the churches were strengthened in their faith and they increased in numbers daily. Amen. Let's pray Well thank you for this portion of your word, Lord. Disciple us through your holy word. We're sinners who need to be sanctified. Help us to to to be encouraged by grace and yet challenged to live by grace in our day. We'll give you thanks in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Leadership counts. Leadership counts. You may have heard that uh there's an election on Tuesday. Maybe you heard that. Aren't you kinda sick of it? Ready for it to be over in a lot of ways? So much discussion about it. It's dominated the news for months and months and months. And if you if you haven't had enough, I saw a few weeks ago a wonderful synopsis. of the two men. It was done by all people by all organizations, uh uh frontline PBS. They did a uh of the two hour special where they looked at the life, the whole life of of Biden, the whole life of uh President Trump They did a wonderful job, even though of course the PBS, there was a slight leftward lean. It was excellent. I commend it to you if you want to just get a review of their lives, of who these who these ten who these two men are Leadership counts. I heard a great summary of my thoughts a few days ago that as a believer we should not put our ultimate hope in the donkey, which is the Democrats Well, the elephant, which is the Republicans, we should place our hope in the Lamb. In the Lamb, the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world, Jesus Christ, who reigns over all. Yet We have the privilege, unlike many throughout history of the world, to have a small say in who will lead us. So let's not take that for granted. Whether you vote for one or for the other or for neither Go and vote if you have it. I bet half of you already have. I know I already have. I've been. Lines were pretty long. Leadership counts in a nation. Leadership counts in a church. In the church, in the church of God. And that's what this book's about. Now there are three letters in the New Testament that are called pastoral letters or pastoral epistles. You may hear the old word. Pastoral epistles, three letters, the first Timothy, Second Timothy, and the Book of Titus. These two men, Timothy and Titus, were were were disciples of Jesus of Jesus, were disciples of Paul Paul trained them in ministry and in leadership. Now Timothy, 1 Timothy Paul to Timothy, there are in six of Paul's letters. He says that Timothy is with him as he writes. Timothy was a companion of the Apostle Paul in 2 Corinthians, Philippians, Colossians, 1 Thessalonians, 2 Thessalonians, and Philemon. Timothy is with Paul as he writes these letters. Okay? He tells us that. A little bit about the genre of the book. Today we're doing a kind of a overview and we're kind of stepping into the first couple of chapters. A couple verses of the book. Just the genre of this book. What type of a book is this? This is a letter. It's a letter from Paul to Timothy, but it's a letter to be read by the whole congregation. It's to Timothy, but it's to the whole congregation in one sense. It's to the whole church. It's clearly written to an individual, but for all. Well think about that. Um, in our day, I bet 90% of you, maybe all of you, have a cell phone. Someone ever call you with something who wants to say some things to you, but they know that there's others in the room who need to hear that message as well. And so they say, I want to say some things to you, but I want you to put it on speaker. You ever happen? They're talking to you, but they want others to hear what's being said. That's the pastorals. It's to Timothy, it's to Titus, but everybody needs to hear what's being said in these letters. Now from Acts, we know that Timothy has been alongside Paul during that 18-month period. When Paul and his the entire apostolic team was in the city of of Ephesus, this great city of Exodus, this metropolitan area, Acts chapter 18, 19, and 20, they planted a church there That would go on and plant many, many churches in the in the Asia Minor and beyond. Most Bible scholars believe that after Acts 28, which is the last chapter of the book of Acts, Paul was released from the house arrest that was there and went on to preach more and go to different cities, uh, even as far as west as Spain. But he was eventually imprisoned again from that second imprisonment And from there he wrote prison epistles, prison letters, these personal letters, plus some of the other letters of the New Testament. Again, 1 and 2 Timothy, prison letters. Timothy was sent to Ephesus to provide apostolic oversight, just as Titus was dispatched to give oversight leadership to the island of Crete. Okay? So it's a letter to Timothy, his uh his son in the ministry, but for the entire church to hear. The date, probably about sixty-two-sixty-three AD, because Paul was martyred in sixty-four, and was right before his martyrdom that he had the second imprisonment. Alright, the book of 1 Timothy. What are some of the key themes? Just a quick overview of the key themes we're going to see as we walk through this book. Chapter 1, there's a proper understanding of the gospel What it is, what it's not, the danger of false doctrine, a false understanding of the gospel. Apparently there was a theological drift away from the true gospel at Ephesus It's probably why he sent, he heard that and he sent Timothy there to straighten that out. Particularly this confusion regarding the place of the law. We'll talk about that in a few weeks. Chapter 2, there's guidelines about public worship in chapter 2, particularly men and women in worship. Chapter 3, the importance of selecting godly men to serve as elders and deacons. And there's detailed criteria of who those men are to be, what those men are to be like. Chapter 4. There's more about the importance of doctrine, the danger of false doctrine And the remedy, again, is biblical teaching from a man who not only preaches orthodox doctrine, but models godliness in his life that flows out of orthodox doctrine. And he tells Timothy, be that man. Chapter 5, relationships, relationships, particularly in the body Timothy's relationship to others in the body, as a model for all of us. Especially the issue of women who are without without a husband, widowed. A lot's there in that chapter, but relationships. And lastly, the dangers of money and greed in the life of church members and of church leaders. First Timothy. Now, why we want to look at this book at this point in our life? Why is it even in the Bible? It's just Paul to Timothy, right? No Here's the principle. As go the leader, so goes the church. I'll say it again. As go the leader, so goes the church. Leaders set the pace. The crisis in our country is a leadership crisis. Everybody has agreed on that. The crisis in the church is the leadership crisis in the church Not everybody agrees about that, but it's that's the way that's the way it goes. There's a crisis in the pulpits. I was talking to a friend about that last night. Leadership counts. Today is Rivalry Day if you're a Ravens fan. How many of you are Ravens fans? A few. Last week was Rivalry Week for me because I'm a fan of the Burgundy and gold. I've got to be politically correct. But rival rivalries are kind of cool. Rivalries are great when the two teams are good. Last week we crushed the cowgirls, but who cares? We both stink. But today, today we have a real rivalry of two good teams, perpetually good teams. Several years ago, a few years ago now, I attended a F a Fellowship of Christian Athletes banquet, FCA Banquet. And um the guest speaker was the new Ravens coach named John Harbaugh. He didn't talk for very long. But I was instantly impressed. He didn't shy away from his faith in Jesus Christ. He wanted to show that a strong man could be a man of faith. He wanted to have an in an eternal impact on his players, on other employees in the team, and on the fans. And of course, he wanted to win. Of course. He wanted to keep his job. And all I could think of during that FCA banquet, because I had I was skeptical because of course he was coming from Philadelphia. Which I don't like because I'm not coming. All I can think of, this sounds like Joe Gibbs. And if you know Joe Gibbs, the Hall of Fame coach of the Burgundian goal, the three-time world champion Burgundian goal, if you're old enough to remember that. Now some might be thinking, what difference does it make who the football coach is, who you select to lead the team? The success or failure of a team is on the people on the field, right? It's not the players that make the difference. I mean, it's not the coach that makes the difference. It's the players that make the difference. The coach doesn't hike the ball, doesn't run the ball, doesn't throw the ball, doesn't catch the ball. So who you select to lead doesn't make a difference, does it? Well, John Harbaugh still has his job. He's one of Super Bowls. He's a great coach He is the Joe Gibbs of the Ravens, in my word in my opinion. Leadership counts. That's why we have 1st and 2 Timothy and Titus. Have you ever noticed in reading the prophets of the Old Testament? They describe the history of Israel in 1 Chronicles, the 2nd Chronicles, and in the book of Samuels. 2 Samuel. They describe the history of Israel and Judah in terms of leadership. This king was like this king. He wasn't like David. This king did this. Leadership sets the pace. Leadership counts in sports, in the business world, in the home, in the nation, and most importantly, leadership counts in the local church. What is leadership? Leadership is intentional influence. Write that down. Intentional influence. That's what it is in a nutshell. As we start this book, there's several questions we need to be in the back of our minds. What does it look like for us as the church as we pursue our next primary influencer or pastor? What does it look like for us as a church? Secondly, who am I personally called upon in this time in history to influence? Intentionally. You already have influence, like it or not. How can I be more intentional with people Under whose care who I who are under my care? How can I be more intentional? Knowing that like it or not, I have influence, I'm a leader. The church needs godly leaders, men who will be bold, who will be compassionate, who will be courageous, who will be hardworking, men who will be men of integrity, men who will elicit the joy of the Lord even during difficult times The most important thing in this passage is to simply think the think that God is the one who raises God and leaders for the church. God raises leaders in the church. He's raised to Timothy. Look at the process. in which Timothy was raised. We're gonna look at this. We look at these two verses. Then we're gonna talk about three insights on spiritual leadership. Then we'll make a couple applications they're important. Let's look at these verses, um, verses one and two of First Timothy. I, Paul. An apostle of Christ Jesus. Paul, that was his name. The word name Paul, by the way, is means little. Interesting that he's he was called Saul, and he said, no, your name's now Paul. You're little. Paul thought he was hot stuff. He said, no, no, no, got this. No, you're little. You're little. Every time you're your name Paul, Paulos in the Greek, you're little. I'm big. You're little. That's his that was his his Christian name, his sanctified name. Timothy, one who honors God. One who honors God. We name one of our sons, Timothy. Timothy had a birthday just the other day, 32. Paul to Timothy. Paul identifies himself as an apostle. A leader who's commissioned by Jesus Christ. He's not self-appointed. He's an apostle of God and his Son, who is our Savior and our hope, Jesus Christ. Timothy is he calls Timothy his true child in a faith. His true child. Now now He in in later in 2 Timothy, he calls him my beloved child, child or son. I was just thinking that the other day. You know, uh Well you think of uh he's saying my true child, many who read that today would think, oh, did he have a DNA test? But that's not what he's talking about. He wasn't on Maury Povich show and say, this is my true child, whatever, whatever they do on that show. No He's talking spiritual children. He's my spiritual child. He's a spiritual father over Timothy The common greeting, grace, and peace. Grace was a common greeting in the Greek world, keros. Peace, a common greeting in the Greek world, shalom, which is translated in the Greek. But then he adds mercy, mercy, mercy. This tenderness, the tenderness that we're to have. Grace, mercy, and peace. I want to look at the Paul-Timothy relationship a little bit more deeply. There are um a variety of influence of influences upon a leader that make him what he is, and there's a variety of influences in Timothy's life that made him who he was as a leader. And again, we have to look at chapter 14, 15, and 16 of the book of Acts and 1 and 2 Timothy to find out more about this man, Timothy. If you have a Bible, glance at chapter 14 of Acts There you find that uh Timothy um is in the city of of of Lystra. I don't know if Lystra or Lysha, I don't know how to pronounce it. I call it Lysra sometimes, Lystra sometimes. But he's he's from that city And that w that that city in in chapter 14 of the book of Acts we find that that uh that was the city where Paul they stoned him and dragged him at the outside of the city, left him for death, and he he woke he wasn't dead, came back in the city, began to preach some more Pul Timothy was in that city. Okay. That city was a modern it's modern day Turkey. It's a Roman province in the in the area of Galatia back in that day. It was the first missionary journey, chapter 14, Timothy. Some believe he may have that the gospel became clear to him under the ministry of Paul And that's what that that's that's what some b some believe he believed he was saved as a child. Others believe he was saved at that point. Whatever. What Paul Paul came to town and Timothy was never the same. Chapter fifteen of the Acts is important. There there if you remember there was a council in Jerusalem. A big church council of the the controversy about the fact that the church was predominantly Jewish, but Gentiles were coming to faith under the ministry of Paul and Barabas And um there was a controversy because was Paul telling these Gentiles they had to be circumcised to come to faith in Jesus Christ? What are you saying out there, those people, Paul? Are you making sure that they are circumcised as the law would say? And so that was the big controversy. And the conclusion was no. Faith in Jesus Christ saves a person. They don't have to undergo the right of circumcision to be saved That was the conclusion of the great Jerusalem Council of chapter 15. Okay? And so they they they wrote decrafted a letter And said, Paul, go. Tell the tell those churches, those Gentile churches, this is what's required. You know, a couple of things that had to do with the with their their cultural um Paganism had to go, but faith in Jesus Christ saves. That was clear. So that's chapter 15. There was a schism. Paul and Barnabas had some disagreements about John Mark, if you remember that And so Silas joined the team. Chapter 16, 161, is part of our passage today, our text today, because there, right after that council, Timothy joins the apostolic team. Okay? Now, we know a little about him from other parts of the Bible, from 1 and 2 Timothy. His mother, it says, was Jewish A Jewish woman who was a believer. So she was a Jewish person who was a believer in Jesus Christ, Jesus the Messiah. But his father was a Greek. His father was Greek. He wasn't Jewish and apparently he was not a believer in Jesus. And some think that even from the tense of the verb that his father at this point had died. We're not sure. But he was raised, the key influence in his life was his mother, and we find later his grandmother. Timothy had a reputation for godliness that went beyond his own town to other towns. We see that in the text, don't we Okay. Others, he says verse 2, he was well spoken of by the brothers at Lystra, his hometown, and at Conium, a nearby town. So Lystra, Iconium, and Derby, these near these towns all together, a lot of communication. He had a reputation as a young man. Many believe he was about y uh uh a late teenager or early twenties at this point He was a young fellow who loved the Lord and was God was using him. And Paul comes to town and and Paul recruits him Paul recruits him to be part of the apostolic band. And he he says, yes, I will go. Here am I, send me. That's Timothy's heart. But there was a problem. The problem was that Timothy had never been circumcised. Okay? So Paul took him and circumcised him. He says, because of the Jews who are in those places. Do you see what it's kind of strange there, isn't it? Wasn't chapter 15 saying you don't have to be circumcised? And now things got to be circumcised. What's going on? We'll look at that in a second. Now, I want to step back and look at three important principles of leadership that we can take away from these passages. Okay? Look at those passages. I want to take three principles, and we'll look more at the passages as we do this. The first is leadership involves sacrificial leadership Sacrificial leadership, and we see that in Timothy. We see he counted the cost of leadership Timothy had to be circumcised to be part of Paul's apostolic team. Timothy did not have to be circumcised to be saved. But to be part of the apostolic team, to count the cost to be part of the team, to be there with Paul, he had to be circumcised. And this is no small matter, particularly for Few Timothy. There's theological significance, but for Timothy, there's physical significance. This is a courageous act for him. Timothy is known he's a young man and in the letter you can see you sometimes feel he was a little intimidated by some of the older people in the church and Paul just tell us, Be courageous, don't let people despise your youth. Preach, use your authority, you're you're the man. Pe some people call him timid, Timothy. Maybe you've heard that phrase that he was a little timid. When I think about how he the how he counted the cost and said, I'll be circumcised, I don't be well whatever there was, I can't say he was timid. He he counted the cost. I remember my my experience, I I grew up Baptist and uh The church I grew up in, I was I was twelve years old, and to become a Christian, join the church, you had to walk the aisle, which is a very intimidating thing for a kid twelve years old, you know You don't want to walk the yellow. You don't want to shake the preacher's hand. Everybody's looking at you. You don't want to, you know, answer some just nod to some questions. You want to crawl into a hole and hide. You know, you know you go back into some room and and and some of the men of the church, the old men, they they ask you some questions and do you believe in Then you go out and they and they and they tell you you gotta be baptized and you say, okay. And okay, it's war, you gotta go under the water and Baptist church. Under the water. Oh bad. And and so there's a little bit of fear as a kid. I remember that. Maybe some of you had that experience. But that was nothing compared to what the experience of Timothy. Not even to be saved, but just to be part of the apostolic team. Talk about the fear factor. of his experience. No, let's not let's not call him too t a timid person. They gave him a choice. If they gave me a choice of being baptized or being circumcised, I'd say, show me the water. No This is not a salvation right for him. It's about ministry. It's qualification for the task. Now you you might remember Paul had a strategy when he went to cities. He would go to a strategic, unreached city. Okay, this is from the book of Acts. He would find a local synagogue, a Jewish place of worship, where the diaspora Jews, the scattered Jews in that region would be coming to worship on the Sabbath day. And he would be given the privileges of the floor. Oh, you're a rabbi, could you say something uh to us, Paul? Give us a word of encouragement And in that word of encouragement, he would talk about God was going to send the Messiah. And guess what? God sent the Messiah. His name is Jesus. He would preach Jesus as the fulfillment of the dreams of the Jewish people and the hope for the Gentiles. And at some point there'd be discussion and usually at some point Paul got kicked out. That was the way it usually went. And so they started a church in a house, in the house of some of those who believed. That was his strategy. But to do that strategy, Paul's team had to go into the synagogue. So Timothy had was not had not been circumcised. So we see The the great cost that Timothy underwent was for the sake not of salvation but for the sake of the ministry of the gospel In 1 Corinthians chapter 9, Paul says this. Verse 20. To the Jews I became a Jew, in order to win Jews. That's what he's talking about right there. To those under the law, I became as one under the law. The law, though not by being myself under the law, that I might win those under the law. To those outside the law, I became as one outside the law, to the Gentiles. Drop down to verse 20. To the weak I became weak, that I might win the weak. I have become all things to all people that by all means I might save some. Okay? So he's saying there's flexibility in some of these issues for the sake of evangelism, for the sake of witness. Now, does that mean that everything is flexible? No, no, no, no, no. Paul's not saying that. No? But he's saying some things that we think are very important that we have to keep that are not part of what God's calling us to do in this word, but maybe just part of our cultural religious practice that's not essential and that would be a barrier to people That we want to reach for Christ. Sacrifice. Sacrifice. Paul talks about his his sacrifice in 2 Corinthians. Listen to this He's he's talking about false servants. He says, Are they servants of Christ? I'm a better one. I'm talking like a madman, he says, with far greater labors, far more imprisonments. Countless beatings, often near death. Five times I received at the hands of the Jews the forty lashes, less one. Three times I was beaten with rods. Once I was stoned Three times I was shipwrecked, a night, and a day I was adrift at sea, on frequent journeys, in danger from rivers, dangerous from robbers, dangerous from my own people. That's the Jews Danger from Gentiles, danger in the city, danger in the wilderness, danger at sea, danger from false brothers, in toil and hardship. Through many sleepless nights and in hunger and thirst, often without food, and cold and exposure. And apart from other things, There's a daily pressure on me of my anxiety for all of the churches. Just Paul. Paul's Paul's chronicling He counted the cost You know, we find in Hebrews chapter 13, verse 23, it's just a real small verse that Timothy was released. So apparently Timothy at one point was imprisoned for his faith. Because it says in 23 of Hebrews, he was released. Yo song says, Must Jesus bear the cross alone and all the world go free? No, there's a cross for everyone, there's a cross for me. Discipleship, leadership in the cross in the church is costly. It's costly if you want to lead in God's church. The second thing I want to see is this thing about spiritual fathering. Spiritual fathering Paul became the primary influence in Timothy's life, you see. The first you ought to know is Acts chapter 20, verse 4. Acts 20, verse 4. In that verse, Paul um List uh about seven or eight men who was with who were with him in that second missionary journey He listened. I'm sorry, the third attorney. He l and and among them is Timothy. Timothy is one of those who's with him there. Um Let me read the verse. He spent three months, and when a plot was made against him by the Jews As he was about to set sail for Syria, he decided to return through Macedet, Macedonia. Sopatar, the Berean, son of Perius accompanied him, and the Thessalonians, or Aristarchus of Secondus, and Gaius of Zerbi, of Derby, and Timothy, and the Asians, Tychicus and Trophimus. So one the one of those is And Timothy. And he doesn't say Timothy of the uh because everybody knew Timothy. Timothy had become famous by then, Timothy of of L of Lystra. Paul was a spiritual mentor for many. He trained them and then he sent them different places To have influence, intentional influence for the kingdom of God. But we especially need to realize that in our world and in the church, there's a need for young boys to be fathered. Not just father in the faith, but father in general. Where will our future leaders come from? The church of these strong men. Un un you know, uh unfortunately it it it's uh It's unproper to say what I'm what I'm what I'm about to say, but I'm gonna say it anyway. Buckle your seatbelts. Boys are different than girls Oh, he said it. Boys are different than girls and men are different than women. Now you can figure out what the implications of that are. But it it's true anatomically and in other ways. The other day just the other day, my wife Terry, she she told me something that made her upset because when she was young, she was a Girl Scout And the Girl Scouts basically have gone wacky with this uh male-female thing. I mean you know, the Boy Scouts are not all boys, the Girl Scouts are not all girls. Look it up. It just frustrates it frustrates her to death. Boys need to hang around men to figure out what it means to be a man. Can somebody say amen? Otherwise, we have gangs that become the substitute models. That's one of the great things about athletics, by the way. At least, you know, and again, we don't want to talk about, I don't want to get into men and women on the same team. That's a whole nother topic. But spiritual fathering Apparently, Timothy's dad was no longer in the picture. Maybe he was dead, but he wasn't the spiritual guy. Paul comes to town and And he wants to be like Paul. He wants to follow Paul and learn the ministry. And Paul trained him in the faith. And the third thing, so we've talked about um sacrificial leadership, we've talked about spiritual father, and then the the third one is secondary influence What I mean by that. Secondary influence. Timothy's mother was named Eunice. We find out in 2 Timothy. His mother was named Lois. We find that out in 2 Timothy. 2 Timothy 1. 5 2 Timothy 3 talks about that from childhood he learned the sacred writings which are able to make you wise unto salvation. Paul says that to Timothy. So Timothy, his mother and his grandmother had influence in him spiritually. We see that the elders of the leaders of the church, probably elders at uh at Lystra, they had an influence. You saw that in verse 2 In 1 Timothy twice, he talks about the fact that Paul reminds him that the members of the presbytery laid hands on you, Timothy. Remember? Timothy's influence, that there in emphasis was an extension of the ministry of Paul. It was an extension of Paul's ministry. When you invest deeply in people, you impact them in a secondary way, but in a real way. That's what I mean by secondary influence. Now, why is that important? Because some people think, I don't have a great influence. I just have a major influence on three or four people. Be careful. You may have secondary influence. I look I think about my mom. I don't want to go into that, but my mom She she was a a school teacher and just you know for health reasons, you know, no she she she was actually for five of the kids, she was four of our kindergarten teachers. But for health reasons, she went home. Doc said, you look, dude, you're exhausted, you're burnt out, you need to go home. She went home, never went back into the classroom. She spent the rest of her life nurturing her children. And some would look at her life and say, oh, you just did that. But she had an influence on us that has impacted many, many people's lives. Secondary influence. Do not minimize secondary influence. Don't minimize the ministry of Lois and Eunice. Paul says in 2 Timothy 2 verse 2, what you heard from me, Timothy, in the presence of many witnesses. Entrust to faithful men who were able to teach others also. Paul, Timothy, faithful men, others The impact that you have goes beyond you. So be intentional. One of the things that in in my later years of ministry, you all know, I'm no longer the main pastor of a church. We have this ministry called Bomb, Baltimore Antioch Leadership Movement. And uh uh Pastor Craig Garrett and I doing that. And um one of the things we do is we you know, we say what are we gonna do after being pastors of a local congregation in a full-time way? We want to influence the next generation. We want to pass on what we know so they can pass on to others. And so one of the things we do is is we have the the seminary, Metro Baltimore Seminary. Bombs, um Our mission is to is multiplying cross-cultural leaders for Baltimore and beyond. We want to multiply, not just add, we want to see multiplication, we want to see leaders who influence others. Disciples who are disciple makers. I mean just already God is doing some amazing things. One story of a man who's in our seminary. His name is Krishna. Krishna Kendell Born in a Hindu priest's family in Nepal, he was saved and baptized at age 19. He planted a church there, and he pastors that church. It's not Napalese believers and they worship the Messiah. But realizing he his need to be equipped um to to to to lead better. Krishna and his family came to the United States a few years ago to get an education, to become better equipped to lead his past his church, his flock. He is now in his late 30s. He's married with two young kids. He was working at a 7-Eleven and hoping that somehow he could get enough money that he could get Bible learning. That's all he wanted to do. tried to provide for his family and he found out about Metro Baltimore Seminary and he wrote. He was part of our one of our uh students in our first class and he he now hopes to graduate and he take the gospel back to Nepal to strengthen his congregation. So we're again we're part of pouring into him that he may pour into others. And I can tell you other stories of of of God uh how God is fulfilling our dream of pouring into people who will pour into people For the sake of the gospel, God raises up godly leaders for his church. A couple quick applications for us. Think about this. Who has influenced you? Who discipled you? Who influenced you? Maybe they were very intentional about it. Maybe they weren't. Who has influenced you? Have you thanked them for that? Maybe someone in your church, maybe someone in your in the home you grew up in, maybe someone in the neighborhood, maybe someone in your career who had a major impact on on you being the person you are now. Second, who are you influencing? Who are you influencing? Again, the church, the home, the school, the career. My challenge is and I've said this a couple times. You do have influence. The question is, are you intentional about it That's the question for disciples of Jesus. The Great Commission is to go and make disciples. Don't just be sitting there doing nothing. Make disciples. Be intentional. We are all gifted to make disciples. With whom can I move towards a greater emotional wholeness, emotional health? That's influence. With whom can I move towards a greater physical wholeness, physical health? With whom can I move towards a greater mental well-being, mental health? With whom can I share the gospel? Moving that person towards greater spiritual wholeness, spiritual health. Don't just go through life being, go through life intentionally think, how can I make a difference in people's lives and all the the various elders areas And and and and and and know which areas God has gifted you. God has a God hasn't gifted you all to do everything. Have you figured that out yet Someday you you reach a point in your life you say, you know, I can't do it all. That's a good place to be. Because the next question is, what has God called me to do? Go do it. God has stewed us all with gifts, talents to make disciples, to influence people, to point people to maturity in Jesus Christ. Often mothers get discouraged because they cannot be all that the children need. Here's a secret: they could liberate you from lots of anguish. God never intended for you to be everything, even to your own children. It takes a couple. It takes a church. It takes some say it takes a village to to to raise up a mature person. Let me leave you with this truth, so simple but that we often forget. There's only ever lived one person who's the perfect disciple maker. It ain't me, it ain't you. It's the Lord Jesus Christ. But despite our flaws, he will use us. Because ultimately leading intentional inf having intentional influence, leading people, is not making disciples who will be like us. It's pointing people to Jesus. Pointing people to Jesus. Follow me as I follow Christ You see, as disciple makers, you never get beyond the basic truth that God, through Jesus, his son, saves sinners. By his Holy Spirit, we are being transformed day by day as we walk in faith. Are you a disciple of Jesus? If you're not trust in him for salvation and for life. And if you are, make a make disciples. If you were a disciple, you were saved to make disciples. Be faithful to God and that responsibility. Let's pray. Well, thank you for this book of First Timothy as we've begun to look at it. that uh indeed you you're the one who raises up leaders for your church. Lord as our church thinks through leadership in these next few months. And may may may we have our eyes alert to our responsibility to be people. Who are used by you in small ways, in medium ways, even in big ways, as you call us by your Spirit. I pray for all who are here, all who might catch this Lord online You would speak to us to be disciples of Jesus and disciple makers for Jesus. In his name we pray. Amen