Good morning. It's a happy Mother's Day today and I really appreciate Mark's prayer this morning being sensitive towards those that today may be A difficult day for them as well. We are continuing with our study in the book of Hebrews and we're in chapter eleven. It's a long one. So if you're able, would you please Stand and let us read God's word together. Given to us this morning. Deuteronomy 1 through 32 Moses writes to the people is they renewed their covenants on the plains of Moab. You shall therefore love the Lord your God and keep his charge, his statutes, his rules, and his commandments always. And consider today, since I'm not speaking to your children who have not known or seen it, consider the discipline of the Lord your God, his greatness His mighty hand and his outstretched arm, his signs and his deeds that he did in Egypt to Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, and to all his land And what he did to the army of Egypt, to their horses and to their chariots, how he made the water of the Red Sea flow over them as they pursued after you And how the Lord has destroyed them to this day, and what he did to you in the wilderness until you came to this place, and what he did to Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, sons son of Reuben. How the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them up with their households, their tents, and every living thing that followed them in the midst of all Israel. For your eyes have seen all the great work of the Lord that he did You shall therefore keep the whole commandment that I command you today, that you may be strong and go in and take possession of the land that you are going over to possess. And that you may live long in the land that the Lord sought to your fathers to give to them, to their offspring, a land flowing with milk and honey. For the land that you are entering to take possession of, it is not like the land of Egypt from which you have come, where you sowed your seed and irrigated it like a garden of vegetables. But the land that you are going over to possess is a land of hills and valleys, which drinks water by the rain from heaven, a land that the Lord your God cares for The eyes of the Lord your God are always upon it from the beginning of the year to the end of the year. And you will be indeed and and if you inde if you will indeed obey my commandment and That I command you today to love the Lord your God and to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul. He will give the rain for your land in its season. the early rain and the later rain, that you may gather in your grain and your wine and your oil. He will give grass in your fields for your livestock, and you shall eat and be full Take care lest your heart be deceived and you turn aside and serve other gods and worship them. Then the anger of the Lord will be kindled against you, and he will shut up the heavens, so that there will be no rain And the land will yield no fruit, and you will perish quickly off the good land that the Lord is giving you. You shall therefore lay up these words of mine in your heart and in your soul And you shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontless between your eyes. You shall teach them to your children, talking of them when you are sitting in your house, and we are walking by the way, and when you lie down and when you rise You shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates, and your days and the days of your children may be multiplied in the land that the Lord swore to your fathers to give them, as long as the heavens are above the earth. For if you will be careful to do all this commandment that I command you today, loving the Lord your God, walking in all his ways and holding fast to him, then the Lord will drive out these nations before you And you will dispossess nations greater and mightier than you, every place in which the sole of your foot tread shall be yours Your territory shall be from the wilderness to the Lebanon and from the river the river Euphrates to the Western Sea. No one shall be able to stand against you The Lord your God will lay the fear of you and the dread of you on all the land that you shall tread as he promised you. See, I am setting before you today A blessing and a curse. The blessing if you obey the commandments of the Lord your God, which I command you today, and the curse If you do not obey the commandments of the Lord your God, but turn aside from the way that I am commanding you today to go after other gods that you have not known. And when the Lord your God brings you into the land that you are entering to take possession of it, you shall set the blessing on Mount Gerizim and the curse on Mount Ebal. Are they not beyond the Jordan, west of the road, toward toward the going down of the sun, in the land of the Canaanites, who live in the Arabah, opposite Gilgal, beside the Oak of Marah For you are to cross over to the Jordan, to go in to take possession of the land that the Lord your God is giving you, and when you possess it and live in it, you shall be careful to do all the statutes and the rules That I am setting before you today. The word of the Lord given to us this morning, Holy Spirit, we do ask in faith that you would enable us to hear your word this morning that we may believe in it But above all, live in obedience to what you're calling us. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated To be or not to be that is the question It's the most famous Shakespeare soliloquy that every one of us, even if you've never read Shakespeare, you would be familiar with this language. It's the words of Hamlet. Hamlet in Acts three as he considers as he contemplates committing suicide because of all his troubles in life And so he goes back and forth questioning and wondering what living in life and and what death would mean for him. Should I go ahead and pursue the death of my mother's killer Should I commit murder? Would that be considered murder? What is it? What does it mean for me to live and what does it mean for me to commit suicide And Hamlet is here tormented by the consequences of the unknown. In fact, he acknowledges that to Live with his troubles may be bad. What may be even worse would be to die. Because he doesn't know. Nobody has come back from the afterlife to say what the consequences are, what he's gonna experience in the afterlife. You see Hamlet is raising the question of life and death, but I think above all things, Hamlet raises the question of morality, the question about choices that we daily make in our lives and their consequences. Right now, we may not be asking that particular question. Our question this morning, and I hope so, is not whether to be or not to be. But we are certainly confronted with a question of obedience. On this very day, shall I seek to obey the Lord? Or what am I going to do with my life? As we read, and as you heard in Deuteronomy chapter 11, God's people are presented. We read exact those verses in verse 25. They are presented with a choice. Before you is a choice to either obey the Lord, which will lead to a happy life, or disobey the Lord and face the ugly consequences. Now I'm not sure about you, but there are times when God's word is so direct and so clear to us that obedience comes, should I say, easy. That it's it's it's right for me to say, Oh of course I'm gonna follow the road on this particular thing. Of course there are no issues with me, I'm not gonna commit murder, I'm not gonna steal, I'm not gonna do all those things But if you're like me, you'll also realize that sometimes obedience is just too difficult. that a a at times I feel like it's uh it's it's easier for me to disobey and deal with the consequences later Than to seek to do what the Lord has asked me to do. Now, that's exactly what we're going to be dealing with this morning. And we asked the question: why must we always choose to obey? Why must we always choose to obey? And from these verses that we just read, I want us to see something that Moses and God through Moses is communicating to his people, and it is this: simple enough and yet profound. That our obedience to God is the only right response to God's love and faithfulness towards us. That our obedience to God is the only right response to God's love And faithfulness towards that. Now, I I want to flesh this out and and look with me from the beginning of verse one and a and begin to build this up and realize that our obedience is not based on anything else other than God's faithfulness itself. As Eric preached last week and reminded us, is that we obey because God has already led the way for us. He has been faithful to it. And that's the same thing That Moses is reminding God's people. Look at verse 1. And how beautifully, how gently God is actually calling his people to obedience. Does he say, obey me and love me? No. He begins by saying, love me. Love the Lord your God and then obey him Because true obedience does not spring from anything else. True obedience springs from a heart of love It springs from love. You see, God is now presenting himself to his people as this mean monster that only requires allegiance to them because he is you know he doesn't want you to have allegiance to anybody else. It's not out of fear But God is reminding his people that he has already loved them. He has already demonstrated his love towards them by calling them to himself. Not because they were many, as we saw in chapter 8, not because they were righteous, we saw that in chapter 9, but because God first loved them. And here he's setting before them the sweetness of his grace. That they may experience it. He's inviting them to love God. And loving God means to obey what He has commanded them. Now he makes a note here that the people that are on the plains of Moab uh you know renewing their covenant is not the same generation in the wilderness because remember uh people in the wilderness were most of them were wiped out Uh all the men were killed apart from men that were twenty years and younger, and of course the the the the the females, all the women and children were not killed as well, and of course Joshua and Caleb also survived In in any case, God is noticing over here and reminding the people that when he talks about his faithfulness in the past, that even the people that are here witnessing what God is doing to them They know what God has been doing to them, either directly or indirectly. They have an idea, whether they heard about it, whether they were children, and experiencing what their parents were doing And so Moses is pointing to them, to the people, to these three events to show how God has been faithful to them and there Here and then as we've gone through the book of Deuteronomy, we've mentioned all these things over and over. We've repeated them over and over again, but we'll just go back briefly and look at them for one second. He reminds them of the Exodus Remember what happened? God has rescued you from the exodus. He he delivered you from from from the powers of Egypt and brought you and and directed you to to to possess the new land God's presence was with you in the wilderness. He provided manner. He gave you all these wonderful things and protected you from danger. And then he notes this incidence of December and Abiram. Now if you go back to Numbers chapter sixteen, it's a long chapter. You can read the whole story of what really transpired and what happened uh in that story is that December decided that they were going to reject The leaders that God had appointed that was Moses and and Aaron and the consequences of their rejection of these two leaders was the earth opened up and swallowed them as we read this morning and they were all destroyed. What's the point that Moses is trying to make here? God's people are rejecting the authority and leadership that He has anointed for them to be a blessing to them. And he is disciplining them. Now, this negative incidence of Deatham and Biram and Rebellion really shows us how God Has been faithful not just in terms of his grace towards them and providing for them and sustaining them, but how God is also just But he will also punish sin. You know, it's really hard for us as those that are creatures, those that are created to accept our status. That we are those who are under the authority and sovereignty and governed by a sovereign God. But that doesn't come that easy for us, does it? And here we see a contrast between God res. I mean if you really think about it, think about the Exodus and and how God's people are being rebellious towards him. What was the Exodus The exodus was supposed to be this new beginning for God's people. That He has blessed you, He has rescued you, He's bringing you into a new land, and you're about to experience this new life And yet God's people keep on rebelling, not just instance of Abarman and Dathan, but also continuously through other things. And if you read Numbers chapter 16, verse 45, in fact the whole thing Threatened to destroy the whole nation of Israel. Because Yahweh's claim to Israel's obedience does not rest upon them, it rests on what God has done for them. Look at what I have done for you and know that I will keep on being faithful to you, and your response to me is through your obedience. Now, you see, God always kept his promises. So there's no question that God is going to fulfill his promises to his people. But the fulfillment of that promise was not an automatic thing, was it? While it did not depend on their descent and their goodness and their righteousness, it depended on their covenant obligation because God had called them into a covenant relationship. And our covenant relationship was God declaring that he was going to be always faithful to them. But what was what were they supposed to do? Obey And the question for us is how else can they respond? What could be any other response to a God who has declared to be their God to provide for them and to do all these things What other response is there apart from a wholehearted love and devotion to him? See Moses Is a no is not only pointing God's people to the past. And then obey because nothing else is coming after that. That's not true, is it? Because look at verses 8 through 25 in the middle right there Especially verse 10. You know, look, God is looking forward to the obedience and saying, It's not just what I did in the past, it's not just my faithfulness in the past, but it's also my faithfulness right now and for you going forward. Verse 10 says, For the land that you are entering to take possession of, it is not like the land of Egypt for which you have come, where you sowed your seed and irrigated like a garden of vegetables. It's a comparison that is being made of Egypt and Canaan. They are stark opposites. Because in Egypt where there was no rain, they depended on irrigation. See they would mark the ground with their foot dug channels through uh where the water would flow. There was no rain of course and they depended on the Nile, right? They had to build canals and ponds everywhere and they they would use vessels and other means to draw the water from the Nile and bring it so that they could grow their crop See, Egyptians largely depended upon human labor to make things happen. Yet Canaan, he's saying, Canaan did not depend on such a godless self-exaltation. Canaan was a land of mountains and valleys, and where did it drink its water from? From above. From God Himself. See, the irrigation system in Egypt completely dependent with I mean required constant Maintenance from the people, and this continuous expenditure would begin impressing upon the people that their hard work and what they were doing, their productivity was largely or entirely due to human industry. Because without the constant flow of the ri uh the river Nile providing water for them, they were done. So what was going to be in the in the in in Canaan? There was not going to be a River Nile in Canaan There is no River Nile in Canaan. You know what's there? The source of River Nile is there. And the source is Lake Victoria, but I'm not talking about Lake Victoria The source of river now was God Himself was going to provide rain, and God's people had to depend upon Him for their daily sustenance. See, they couldn't attribute any of all these things that God was doing, or any of this blessings that God was giving to them to any other gods, or to anything else, not even to the River Nile, because that was a breach of their covenant. See, this brings us to the question about God's sovereignty over nature and history. That God is able to make natural phenomena to serve historical ends, to provide for his people. Now, while that can be said easily, it is so difficult for us to discern. Here's a question we may want to ask. Is all suffering then the result of disobedience and sin? All the trials that we face because we have been disobedient to God? We must ask that, right? See, sometimes the land does produce fruit even when the inhabitants of that land are evil. Why does the psalmist cry out and say, Why do the wicked prosper? Because the wicked do prosper sometimes. And so the question is, what is going on here? What is God's sovereignty over nature and history? What does that mean for us? If if God is in some way able to use natural phenomena to express his will, what understanding are we supposed to have? Now, recognizing the difficulty of that Does not excuse us from having a biblical perspective on how we're supposed to see God's blessings in relation to His sovereignty. Here's what I mean That our lives are supposed to be lived in such a way that we give praise and glory and honor to God when He provides for plenty. No other choice. That our duty is to stand before Him and give Him thanks and say, Glorious God who provides for all things. And that we actually do the same. Even in our trials, we praise God and we say, You may have brought this, you may have allowed this to happen, but praise be to you because you are sovereign over our trials. Now here's the the other bit that we gotta add on to that as well. What we can do in the midst of it, whether we understand it or not, is that we can also do some soul searching when we are going through difficult times. That we can actually tell the Lord, Lord, you know I am a broken person and I may have sinned. We can ask for forgiveness. I don't know about you Every single minute of my life is an opportunity for me to repent for my sins. I like what one commentator says: he says, if prosperity makes men forgetful, ungrateful, and complacent. While the lack of natural material blessings leads men to repentance, then these latter are a blessing in disguise. See the rain that God is providing for his people here, I don't know how you view it. I mean we don't largely depend on rain and land, do we? We like it when it rains. It rained last night a whole lot. Unless you're a farmer like the Bowens family. Here's a beautiful psalm. Psalm 143, 6 says, My soul thirsts for you like a perched land. See, the meaning is that we're to speak to see rain as spiritual blessings that are coming from above from God. God's word that He provides for us, His means of grace, is what provides for our arid hearts and our dry hearts. That every one of our hearts needs to be nourished by God's word. See as God's people we are called not to forget. Not to forget the giver of rain, not to for to forget the source of the rain which is spiritual blessings to us. Otherwise We leave ourselves in a bad place because God is also able to seal off the heavens. And we don't want that to happen. Let us not forget what the Lord has done for us. And all his faithfulness. May the remembrance of his faithfulness towards us lead us, motivate us to obey him See, and obedience to him or loving God means that we love God as He is, which means loving God as He has revealed Himself to be His people. How did he reveal himself to his people? He gave them the covenant of Mount Sinai and and and and identified himself as the God was going to be their God. How has God revealed himself to us? He has revealed to us through his son Jesus Christ. Do you need any reason why you should obey God? Look no farther than His Son Jesus Christ. That God did not withhold his love for us, but on the cross he gave fully his son to die to redeem us, and that the freedom that we receive from the sacrifice that he made for us is It is what gives us the opportunity to give our hearts, our souls, and everything that we have completely to him Understanding and believing and knowing that you are not your own, but you were bought with a price that Jesus Christ paid for you. And that's enough. To encourage you to obey. And finally, our obedience is based on God's faithfulness, but our obedience is in fact a mark of our genuine faith. Obedience is a mark of genuine faith. Again, verse 25 that people are here presented with a choice. Obey or uh and and See, Moses as he stands before God's people is here not standing as this legalist or this Jurist that is just basically saying, do this and you'll get this, and don't do this, and you're not gonna get this. So, what is Moses doing? Moses is standing before God's people as a loving shepherd And wanting to direct them to the better life that they ought to desire and have. Moses is in fact showing people that the way to enter into the fullness of life Which can only be found in the covenant relationship that God has with His people. Now, you may ask a question, as I asked myself this week, it does appear, look at verses 13 through 17. I wish we had time to read it, but you can glance over it and notice that it does appear the text is telling us that if God's people obey, blessings. You get your security, you get your prosperity, you get your peace. Wait a minute. Okay, so I obey, I get blessings. I don't I don't obey, well you're dumb, brother, sister. So how are we to view God's blessings in relation to obedience? What's the what's the connection here? Because we also don't want to be like those people who say, you know, plant a seed and get this and you get your blessings, you know. We don't want to be the people who perform in order to earn our salvation because that is not true, right? It's not obedience that earns our salvation. Absolutely not. I think the best place to begin is actually looking all the way back into the call of Abraham. It's to understand that God made promises to Abraham, a sinner. And indeed to his people, even before they could spell the word obedience. It was not because they were righteous. Again, chapter 9. It was not because they were good. It was not because of their descent. It had had absolutely nothing to do with them. It was because of his grace. See, there are dangers of making a one-to-one strict correlation between blessings or trials in life and obedience. Well, the truth also is that scripture is very clear that God will indeed bless those who seek to do his will. That's the truth. But we must understand that obedience does not earn us anything, not our salvation. So what is it then? Obedience has to be your thanksgiving to God for his saving grace. That's it. Obedience has to be our thanksgiving to God for his saving grace. So what does that mean for us? It means we must be people who nurture gratitude in our hearts. Not people who just simply are driven by the need for rewards, even though we actually shouldn't separate the two. A biblical way of viewing blessings and rewards and all of this is actually good. We're the ones who are sinful that don't want to see it the way God wants us to see it Because our gratitude is actually supposed to remind us of what God has done for us, but also what God is going to do for us. And the greatest reward of all that we may not want to look, well we should be looking for, we must be looking forward to it is what? What is the greatest blessing that God promises for us? Is it security? Is it peace? What is it? It is God Himself. Paul says to be in Christ. To be united with Him, to know that one day we are going to enjoy being in His presence forever and ever. That must be enough to motivate us to obedience. Nothing else That God is enough. That the blessing of having Him and seeing face to face is enough. John says in John 14:23, if anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my father will love him. And he will come to him and make our home with him. In fact, it says, and we will come to him and make our home with him. God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. See, far from being optional, one pastor says, grace-field obedience is absolutely necessary for Christ-likeness. Is there any need to pray about whether or not to obey God's word? Just go ahead and do it. See, a false theology will lead us to false living, to a perverted view view of God. See, a friend of mine reminded me a few months ago that you can be politically correct. No, actually it was incorrect. You can be politically incorrect and still love Jesus. Sometimes we think that getting political, cultural, all those things, whatever you want to make them, makes us better children of God. How about you get God first? Sometimes we think doing good things, they're commendable. We should good do good. We're called to do good. But sometimes we think that our do good stuff makes us better children of God. How about get to know Jesus first? We cannot earn God's blessings by what we do. To do so is to deny our need for redemption because we are fallen people. Obedience must always spring from God's love, from us loving God. But it must also give glory to God as the giver and the source of all things. James reminds us, every good gift And every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change. See, I think this really does mean understanding what grace is all about. What is grace? Grace is not a free path for you to do anything that you wish, is it See obedience is not a spare tire. You don't use a spare tire, right? You only use it when you really need it. During times of emergency. Obedience is not a card that you put in your back pocket only to use it when it's necessary. Obedience is a necessity for every Christ follower. For genuine love for Christ will always manifest itself in obedience. John 15, 14. Who are Jesus' friends? Now, don't hear me say that this means that we achieve a sinless perfection that you will never have. Not on this side of heaven. One day though we will. This don't don't hear me say this either. This does not also mean that you're not going to sin or you're not going to disobey. In fact, the moment we walk out of that door, every one of us will be struggling with obedience. But this is what it means. Ezekiel 36, 26, a very familiar passage for us. And I will give you a new heart and a new spirit I will put within you and I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules. What is Ezekiel saying? A heart transplant. That's exactly what Jesus does for us when he gives us a new heart, right? Puts on a desire, takes away the heart of stone and disobedience and And puts within us a heart that is able to pursue a spirit-energized obedience because true faith is obedient faith See, obedience is not the grounds for being declared righteous, but it's certainly what reveals that our faith is genuine. Can we be real for one second as I finish up? We're never gonna be perfect on this side of heaven. We cannot obey God the way He demands us to obey Him. And that's why we have Jesus, who perfectly obeyed the law on our behalf. And yet the question for us this morning is not to obey or not to obey. That cannot be the question. And the reason why it cannot be the question is simple. Do you know that you are deeply loved by God? Do you know how faithful he has been to you and continues to be and will ever be? Do you understand that you have been given the fullness of life in Christ Jesus? Does that make sense to you? If it does, then your only response to God is a one. A wholehearted devotion and obedience to his word. Father, we thank you this morning for your word. Thank you that you are faithful to us even when we are unfaithful. Thank you that you have given so much to us. Above all, your son Jesus Christ, who came and died, rescued us from ourselves, from sin. And death and made us to be free, free in Christ, so that we may inherit your blessings that you have promised to us. Father, would you allow us to not only enjoy the wonderful things that you have done for us, but to take the time to know that we are called to respond to you. By loving you and walking in a way that pleases you. And Lord, we realize that we can only do this through your Holy Spirit. May He empower us and encourage us to Obey. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.