Well good morning, good morning. Well, if you look at your bulletin, I'm not Eric. Some of you don't know that. Um Eric texted me yesterday morning and put me on standby and then yesterday afternoon we said, yeah, I better I better preach. And so I'm not going to do chapter 14. I guess again with the coronavirus, many are many are not doing well. I've still got a little bit of a cough. Don't be be afraid. I'll go to this a couple times. Let me get my water. Let me have water in a few minutes. If you need to cough, cough now. So yeah, we're gonna we're what I'm gonna do is we're gonna I was thinking about what to what to how to address this because uh Eric's been preparing all week and he's gonna give that message hopefully next week if he's well. Um I thought I I was thinking about the book of John, the Gospel of John. And decide let me let me let me do something with something that you've already talked about. Just want to go a little deeper into something you've already talked about. So we're gonna look at John chapter 4. If you have a Bible, turn to John chapter 4, okay? And um we're gonna read, we're just gonna read in the in the scripture reading the first four verses, but we're gonna look at a lot of this passage, okay? And uh I listened to j the p the I listened to both sermons from these passage. I listened to Josiah's sermon on the first part and and I listened to Eric's sermon on the other part uh yesterday. And uh Just I'm going to go a little deeper with some of the things that are here, okay? So if you have John 4, uh yeah, John 4. Uh stand and we're gonna do the first four verses. We'll read the first four verses Let's do this. Okay, ESV translation. Now, when Jesus learned that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John, although Jesus himself did not baptize, but only his disciples. He left Judea and departed again for Galilee. And he had to pass through Samaria. Let's pray. Father. This is a wonderful chapter. I pray that we would reflect upon it and think about what you do in our lives when you challenge us and you and you push us into new territories. So bless this time. Lord, we pray for those who are who are sick today, maybe watching on Facebook Live. Thank you for the technology that we can do this this morning. We pray for many believers, Lord, around the country who are not worshiping today because of this this virus. I pray they would uh commune with you on this Lord's Day. Thank you that we can meet here in this small place and give you the praise you deserve. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen Traveling with Jesus. Traveling with Jesus is my title. We're all on edge because of the coron coronavirus. At least many are on edge. A lot of people are not on edge, but many are on on edge because of the coronavirus. And that's very we need to listen to the doctors This many are disturbed because we're kind of out of our routines. We're out of our you know our our our our our comfort zones being challenged, isn't it? We're doing things that uh we're not used to doing. We're not doing things we're used to doing. You can't even shake people's hands anymore, you know. Um you can't worship, you know, you you can't go visit people in the hospital We're being challenged. We're getting out of our comfort zone. And so I was thinking about chapter 4 of John in terms of Jesus pushing us out of our comfort zone. Okay? Because that's what God does in our lives. He pushes us. God loves to comfort us, but he also loves to discomfort us. Okay? Isaiah 40. Comfort, comfort my people, says your God. In Isaiah, that's a shift first in Isaiah. I mean the first part of Isaiah is about wrath and judgment and all this stuff, and then there's a shift coming. The Raspizing is about God's comfort, his consolation for the people after the exile. So Isaiah 41, comfort, comfort my people, says your God. God wants to bring comfort to his people. In 2 Corinthians, he's called the God of comfort. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and the God of all comfort. That's who he is. He's the God of mercies and the God of all comfort. Who comforts us in all our affliction, so that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God. Last night had some friends over, Tara and I, we we watched a movie, a disaster movie. I don't know why. We're just in the mood to watch a disaster movie with all that's going on so we can figure out that things really aren't that bad yet Watch the movie called 2020 2012. And in the movie, it's about the end of the world. I don't know if you've ever seen the movie, um, but there's a sub theme in that movie about parents comforting children. The politicians and the scientists who know what's about to happen, they call their parents. Father dad I want to talk to you. Th and and and there's comfort going on. And then throughout the movie there's kids. There's there's the one family of course that's the hero family, you know And and and they have little kids and the kids keep saying, We're gonna die. We're gonna die because the next challenge comes. And the mom and they say, No, no, it's gonna be okay. And there's a lot of comforting of children in that movie as I think about it. And that's what God does for us. What's gonna happen? God brings comfort. God wants to bring comfort to our hearts. But Jesus occasionally discomforts us. He brings discomfort. He gets us out of our comfort. He pushes us into new regions. And that's what's going on in this passage. Let's travel with Jesus in John 4, okay? We want to walk our way through the passage, John chapter 4. I want to walk our way through it, and then we'll give some applications at the end. Let's talk about John 4, the woman at the well, the woman at the Samaritan woman The first six verses is called is the context. It's the context. This is some of the now we if you read the verse verses, and I read verses three and four, he left Judea, departed Galilee, had to pass through Samaria. Now those are three regions or provinces. Galilee is where Jesus, most of his ministry was. It's the north country, okay? Judea is in the south, where Jerusalem is, and where the Passover and all the temple, the temple worship and all that stuff was down there. Samaria was in the middle. Okay? So geography is important here. John knows geography, and he knows his readers know the geography there. And so the the verse four, if you look at a map and see the geography, he he was going from Judea to Samaria, but he had to pa to to to Galilee, he had to pass through Samaria, you say, well yeah, of course. Right? But no. No. And John wants us to understand through this chapter what's going on here. Um you've heard of John the Baptist, right? John the Baptist had a ministry of of of of uh to Israel, of confessing their sins and and at the Jordan River, remember that? And um why was he on the on the other side of the Jordan on the east side of the Jordan River? So they would be in Jerusalem and they and they they would have many relatives in Galilee. And so there was a main road that went uh across the Jordan River on the on the east side of the Jordan River and then back over to Galilee. I want you to imagine that you um are from Glenn Burney. And your mama lives in Chowson. And you want to go visit your mama. So you put your GPS in. Your GPS says, well obviously, you have options. You can take six six ninety-five. You can take one of the tunnels And then there's another option. You can go through the city. Now, I can think of about a half dozen reasons why I want to take 695 or or 95. And so can you, right? There are a lot of good reasons to not go through the Inner Harbor and then you gotta go on Pratt Street, you gotta find York Road, Dreamhunt Avenue. And there's lights and there's traffic and there's tartholes and there are a lot of reasons to not take Green Mount Avenue, ain't it? Verse 4 tells us Jesus had to take Green Mount Avenue. You need to feel that. You need to feel that in the text. This is not just geography. This is culture. This is what we just heard about the the homens uh uh uh uh uh uh having uh a gunpoint and yet having ten people come to their ministry. This is culture. Jesus is getting them out of their comfort zone. Okay. And I I'm gonna I'm gonna keep myself tight here, okay? So let's let's move let's move so verse five. He came to a town of Samaria called Sikar near the field that Jacob had given to his son Joseph. Jacob's well was there, so Jesus, wearied as he was from his journeys, was sitting beside the well. It was about the sixth hour. Again, cultural point. Um normally the sixth hour is noon, it's high noon. Their days began at at uh six o'clock in the morning. That was the first hour At 9 a. m. when when when you know when people wake up and the mothers would go and and they'd go to the well and they'd get the water for the day and they'd socialize and talk and they'd go and then they'd have the water for the day. This is the woman. She doesn't go to the well at 9 o'clock with the other women. She comes at noon. This tells us something immediately. That she's an outcast. She's a social outcast. Okay? She shows up not with other women. She shows up at noon. Some would even suggest that she shows up because You know, they know that at midday travelers will be coming through and certain women look for travelers. Amen. You know what I'm talking about? Some would suggest that. I don't know if it goes that far But clearly the social cues of the passage tell us that this is an interesting conversation that's about to take place. This is the context. Now, the next verses 7-8, I just call it the opening. This is the opening. A woman from Samaria came to draw water. Now We're not told her name. She's an unnamed woman. I'm going to call her Juanita. Let's give her a name. Juanita. So Juanita is at the well. And Jesus is at the well. Awkward in one sense. And Jesus said to her, Give me a drink. Jesus initiates the conversation And then John gives us a parenthesis. For his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. Let me say something I meant to say earlier. And I've said this before about the Gospel of John. The Gospel of John is the fourth of the Gospels. It's also the fourth chronologically. Matthew, Mark, and Luke Gospel were out there. John, several decades later, says, let me write the rest of the story. Okay? And so John's gospel has a lot of stuff that the other gospels don't have. I hope you've seen that. The situ you know the the conversation around bread. There's some interesting in personal conversations that go on there. Um some some some of the intrigue about the uh the light of the world, that conversation about the man who got healed, the the blind man This interesting thing is that we know from John that we don't, this whole upworm conversation, we have very little of it in the other gospels. John is several decades later saying, there's some stuff that we still need to have in the Bible. And he gives and and and John this p this passage is only in John. It's only in John. So he gives us uh, and again, John is looking back as one of those disciples. For his disciples had gone into the city to buy food. We'll come back to that verse later. So then verses 9 to 15, I call this the hook. And the hook is living water. Let's read it. The Samaritan woman, Juanita, she said to him, How is it that you, a Jew, Ask for a drink from me, a woman of Samaria. And then he gives us another parenthesis in case you don't know, for Jews have no dealings with Samaritans. In parentheses, verse 10. Jesus answered her, if you knew the gift of God, and who it is it that's saying to you, give me a drink, you'd have asked him, and he would have given you living water. The woman said to him, Sir, you have nothing to draw water with, and the well is deep. Where are you going to get that living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob? He gave us the well and drank from it himself, as did his sons in his livestock. Book of Genesis, read it sometime. Jesus said to her, Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again. But whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. The water that I will give him will become in him, in him, A spring of water welling up to eternal life. So there's an internal water he's talking about. It's a water that provides eternal life. What is he talking about? Well he's moved as in the gospel many times in the Gospel of John, Jesus takes something literal and does something symbolic with it. Okay? And here he is again. This this is this water is not just literal water. But she's still thinking about literal water. She didn't hear the in him or the eternal life part, so she says, Sir, give me this water. I'm tired of coming here every day getting water. If you got some water, if you if you've got some water in somewhere in in some jar or something that's gonna keep keep buffing up and give me water, I have to come here every day, give me that water So that I will not be thirsty or have to come here to draw water. So the hook that Jesus uses in this conversation with her is water, living water. So she's, okay, so she's somewhat interested. Verses 16-18 is the challenge from Jesus. So she's ready. Give me this water. And Jesus says, go call your husband and come here. The woman answered him, I have no husband. Now stop. In that day, even Pregius to talk to a woman in public would be sort of uh be a faux pas, a social faux pas Okay? For a w in that day the norm was that a woman would not make any kind of important decision without consulting with her husband. Particularly changing religion? You have to consult your husband. That's one of those cultural issues that Jesus said, no, no, no, no, no. He talked to women. He told women belief. He ministered to women. He didn't he didn't always say, you know, go your husband, you can believe what you can't believe to your husband. Jesus didn't do that. Again, telling us something about Jesus breaking barriers. But so here he says Go get your husband. So he's not it's not because he doesn't believe that she can have interaction with him. That's not what's going on. What's going on here? Jesus is beginning to deal with her stuff. You know what I'm saying? And and and and and Jesus says, call your husband. Now he doesn't say, let me tell you, you got some need. He says, do call your husband. I love when he does that. I have no husband. And so Jesus, you are right. You are right in saying I have no husband. Well, you have had five husbands. And the one you now have is not your husband. What you have said is true. She said, What? And so to the challenge, some call this a deflection. Sir, I perceive you're a prophet. Because you knew her stuff, right? A prophet. So let's talk about religion. Okay, let's not talk about the fact I got five five husbands and let's not think about my heart issues. Let's talk about religion. Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, but you say that in Jerusalem is a place where people ought to worship. A popular discussion, argument between the Samaritan people And the Jewish people, the Samaritan, the J now, we didn't go into who the Samaritans were. They were an offshoot of Judaism. They believed only in the first five books of the Bible. They didn't believe the rest of the Old Testament. They believed the five books and and but they have common roots, okay? Look you know eight hundred years prior after the exile, some things happened. Intermarrying and contamination of the true faith is what happened And it's moved on for decades and decades and centuries. So the big issue is which Mount Mount Gerizim in Samaria, which is there at the foothills of Mount Gerizim at this well. was the place where they thought this is the this is the holy place. Look at Deuteronomy chapter twenty-eight twenty-seven is where they had this thing with e Mount Ebel and Mount Gerizim and then back and forth and the the Samaritans loved that mountain. It was in their it was in their area Of course the Jews, the temple was at Zion, right? Mount Zion. So there's a big battle going on. Which is the really which is the most holy place? Is it Gerizim or is it Zion? Well the Jews, of course, thought it was Science, because God said it was. And then the uh Samaritans thought it was Mount Harrison because that was their place. They wanted to have some of the stuff. Now, notice what Jesus does at this discussion about the mountains. Women, I believe, believe me, the hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father. He says, first of all, the issue isn't mountains. He says, you worship what you do not know. We worship what we know. He says, but by the way, we got the right mountain. Okay? You see that? Okay. For salvation is from the Jews. We need to understand that. But the hour is coming and it's now here when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and in truth, for the Father is seeking such people to worship him. The Father is seeking worshipers. The Father is seeking true worshipers. God is spirit. Those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth. So the woman said to him, I know the Messiah is coming. Stop right there. She knows the Messiah is coming. She's had five husbands. She's she's an outcast woman from Samaria, this outcast this false cult basically. And she knows the Messiah is coming. Who the one who's called Christ, Messiah. Greek word Christ, Hebrew word Messiah. When he comes, he will tell us all things. So she as a Samaritan is waiting for the Messiah. So Jesus says, guess who he is? It's me. I who speak to you am He. I'm sure her jaw dropped again for the fifteenth time in the conversation. So the deflection led to this this reality that he revealed himself as the Messiah And then comes the return of the twelve. Verse 27. Just then, as he's saying that I'm the Messiah, and she her mouth is dropping. The disciples came back. They marveled that he was talking with a woman. No surprise there. But no one said, Well, what are you seeking? Or why are you talking with her? What's going on with the disciples? Where have they been? They've been in town. They're now back and there's an awkward moment. They're saying, what's going on here? But they don't want to say anything because they feel weird anyway. The woman left her jar, as she sees them coming, went away into town, said to the people of the town, Come, see a man. Who told me all I ever did? And they said, whoa, because they know what he's been doing, right? Can this be the Messiah? They went out of town and were coming to him. Meanwhile, back at the well. Meanwhile, the disciples are urging him, saying, They got some food. Right? What did they say they went to the town to get? Some food. Hot day Middle of the day, lunchtime. Guys go get some food. I'll be at the well. They came back with some food. He's talking to a woman. They don't hear eat. Just eat, Rabbi. But he said to them, I too I have food to eat that you do not know about. Here he is again, spiritualizing concrete things. Food Disciples said to one another, someone brought something for him to eat? I said, maybe that woman brought some food for him or something. He's got something to eat? What are you talking about? They don't get it. She got it. She got the she got the water thing. They didn't get the food thing. Okay? You follow that My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to accomplish his will. What is food? Food is what strengthens us. Food is what prepares us for the future. He says, what prepares me and strengthens me is to do the will of God. Do not say there are yet four months, then comes a harvest. Look, I tell you, lift up your eyes and see that the fields are white for harvest. Now, why does he say that? Because as they are talking, the woman is bringing back. the people from the city to talk to him. Look up. See? The harvest has been plentiful, but the labors are few. That's that's Matthew, right. I'm getting that mixed up. But they're coming. The harvest is coming. Out to the well. Lift up your eyes, men. See the fields of wife for harvesting. Already the one who reaps is receiving wages and gathering fruit for eternal life, so that sower and reaper may rejoice together Sower and reaper. Someone has sowed. Clearly someone has sowed in Samaria. Because they're not ignorant. They know a lot. This woman knows a lot. These people know a lot. And and now someone is reaping. And who's the one who reaps in Samaria? It's the woman. It's Juanita, our friend. She's the reaper. Four. Here the saying holds true. One sows, another reads. Verse 38. Why did Jesus send them to get food? Here it is, right here. I sent you to reap that for which you did not labor. Others have labored and you have entered into their labor. Jesus did not just send them into Green Mount Avenue to go to the convenience store and get food. He wanted to see that they had enough enthusiasm About Jesus being the Messiah who's at the well, that they would maybe tell something, maybe tell the clerk or somebody else in the store, guess who's outside? They don't even have enough courage to do that Why? Why? Let's go back to comfort zones. That's where we began. It's uncomfortable. Amen? It's uncomfortable. You don't want y first of all, you don't want to see those people And you can't just see them, you don't want to interact with them. Other than in some economic way, here's here's my money, here's my card, and then you go back. You know, li living in work w working in the city as I have for years, you know, one of the it is very uncomfortable being in the city. Um you go to you go to the store and you come out and there's someone who wants you, hey can you have some change? No, you know. It all the time. You go to the gas station, someone's there, won't they want some money. Yeah, you you drive down the street, there's a squeezy can once they wants to give you s once to give you some c a clean window. It it's it's so tiresome It is very understandable. But Jesus wants us to feel that discomfort. He wants us to feel that discomfort. Well, verse 39 to 43 is the revival. The revival. Many Samaritans from that town believed in him because of the women's testimony. He told me all that I ever did. So when the Samaritans came to him, this is the people from town, they asked him to stay with them. He stayed there two days. He interrupted his schedule. And many more believe because of his word. Can you imagine the look on the disciples' face? When Jesus said, we're going to stay two more years, more weeks here, two more days here, and not just go up to Galilee where you're comfortable. Can you imagine that? They rolled their eyes and says, oh here we go again They said to the woman, it's no longer because of what you said that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves, and we know that this is indeed the Savior of the world After the two days, he then departed for Galilee. Now, postscript. In in in the the the um first three gospels do tell us this There was the great confession of Peter in Caesarea Philippi, which says you are the Messiah, the Son of the Living God. And then he says he set his face to go towards Jerusalem. He is above Galilee. He's above Galilee when it happened to Caesarea Philippi. And and they make their way towards Jerusalem for Passover for Passover and death. And it and Luke tells us they went through Samaria again. And you remember what happened? Here they've had a revival there for two days. They're going through Samaritan and and they had some problems with some Samaritans. And I said, Jesus, you want to call down fire from heaven on these guys? Merlin? Merlin? Samaria The discomfort that they felt, we feel, right? God pushes our comfort God is the God who we only grow through being stretched. We know that from the physical. We know that from the spiritual. We only grow in God and Jesus is stretching them. Stretching them and he wants to do that in stretching us. Okay, here's three applications for us. The first application about this, this is about God. This is about God. God delights in pushing us out of our comfort zones. This is called discipleship. He pushes us I got people ask me, Pastor, why why are you at Grace Relay Church? You've been at a black church, you've been to the multi-based church, you've never been to a church that's predominantly white like this. It's God's will. God's called me to be here for a while. God pushes us. We shouldn't just say we do what's comfortable. Sometimes God calls to do what's uncomfortable. Amen? And uh yeah. See, once you learn the basics of the Christian faith, the basic doctrines of the faith, the basic by the the way we're to live as a believer, in walking by grace. The Christian life is about applying what we know. It's not necessarily learning new things. Have you learned that yet? It's not about learning something new. There's always new. Look, I'm a seminary professor. There's always more you can learn. But your growth in Christ isn't about learning more. It's applying more to your life. It's growing in wisdom. It's knowing what to apply and when to apply it. When you do Proverbs, Proverbs is quite an interesting book. You really have to know what to apply in circumstances, or you get really messed up in Proverbs. It's about learning how to read situations with the eyes of the Lord. It's about wisdom. Okay, so it's about God. So God pushed us. The second thing it's about other people. It's about our view of other people. God surprises us in who he chooses to save. God does that. Have you heard of that yet? Folk like Juanita, who you feel are no candidate for salvation, she's hungry and thirsty. Deep down. She's the old song, she's looking for love in all the wrong places. And Jesus says, There's a love that you don't know about. And I'm it it's me, the Messiah, and come. And she and she's hungry, thirsty. In our eyes the woman would be the most unlikely candidate for salvation. That's because we don't we don't understand the heart of God for lost people. We should never think anyone is too far from God that God can't reach. Okay? Think of the Old Testament. Think of Nebuchadnezzar, the old book of Daniel. Crazy King Nebuchadnezzar. You know, God humbled him and made him look like a madman. But he came through because God when God when you're on God's hit list, God's gonna get you. God got Nebuchadnezzar. Think of the apostle Paul, who was Saul of Tarsus. He hated Christians. He hated the gospel, uh the message of the gospel. He knew how dangerous it was for his Ju Judaism and his people and his own self. God knocked him off a horse, blinded him. God got him. I was studying in church history class, Augustine of Hippo, boy, he was a rascal He was a rascal. But God reached down and touched his life. This is about our view of people. If you're praying for someone who's lost and you know a loved one, continue to pray. God can reach anybody At least you and me, right? And the third thing, this is about us. This is about us. We get so locked into our routine that when we it gets changed, when our routine gets changed, we go crazy. Don't we? God delights in rocking our world, doesn't he? And you know, this coronavirus is really rocking a lot of people's world. It's it's it's upsetting a lot of people. Now some people say that's that there's an overreaction. I don't know. I'm not I'm I'm not an expert. But it's really funny to see how our lives are so patterned and we have routines and when those routines get get upset well our first reaction is to run to the store isn't it seems like with uh a friend of mine the other day he sent me um something from the Babylon Bee. I don't know if you've heard the Babylon Bee, but it is a uh website that has heroist Christian stuff. And this is this is wonderful. The latest numbers on coronavirus. 100% of the world is still under God's control. Here's the article. The latest data on the spread of the coronavirus has come in. The results are clear. One hundred percent of the earth is still under God's dominion. We've analyzed the numbers and the one pattern that's emerging here is that 100% of human beings are still in the loving hands of their creator, said a spokesperson for the CDC. Christ created the world and holds the universe together by the power of his will. In him all things hold together. The evidence is undeniable at this point. Remarkably, this data is very similar to researchers' findings during the fall of Rome. The Black Plague, the Holocaust, the Spanish flu, swine flu, bird flu, and every other time of turmoil humanity has faced. No matter what the specific plague or time of suffering, research has always pointed to the fact that God is sovereign and bends the thread of history to his will for his glory. A connection was also found between placing your faith in Christ and not having to worry about death by coronavirus or any other kind of death, as we are destined for another world. Quote, he sees the sparrow enclosed the lilies of the field, so why do you freak out? And he and it ends, and so seriously, stop buying all the toilet paper. That's how it ends. Disciples failed and we fail. But in the New Testament, the Holy Spirit's gonna come and they're gonna have a lot a lot of success, aren't they? They took the message from Jerusalem. Judea and Samaria in the ends of the earth. Samaria, that cross-cultural laboratory for the church We have the same Holy Spirit, don't we? We have the same Holy Spirit. And one of his names, we'll see it later in John, is the Comforter. The comforter, the one who comes alongside us to say it's okay, to bring comfort, to tell us we're going to make it. And to bring power to witness boldly in areas that we wouldn't feel comfortable witnessing. How can we do that? Well it's very simple. Because God is our God. And 100% of the earth. Is still under God's dominion. Let's pray. Father, we live lives here in America, this comfortable place, and often our goal is to make things as comfortable for ourselves, for our families, as we can. There's nothing wrong with being comfortable. And yet we know that one of the agendas in your heart for us Who are called to take up our cross and follow you is to feel the discomfort, to get out of our comfort zone for the sake of others I don't know what this message means for us individually or as a congregation, but as we look through the Gospel of John, Lord, you want to challenge us with with these kind of things, that you're the Savior of the world. And you've placed us here in the in the in in Baltimore. And there's lots of different kinds of people from all over the world in Baltimore. Even close to this church. So give give us a sense of what your calling is for each one of us in the days ahead and in the in the in the weeks and months ahead as a church. We thank you that with all this going on, all the anxiety and the stress of this coronavirus, that you are Lord. And you are in control of your world. And we thank you that we can rest in that in Jesus' name. Amen.