Um someone in the crowd said to him, Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me. But he said to him Oh yeah, please stand up. All right. So someone in the crowd said to him, Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me. But he said to him, Man Who made me a judge or arbitrator over you? And he said to them, Take care and be on your guard against all covetousness. For one's life does not consist in the abundance of his possessions. And he told them a parable, saying, The land of a rich man produced plentifully. And he thought to himself, What shall I do? For I have nowhere to store my crops. And he said, I will do this. I will tear down my barns and build larger ones, and there I will store all my grain and my goods. And I will say to my soul, soul, you have ample goods laid up for many years. Relax, eat, drink, be merry. But God said to him, Fool, this night your soul is required of you, and the things you have prepared, whose will they be? So is the one who lays up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God. And he said to his disciples, Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life. what you will eat, nor about your body, what you'll put on. For life is more than food, and the body more than clothing. Consider the ravens. They neither sow nor reap, yet they have they have neither storehouse nor barn, yet God feeds them. Oh, how much more value you are than the birds. And which of you, by being anxious, can add a single hour to his span of life? If then you are not able to do as small a thing as that, why are you anxious about the rest? Consider the lilies, how they grow. They neither tour nor spin. Yet I tell you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these But if God so clothes the grass which is alive in the field today and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, how much more will he clothe you, O you of little faith? And do not seek what you are to eat and what you are to drink, nor be worried. For all the nations of the world seek after these things, and your Father knows that you need them Instead, seek his kingdom, and these things will be added to you. Fear not, little flock, for it is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Sell your possessions and give to the needy. Provide yourselves with money bags that do not grow old, with a treasure in the heavens that does not fail, where no thief approaches and no moth destroys. We're gonna have more people reading, more participations, you can hear different voices. So if you're willing to read Let Janet know and she she'll ask you on a on a Sunday morning. Just a couple things before I started. I missed y'all last week. I heard Hansu did a great job. I got to see Hansu on Friday. We went sailing, me and his wife and his beautiful kids, and so it was great. And he gave me a wonderful update. Wonderful. No surprise. We got Drew graduated, so that's good. He rode yesterday and today was his last collegiate uh race. So he's done. And he has a job in DC and he's gonna gonna move in with us for uh some time, I don't know how long until we figured out what he's gonna do. And Julie drove or flew today back to Missouri. Her niece is getting married this weekend, so she's gonna help So she'll fly back in for the installation and party. Here's my life update, right? So we are going through the this middle portion of Luke, where Jesus has left Galilee. He was born in Bethlehem. He did most of his ministry years in Galilee, and he's headed to Jerusalem. So we're sort of calling this this little in-between part. It it wouldn't have taken that long to get there, but Luke spends ten chapters, and we're mostly looking at the parables, but we're touching on a few others. other things. We're we're thinking about walking and going new places, traveling. Jedediah Johnson, who was a lawyer in a soul crushing suburb. And he decided to quit his normal job and be a lawyer for a nonprofit. And that was that was a lot better. He was happier and poorer But when he he decided when he turned 30 he was going to do something that he had heard someone else did, and he was going to do it for sure. And that was ride his bike from Oregon To Argentina, all the way down to Patagonia. It took him eighteen months. No kidding. And it was life-changing. He wrote a book about it called To Shake the Sleeping Self. I'll make a link to it in Wednesday. email. And he it starts this way. Check page one. I have learned this for certain. If discontent is a disease, travel is medicine. It re-sensitizes. It opens you up to see outside the patterns you follow because new places require learning. It forces your childlike self back into action. That's been so true for us to come here and to learn new places and explore new restaurants and towns and take a sometimes I'll even drive over here and then like I'm gonna go this way And I'm gonna go this way and just see where the roads lead. And and and and you know, it's that's learning for me. It's it's in activating my brain in a different way. I was thinking about when when I took Drew to college his sophomore year, this would have been two thousand 19 I think. We also took Anna, so it's me drew and Anna. And Anna was a junior, and so we stopped and started looking at colleges along the way. We made it a big trip, sort of a college trip for her And so, you know, we we stopped at Memphis and Knoxville and Charlottesville and DC, and along the way we started listening to the a podcast called Serial. Did you ever listen to Serial? Season one serial is about Baltimore. It's about this guy named uh Armand, who was accused of murdering this This high school girl, they were in high school together, her name was Ha Min Li. And and Han Su, who is Korean, knows that family. I don't know if he knew her exactly, but we've talked about this. So this happened 25 years ago. She she died, and uh this guy, Odnan, was convicted, and he's recently been let out of prison And it's this whole mess, right? But it's very interesting mess. But sh her body was found in Lincoln Park And so we're listening to this podcast along the way, and I sort of realize when we hit to DC, we are going to be fifteen minutes away from Lincoln Park. It just dawned on me like we have got to pull over and so we traced around back in the woods, you know, obviously where her body was found twenty-five years ago. And we couldn't exactly figure out where it was, but we we were close. And and that made the podcast really different. It's really different now that I have been to Lake and Park for meetings. You know, we had lunch out there. But being in a place is different than reading about or hearing about a place. Right. Jenkin talks about how new places shake the brain awake because you don't really know what's gonna be next. The you can read the guidebook But that doesn't help you with the smells of the city or the exhaust or the hot dog hot dog stand or or when you when you're in New York City and you just see The buildings all around you. There's no way you can know the Grand Canyon unless you are standing on the edge. No picture can ever do it justice. So we're talking about traveling with Jesus and experiencing what he sees and what he talks about, the little moments along the way. These ten chapters matter in in 2023 here with us today. We're really looking mostly at the parables in these, but we we're going to talk about some of them Along the way. Last time, two weeks ago, we we we ended with the parable of the Good Samaritan, but chapter ten doesn't end with that parable If you look in your Bible, the next thing that happens is Jesus pops into Mary and Martha's house. Remember that story? And and Martha has been busy. She's got stuff to do. When there's a party, the party doesn't throw itself, right? So she's been uh getting ready for this hosting. I had someone over maybe about a month ago, this couple that I knew from City of Hope and I worked and I really wanted to make them a special meal because they had been a special family, a couple for us And so I made this like very fancy Julia Child French recipe which which takes hours. And then I also um peeled potato uh tomatoes and drizzled on the inside sugar And and uh and lemon juice and it was took me a long time and thirty minutes beforehand he called because they had gotten sick. I was pretending that it was okay with me that they didn't come. But it just it just so happened that it really wasn't anybody's fault. But but I spent a lot of time doing that and we had a really good meal a couple weeks ago. Julie's getting ready, you know, she's going to Missouri because she wants to help her sister throw this party for the wedding And that takes a lot of time. Our party next week is gonna take a lot of time. And you know what we need for parties? Martha Mary's. Which one is uh Martha's? We need Martha's, right? We don't need Marys for parties. Parties don't happen with Marys So thank you, Martha. But we do need to remember that once the party starts, you can become Mary. And and in our lives we get so busy, don't we? Always throwing posting, parties. We're always doing this work and we need to remember in our lives we've got to be Mar Mary's too, right? We've got to have both to get things done and to spend time with Jesus. So he reminds us that that's better. Our faith needs action, but also resting in Jesus. We can't neglect sitting at Jesus' feet and missing him because we're so busy doing all of our stuff. So then we get to chapter 11, and I want to talk about just a little bit about the Lord's Prayer here. Because um this is when the disciples ask him ask Jesus to teach him something. Jesus teaches them all the time, but they don't usually ask for it, he just teaches But now they they see something about Jesus' relationship with God and they say, you know, listen, we don't really want a theology lesson or a morality lesson. We're not asking about speculative things or philosophical things. We want to learn how to pray like you pray. That's a great request, isn't it? And Jesus teaches them to pray. This is even shorter than the other instance. Father, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come. Give us each day our daily bread, forgive us our sins. For we ourselves forgive everyone who is indebted to us and lead us not into temptation. Very short to the point. Learning how to pray takes prayer. We can read books about prayer, and I think those are fine, but that's not the same as praying. Right. Uh I had a friend who I knew back in in Dallas and he would pray King James prayers. Like filled with vows and these. and uh flowerly King James language, right? Somehow he had learned how to how to pray that way. And and a lot of us when we learn how to pray we do it that way. There's sort of a style that gets adopted, which is fine. But Jesus doesn't pray King James prayers. He this prayer is earthy. It's to the point. It's in a very his own language. It's intimate. It's simple simple. It lacks formality, pretense, or even precision, really. But he does call God the Father, and that would have been super unusual. People would have been shocked at that into intimacy level that Jesus Would display to God. And so just a reminder that this prayer helps us remember that during the week, and really all the time, we can shoot up quick, informal prayers to God. Help me. Thank you. Wow. Lead me not into temptation right now, Father. Jesus, should I send this email or text? Let me know. Maybe not. That occurs to me, maybe I shouldn't We can pray in our normal voice, help me to forgive this driver. Help me to forgive the people in my car. You can use your normal voice and your normal cadence and your normal vocabulary, and God hears those prayers, of course. I always think it's funny when I you know work with college students so much when someone would become a brand new Christian and start praying for the very first time this person, usually they were dudes, wouldn't realize that we normally don't cuss when we pray But you know, like if that's your normal vocabulary, hey, I appreciated that you didn't think to not do that. Well maybe eventually we'll work on it But you prayed out of your normal experience. And God wants that. I would do a normal prayer normally at the beginning and then then I would sort of move on to like Lord thank you for these potatoes that are so yummy. Thank you for this Salt. You know, I just started being very, very specific. And then Julie would find, okay, okay, I wait, I got it. It's like a little like reminder that it's the little things too. The little things. Our daily bread. Daily bread, you know, it's not our daily salmon quinoa poke bowl. I had with uh Joan last week. It's just simple bread. We take bread for for granted, but most of the world doesn't. They need Need daily bread. They don't have stockpiles. And so we come to the Lord in our neediness, with our daily bread, with our with our need for forgiveness and to forgive others. Asking for His kingdom to come. Wouldn't it be awesome if His kingdom came? We see glimpses of it. Even just to see those glimpses, we need to remember, look for them, ask God to show us his kingdom and that it would come in our world. And then so then he tells them this parable. It comes right out of the Lord's Prayer. I didn't put this one in the bulletin And he said to them, Which of you has a friend? Will go to him at midnight and say to him, Friend, lend me three loaves, for a friend of mine has arrived on the journey, and I have nothing to set before him. And he will answer from within, Do not bother me. The door is shut, my children are with me in bed. I cannot get up and give you anything. I tell you though, he will not get up and give him anything, because he is his friend, yet because of his impudence. He will rise and give him what he needs. And I tell you, ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock, and it will be open to you. For everyone who asks receives. The one who seeks finds And to the one who knocks it'll be open. What father among you, if his son asks for a fish, will instead of a fish give him a serpent Or if he asks for an egg, will he give him a scorpion? If you then who are evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more would the Heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask? him. Great little strange parable you've I'm sure heard, ask, seek, knock. Normally we think of that it comes in Matthew 7. It's really inserted right there. But in Luke, it's in this parable. The same sentiment is in this parable. And you know, just as you think about this parable This guy comes to this guy's house. The guy doesn't have anything, so he goes to another house to find stuff. Because you don't want to be the guest that doesn't or the host that doesn't have anything. And it's late. This guy's like, yo, dude, don't sleep in. Get out of here. And so what is the the the need person's strategy? The strategy of your little kids. Mom, mom, mom, mom, mom, mom, mom, mom, mom. You know, you the the This child was screaming in the grocery store because he or she didn't get what he wanted, like completely impatient And now the patience of a a saint. Because this now this kid will just say, Mom, mom, mom, until you give in, which you're gonna give in, right? Like, how long is this person going to do this? Forever. How do you cut it off? You can't. There's a lot of diligence in this. The grind of this. And that's what Jesus is talking about. It's not because he's the friend, it's because he won't stop. Now his point is sometimes we pray one prayer to God and we think, okay, I prayed it, it's over. But when you have a relationship with God, you are a child. And children keep asking. Now they may not get what they asked for, but they keep asking. There's a persistence The relationship is such that you will keep going. It's not a prayer request in a slot. It's a continual relationship with God. God. So it's pulls out of the Lord's Prayer and into this relationship thing, right? Where we have friends and fathers. And we care for them, and they care for us. Jesus tells us he's not going to ignore you. Ask. See. Knock continually all the time. Don't stop. And then he gives us this cool promise. He's not gonna give you snakes or scorpions when you ask for fish and eggs. It's not the time He's not the type of father he is. He's not bad Santa re-gifting terrible gifts. He's gonna give you what you need. Now the the trick is he's gonna give you what he knows you need. Not necessarily what you think you need. And remember the four answers God gives to prayer requests. Yes, no, not yet. I'm not telling you. Those are the possible answers. But so many times when when we're going through hard times, we end up later realizing God did give us what we needed. We know certainly he doesn't prevent bad things from from happening to us, right? Think about whenever um Peter heard that he was going to deny Christ And Peter said, no way, that's not gonna happen. And and Jesus could have let it not happen, made it not happen, but still he let it happen, and I think it's because That's the moment when Peter saw Jesus, loved him the most. It wasn't based on his performance or even his relationship. It was based on Jesus' love for him, even in his failure, in his betrayal. And that is powerful. So Jesus let that happen instead of like giving him an amulet and saying, whenever you feel like you're gonna deny me, rub this three times, you know, and think about how much you love me and don't do it. He let something really bad. I would say that was the worst night of Peter's life, the dark night of his soul, but it was powerful to him. So there's in this parable, there's bread, in the parable and in the Lord's Prayer. You know, daily bread, our hunger reminds us of our need. And we often are not very hungry. But most of the world is often very hungry and thirsty. And they know their need. It's one reason why we might fast sometimes. And Jesus does command it. Maybe not only during Lent, but sometime when you feel your hunger, you're feeling your need For a father, for bread, for provision. We sing a song, Come ye sinners Poor and wounded, sick and sore, Jesus ready stands to feed you, save you, full of pity. joined with power. God's inviting sinners, needy people, to Himself. Amen, right? That's good news So we got bread, and then I want to talk about barns, which is later on. But you know, Jesus there's a lot of stuff in chapter 11. Jesus talks about the devil. He um heals a man of a spirit. He talks about Jonah. He has produces woes on the professional religious people, the Pharisees and the lawyers. He says, beware of them. And then he says, do not be anxious. We'll get to that. But the parable of the rich fool is in 1213. And and someone comes up to him and Bonnie read this, teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me. It's not a bad request. In some ways, this this man Has been listening. So he asks Jesus for something, right? He seeks him out. He knocks on Jesus' door to say, I need help with this issue. It's a very legitimate request. But Jesus gives a weird answer, which he often does. He says, Man, who made me a judge or arbitrator over you? Why is that a weird response? He is he is exactly that. Right? Who who made me a judge of arbitrary interview? God made you that exact thing. But he's getting at something else, right? Remember the last time you or another time when you have heard about an inheritance being divided? Anything come to mind? The parable of the prodigal son? Remember that time? The younger brother asked for his inheritance Which he should not do. That is not a fair request. And in some sense, what when do you get an inheritance? When the father dies. So he started saying, dude, I wish you were dead. You're not. So I'll I'll take this now. And and of course back then he didn't just draw it from the bank. He would have had to have Uh offloaded a third of his estate, sold lands, sold to be able to give this son The money. Here we are again, dividing the inheritance. We don't really know the reason, but he he is asking Jesus to be just, in some sense, to have the kingdom come So he can get what he wants. But what he doesn't realize is that's not the way it works. Jesus is not this vending machine press put in a dollar, press E9, get the thing you want. Jesus is very much more mysterious than that. So he he we talked about our need Bread, and now we're going to talk about our riches. When we have a lot, our barns. So he tells this parable about the barns. The land of a rich man produced plentiful. And he thought to himself, What shall I do? For I have nowhere to store my crops? He said, Oh I'll tear down my barns and build larger ones, and I'll store all my grain and my My goods. And I'll say to my soul, Soul, you have ample goods laid up for many years. Relax. Eat. Drink. Be merry. This is very normal for us, isn't it? This is how we think. Um I'm gonna make as much as I can. I'm gonna store it away so I can have more later. So I can relax, eat, drink. and be married. So we should be able to put ourselves in this guy's shoes no matter what What is this man saying, though? A couple things tip us off, right? First is in verse 19, he calls his soul soul. Which is not normal. I don't know if you call your soul soul. Do you speak to yourself soul? So there's there's something about this where he's putting himself really talking to himself as if he's God to himself. He's the Lord over his life. He's addressing himself like he's God. That's not good. The other thing he does is he certainly doesn't ask what should he do? He doesn't say, like, you know what, you've given me some So much God or even soul. What should I do with all this? He just knows immediately, get more Build bigger. More is better. More is better. Always, always, always. And so so I think Jesus is seeing through this man's request, even though we don't really understand the situation. Jesus sees through and he sort of points out that your cry for justice, this inheritance issue, is really connected mostly to greed It's like you snuck the pill for your dog in the peanut butter, right? It's not just peanut butter you're giving the dog You're trying to sneak it through this request because you want more and more and more stuff. Now the thing about this is it's not wrong to build barns, is it? No. Greed is the problem. And greed is always dangerous and sneaky and logical And one of the least called out sins in our society. And one that God talks about all the time. He talks about money so often, way more than he talks about hell, for example. Oftentimes the poor, people who are poor Are rich toward God. And oftentimes people who are wealthy are very poor towards God. So often the more we make, the greedier we become. Now to be sure, you can be greedy and poor at the same time. Mutually exclusive. But but what we should be thinking is, Lord, help me to make as much as you want and give as much as as I can. We want to make, save, and give freely, generously, not miserly. And that helps us keep emotionally connected to God, financially connected to God, prayerfully connected to God. Jedediah Jenkins says, I didn't know that this trip would free me from the shackles I couldn't see. I didn't know it would pry my fingers from the parts of myself that had to go. I was holding on to the narrative of my youth like a treasure, but with hands full, I couldn't receive anything new And I couldn't see that I was clutching both treasure and poison. Treasure That's a bad combination, isn't it? So our our narratives of our own lives, our our needs, our prayers, our success, our money, we we're in graduation season And so all these high school and college students are going to hear, be all you can be, follow your passion. I anybody seen uh Breaking Bad? Well, their passion was making meth. You follow that passion No, it depends on what the passion is if you follow it. There's also diligence and patience and grit and determination, right? And then you can figure out if you're good at something I once had a high school kid. He was told me his passion was to go to the NBA. He was like five foot four. I mean, that's possible in the world, but I don't think so, man. Follow your passion. Jesus calls us sinners. Need of a savior. We come to him in our neediness to have a relationship with him. We cannot rescue ourselves. We are not our own saviors. We have poverty and need, but he also gives us dignity and respect, right? We read about that we're more valuable Than anything in this world. He cares about sparrows. Think of how much greater you are than a sparrow when he cares about you. He knows you. The hairs in your head He clothes you. He feeds you. You have dignity and respect and honor no matter what's going on in your life. But you need to sometimes consider the lily. I was on a mission trip with this these college students and we were painting inside of a a clinic in Peru and like it wasn't working. We didn't have the right stuff, it was hot, um our equipment was breaking down in painting, how does that happen? It wasn't very simple, right? And one of the one of the college students said, I'm considering the list Oh I was like, that's good. I need to consider the lilies a little more often. I'm getting a little frustrated. Jesus tells us do not be anxious. How do you do that? Great command. But then he gives you some tools. Consider the lilies. Think in perspective about what this thing is. That's going on. Be in relationship with your father. Come to him in prayer, even when you're frustrated. Give him yourself. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. I had lunch this week with a man named Denny. He wants to publish a book. of devotions. Denny had a terrible stroke maybe four years ago and he couldn't talk, he couldn't read He couldn't write. How do you write a book that way? And he he would work with someone eight hours a day. to get all that back. And eventually he got it and he moved into this retirement village because he was he was worried about his wife if that happened again. And then he started a Bible study. He had eighteen people in this retirement group and then COVID hit and so then he started sending out Bible verses once a week but nobody in the Bible city understood the Bible so he started writing A a weekly devotional. And now he's got one for each day of the year. And I said, Demi, that's so wonderful, man. Gosh, what a story. And he said, you know, really, honestly, the biggest reason I want to do it, I want to do it for these people But I want to do it for my kids and my grandkids. So they will know how much I love Jesus and how much they should love Jesus. Jesus. And I want to put my my heart and soul into this and tell my own story so they can also know me better. That is not building barnes, is it? It's building a legacy. It's seeing the kingdom of God come to bear in the here and now. How beautiful is that! I would help anybody to do that. Kingdom kingdoms need barns. So as we see the kingdom of God come, it's going to take Jesus says put that in perspective in your life and come to me for God's glory. Amen. Well, we come to the table as a response to that. It's one of the ways that God feeds us, right? He gives us a very simple meal, but a very important meal, one that's only able to be eaten because he paid the price. So this meal is an invitation for us. Bread. We need our daily bread. We need bread. Wine. He is the true