It's good to be with you. I'm sorry we uh couldn't do this in person, but uh we thank God for the the uh technology of Zoom. Uh thank you for the introduction, Stan. One one minor correction because uh um like Moses uh Wandering in the wilderness for forty years. I I I wandered the halls of NSA for forty years. I I want credit for the last ten. Um And uh anyway, uh and and and and like Moses after the forty years, uh I was uh very, very glad to get out. Unlike Moses after the forty years, uh I got uh move on to something different and he got to go home with the Lord. So uh but anyway, uh it's good to be with you. And uh today's message is Trusting our leaders and a time of wandering. Leadership is a very interesting thing. When you think about leaders, they get a lot of attention, they also get a lot of blame. After all, And uh and and uh I can say this uh being a uh a a a Redskins fan, uh a Washington football team fan now, but it's been kind of interesting watching the Ravens over the last five weeks Uh they went from uh having the best record in all the football to being pretty much out of the playoffs. And the interesting thing that has uh I've seen on the news and listening to the sports commentators and all that is that uh the focus has been Um, Don Harbaugh, should he have gone for two all those times where he went for two? Um you know, is he too much of a gambler Uh undue, I think, criticism fell on the coach. But doesn't it always fall on the leader when things start going south? Today, in our country, we're going through unprecedented supply chain management issues, uh inflation that we haven't seen in fifty years And uh and who gets the blame? Of course President Biden gets the blame. Uh usually you don't hear criticism of of these things without the criticism of the President. There are no uh COVID tests to be had I live in Columbia and uh and I'm a runner and uh couple of weeks ago we went on a run and we went past the testing site at Merryweather First Play and and There was like 300 cars lined up for two or three miles, uh staking around just tying up all kinds of traffic, people waiting for tests and uh waiting for six hours. Who gets blamed on that? Well, of course the leader does, the the president does. Um leaders uh tend to get credit for things they don't deserve credit for and Tend to get blamed for everything that goes wrong. And so want to look at the scriptures today to see what they say about leadership in times of wandering. And I got four points because I'm not a Presbyterian pastor, I'm a Presbyterian elder, so I can't quite get it to three, but I can get it in four. First, uh, we're going to talk about why We have leadership. Second, we're going to talk about why is there conflict with leadership. Third is who should be our leaders. And fourth is how should we biblically respond to leadership. Why do we have leaders? Well, it all started at creation because when God created us, he created us as a people. That needed companionship and needed to be led. God didn't create us and put us in the garden to be autonomous and to live alone or apart. In fact, it only took a little while for um God to recognize that it was not good for man to be alone and and he created woman. And although uh many comments could be made out of that uh particular passage, we are going to refrain from uh getting anybody in trouble here. But God made woman to be a companion to man. But right away, in the order of things, uh there was a power struggle as far as who would lead in that relationship, even when there were only two. But God made us to be a people who needed to be led and he was going to be the leader in the Garden of Eden. It only took a little bit for us men to find another leader to follow who was a little more popular, who was a little more willing to give us quote unquote everything we wanted And we all know what happened there, the fall in Genesis 3. We go on and look at um throughout Genesis, um there was leadership Man started following leaders. We don't see a lot of it pre-Abraham, but we see enough of it. In Genesis uh chapter ten, where genealogy is given, it talks about the world being divided. Uh this is Genesis eleven actually, uh, in a time of Peleg and uh the world was divided. There were factions. People were following different people. I would uh entertain that the Tower of Babel uh had leaders organizing the building of the tower that God had come down and destroyed and and disrupt. When When God came to Abraham, Abraham was A rich man who had servants that he led. He was a leader of a family. God made Jacob, the patriarch of Israel, and Joseph, a leader in Pharaoh's time There are already kings in the time of Abraham because Abraham had battles uh and uh uh witnessed battles, uh the five kings against the four kings. There has always been leadership As long as we can go back and there's been people. Because God created us to be led. He did not create us to be autonomous beings. He created us to be a people that thrived on and needed leadership In the scriptures, Israel realized that they were struggling and needed leadership. They asked Samuel to find them a king. Unfortunately, they used man's criteria and got Saul God got their attention and then God's criteria was used for leadership and they got David. And it's uh it could be a a uh Two or three months of sermons to contrast the leadership of David and Saul. But the point is that uh God made us to be led, and leadership is a part of The human experience here on earth, that we need leaders and we thrive under leadership. Jump over to the New Testament. And we have Paul, the greatest missionary of all time. One of the first things that Paul does in the New Testament church is tell the two men that he had the most influence over. Paul discipled a lot of people, but the two men that Paul had the most influence over, uh his uh His prime uh discipleese, if you would uh want to say that, Timothy and Titus. One of the first things he did for Timothy is he Was the elder of the church of Ephesus and Titus, as he was the elder of the church of uh of Crete, he told them to appoint leaders, appoint elders in the church. In uh Acts chapter fifteen, we see that the uh early Jerusalem church when they had issues and conflicts within the church had a leadership council to be able to direct and and decide what uh God's will was for the early church, what was going to be required for belief and uh or orthodoxy in the church and and what was extraneous. So we see throughout the scriptures that leadership Is something ordained by God. It is something that is part of our existence. And in churches, governments, organizations. Corporations everywhere. Leadership is a necessary part of existence and a part of our uh of our structure. So leadership is something that God calls us to have and also calls us to honor and follow and obey. And we'll get into that a little bit later when we talk about the how. So why don't I go into the um the second why? Why do we have conflict with our leaders? We see that God uses leadership in Scripture to lead us and shepherd us, but why do we have conflict? Basically, that comes out of the beginning of Genesis 2. As soon as we introduce sin into the world We have conflict because after all the first sin was a power struggle and leadership. God said one thing, Satan said another And when Eve was confronted with which leader she was going to follow, she chose to follow the advice of Satan. And ever since then, there's been conflict. Conflict because of the sin on which leader we're going to follow. In times of wilderness Israel continued to butt heads with uh the leadership because of their sin, of their hardness of heart. They did not want to listen to the word of God. In Exodus 32, we see Moses having gone up to get the commandments and having been gone for 40 days and 40 nights Israel didn't like the leadership. They didn't like the way that Moses was running it. They wanted a a leader that would let them do what they wanted. A softer touch And they corralled Aaron into uh into leading them and and creating a god out of a caste. And so we see how Our sin causes conflict with with leaders. But that's not the only thing that causes uh conflict with leaders. Leaders sin too, and the Bible is replete with corrupt leaders The said Aaron that we mentioned was an early example. Wicked kings in the time of Abraham. We have that. When we look at uh the post Davidic kings in Israel, I love reading through um first and second Kings and First and Second Chronicles when uh they introduce each king because some of them get the um the heading and so and so did right in the eyes of the Lord and Many others get and so-and-so did not do right in the eyes of the Lord, or so-and-so did evil in the eyes of the Lord. A great example is um Near the uh near the end of uh of the uh of the kingship, we have Hezekiah, who was a king who did right in the eyes of the Lord, a great leader And he had his son Manasseh, who did all kinds of evil. In fact, the scriptures say he was one of the worst uh of the evildoers of the kings of Israel And then he had a son, uh, forget if it's one or two, uh, but Josiah came soon after that, who did write. And then Josiah's kids, when they came to rule, did evil again. So corrupt leadership is another reason why there is uh there is conflict uh among us and and leaders. It's not only our sin, but the sin of our leaders causes conflict And when we go through difficult times, when we go through times of wandering in the wilderness like Israel did for 40 years. It gets much easier to criticize and grumble against our leaders. If you read through the book of Exodus, It's almost in every chapter where Israel started grumbling against their leaders. First they grumbled because they were gonna get caught before they got uh um to the Red Sea. Um they were they were uh they were gonna get caught by uh the Egyptians and then God did uh a mighty miracle. And then they started grumbling that there was no water. And then they started grumbling that there is no meat. And they started grumbling that they were wandering around and uh And um anything there is to to grumble about, they they grumbled about it. Because when things aren't going well for us We start grumbling and complaining even more about the leaders. When we uh interesting uh watching the news I saw far less far less complaining about the president in the spring and summer when COVID seemed that numbers were going down and we were able to go to the grocery stores and actually find things. And actually get a COVID test if you needed it. But when things started getting bad in the fall and the numbers started ticking up again and COVID tests got to be impossible and inflation Uh prices started shooting up and uh things started getting difficult. The grumbling and complaining about the leadership greatly increased with it And so we are created for leadership, but Satan has wanted to teach us that we're autonomous. We don't need leaders. We know better. We're smarter. We're more educated. We got more common sense. And so there's always going to be conflict against leaders, because there's always going to be sin until the second coming of our Lord Jesus Christ And this thing tempts leaders to be corrupt and it tempts us to be Grumbling, complaining, and um and and questioning our leaders So we see why God has given us leaders. We're uh we're created to be um to be led and uh we see what sin has done to our attitude toward leaders. In this passage We see Israel running into their first crisis of leadership after they got rid of the uh Egyptians. God had just done a miracle in drowning the Egyptian army. And it didn't take very long For Israel to start getting discontent. Now, you have to look for it in chapter 18 there, but um Jethro, the father-in-law of Moses, recognized that The people were getting antsy because he said to Moses, if you continue this practice, you and of of uh of holding all the leadership to yourself and doing everything. That people and you will be worn out. And that people are hanging around from dawn till dusk waiting for Moses to make decisions. And it's strongly inside there that there is grumbling and discontent and things taking too long and um a a general uh discord of of of how things were going. And so Jethro gives Moses one of the first examples in the Old Testament of leadership delegation. and and how Moses should address the problem. And this goes into our our next point of who should lead. The scriptures are very, very clear on on who should lead us. in the church. And although leadership mostly in scriptures is talked about in the context of the church, I believe that these principles should apply in secular leadership too, because uh God's word is meant to Direct us not only in affairs and life in our church, but affairs and life on the earth. And the principles of leadership put forth in Scripture are equally valid in and outside the church. But look what Jethro says and gives uh how he gives Moses advice about who should lead. He doesn't say pick the man that knows the most about the history of Israel. He doesn't say pick the man who gets along with the most people. He doesn't say pick the man who's the most popular person. He says to pick people who fear God And who are not corrupt, who are honest, and who are men of integrity. And when we look at Paul's instruction to Timothy and Titus in the New Testament about leaders, They're not overloaded with solid doctrinal people. Now in 1 Timothy 3, verses 1 through 8, when Paul talks about elders, He does uh command Timothy that the people selected should be apt teachers. That word apt isn't used uh very much today, but it means qualified, it means solid And for deacons in nine um in verses eight through fourteen, I should have said one through seven uh for elders, and eight through fourteen for deacons He says that the deacons need to be able to assent to the truths of the faith. And and what does it mean to assent to the truths of the faith? It means to be able to know them and understand them. Not necessarily teach them, but know and understand them and be able to agree with them. But the interesting things about the 1 Timothy passage about elders and deacons and leaders in the church is that it's about 90% character and 10% doctrine. And I find that interesting because uh having been an elder in the in the PCA and the uh Orthodox Presbyterian and even in the old Um I wasn't an elder in the um um the the old Presbyterian uh uh church USA, although um the um I was in a uh our our church in uh the early nineteen eighties when I was fresh out of college moved from that denomination to the PCA And so I was uh familiar with uh the way that elders and and deacons were chosen. It's kind of interesting that when we choose elders and deacons, how much our presbyteries, how much our churches focus on doctrine versus character. It seems like we almost focus the opposite way. We do ninety percent on doctrinal purity and ten percent on character. Now I'm not uh so that Stan doesn't uh kick me out of the presbytery here, I'm I'm not advocating uh that doctrine is not important. It is important for our leaders in our churches to be able to advocate uh be able to support and teach the doctrines of the the PCA. And just like I mentioned about leadership before, it's important for a corporate leader to be able to advocate um and support the the values of the company and uh andor the organization uh that they are they're leading. That is a necessarily and uh important thing. And I'm not I'm not trying to diminish that. What I am saying is that we focus far too much on doctrinal purity sometimes at the expense of character. Uh now I I've been um in the PCA for a little while and I was actually in the PCA before I moved to Columbia. I I was an elder. I've seen a couple of PCA elders and pastors end up leaving the PCA because their doctrinal views were not quite orthodox. But I have seen far, far, far more be removed because of character flaws and character deficiencies and defaulting on the character uh that first Timothy calls us to as as leaders Most of the people that we have to deal with in Presbytery of pastoral discipline has nothing to do with doctrine and everything to do with character. And the advice that Jethro gives, a lot of people take a look at this passage and say Wow, the the key advice here is to delegate. The key advice here is to set up a group of leaders and to delegate because Moses was doing too much. He was trying to rule this thousands and thousands of people, hundreds of thousands actually, and die And Jesuit gave him advice, no, you have to delegate. You're burning yourself out. Now, the delegation advice was very important. We need to be able to have enough leaders to care for people But I don't think that was the most important advice that Jethro gave I think the most important advice that Jeffrey gave was to choose men of character. That was the most important. The kings that followed David did not get into trouble because they didn't delegate or have enough leadership. They got into trouble because they did not wholly followed the Lord. There were not men who feared God. There were not men who avoided corruption and greedy gain. They had the character falls. So as we think about who should be our leaders Men and women of character. Now, this is not a um a message on women leaders. Our denomination holds the fact that men um should be elders and pastors and deacons. But uh many uh churches in our denomination have uh deacons assistants who are non-ordained uh helpers of of deacons who are women. And we have women leaders in our church. Many uh churches and uh have women uh as directors of Christian education uh directors of women ministries and other leadership positions. So when I say men, I mean men and women. And if I slip up and just say men and don't say men and women, forgive me in advance. But when I talk about leaders, this applies to men and women equally. Men and women of integrity, men and women of character, men and women who fear, who fear God That's the basic message of who should be our leaders. Qualified leaders who know and understand what we believe and why we believe it, but men and women of character who fear God, who are not corrupted, who are able to be hospitable, and kind and not greedy and not selfish who are not easily becribable or corruptible Who don't get puffed up, who are not proud. These are the type of leaders. It makes it much easier to follow a leader who is honest and who is uh obedient to the scriptures. Still when we have that, we still have grumbling, complaining uh gossiping and and trashing of our leaders because after all we're all sinners. And even when we have a godly leader who's doing the right thing, we still can't seem to to follow that uh leader very well, especially when we're going through times of frustration and doubt and struggling and wanderings. And I really equate the wandering in the wilderness to what we're going through in society today because we're a very restless society We have racial tensions. We have unprecedented sexual perversity. I heard on the um Uh news just uh I was reading an article actually in uh the Billy Grant Decision magazine that we've aborted sixty-two million children since Roe v. Wade in nineteen seventy-three. We're living in a very restless society. There's lots of wanderings going on. We really are in a wilderness. One fourth of the churches in our presbytery are looking for pastors. We really are wandering in the wilderness. And during this time where we struggle and where we wander, it is all the more important. That as we choose leaders, we choose men and women of integrity, who fear God, who are not out for greedy gain, who are not proud and haughty. My father-in-law, who was uh a great man who passed away about 15 years ago, always used to say, if a person really wants to be president, that should automatically disqualify him And I always thought that was a pretty funny line. I always liked that line. But there's something to that line. Because here's the truth. A person who wants the leadership that bad and is so um so focused on on on the position, maybe that's not the person we want leading us. A person should choose leadership not because they want it, but because they feel the call of God And uh to desire to be an elder is a good thing, according to First Timothy three, one, but that desire should be Because God is calling and God is leading, not because we want to get in there and change things and straighten people out and and and get things done right. Because it's very easy to have that uh that attitude So we need men and women of integrity. That's who needs to be leading us, and that is the key advice that Jethro gave to Moses in this passage. So how should we respond to our leaders, especially during the times of wandering where we're restless, we're wandering, we're discontent, we're struggling Well, interesting enough that the New Testament gives more scriptures on how we're to respond to our leaders than it does about who should be our leaders Hebrews is full of them. But uh 1 Timothy 5, 1 Peter 5, Hebrews 13, among other places Uh, Jesus and um Matthew twenty three talks about Listening to our leaders, but don't follow the hypocritical one. Scriptures throughout the New Testament talk about how we should respond to our leaders, and Paul sets the example. In many of his books, if not all of them, he asks and commands that we pray for our leaders. And that is first and foremost how we should respond. We need to be praying for our leaders. Leadership is not an easy position. Let me get back to John Harbaugh. You know, I always like to tease my Raven fan, uh Raven fan friends And um, you know, when they when they've been complaining about John Harbaugh uh and how he cost the Ravens the playoffs this year, and my comment to them is, please do fire him. We'll take him Now I think Washington has a great coach in Ron Rivera, but having those two together, Ron Rivera and John Harbaugh, that would be a uh coaching staff that that's unparalleled and uh and and and great coaches But I always beg to teach them, yeah, fire 'em. Send them our way. We'll take 'em. Um we so often wanna get rid of our leaders and and not give them the benefit of the doubt. And and leadership is tough. And uh everybody forgets about the great job that John Harbaugh's done. He's won two Super Bowl with two less than stellar quarterbacks, and in fact two really no-name quarterbacks uh that that will not be remembered twenty years from now. And yet, yeah, his it's his great coaching that really won their Super Bowl. People forget. So the first thing how we respond to our leaders, pray for our leaders. That is Paul mentions it in every letter, and the writer of Hebrews mentions it also. We need to pray for our leaders. Secondly, we need to give them the benefit of the doubt We don't have the big picture a lot of times when our leaders do. Paul makes it very clear in 1 Corinthians 13 when he talks about the chapter of love. He says, now we see in part, but Later we'll see fully. We'll see face to face. And we're reminded over and over again that grumbling against God is uh is not called for because we don't see the big picture. We don't see what God is doing. Um, we don't see what God how God is working. And many times when we grumble against God for trials and tribulations we go through and all that Um, we end up looking back on it a couple years later and recognizing, wow, I really blew it. I missed the boat. I didn't even get close to the water because I didn't see what God was doing. Well, in a smaller way, a much smaller way, a lot of times we don't see the big picture, the bigger picture that our leaders do. We don't always understand their action. And so besides praying to them, give them the benefit of of the doubts. Give them the benefit of the doubt that They are seeking God. They are praying. They are having your best interests in mind. Um the third way, uh third thing that we should do uh for our leaders is encourage them. We need to be positively encouraging leaders. Thank you thank you. Thank you, leaders. Encourage them. Give them a word of encouragement. Give them a word of exhortation. Show appreciation for what they do. Uh I don't really like to bring attention to you know the the work, uh but many times um You know, elders w we get calls at crazy times of the day or night, uh, when emergencies happen in the church. And the people that really suffer are the elders' wives many times because uh, you know, they end up taking care of the family when the elder is out. doing things. But I I know that we too, uh, like you all, are looking for a new pastor at Columbia Presbyterian Church and I would say my my workload has doubled or tripled as an elder since uh since we uh um no lon no longer have a senior pastor. First uh Hebrews talks about encouraging your leaders. And um We need to we need to be an encouragement. The fourth thing, submit to your leaders Peter talks about uh honoring your leaders in uh in 1 Peter 5 and Hebrews 13 again talks about Submitting to your leaders because they uh God has entrusted them with shepherding and uh and and leading you When your leaders take vows, and you'll um when you ordain your elders and your deacons, your leaders take vows, and the congregation takes a vow too, to honor and submit. to their leaders. And when you get your new pastor, and I hope and pray it's it's soon, uh you'll be having an ordination ceremony and again you'll be asked to um to honor and submit to your leaders and and to submit to this this new man that you've called to be your pastor. The fifth thing in response is hold your leaders accountable. If you do see something questionable, There are ways to deal with this. When First Timothy talks First Timothy five, seventeen through twenty talks about giving your elders double honor, especially Uh you're teaching elders. But the four verses also mention that if there is a charge against an elder, it should be brought by two or more people and uh then it uh it it should be and if it's not uh addressed then tell it to the church. There are ways to deal with corrupt leaders I hope and pray that you never have to deal with that, but Stan can attest, and um and and your uh former pastors can attest that We do have disciplinary issues with pastors in our denomination, and other Bible-believing denominations have them too You need only have to look at the news in the last couple of years of Christians who have fallen, Christian leaders who are fallen Sadly, the late Ravi Zacharias, someone I greatly admired as a leader, tragically, uh when he died uh Um news came out of of the of the corruptness and the um and and the um the character flaw in uh uh in and his leadership and and the sin that pervaded uh his ministry. Sadly, there are corrupt leaders and we have a responsibility To biblically hold our leaders accountable. If we see something that is obvious sin, we need to address it. Through the biblical means that the scriptures give us. Just sitting there, just ignoring it, just not questioning it, is not a scriptural response. Dealing with uh corrupt leaders in a in a biblical way is something that not only Jesus commands us to do But uh in Matthew 18, among other places, but uh Paul made sure to explain to Timothy, as Timothy was setting up as the elder at Ephesus. uh how to deal with with corrupt leaders. Because Paul of all men knew that The heart of man is deceitful and wicked, and that not all leaders will turn out to be godly leaders We even see some examples. Uh uh Paul calls them out in in some of his letters that uh people who used to be involved were no longer involved and people who were causing him harm. Yeah, in in the ministry. And lastly, um How do we respond to leadership? Recognize that leadership is a gift and a calling. It's not a reward. It's not a uh uh a promotion. It's not a uh it's not something because uh it's not something that's merited or given to someone who has um uh a as a as a payment for what he or she has done, it's a calling. When we look at the spiritual gifts in 1 Corinthians chapter 12, leadership is one of the gifts. There are many other gifts. There's a gift of service and a gift of hospitality. These are not exhaustive lists of gifts, but we have musical gifts of people who can lead us in worship. We have hospitality gifts of of people who can care for the sick and have meals for uh new mothers and struggling and sick families. We have the gift of evangelism, people who can share their faith and uh and God using them to bring many to know uh him as Lord and Savior. We also have gifts of leadership It is a gift and we need to recognize it as a gift. And it's a if it's a gift that God is calling you to, then you need to use that gift and let God ban and flame that gift. But for there was not called in leadership. God calls us to honor, to submit to, to pray for, to encourage, to exhort, and to hold accountable our leaders And as we go through difficult times wandering in wilderness, be aware that we are going to struggle with our leadership Because it's part of our nature. As when we're struggling, when we're discontent, the first place we're gonna blame is our leader Not ourselves, but those making the decisions. It's it's it's human nature to do that. And I would challenge and exhort you to guard against that as we go through time as we go through difficult times and difficult wanderings. I think John Harbaugh is probably gonna weather this storm and he'll be back to coach the Ravens next year. It would be a terrible, terrible decision uh to get rid of him. uh because of the last five weeks of uh of of of Raven performance Um after all, COVID has uh probably hit the Maryland football teams well it has hit the Maryland football teams much, much more than it's hit any of the other National Football League teams. And My personal opinion is that's why the Ravens are not making the playoffs. It's not the coach. But that Ravens example is just a perfect example of how people go first and foremost to the leadership when when things go south. And we can take a lesson from how Coach Harbaugh is being treated um you know, by by Ravens fans and more uh significantly by by Ravens press. Uh because don't we do the same thing to our leaders in the church when we struggle and when we're discontent? So remember, honor your leaders, encourage, pray, hold them accountable, submit. And praise God that He has given us the leaders that He's given us. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for the leaders that you have given Grace Relay for the new pastor that you will be calling at some point. For the leaders you give in our denomination, our presbytery, for our national and local leaders that you've appointed, Lord, we pray that we would be able to biblically respond in a time of wilderness to how we treat them, to how we relate to them, to how we support them. We pray most of all that Lord, we would be obedient to you. And the how you call us to to deal with our leaders, not because we want to um Get on their good side, not because we want them. Make them think that uh you know, that that that we're special, but Because you call us to do this. And Lord, biblical responding to our leaders is biblically responding to you and your word And we pray that we would remember this in our times of wandering in the wilderness. In Jesus' name, amen.