Good morning. So good to see everybody this morning. If you have your personal Bible, Or if you have your tablet or your phone, please turn to uh 1 Samuel chapter 28. There is no text on your on your bulletin this morning, so if you don't have your Bible, there's a few Bibles. Page 319. We're reading from First Samuel chapter 28. If you are able, would you please stand as we honor the holy reading of God's word? Hear now God's word. In those days the Philistines gathered their forces to war to fight against Israel. And Achish said to David, Understand that you and Yomen are to go out with me in the army. David said to Akish Very well, you shall know that what your servant can do. And Achilles said to David, Very well, I will make you my for I will make you my bodyguard for life. Now Samuel had died, and all Israel had mourned for him and buried him in Ramer, his own city. And Saul had put me the mediums and necromancers out of the land The Philistines assembled and came and encamped at Shunim, and Saul gathered all Israel and encamped at Gilbor. When Saul saw the army of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart trembled greatly When Saul inquired of the Lord, the Lord did not answer him, either by dreams or by uream or by prophets. Then Saul said to his servants, Seek out for me a woman who is a medium, that I may go to her and inquire of her. And his servant said to him, Behold, there is a medium at Endor. So Saul disguised himself and put on other garments and went, he and two men with him. And they came to the woman by the night, and he said, Divine for me by a spirit and bring up for me whomever I shall name to you. The woman said to him, Surely you know what Saul has done, how he has cut off the mediums and necromancers from the land. Why then are you laying a trap for me for my life to bring about my death? But Saul swore to her by the Lord, As the Lord lives, no punishment shall come upon you for this thing. And the woman said, Whom shall I bring up for you? He said, Bring up Samuel for me. When the woman saw Samuel, she cried out with a loud voice. And the woman said to Saul, Why have you deceived me? You are Saul. The king said to her, Do not be afraid. What do you see? The woman said to her, I see a god coming up out of the earth. He said to her, What is his appearance? And she said, an old man is coming up and he's wrapped in a robe. And Saul knew that it was Samuel. And he bowed with his face to the ground and paid homage. Then Samuel said to Saul, Why have you disturbed me by bringing me up? Saul answered, I am in great distress, for the Philistines are warring against me, and God has turned away from me and answers me no more, either by prophets or by dreams. Therefore I have sermoned you to tell me what I shall do. And Samuel said, Why then do you ask me, sa since the Lord has turned from you and become your enemy? The Lord has done to you as he spoke by me, for the Lord has torn the kingdom out of your hand and given it to your neighbor, David. Because you did not obey the voice of the Lord, and you did not carry out his fierce wrath against the against Amalek. Therefore the Lord has done this thing to you Moreover, the Lord will give Israel also with you into the hand of the Philistines, and tomorrow you and your sons shall be with me. The Lord will give the army of Israel and also into the into the hand of the Philistines. Then Saul fell at once full length on the ground, filled with fear because of the words of Saul Samuel, and there was no strength in him For he had eaten nothing all day and all night. And the woman came to Saul, and when she saw that he was terrified, she said to him, Behold, your servant. Has obeyed you. I have taken my life in my hand and have listened to what you have said to me. Now therefore, you also obey your servants. Let me set a morsel of bread before you and eat, that you may have strength when you go on your way. He refused and said, I will not eat. But his servants together with the woman urged him, and he listened to their words. So he arose from the earth and sat on the bed. Now the woman had a fattened calf in the house, and she quickly killed it, and she took flour and kneaded it and baked unleavened bread of it. And she put it before Saul and his servant. And they ate, and they rose and went away that night. The word of the Lord Father From where or where shall we go? For you have the words of eternal life. Would you help us this day to believe these words that have life? In the name of the Father, the Son of the Lord. Amen. Please be seated. You may or may not know him, but you know his songs. His name is William Kuiper, or Cooper, as most of the people pronounce him. It's I think it's pronounced Cooper. He was born in 1731 in England And he was a man that was filled with so much stuff that happened in his life. Now William Cooper wrote the great hymns as we celebrate, like, there is a fountain filled with blood, oh, for a closer walk with you. With thee, and one of the songs, one of my favorite hymns of all times, God of my life to thee I call. Listen to the words as he writes them. God of my life to thee I call Afflicted to thy feet I fall. When the great water floods prevail, leave not my trembling heart to fail. For though I am despised for God, yet God my God forgets me not. And you is safe and must succeed for whom the Lord is sure to plead. Friend of the friendless and the saints, where should I lodge my deep complaint? Where but with thee whose open door invites the helpless and the poor? That were a grief I could not bear Didst thou not hear and answer prayer? But a prayer hearing answering God supports me under my life Such beautiful words that are calling upon God to hear our prayers. But did you know that William Cooper was a man that was filled with so much struggle and depression in his life? He tried suicide at least three times. He tried to drown himself. He lost his mother when he was only six years old. He was sent to boarding school when he was really, really young And there's a story that we're told about William Cooper when you in in 1773 he was suddenly inflicted with this attack of insanity where William felt or imagined that not only was he condemned by God to hell, but God was actually commanding him to give his own life. He would become sick and die in 1800. But you know William Cooper never knew what assurance of faith meant. He lived a life that was plagued by doubt and fear, depression, and feeling that God, that he was a reprobate, that he was going to go to hell. Now we might not struggle with insanity like Cooper. Maybe some of us are here this morning, maybe we don't struggle with our assurance of faith. Maybe we don't doubt that God is truly there, that He truly loves us. truly answers our prayers and he's always listening to us. But many of us are here, maybe we might know or maybe might not know, but we struggle with depression We struggle with anxiety. We struggle with feelings of hopelessness. We struggle with feelings of a sense of utter abandonment that we feel that God has somehow deserted, especially When we are going through a crisis, especially when we're going through a hard time, and we need that answer right now. And God somehow seems to be silenced to our calls for prayer And sometimes we wonder, God, where are you? Why are you not doing something about my situation? Does it not matter to you that I am in trouble, that I need help from you? Do you hear me? And sometimes we're tempted to twist God's arm, right? And in a sense, to manipulate God in some sense, since I've called out to you and you're not listening, I'm going to do something that's going to make you listen to my cry for help. To manipulate God. It is what Saul did in this text that we've just read today, a disturbing, dark, confusing chapter. He decides that he's going to go out of his way to manipulate God's hand, twist his arm so that he can act. Now, I'm going to give you three things here this morning that we can learn from this text that we need to do. Because we all are, in some sense, always tempted to twist God's arm, whether you like to admit it or not. There's three checks The first one is check your heart. Second check, check your steps. And the final one is check your relationship. Check your heart. Check your steps. Check your relationship. relationship. Verse one through seven. We're given here from verses one through three a conflict that is about to happen. The Philistines are gathered, they are about to attack Israel. Now I wanted to to To note that this conflict actually forms the backdrop of everything that's going to happen from this chapter to the very end. In fact, going on to 2 Samuel. Because it's actually going to lead to Saul's death, as we shall see in chapter 31. But we also must go back a little bit to chapter 27, verse 4. An information that is very important for us to learn: that Saul is distressed because he knows that David is with the Philistines. Remember that chapter? A dark chapter in chapter 27? He knows he's aware. He's being attacked by the Philistines, but David is also with this guy So he knows he's facing his two most fierce and hated enemies, the Philistines and David himself. The other thing we see here is David is also facing a dilemma. Did you note that in the first verses? Verse 1 and 2. Do you see that? David had somehow won the affection of the of the of the Philistines. AK is now here telling him, hey man I like you, I'm gonna make you my bodyguard. And then David answers in in some way that we don't even know what that means. He says, Oh, you will see what your servant is able to do. What does that mean David doesn't know. He has no clue because he's confused. Am I going to fight my own people? Remember David in chapter twenty-seven had lied to to Akish, telling him, Oh, I'm actually killing all the Israelites, in the sense, but he was really killing God's enemies. But now he has no choice because if you're the bodyguard, you can't leave the king, so he's not gonna be going to fight God's enemies anymore. He's done. But we must wonder, is he going to have a hand in Saul's death? I thought you gotta come back next week, chapter twenty-nine. And so we are left in suspense, not knowing what's gonna happen. Again, you're gonna come back and hear that. And then we're reminded of chapter 25, verses 1 Saul is uh Samuel is dead, and they buried him Why is it important that the narrator wants to remind us of Samuel's death? It is this, because that's the message of this chapter. That Samuel was the source of God's divine communication to his people And now that he's dead, how is God going to communicate to his people? For now though, he goes back and tells us, forget about David, forget about Samuel. The focus is on soul. And his darkness. Verse five, Saul is greatly dis troubled. This is not just merely Saul's emotional trouble. tr trials that are going on in his heart. This is really a state of his soul. His own soul. What is really going on? Because Saul is facing an enemy that's going to attack him, the Philistines, but even more, look at verses 6. The deafening silence from God is making Saul question what is really going on. But remember, throughout since Saul became the king in chapter 8, we've been seeing one thing: that Saul's heart is dark. And hard, no repentance, no faith. Why would God want to listen to him? He finds himself in this state of utter hopelessness, having no hope, and without God. The Urim or the lot system that we don't even know how it worked would not answer him. The dreams are not working, neither are the prophets speaking to him. As one Ralph Davis says, he says that the most hopeless misery in all of life, in all of life, is to be abandoned by God. But why is Yahweh silent? Why is God so silent towards Saul? We know the answer. As Samuel is going to remind him, or the spirit of Samuel is going to remind him later on in this chapter. He takes him back to chapter 15. What happened in chapter 15? God commanded Saul to go and kill the Amalekites, destroy everything, wipe out everything. And Saul and his men decide to go in, kill people, but they spare Agag the king, and they spare the best of the sheep. Sheep and the best of the goats and all of that and bring them back home. Now we might think, oh man, that's such a small thing. You just fed one guy, but obedience is important to God. And obedience is not like, oh yeah, uh God has given you five things to obey, so just take one of the five and you're good to go It's not as easy as that. Why? Because we we we gotta hear these words for for ourselves this morning. We gotta hear the the the the the the the immense and the weight of God's Disobedience, that when we do disobey God, that there are consequences for our actions. You know why? Because disobedience is what cuts off the communication lines with God. What does the psalmist cry out in Psalm 66, verses 18? What does he say? If I had cherished iniquity in my heart, the Lord would not have listened. Disobedience creates a communication barrier between us and God. Man, how much do we think about our own prayers? When we come before God in prayer. You know, and sometimes I think we we spend time coming before God and praying and praying and praying and and we hear nothing. We just hear deafening silence that God is not gonna answer. And you know what our temptation is? At least mine. I am tempted to stop because somehow I think that God maybe stopped listening to prayers Maybe God doesn't hear no more. His ears are shut. But do I ever stop to check my heart? Do I ever stop to think Josiah, do you have any unconfessed sin in your past that you have refused to deal with? That you completely don't want to bring to God, or you don't want God to shed his light on your particular sin that you have done. Do I ever do that? Even that, do I ever think about the present situation in my own life that I'm actually sinning right now, or I'm actually cherishing certain sin in my heart And I dare not come to God and tell him, Lord, look upon my heart and please I beg for your forgiveness that you may hear my prayers. Maybe sometimes I don't even know that I am sinning. So do I ever come before God and say, God, forgive me for my sins in the past, in the present? Even those things I have no clue that they are sins. What do we do when God refuses to answer? Because the truth is that sin that is hidden somewhere in our hearts can hinder our prayer. That's the truth. That's God's word. But what do we do when he refuses to answer? You know, Saul was really very willing to engage in this outward motions of of trying to manipulate God so that God would listen. But how we need to be reminded that God is only open to hearing the prayers of those who have a broken heart, to those who have a contrite spirit. Isn't that what the psalmist cries out to us and tells us? Saul's hardened heart only leads him to respond the way he responds. Find me a medium, find me a necromancer, a diviner, a witch, a sorcerer. How will you respond when you when you cry out to God and He doesn't answer? Are you going to cry out, search me, O Lord, if I have any sin in my heart? Please bring it out that you may forgive me, that you may hear me. You're gonna cry, you know, create in me a clean heart, oh God, because I do not want you to take your Holy Spirit away from me. Search me, break me Second check, when God refuses to answer you, you must be careful how you respond. So check your steps. Saul is in desperation. He's seeking Yahweh's help. But Yahweh is silent. So what does he do? He turns to a medium. He turns to the very thing that we're told in this text he had rightly prohibited. Now these mediums, or agents if you will, they were used back in the day to conjure up the spirits of the dead. So if I wanted directions for my present, my future, call me my great-great-grandfather who died long ago. You might give me some directions And tell me why I should go. And then we're told this man disguises himself, of course, for fear of being noticed, but remember He's actually walking very near if you look at the map of where he is, he's actually walking near where the battle is gonna be happening in Shunam. So he also doesn't want to be noticed by the by the Philistines But he's walking by night. We will see something very special about darkness. So keep that in mind. There's a reason why the narrator makes sure that we understand that he's actually walking in the night. But there is irony in his request. You see, when he asks the woman To bring whomever I tell you to bring the woman goes like oh are you crazy? You know what Saul has done? He's already kicked out kicked us out. I mean I'm here, I'm hiding, you know But I can't do this because I'm going to be in trouble. And then what does Saul do? He swears by the name of God. How do you swear by the same God that you know has said you shall not do this? Saul is actually walking and committing something that he knows so well is wrong. How many times do you do that when you know I'm walking right into the fire, but I'm still gonna go ahead and do it. I mean, if you don't do it, I do it all the time. My sinful heart. But keep in mind this that God had forbidden the mediums The magicians, the necromancers, and use of such means. Not because they did not work. They worked. This is evil. This is demonic. They did work. The reason why God had commanded that or prohibited them was because they are wicked. That's the reason. Now we have to ask ourselves this this Deuteronomy chapter 18, verses 9 to 22. We're not going to read it, but it basically lays out all the things that God had told us his people. People to not do magic, sorcerers, diviners, necromancers, all these things, you cannot do this. Why? Because they are wicked. Not because it did not work, because they are wicked. But now the question comes to us: how do we explain this incident then? How does this evil witch summon Samuel to show up? Why? Because did the woman really summon Samuel? If believers will die Are with the Lord. Their souls are with the Lord. How could this evil woman then summon Samuel from God? As John Calvin asks, he asks, quote, how could God allow for his prophet to be subjected to such diabolical conjuring as if Satan has power of the saints which are in his keeping? So Calvin says, well, it's delusion. It really never happened. And then Martin Luther says, well, it was a deception. Samuel really never appeared. So here's a reformed pastor before you saying that Calvin and Luther, I don't think they're giving us an answer. So what does that leave us with? Fuck up the church and go home, right? We have no answer if Calvin and Luther don't get it right. But praise God that there's more theologians than Martin Luther and Calvin. Listen to what Bill Arnold says. That was a joke by the way. But it's true. Luther and Calvin actually don't give us help here. Bill Arnold says the creator God is not subservient to any manner of supernatural force beyond his control and cannot be manipulated under any circumstances. It continues, the use of magic was tantamount to human rebellion that unlocked divine secrets, making humanity equal with God. Wow. The truth is, Samuel does appear because that's what the text says. We've got to be faithful to God's word, right? Samuel appears not as a command of this witch. But as the unexpected will of God. Did you hear that? It is God that is intervening in that evil situation and saying, There is nothing that is beyond my control. I can come around And intervene and bring Samuel so that Saul may hear the message of judgment that is proclaimed for you. God must have allowed allowed it to happen and caused Samuel to appear in order to speak. to Saul, even using such an illegitimate method. Man, not a God that I can trust and believe in. God who cannot be controlled, not even by magic. He can go beyond it. But the truth of the matter in this text, in this verses 8 to 14, we're seeing something here that Saul knows the truth. Saul knows where the truth comes from. From but Saul has a hard heart. He would rather go through the means that he knows God is going to communicate, which is the spirit of Samuel, than go to God Himself What a sad state of a heart. But you know what's even sad is that sometimes even in my own life Sometimes, even in my own life, instead of drawing near to God with confidence, so that I might find grace and mercy in times of help, in times of my need. How will they go to something else and go to God Himself? Have you ever heard people who come to you and say, just pray for me? But they would never try to pray. And we know where we're supposed to go. And yet we would rather go to other things than go to God Himself. But how amazing is is is how God works in this situation that Saul is actually seeking guidance for God through magic While closing his own eyes to the very prophetic word of God. And the irony is the tables are turned, that the magic that he was hoping would give him direction in fact ends up confirming the very prophetic word that he had Scorned in the first place. You know, we do it all the time. In a sense, I'm not talking about the New Age movement here, which we can talk about the New Age movement and its influence in our churches are seeking for for for this desire for self fulfillment and and and the desire for the supernatural and you know using crystal balls and and you know sidekicks and all of that stuff Uh you might not think about it, but guess how many times we do use the good things that God has given to us in a magical way, hoping that they're somehow gonna turn into something that we can You know, find an answer from God. Instead of going to God Himself. Think of it. Think of our prayers sometimes. Think about you being here, your church attendance Think about all of the, you know, your tithing, oh man, I'm giving twenty, fifty percent of my tithe to God And sometimes even using the very means of grace that God has given to us, showing us His mercy and His favor. But we use them to exact God's favor. How do we do that? Because we somehow have come to believe that God owes us something. You owe me You've got to listen to me because I did something to you. I have fulfilled certain spiritual obligations. It's a sort of a quid pro quo, you know. All I gotta do is just keep my own bargain, my end of the bargain. And God is going to be forced to act on my behalf. That all this means of grace, all these things that I have are actually some sort of a a spiritual account that I'm keeping for myself so that when I have a need, I can go and check it in. Oh man, I got my now God you're gonna give me this. May Lord the Lord help us. Not to go to the means, but to go to him The other thing we got to keep in mind is that there is a difference. There's a stark difference between being objectively forsaken by God and feeling forsaken by God, as we all sometimes feel. as if we're forsaken by God. How can you tell the difference? Say the beautiful Psalm. Psalm 13. You know what David cries out in Psalm 13 Verses 1. He says, God, how long? How long, O Lord? Will you forsake me forever? How long will you hide your face from me? But does David turn to diviners and to witches? Because he feels like he's been abandoned by God? No. Do you know what David does? He continues to pray. He continues to call upon God. And in verses 5 and 6, he says It's just so beautiful, he says, but I have trusted in you, oh Lord, your steadfast love. My heart rejoices, my heart shall rejoice in your salvation. I will sing, I will sing to the Lord because He He has dealt bountifully with me. You know, that is the clearest evidence that God has not left us on our own. That is the clearest evidence that God has not turned uh away, has not turned away from us, even in his absence, as we saw s you know Even when we're feeling that God is absent, that we still find ourselves running to Him. We still find ourselves going to Him and saying, Lord, I have no any other place to go. Just like The disciples cried out when everybody else was leaving, when Jesus said some some powerful words to them in John chapter 6. What do they say? Lord, to whom shall we go? You're telling us, look at no, no, no, no, no, no You have the words of eternal life. So where will you turn in time of crisis? Because it's coming, it's inevitable. You're gonna you're gonna face hard life if you're not there yet, or if you're not going through it, or if you have not gone through it. You will go through it Will you turn to your own invention, your own superpower? Check your steps. Check your steps if you don't take the wrong path. All of the wrong things while looking for an answer. Would you instead turn to God? Finally, and most importantly, check your relationship. Your relationship with God. Verses 15 through 25 to the end. Some of the darkest and most tragic words in scripture are seen right here in verse 15. Let's read it together. Listen to this word and let it sink in So is answering or responding to Samuel. He says, I am in great distress, for the Philistines are warring against me. And then here's these dark words. And God has turned away from me and answers me no more God has turned from you and answers meaning no more It's the culmination of Saul's self-destruction. He has sealed his faith by his disobedience. You know, St. John of the Cross, a 16th-century Roman Catholic mystic, put it so well. He speaks of this passage, he speaks of the darkness that Saul is feeling. He calls it the dark night. Of the soul. It is a moment of torment, spiritual torment that usually actually is followed by an experience of God's blessings and peace. But we know that's not how things are going to end for soul. His darkness is gonna end in even more darkness. He's extremely desperate for directions. But you know, Saul is not worried about directions because he loves God. It's because he doesn't want to make a mistake. I just want to do the right thing. It's a spiritually misguided desperation. Why do I call it listen to how Samuel responds to him. His question in verse 16: what is he asking? Why are you disturbing? Why are you asking me? When you know so well that God has a burnt has has turned away from you and you have become God's enemy. Saul wanted the results of God's favor, and not God. Not God's favor. Favor. He wanted the results of it. You know, this might appear like a side note, but it really isn't. That burdens sometimes appeal lighter when seen in their proper context. What do I mean? That the narrator here is actually very intentional, wanting us to see Saul's need Of an answer from God. But he already noted for us the trials that David is going through. He's in a dilemma and all of that. But While David is being pursued by this enemy and everything else is going on, he has God. God is speaking to him. And that we must see here that there's a far much greater tragedy going on here in Saul's life. And that should a affect how we we view things in pers perspective. Meaning we might be struggling with the with the disease or um a bad workplace or something that's going on in your life. Not that we should not be looking at our own problems and saying, you know, we do need help. Yes, we n we do. But That we should sometimes stop and think of the tragedy that is when there are all when there are people in the world right now crying, the Lord has abandoned me. And that is a far much greater tragedy than you can ever imagine. Because here it is, church, when God, when men, when you when we abandon God, what are we saying? We're wanting God to leave us on our own devices, right? Like leave me alone, let me do my own stuff. But what happens when God abandons man or woman? Do you know? Romans 6. 23. The wages of sin is death. When God abandons man or woman, he's leading them to judgment, to death. But there's no answer for Saul. He's asking an answer to to know what is he gonna do when the Philistines attack. Are we gonna make it or not But the answer remains the same that even for Samuel, in death and in life, it is the same. God has declared judgment upon you and it shall come to pass. Because when God promises judgment unconditionally, you bet you can be sure that God decrees his word is going to come to pass. It might be delayed It might seem like God is taking a little bit more time, but it will come to pass. How difficult it is for us to describe the ones Handsome, tall, Mr. Israel himself in verses 20, who is now in utter hopelessness, lying on the ground and Has hasn't eaten for days. He's left with fear and self-loathing when God's judgment is pronounced about for him. You and your sons are gonna die, and the Philistines are gonna destroy Israel. Because the truth is this: any severe crisis that we go through in our own lives will always heighten the sense of what we really believe. Do you want to know what you really believe this morning? If you go through suffering that is really difficult and you have no answer for it, we will know what you're made of And we will know who you will go to. What a great thing for us to really think seriously about our relationship with God To nurture that relationship and know that there is nothing absolutely that matters on the face of this earth other than your relationship with Jesus Christ. Nothing else We must be so careful not to neglect our relationship with God because when the moment of crisis comes, then I bet you it's gonna come Will you be able to face God with confidence and hope? Or are you gonna go to your necromances and your diviness? This text is dark. But there's so much light. There's actually more light than you would ever you you would want to imagine Because of this, just as there is no greater misery than knowing or than to realize that God has abandoned you in your time of need There is also no greater solace than to remember, to remember God's gracious help for those who call on him in faith. Can I get an amen for that? There's the light that shines in the in the darkness. And I'm so grateful for that. Because you see, Saul is gonna walk into this out of weakness with no food and nothing else. But a meal is prepared for him, a meal that is fit for a king. And he walks out in the doctors and we're told and he goes, Do you remember? Do you remember another night? A special night that happened that has changed the course of history? Do you remember what happened what happened in Mark chapter 15? In John 13, as Jesus is in the upper room sharing the last meal before he walks into darkness It is something that is so special for us because John, as he actually talks about the darkness, he's not only noting the time of the evening, but he's actually noting Judah's heart The man who had betrayed Jesus, that he was in utter darkness, and that Jesus himself would head into that darkness. Dying on the cross in that same carkness. And that the word that Saul speaks to Samuel, saying that God has turned away from me and answers me. Mean no more are actually Jesus Christ's words on that cross. Yet, how infinitely greater is the difference between Saul's darkness as he drives himself into his own sin. In Jesus, who actually goes into darkness because of your sin and your sin and my sin, so that we don't have to dwell in that darkness. A sin that He never committed, the sins of this world Saul with his hardened heart, but Jesus is actually obeying God's call to go to the cross and save us, to redeem us from all of our sins. And take the curse away, the curse of darkness away from us, that he enters the darkness of the cross, so that we might enter life, eternal life in Christ, in the light of his glory and his resurrection. And then on the third day we're told he rises again, so that all who believe in him may find the joy of eternal life in his grace. But there's one cry that God cries that Jesus cries on that cross. Eli, Eli, Eli, Lama Sabhaktani. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me that that is your cry this morning if you're feeling that there's that that God has abandoned you that this He's not here that He's not hearing your cry that's your cry But that you don't stop there. Your cry doesn't stop there because he left some other beautiful words before he left this earth to go into his father's heaven to prepare a place for us. He said, And I will always be with you. Till the end of the age. That he is with you. That we should not be seeking. And Anything else that you should not seek anything else this morning. Don't seek to twist his arm. Turn to him. Don't try to manipulate him so that he may act. Because church, he has already acted on your behalf. Your sins are forgiven if you believe in him, and you do not have to fill that void, that absence from him. Because he is Here. Do you believe that? He's with you. Father, we bless you, we honor you because you are truly with us this day and forever. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.