Good morning. We have been studying the Psalms of Ascent And we are coming to the end of our study, to the final chapter of the Psalms of Ascent, which is Psalm 134, and I'm sure you must be wondering, what does a preacher do with three verses before him? And so we must wonder as the pilgrims are making their way into Jerusalem. We've studied all these Psalms of Ascent and we've seen the the the pilgrim as he is afraid. Of the dangers that await them as they make their journey to go worship the Lord in Jerusalem. We've seen them call out to God to protect them. We've seen them call out to God for their forgiveness, for their guidance, and all these things. And so It's been a trajectory as the psalmist is getting all the way to the end. And here is the climax of these Psalms of Ascent. So would you please, if you're able, stand with me as we hear What the pilgrims will say when they reach to the end of their journey, and they say, Come, bless the Lord, all you servants of the Lord, who stand by night. In the house of the Lord. Lift up your hands to the holy place and bless the Lord. May the Lord bless you from Zion, He who made heaven and earth. So Father, hearing your words, we come to you this morning and we we ask for your Holy Spirit to descend upon us. May he allow us, may he open our eyes to hear, our eyes to see and our ears to hear. May you allow us to see the wonder and the beauty of your word as it is proclaimed to all of us. We pray this in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. Please be seated. So as I mentioned, it's been a long journey. The travelers have been making their way into Jerusalem to worship the Lord. They they've they've been able to see God's faithfulness towards them. They've been able to hear God speak to them and remind them that He's the one who protects them. He has watched over them, He has guided their every path. And now it's time for them to turn to God and give thanks to Him and say thank you. We bless you, Lord, for this father that you've brought us. Now, if you've been away from home, if you've been on a journey, on a long journey, you may identify with the words that we just read this morning with the traveler As he is thinking of the long journey that he's just taken, and now he's arrived at his final destination and is giving thanks to God. When you're away from home, when you're exhausted and thirsty and hungry, when you're longing for the comfort and the rest your home provides you, the familiarity of your home, which you know so well, you've been so far away, you've been Wondering in all those places, and now you come to a place that you know you come to a place of rest. There's a certain calmness, there's a certain rest. There's a certain feel that you just get being home. Now if you've never been away from home for a long time You may also identify with this psalm. If you show up every Sunday through our doors, you know what it means to enter into the house of the Lord. What do I mean by that? What are we doing during the week? That as we perform our duties, whether you you work in a secular environment? Whatever you do out there, you know how tired you get of hearing all these things that are burning you with with with the trials of this world and the politics that's going on uh and the brokenness in the world and everything else that surrounds you and you're just longing to be at a place that you actually find peace, security, and calmness. And then you enter into the house of the Lord and we sing songs of praise to God and and we hear God's word that continues to nourish our our physical bodies but also our souls and we hear the Holy Spirit as He speaks and His presence in our midst and we We are calmed and we find rest in the house of God. See, we do all that because when we come together, we recognize Who we are in Christ. We recognize what God has truly done for us when we enter into this place and ask for forgiveness and feel the weight of our sin being taken away. When we're reminded of the one that is in control of our lives, the one who reigns supreme in every aspect of our life, and so all the things of the world just seem to Disappear just for one hour, one second. And that our only response To hearing this, to being home, to being in God's house can only be one. We bless the Lord by acknowledging what He has done for us. Which is why we're here. And so this we're gonna go go through this Psalm by looking at two questions. What does it then look like for us to bless the Lord? And what does it look like for God to bless us? Verses 1 and 2 really gives us a depiction of what it looks like for us to bless God. So, this is a praise or a blessing that is directed towards God. And so the psalmist says, Come, or behold, in some of your translations, come. Let us bless the Lord. This is a call for attention. Immediate attention that you need to hear to come and bless the Lord. But this call is actually to a particular group of people, it's not to everybody. What does he say? Who is supposed to come and bless the Lord? The servants of the Lord. Who are they? Now we if we go back to Deuteronom Deuteronomy ten and eight and and Leviticus we realize that there were a group of people called the Leviticus. Singers and and priests that were actually called to do this particular job. They were supposed to praise God, to bless God night and day. And the law stipulated that the ones who were supposed to carry the ark of the covenant everywhere they were to minister to the people, the work to bless the people. But then we're told when the Ark of the Covenant found its place in the temple That the job of praising God night and day did not end there. It still remained. 1 Chronicles 9:33. And so this particular call is for the servants of the Lord who watch who keep watch over the temple to the Levites and the priests. Now some commentators have argued, well this call is actually really for all the people that had come Into the temple. Reading Luke chapter 2, verses 37. You know the story of this widow lady, Anna was her name, who spent all of her days in the temple, day and night. She was worshiping God and fasting. But the particular call here, the psalmist, seems to be so specific in looking to those that were watching the temple, those that were paying attention and praising the Lord night and day. Actually, history tells us there was as many as 240 Levites and priests that watched the temple in 21 distinct stations. And you know what the priest would do? They would go around and they would look at the people that were watching and they would say, Peace be unto you, brother. You know the ones who are watching. And he found him sleeping, he would take his stop and whack him, wake him up. And the the the actually the the commando, the captain had permission to burn the cloak which they you know the clothing you know which they use as as pillow to sleep, you know, when they got drowsy. So you would actually take it and burn it, light it in fire, so you don't sleep. But why do the servants of the Lord here, the priests, that they know this is their call to bless the Lord, to praise him? Why do they need to be reminded to praise the Lord? Why? They know their job, right? The truth of the matter is they were tempted to simply perform their spiritual duties without devotion and prayer to God. It is so easy for us to take our God given responsibilities and duties that we know as a pastor, as a as a as a as a parishioner, as a deacon, as whatever you are, for us to take Our job, our duty, and see it as just a mundane thing that we have to do as just a mere service, and yet not be concerned about our devotion to God, about prayer. And here I think the psalmist wants the priests and the Levites who are performing this important aspect of blessing the Lord night and day. He wants them to celebrate God's goodness. He wants them not to be idle, not just sleeping, not just making pillows out of their clothing. But to not waste their time with carelessness, with conversations that are vain, with conversations that are gossip, with things that are not supposed to be glorifying God. He wants them to worship God with reverence. He wants them to bless God with reverence. So we may ask, how does this apply to us? Then if this passage is just for the servants of the Lord, we're the Levites and Priests, then How does that apply for us? Then maybe it's just the pastors that need to bless the Lord. Maybe it's those that spend all their time in the churches that need to bless the Lord. Well, listen to 1 Peter 2 verses 9 and 10. Telling us that we are the servants of the Lord. How does Peter describe Who we are in Christ. He says, but you are a chosen race, a royal priest with a holy nation, a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellences of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. He says, once you were not a people, but now you are God's people. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. You are the servants of God. You are the ones that are called to stand in the house of the Lord and to proclaim his goodness. You are the ones that have confidence. You are the ones that are communing with God. And that standing before or in the presence of the Lord really does not just mean having confidence to come to Him and commune with Him and with the Holy Spirit, but it's also speaking of us performing our duties, our God-given duties as worshippers of God. As the worshippers were watching night and day, we are the royal priesthood of Christ, the ones that have been called out of darkness into the marvelous light. That God has spoken and our dumb lips have been given a voice to come and proclaim his excellencies. That we have no reason to be silent anymore but to praise God and to honor him with reverence. See the priests are praising God because it's a duty. But we lift up our hands. We don't just merely lift up our hands. We lift up our hearts. God and we do so because we are the ones that have been called from our wandering. We are the ones that have been saved from from the miry clay. We're the ones that have been called out of the darkness that we used to be in and we've been placed in a place of forgiveness and mercy and grace and that is more than enough for us to praise God. If you know where you came from, if you know how dark your sin was, if you know how miserable your life used to be. If you know how weak you used to be, you still are. But you know that you're not walking on your own, that you now can stand on Christ alone, that you now can stand on a God who has rescued you, on a God that does not leave you. How much more do you need to declare his praises and honor him and say thank you? Thank you, Lord. Psalmist says, fordain your course is better than a thousand elsewhere. I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than dwell in the tents of wickedness. For the Lord is the sun and the shield, the Lord bestows favor and honor. No good thing does he withhold from those who walk uprightly. O Lord of hosts, blessed is the one who trusts in you. What a beautiful song. See, we can praise our Lord by raising our hands here and singing songs of praise. We can praise the Lord in our hearts, just acknowledging how good He is. You know what else we do? We can praise our Lord by performing the tasks that He has given us. By using our hands and our feet, our mouth and and our eyes and and everything that He has given us to His glory That as you perform your duty out there in the work, you're doing it knowing or saying, God, you are so good to me, and I'm only able to do what I do because you live, and because you are my God Yet we can go about our duties. Yet we can perform our services to God and do it without devotion. Do it without prayer. We can do it with so much carelessness. And this is what happened to the priests as I mentioned. Sometimes they'll go walking out on the on the on the on the temple yard courtyard and lighting the the lamps and everything else and just grumbling and saying, Oh well I gotta go do this night and day every day We can do the same thing. We can show up at church sometimes to say, oh man, I gotta go to church yet again. I gotta sing one more song. I gotta listen to another prayer. I gotta listen to another scripture reading. It is a temptation that besets all of us. And our temptation most of the times is to focus on our it outward expression of the service that we do to God. Look at me. I am able to do all these things. Look at my service. Look at the things I'm able to perform. And yet we can do that in a mechanical way and yet lose what is the most important. important thing to do it cheerfully and with joy to do it with devotion to God not that men may see what you do not that people may praise you and give you glory but so that the God of heavens and earth may be praised and honored and his name glorified in everything that we do. That is our call. Now actually think, not think, actually believe. That the more service we do to God, the more devotion we ought to have. That the more you serve God, the more you ought to praise, so that your work and all the things that you do may not be in vain. They may not run away. Because you can do it all for nothing if you are not deeply rooted in God's word If you are not really dependent on God's word. I like one commentary that puts it this way. The more effort we put into a service to God, the more communion. You don't just do work. You don't just do spervis. You are deeply communing. With God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Let me ask you a question. What happens when you wake up in the middle of the night and you cannot sleep and you're thinking about what am I gonna do tomorrow? What am I having for breakfast? Is it Oatmail's day or is it Eggs and bacon. What do you do when you wake up in the middle of the night and you're thinking about your life? You're thinking about your past regrets and successes. You're thinking about all the ambitions that you have, all the hopes that you have in your life, you're thinking about your children thinking about your wife, your husband, you're thinking about your work, you're thinking about all those things. Does it ever occur in your life when you wake up in the middle of the night to say, God, I depend on you. How much I need you every day, including in this Dark night when I cannot sleep. Do we ever think about our dedication to God? Do we ever think about, God, I delight in you so much? Because it is only because of you that I am here, even waking up in the middle of the night. Let me ask you another question. What happens during your dark night of sorrow? See, it is so easy for us to praise the Lord. It is so easy for us to be joyful and to be thankful to God when Things are going so well with us. When it is well with my soul, I can clap my hands, I can jump, I can praise God. And I think the the psalmist is here, he's using poetic language about him talking about praising the Lord day and night. When it's day It's bright. It's beautiful. Things are going so well with my soul. And man, I'm gonna praise the Lord. But when the trials of this life come to us, that's where the rubber hits the road. And it becomes really difficult for us to praise God. It becomes really hard for us to say, God, you are here. God, you have been with me. God, you have been faithful. God, you have directed my path. It's so hard. If you read the book of Job, chapter 1, when did Job bless the Lord? It was when everything had been taken away from him. And he said, Naked I came from my mother's womb. Naked I leave this earth as well. You give and you take away. But blessed be your name Secondly, the psalmist is here giving us an idea of what it means for God to bless us. Verses 3 says, May the Lord bless you. From Zion, he who made heaven and earth. See, this is really proof that the psalmist is really directing this praise to to the to the priests because he is telling them to bless the people. Why? Because it was actually their responsibility. The priest's responsibility was for them to give a blessing to to their people. And I like what Calvin says about this. Calvin says that the The priest here performing this ritual of blessing God's people was actually supposed to be something that the the people hearing the blessing were supposed to take home with them By that, meaning that when you leave this place, you're supposed to go blessing other people in God's name, wishing them God's blessing, and telling them, look, there's so much in the storehouse of God to bless me that I'm able to bless you as well. That's what we're supposed to do, right? And then we we can liken this with Numbers chapter 6, verses 24 to 26, one of my favorite benedictions of all time. Where God commands Moses and He tells him, tell Aaron to bless God's people and say, The Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face to shine upon you and be gracious to you. The Lord make his countenance to be lifted up to you and give you peace. It's the same thing here. It's an exchange of blessings that we've seen. So we're blessing God as He's blessing us, but there's a difference. It's not equal. It's not an equal exchange because when we bless God, we are acknowledging gratefully what He is to us. But what does God do when He blesses us? You know what God does? When God blesses you, he gives you what you do not have, and he makes you what you are not But God blesses us by giving us what we do not have and making us what we are not. See here, the psalmist is saying the God that is coming to bless you is described as the as God or Creator. Showing us the power and the assurance that we have from him that there is nothing, church God's people, that there is absolutely nothing we can hope for that we cannot find in this God. Isn't that assuring? There is absolutely nothing that you can ever think or dream or imagine to have from God. That you cannot have. Again, John Calvin commentating on this passage, I love the way he puts it, he says, because what is the world anyways? What is the world? It is just a mere mirror in which God's boundless gifts and blessings and his power are seen. That's beautiful God just looks at the universe and the world and this just a tiny little mirror that He through which He can bless His people. See why many people doubt God's presence. We we all do. Many people doubt God's presence. Why? Because God seems so distant to us, doesn't he? At times. We seem like we're crying out as loud as we can. And God, do you not hear me? But where do the blessings come from on this verse that we just read? From dying. You know what that means? It's a recognizable Place. The Jews believed that this is where God dwelt. This is a place that they could actually get up and go and get God's blessings because they knew where it was. That God gives without measure to his people. That his ways to us may seem unfathomable, yet his blessings are so near to us. We can Feel them. We can touch them. We can grab them. He's near to those who call upon his name by love. The author of Hebrews chapter 12 verses 22 tells us what the true Mount Zion truly is. It's not the place that the Jews thought that God was. It's not there. In Jesus, where God dwells. That's the true Mount Zion. Listen to the author of Hebrews 12. He says, But you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable angels in festival gatherings. And to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God, the judge of all, to the spirits of the righteous made perfect, and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkle blood that speaks better word than the blood of evil. That's our true Mount Zion. Jesus. That's where our blessings are. See, I think we should have looked at verse 3 first before verses 1 and 2. Because God's blessings must come first, because he first loved us before we bless him. Because we're blessing him for what he has done for us, not doing anything that we have done. We have done nothing. Because really, God blessing us and us blessing him really means accepting the gift that God has given to us with gratitude, with joy that God has given to us so much. But you know, God's blessings are just words. I mean, God's blessings or our blessings to God are just mere words. But his blessings to us are powers. They are realities that God's blessings to us never miss their mark. Never miss their marks. Now, if this God, the creator of heaven and earth, if this God who is so powerful, who is not limited by space and time, if this God Who holds the universe together in the palm of his hands? If this God, who created every creature and provides to every one of them the way he sees fit, if this God Is the one who blesses us, then those who are blessed in God through Christ Jesus Christ are indeed blessed. He is the source of all that we could ever ask for. He gives to you as he sees fit, not as you may want. But according to his goodness and his grace. See, like I mentioned, the blessings are flowing from Zion. For the Jews, this was a place that they knew where to go. But where does God's presence really dwell? In Jesus, right? That's where his blessings flow Christ is the new temple. If they thought that the temple is where God dwelt, Christ, when he comes, he says, I am the new temple. I am actually greater than the temple. He's greater than the temple. It is through him, it is through Christ that God meets with us. It is through Christ making his ultimate sacrifice Shedding his own blood for us and welcoming us into his blessings, welcoming us into Himself to become a part of him. It is through Christ, he is the one who opens up the fountains of his blessings And as he loudly and clearly and as audible as can be, he gives us this invitation as he as he cries out. He says, if any one of you is thirsty, let them come to me and drink. If any one of you believes in me, as the scripture says, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. See, the New Testament also describes his people, us, you and me, as the temple of the Holy Spirit. You are the temple of the Holy Spirit. the Holy Spirit. You are the place that God dwells by the power of this Holy Spirit. And that it is there. It is here in this body. That God's blessings are stored, that God's blessings are possessed, that God's blessings are imparted to the world. Do you want to be a part of God's blessings? Then become a part of Christ. Become a part of who he is. Become a part of his body. That's what it means to possess and to have God's blessings. Are we really thinking, are we really living our lives with thankfulness? And praise to God every day of our lives. Do you can you honestly say that your life is just a life that's just flowing with just gratitude and and thanksgiving to God for everything that He's done? Can you really say that? I can tell you what I say. I can tell you how I feel every day. I'm anxious Anxious about everything. I I worry about my family. I worry about my health. I worry about finances. I worry about the the events of of the universe. I worry about everything that Goes around. I spend so much time planning and and dreaming and and putting down my wishes and hopes and all things and But in all that, how much time do I dedicate to coming before God And giving thanks to him for what he has already done. And for what he is about to do. And for what he's gonna do. See, church, our lives are really called to be lives of service to God Of giving thanks to Him, but also encouraging one another to find grace and mercy that Christ has given to us. See, the priest could give the blessings to God's people from Zion. But the assurance that we get from Jesus Christ is even more powerful and more special. This is how Paul captures The blessings that we have in Christ. In Ephesians 1, 3:4, he says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us, bless you in Christ with every spiritual blessing in heavenly places. even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blendless before him. So join me this morning. Come. Come. Let us bless the Lord. Come, all God's servants, let us bless. The Lord. Father, we thank you for your word this morning. So refreshing to be reminded of how much you love us and care for us, how much you you provide for us, and that we, every time we gather together in your presence, that we have come. To bless you. So, Lord, as we sing together and celebrate your goodness towards us, would you remind us of the places where we've not been thankful to you, where we've not lived in gratitude to who you are. And would we raise our voices now to come and bless you in your house? We pray all this in Christ's name. Amen.