Good morning. I think it's a great thing to go back to the basics. Sometimes we forget the basics, you know. We tend to look for things that are out there and We think we've already arrived and we need some extra wisdom, some extra something to add on to what we already think that we know. Sometimes it's good to stick with the basics That's exactly what we're doing this morning. So if you're able, would you please stand with me as we look into God's Word, reading 1 Corinthians chapter 2, verses 6 to the end. Get the reading of God's word this morning. Yet among the mature we do not impart wisdom, although it is not a wisdom of this age or of the rulers of this age who are doomed to pass away. But we impart a secret and hidden wisdom of God, which God decreed from before the ages for our glory. None of the rulers of this age understood it For if they had, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. But as it is written, what no eye has seen, nor ear heard, nor the heart of man imagined, what God has prepared for those who love him. These things God has revealed to us through the Spirit. For the Spirit searches everything, even the depths of God. For who knows a person's thoughts except the Spirit of that person which is in him? So also no one comprehends the thoughts of God except the Spirit of God. Now we have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God. That we might understand the things freely given us by God. And we impart this in words not taught by human wisdom, but taught by the Spirit, interpreting spiritual truth. To those who are spiritual. The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are folly to him, and he is not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned. The spiritual person judges all things, but is himself to be judged by no one. For who has understood the mind of the Lord so as to instruct me? But we have the mind of Christ. Spirit of the living God, would you this morning pour out upon us wisdom and understanding that by being taught by you in Holy Scripture? That truly our hearts and our minds may be opened to receive all that leads to life and all that leads to your holiness through Christ Jesus our Lord. We pray. Amen. Please be seated. You know when you grow up in a village where the most fun thing or the the the best thing that ever happens to you That you can actually write about when you're an adult is stories about chasing goats. It's pretty sad, isn't it? Not really. It's exciting You know, when you're growing up in a village where you don't you don't write about going to Disney World Legoland or whatever it is that kids do this day See all the stories I have are stories about chasing goats. And they're good stories. You know, when I moved to the city and I was a little older, my grandmother told me a story about one of the goats. That she had it was a little baby goat. And I had to go back to the village to see for myself because the story was just so outrageous that I I couldn't believe it The story was this little baby goat refused to be a goat or act like a goat. It was acting like a little dog, a puppy. I mean, goats don't like to be petted. Goats are not pets. They don't like to see human beings near them. They will run away. They like to to run all over the place. They don't like going into people's homes and at least in my village. But this young goat was always following my grandma The goat refused to be fed by her mother. He always wanted a bottle from my grandma. Every time she sat down, the goat would jump on her, on her lap. sit on my grandma. It was the weirdest of all things and so my friend Jesse who actually lives in Baltimore and I went to Kent uh went to Nairobi uh to the to the village sorry to visit my grandma to find out whether this story was true and I kid you not I have a picture to prove it. I wish I could have put it up there. Of Jesse, this white guy in the middle of a tiny little village holding a baby goat that looks like uh a dog and it's just staring at him and wants to be a pet A goat that just would not act like a goat. If actions were not bat matched by what it was supposed to be. Now when I thought about that story I kept thinking about my own life. I kept thinking about the life of all of us that sometimes We understand that we have a status in Christ, and what is our status? We know it, and yet sometimes our behavior and our character does not always match that status that we have in Christ. See the truth of the matter is as Paul is writing to the church in Corinth, he tells them we read in chapter one of their status in Christ. That you are the ones that have been called and saved by grace by the Lord Jesus Christ through the faith that you have. You are the sanctified people of Jesus Christ, and for that matter, you are to live as your calling. But Paul is writing to them and saying, But you've been failing, and you've been falling and failing to live according to your call, according to who you are, according to your status. Living as if you are immature, and that word is not that they are spiritually immature, but living as non-believers, as those who have not been saved. You're living as if you're still unsaved in the grips of the world's values. And what was the value that these people were having? Remember the sign-seeking Jews and the wisdom-seeking Greeks You are seeking a higher wisdom that you want to understand and you're wanting to bring it into the church so that you may have, I don't know what, something better And Paul is saying, absolutely no. You gotta go back to the basics. That when we begin to think that the gospel is somehow too simplistic that the gospel of Jesus Christ somehow fails to measure up with the wisdom of the world, we're losing it That we need to be reminded as a church of Jesus Christ, that God's wisdom, Christ crucified Himself, has been revealed to us. Through the Holy Spirit. That our job is not to begin seeking afterworldly wisdom to resolve spiritual matters that can only be resolved through Spirituality that we already have true wisdom. Have we forgotten that, church, that we truly have God's wisdom among us revealed to us by the Spirit that we need to be reminded? Absolutely, yes. And so Paul does it in two ways. The first thing he does is remind the church of the nature of this hidden wisdom of God. And then finally tells them what the source of this wisdom of God is. So first we'll look at the nature of the hidden wisdom of God. Look at verses 6 through nine. See, Paul has just finished demonstrating to the church that their faith must rest not on human wisdom, but rest on the power of God, which is Christ himself, Christ crucified to save all his people. Verses 1 through 5. We saw that last week. Now, beginning in verse 6 and following, Paul is now demonstrating and showing the church, giving them a proof That the gospel of Jesus Christ is not devoid of any wisdom. If that is what you're thinking, that the gospel is not devoid of human wisdom. That in fact The gospel of Jesus Christ involves a higher wisdom that is only discernible by those who accept that gospel. That's what Paul is saying. That those who've been enlightened by the power of the Holy Spirit and believe. As opposed to those who have rejected the gospel of Jesus Christ. So the contrast here is not between, oh you know, there are some who are spiritually immature and mature. No, that that will come up in chapter 3 The contrast here is between those who see the wisdom of God, Christ crucified, and believe that message of the gospel, and those who completely Rejected the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so he tells them what the nature is. What is the nature of the wisdom of God? It is this. First of all, he says it is not from earthly rulers, nor is it of this age. It does not come from them, and it is not of this age. It is not human wisdom. Because the wisdom of God embodies true wisdom that is from God, which is wisdom that brought about the saving acts of Jesus Jesus Christ. God sending his son to us to die on the cross for us is that is God's wisdom. See, rulers might be successful, they might claim to be wise and mighty and all of that, but they are mortal men. They are temporal. They are here today. And tomorrow they are gone. Compare that with the permanence of God's wisdom, Paul is saying. Paul is saying this. That the gospel of Jesus Christ was not an astath in God. It's not like when the four happened, God said, Oh, oops, we made a boo-boo. Let's go back and rectify the problem, so I'm gonna send my son. No The gospel was planned in the mind of God before time began. That God would be so concerned about his people even before they ever knew it For our well-being, that it would plan the gospel to be the means through which he brings us to glory. What an amazing and glorious thing. So Paul is saying we are there for Secure. Sure. Because of this indescribable hope that is in the coming age of glory. That the world is passing by, that the wisdom of this world is passing by. But our future for those who have accepted this message of the crucified cross, we are secure in Christ. That the our glory is the one that keeps on increasing, and that of the world continues to wane God's wisdom cannot be restricted, Paul is saying, cannot be restricted by any sort of boundaries that you can think of. It is not time-bound, it is not culture-bound, but it is for all time, for all people, for all cultures, for all places. Nothing can stop it. That makes it far more valuable than any wisdom, anything that any human being can ever come up with, because it is God's truth. That once God has spoken His truth Truth to us that is absolutely valuable, and there's absolutely nothing else that the world can create or come up with that could match that wisdom. And then he says it's nature again, it's a secret. It's a mystery. The Greek word is a mystery. And you know, when they used the word mystery, it was supposed to describe a puzzle. A puzzle that when all the pieces Of that puzzle are put together, you can actually clearly see the big the picture that was put together. Now, don't get me wrong, it doesn't mean that it was it's a puzzle that is difficult or we are having difficulty Putting together. Not so. It means this. A mystery means that it's a secret that we are holy and completely, holy and completely unable to put it together. Unless God does it, unless God reveals this to us. And so the point is, Paul is saying it shows us the impossibility of us being able to know God. But on the other hand, showing us God's great love for us, that He would actually reveal that hidden mystery to us, that we may be able to understand it. How amazing is that? That God's wisdom is what puts all the pieces of the puzzle of life together and makes sense out of it You want to know what makes sense in life? I mean we're talking about things going on in Louisiana and Minnesota and everywhere else and we're thinking, is God there? Is he a God of love and judgment We're talking about our own lives, you know, pursuing careers and mistakes that we've made and our families. How can we make all these things work for us so that we are perfect? Not perfect, perfect, but so that we make sense of life And we keep asking, so what is the one piece? Or what is the several pieces if we're missing several, and most of the times we are. What is the one piece that's gonna make sense out of life and help us to understand and know how things are supposed to be? There's only one piece that we gotta think about, and that's the final piece that God puts in this puzzle. And the piece is Jesus Christ Himself Christ who comes and dies on the cross and rising again in order to unite us with himself and to give us a forgiven past, an equipped present, and a glorious new future that we await. Because only God's wisdom, only His wisdom in this redemptive plan makes sense out of all life. There is no human invention or rationale that can unravel the mysteries of this universe. None. And so he says the hidden secret can only be known in one way, and that is revelation The rulers of this age do not know it, he says, because if they would have known that, they would not have crucified the Lord. If the rulers of this age would have known they would have known by Jesus' death and resurrection that he would unleash and release such power to change the world, they would not have done it. But we know that Jesus Christ did rise again from the dead and he's alive, changing us. His message is radical. It's what makes us look at our life in a different way. That the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ changes our perceptions about life, about everything, our priorities become small every day when we look at the significance of what Christ has done What we value in life or material wealth and everything else becomes dim when we glorify God, when we realize that the only safe and secure investment is in Christ Jesus and not on the things of this world Our priorities change because everything else wanes in the face of Jesus Christ. Who is Lord, not just of this age, who is Lord not of just now, but of the days to come. And then Paul describes in verses 9, look at it, quoting, loosely quoting Isaiah 64:4. The methods that we use for apprehension are our eyes and our ears and our mind. That they are unable to unravel the mysteries of the hidden secret of God unless God Himself reveals that to us. That God decreed all of that before the ages of glory. That God is the author of our salvation. That God is the author of our salvation who gives the free gift of salvation to us, regardless of our merit. That we sit here this morning as children of God and yet we know that we do not deserve it. And the truth is this That when we realize that we begin to demonstrate our love to God for this marvelous gift that He has given to us, if anybody can prove to me that they can understand the profundity and the immensity of the doctrine of salvation, I will tell you you are lying to me. Because you cannot. None of us can understand and fully understand the mysteries of God in terms of Him sending His Son and Him dying on the cross for us. The message of salvation is so profound for us to Fathom, but that should make us stand in awe and thankfulness before Heavenly Father and say, Praise be to God for your marvelous gift that you've given to us. And yet I might not be able to explain it or understand it, but God, you are good that you love me so much that you saved me, a sinner. It is a mature thing to accept God's wise provision, even if the world sees it as folly. Leon Morris reminds us. So, what should be our focus then? Looking at the nature of God's hidden wisdom. It is this, church, going back to the basics, seeking godly wisdom. Not us trying to stand before one another and claiming to be the ones who are wise or the ones who are mature or the ones who are spiritual in order to separate ourselves from our brothers and sisters that we're supposed to be fellowshiping with. See, we need to come before God and ask for repentance. We all have to. But we need to repent of this. Then most of the times we're always seeking and searching for wisdom elsewhere. and not trying to believe in the pure gospel that Christ has given to us. Church, it's a warning for us to repent of our self-help therapy. Or all the ideas. See, most of us are just wanting to become more successful Christians, but we forget what we're supposed to be doing. We forget that we're supposed to be focusing on Christ. That most of our methods will always lead us away from Christ. Anything that leads us away from Christ is doomed to fail. Some of us we try to focus on one issue We try to say oh it's only political political activism that's going to so to solve all the all the all the problems of our churches. It's social activism that's going to solve all the problems. It's apologetics. Unless you're apologetics, you've got nothing We're missing the point. All those things are good, but we lose learning from the riches and wisdom of God. Secondly From verses 10 through 16, Paul demonstrates the ministry, the work of the Holy Spirit, the source of the hidden wisdom of God. See, the rulers only had one thing in mind. They were only focused about one thing. And that was not the future. It was the now. Because that's what the world sees. That's the only thing that they have. They can't think of the future because they cannot explain it They are blinded and cannot see the glorious things that God has for them because it's hidden from them. They cannot see it unless He Reveals it to them. So Paul is stressing from verses 10 through 16 the work and the ministry of the Holy Spirit in revealing to us the wisdom of God And he shows it the way that God by his spirit revealed it to Paul and to the apostles and to others, and he actually uses, I mean, if you look at verses 10 through 7 To see how many times Paul is using the first plural, we. He keeps saying we, we, we, including himself and the apostles Because they're the ones primarily given this Holy Spirit so that they could explain and write scripture for us. But what is true of the apostles is also true of believers. But God gives us that enlightenment that we're able to understand and be inspired to understand scripture. Not that we're getting any extra biblical inspiration. Now the canon is closed. That we understand it. The reason why the Holy Spirit is the reason of is the source of God's wisdom is this. Paul tells us in verses 10, look at it He says it's because it is the Holy Spirit who knows all things. As the psalmist in Psalm 139 tells us, the Holy Spirit is the extended presence of God. It is God Himself That he searches all things, that he penetrates everything that is known, that nothing is beyond his knowledge. He says, not even the deep things of God. Unfathomable deep things of God. The Holy Spirit knows that. Because it's impossible for us as created beings to know the innermost depths of the divine counsel. Of God. And then he gives us a demonstration. Look at verses 11. How do we understand that? He says, well, to illustrate the point I'm going to show you. How do we know human wisdom? How do you know someone? How can you know someone that's the thoughts and the feelings of someone that's sitting next to you? It might be your wife or or your cousin or whatever. How would you get to know them by just observing them, seeing them smile? Absolutely no They would have to disclose that information to you so that you may know them. They would have to give a little bit of who they are. So he's saying we cannot know God by simply observing him Or observing his creation. Yes, the the the the his creation, the mountains in the sky declare the majesty and glory of God. But can we really know God by just observing what He's made the way He wants to be known? Absolutely no. We cannot understand the mind of God unless He reveals His mind to us through the Holy Spirit. We are not God, we're His creation. The Holy Spirit is the one who helps us. Helps us to understand. To understand what God in Christ has given to us freely through His self-revelation. That the Holy Spirit comes to live in us Teaching us his word. That he is the one who enlightens our hearts and our minds. That he is the one who illumines his word, his scriptures. We read it every day that we might understand it. That the Holy Spirit is is a real person that he thinks, that he acts, that he is not a force as we like to think of him, because sometimes that's how we like to think about the Holy Spirit We call him it, but he is a person, he is God. So the Spirit of God, being God Himself, understands the wisdom of God. That is the purpose of the Holy Spirit. In special self revelation, the work of revelation in our hearts. That's a good news for us. Because if we have the Holy Spirit, then we know one thing. We know that we have the assurance from God that we have true knowledge. You know, I think sometimes in the church we gather before God and sometimes we're frightened. I think sometimes we're afraid. I think sometimes we're shy. I think sometimes we think that maybe we're not the people who really we're insecure. Maybe we don't have the wisdom of God. And Paul is telling us, look You have no reason to be insecure or to be afraid because you truly do gather before God of all wisdom. You have it And so we should never compromise sharing the gospel of Jesus Christ because we think that people are going to look down upon us and call us foolish. Yes, they will, but that's okay. That we should not compromise the gospel because the world tells us that faith is inferior. It is not. It is such a higher wisdom that they will not even understand. But you do. So don't be afraid. But what should we do as a church here gathered before His presence when we are told that everything has been revealed to us? There's only room for humility as believers. There's no room for pride and superiority where we think that we're better than everybody else, that everything is from God. That there's no room for us to be claiming that I have a special skill or special place or special insight that you somehow got from God because all truth has been revealed to his people that believe But it's an encouragement as well that it's not our best evangelistic methods that are going to win sinners to Christ. It's not. You might actually fail and do a horrible job sharing Christ. But when the spirit of the living God is capturing people's hearts, you've got absolutely nothing to do with it. And that's good news because I mess up all day long. When people hear and sit and hear the word of God proclaimed, it is only the Holy Spirit that can remove the blinders in their own eyes and their own hearts and turn their hearts of stone into a heart of flesh. You can do nothing. But you see, as long as people depend on their own human resources Unless the Holy Spirit comes into their life and illumines their mind, they will not understand the wisdom of God. They will always think that it is foolishness. 14. That's the nurturer person. That's the person who is without the spirit. Because you know what that person is? He's like a tone-deaf person who cannot appreciate the great rap music of Lecrae. Or the the the colorblind person who is unable to appreciate the artistry of Monet. That's the truth. They cannot see it. But in the presence of God, in the presence of the Holy Spirit, that makes all the difference in our lives Because without him we have no discernment. We have no discernment. The natural person will only operate on earthly ways of seeing things. But in contrast, you, the children, Church of Jesus Christ have given been given the power, the Holy Spirit, through which you can draw discernment on everything that you do, about everything that you think about and do in your life. Not and then Paul is talking about you know we we cannot be judged, right? He's not saying that we cannot be evaluated by anybody. We stand before people every day to be judged, to be evaluated. That's okay But it's simply Paul is talking about this, that as Christians we understand that we are not under condemnation Because Christ has taken that for us. So we are not condemned. So go ahead and judge me all you want. But I know my judge is God Himself, and I will stand before Him. And he's the only one who is going to judge me. In the meantime, then I'm not supposed to stand in a place and judge my brother or my sister. Because their judge is God. My job is to love them. We have a proper perspective for getting a handle on our past, on our present, and on our future. Not that all of our decisions are going to be correct. That's far from the truth. We I make mistakes every single day. But because I know I have the Holy Spirit inside of me, that changes everything Everything. It changes absolutely everything. Not that I achieve greatness. There is no greatness apart from Christ. And then Paul finally ends in verse 16 by saying, Because we do have the mind of Christ. What is he saying? That we have we know all the thoughts of Christ? Absolutely no. But that as a church we view everything from the viewpoint Of Christ, not to the wisdom of this world. What are we seeking? What is our perspective on all things? It is this. Pa is saying you gotta put on the mind of Christ by understanding that you pursue humility You pursue love. You pursue loving each other. All those wonderful things that Christ stands for. That you lay aside your pride and your arrogance. Because that is not the mind of Christ. Church, what a great privilege for us to know this morning that we have the mind of Christ. What a great privilege for us to know that the Spirit of the Living God has revealed Himself the wisdom and the things of God. What a great thing. To stand here and know that God is working in us, by His power, changing us, transforming us, making us to be more like Him and bearing fruit, and knowing that the only way we can do so is by asking daily. To have the presence of indwelling presence to work in us so that we may know how to navigate through life, so that we may not rely on our own understanding But every single day submit to Him and to His teaching to help us humble ourselves so that we may be teachable, so that we may not mistake or uh or errors for truth and cause this Church of Christ humble. May we this morning yield to his leading so that we may not live according to the flesh, but live according to the spirit of the living God. May he help us this morning to continue being zealous. Zealous for the things of God. That we may be hungry, every day hungry and hungering for more of God. So that we may grow in knowledge and truth of God's word. Because it's the only way. It's the only way we're going to enjoy the glorious things that Christ has set for us in heaven. Father, thank you so much for your Holy Spirit. Lord, you're the only one who can make it effective in our own hearts and lives. So would you do so? This morning we pray in the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Spirit. Amen.