And we are going to start our advert series, which is gonna be uh about five sermons uh from both the new and the and the old testament. We'll begin this morning with an interesting uh uh chapter in the book of Luke. Um So if you're able would you please rise um and we're gonna honor the reading of God's word as read from Luke chapter twenty one, read verses twenty-five uh to thirty-six. And there will be signs in sun and moon and stars, and on the earth distress of nations in perplexity because of the roaring of the sea. and the waves, people fainting with fear and with foreboding of what is coming on the world. For the power of the heavens will be shaken. And then they will see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory. Now, when these things begin to take place, straighten up and raise your heads, because your redemption is drawing near. And he told them a parable. Look at the fig trees and all the trees. As soon as they come out in leaf, you see for yourselves and know that the summer is already near. So also, when you see these things taking place, know that the kingdom of God is near. Truly I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all has taken place. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. But watch yourselves, lest your hearts be weighed down with dissipation and drunkenness and cares of this life, and that day come upon you suddenly like a trap For it will come upon all who dwell on the face of the whole earth. But stay awake at all times, praying that you may have strength to escape all these things that are c are going to take place And to stand before the Son of Man. The word of the Lord this morning. Father, we do come to you as we consider these words that you've given to us, reserved for us for encouragement and hope And I pray that you would give us your Holy Spirit who illumines our hearts and minds, so that we may not only hear and believe, but be transformed. Pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated. It is good to say, or it is true to say, that we are a waiting people. We are a waiting people. We're always waiting for something. We we long for, we anticipate, we wait for a birthday to celebrate and eat as much cake as we can We wait for anniversaries to come around so that we may uh remind our loved ones of how much we care and love for them. We we wait for the sun to rise in the morning and as I was reminded yesterday, a beautiful sunrise that just awakens our souls and and and reminds us that there's beauty out there, right? But most of the times we wait for the next day or for the sun to rise because we just had a bad day And so we're looking we're longing for a a different day, a day to bring something different, something better. And so we are always awaiting people. We anticipate events, as I mentioned, not just birthdays and celebrations and anniversaries and all those things, but we anticipate events That are going to happen in the future because there's something mysterious, there's something exciting about the unknown, isn't there? You just don't know what's gonna happen, but you you you're hoping, you're waiting in hope that something exciting, something beautiful, something good, something encouraging is going to happen. And I think w for us As as human beings, as people, as Christians, as uh and even for those that are non-Christians, we wait for a change. We wait for an escape. We long and we anticipate for something different to happen tomorrow because we know that life can be difficult at times And so our longing has a lot to do with an escape. Our longing has to do with, I long for that day when my trials will be over. I long for that day when sickness will be no more. I long for that day when there will be no conflict between me and my family. I long for that day when I long for that day when I long for that day when something different is going to happen because life can be difficult at times. So we long for a permanent deliverance, if you will. So if I asked the question this morning to you, to me, if I ask the question to all of us, what are you waiting for? I'm not sure what you would say. But it's not enough for us to ask that question. It's we we need to go a little more and ask. How are you waiting? So the question is, what are you waiting for? But how are you waiting for it? It's Martin Luther, the great reformer, who was once asked He was the po the question was posed to him and he was asked, what would you do, Martin, if you knew that the world was coming to an end tomorrow? What would you do if you knew that the world was coming to an end tomorrow? You know what his answer was He says, I would go ahead and plant an apple tree. Huh? I would go ahead and plant an apple tree. The moral of the story. See, as as we go through trials and difficulties of this life and as we have this longing and anticipation of waiting, we We've got to do something, and especially for us as Christians, we cannot despair in our circumstances. But God calls us to action God calls us to action. And that action sometimes does involve the simple and mundane things that we do in our lives. And sometimes those simple and mundane things will show to the watching world that we are sure and certain And certain of the promise that God gives to us in His Word and says, I will walk with you till the end of the age. And so we come across this particular text. As I said, it's an interesting text, and for us to begin our first Advent by looking at one of the uh the so-called um Olivet discours is uh in the in the gospel of Luke. And here we Jesus is is answering a question that begins all the way from verse 1 in chapter 21. The question that the disciples are asking Jesus is When will these things happen? When will the world come to an end? What's gonna happen? And how do we know the signs of the time and how can we prepare ourselves for the times Now it's interesting to note that in this particular text, uh and I I want us to have this this this this idea in our hearts in our minds as we think about it, that for the disciples And as Jesus will tell them in here that the the temple is gonna fall, AD 70, the events of AD 70 in fact do Asha for them in their minds. This will be the end of the world. That will be it. No more temple. Jesus needs to be back if that happens. But the other thing I want you to keep in your mind is this, and this is amazing, is the fact that as Jesus answers the question to the disciples, Jesus does not give them a play-by-play kind of a deal. He doesn't give them every tiny little detail of this is exactly what's going to happen and when you see this is what And this is how it's all gonna come together and then you will know so that you're ready. You know, it's like boom, I know what's gett I know what's going on and I know Jesus. There he is, just like he said He doesn't provide precise details on here, but Jesus calls them to something. What does he call them to? Jesus is calling his disciples to live a vigilant life, so to speak. Personal vigilance. Jesus is calling his disciples to a life of faith. Jesus is calling us to know that for us to wait for him in hope means living by faith. For us to wait for Jesus in hope is living by faith. Again, as I mentioned uh in this in this discourse, we see in verses twenty-five the language that Luke is using is the language that we uh commonly refer as the apocalyptic language. Now I say that because it's important. It's important because apocalyptic language is hard for us to interpret And so, how do we understand the sun and the moon and all the signs and all this? What do they even mean? What's even going on? What is the sign that's out there in the sun and in the moon and in the heavenly realms? And how are we supposed to know if this is the end? Now, just because that is so difficult for us to understand what Luke actually means or what Jesus in fact means by giving uh this apocalyptic language does not mean that there's not something in here that is clear for us to understand and to believe. And it is this. Again he says it right when these signs and these things happen, what's gonna happen to the people? People are going to be perplexed They're going to be afraid, they're going to be alarmed, they're not gonna know what's going on, strange things happening all over the world, and they're confused What's going on? Now, why is that a source of hope though? And telling the disciples that, how is that going to help them and encourage them? Jesus tells them The turbulence, the trials, and all those crazy things that are happening around people, uh people being alarmed and perplexed about them and fainting in fear and running away and all these things that that in fact Should be a source of hope and encouragement for you. Why? Look at verse 28. Jesus' comforting word, he says, now when when these things begin to take place, straighten up Raise your heads because your redemption is near. Because your redemption is near. That for those in Christ For those who believe in God, these terrifying disturbances are a source of hope because they mean that the days of suffering, the days of trials, the days of struggling with sin and temptation They're over. It's coming to an end. I love the language of raising your head, which is really a sign of hope Remember the psalmist cries out in Psalm twenty-four, he says, Lift up your heads, oh you ancient uh oh you gates, and be lifted up, oh ancient doors, that the king of glory may come in. It's a language of raising your head and knowing that there is hope. It's not looking down and fearing that, oh my goodness, all these trials and all these things are coming upon us, and the doors are shutting around us. But you raise your hands, knowing that the king who said that one day he will return with glory and power, he is indeed coming. And again, we may not know the day or the time when Jesus will return But we know that his return is certain and sure. And that's the language here, and that's that's the encouragement. But not just that, but he is bringing with him a redemption. Now you may say, well, that means our redemption is coming. So does that mean that we haven't been redeemed? Does that mean that we haven't been saved? Does that mean that we haven't been delivered from sin? Does that mean that the work that Jesus accomplished on the cross, dying and rising again and descending to heaven and promising to return, that that was not redemption, that was not salvation? Oh yes, it is salvation. It means that we experien we have experienced salvation from God in the now. But as we say, it's the already And the not yet. That that salvation was true struggle with sin, that we still struggle with sickness, that we still struggle with trials and all these things, and that the king is not completely ruling and reigning as he ought to. And that our longing is that one day when he returns We will embrace in our bodies and in our souls the full completion of our salvation that God has promised to us. What a glorious day that we must be waiting and anticipating. And then to reinforce the point that that's exactly what Jesus is talking about. He he gives them a parable. Look at verses 29 through 33. We've read it. He says, You know when the summer is coming, all you gotta do is look at the plants. And see the leaves. And that tells you that that's a sign out there that you can see and touch and and experience. The point is clear here, right? That Jesus is basically making the point that you can be sure, you can uh you can be Certain that what I've said to you and the thing that I'm telling you will happen, they will come to pass. They will come to pass And this parable is in fact a great encouragement, not just for the disciples, but for us, because it gives us hope. as I mentioned, of this final salvation, that what Christ has declared in his word and said that I will come back and you will experience this full salvation, you can bet on that. You can take that to the bank and I am coming. But this encouragement must be our source of hope, our source of joy. Especially in times of trials, especially when life is difficult for us, when we long for that sun to rise In the morning, longing for the coming king, expecting little from this world, right? Expecting little from this world, but ever waiting in hope and great anticipation for the coming of our Savior and Jesus Christ. And then Jesus says some really interesting words for us here that are really difficult for us when he says in verse thirty-two, truly I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all has taken place. Jesus, what do you mean by that? Now is Jesus here referring to the Jewish people, telling them that they will see all these things come to pass and then the end will come? Cause that was a while back. He has in return was still here. Is Jesus using that language of uh this generation meaning a race, uh not just the Jewish people, but a race of people within a s a certain spectrum of of history I don't know. Is this a reference to the elect? Is Jesus saying that all of the elect from the very beginning all the way until Jesus returns collectively that they will, you know, they will be able to experience all these things. Isn't that what he's saying? That they will persevere I have no idea. Is he going back and forth to verses seven, you know, referring to these events that are going to take place and talking about the events of AD seventy, the temple falling uh and the and the destruction of Jerusalem? So Jesus is kind of going back and forth, referring to this event and the end time, the kingdom of God. And is that what's going on? I have no clue. Is Jesus only speaking of the Events of AD 70, and saying, I want you to see these events as a foreshadowing of the coming of the kingdom of God. Possibility, I cannot say for certain. We will debate about that passage until Jesus Christ Himself comes back. And we will never agree. But what's not difficult for us to see here? Because there has to be a point, right? There has to be an encouragement in these verses that Jesus says it is this Look's emphasis is not on the date and time. Look's emphasis is not for us to speculate on what this means or doesn't mean. The message is clear. Jesus has said it and it will come to pass. I am coming back. And to reinforce that point, if he's talking about him coming back, he continues in verse 33. What does he say? Heaven and earth will pass away, but these words, my words, will not pass away. That's the point. The emphasis is talk about the time and the date and the how and all these things and everything and completely miss the point. As one of my favorite professors, Dr. Simon Kistamarker says, this is a majestic statement. And he puts it this way: the abiding character of Christ's message over and against the transient nature, even of heaven and earth, in their present condition, is the foundation of which faith can build. Is the foundation which faith can build. See, there's so much talk these days, right, of When is Jesus coming back? So many people have lost their lives committing suicide because they were told Jesus was coming back. So many people have lost millions of dollars, you know, d uh selling or giving away all of their their treasures and and stuff because they were told by somebody who claims to have heard from the Lord God Almighty and if that person comes to you tell them uh uh that's a lie, that's not what the Bible teaches. But so many of people have lost stuff because they thought that the end was coming and the end never came, it only came to them. See these questions Are not meant for our finite minds to be able to grasp. See, God in His wisdom and power and knowledge has chosen by His goodness and love for us to hide. And not to disclose that message to us. And we need to be okay with that. Because he is God and we're not. Because he is creator, and we are the creator. So, what should be our concern then? What is Jesus concerned in these passages? And I put it to us: it's this. He has given us his word, and we ought to ask ourselves if we're faithful to living for him. What matters is not knowing but obedience. What matters is not knowing but obedience. One of my favorite musicians, Michael Card, says beyond simply knowing is the faith that manifests itself through. Obedience. A faith that manifests itself through obedience. What's this book all about? What is this book all about? Is this book all about the knowledge that you can gain? Questions that you can find your answers, a reference that you can go back and say, Yeah, the Bible says so, so it must be true. Or is this book truly about transformation? Is the Bible written for us? God's living and breathing word that transforms our lives. So that we may live according to what He wants us, according to how He wants us to live. See, we can be so caught up in the signs And in the stuff, and in the questions, and in the whatever it is, and completely forget the truth that never ends And forget to pursue it. We can be caught up in the moment of asking and wanting to know and completely forget how to live by faith. The second thing that Jesus is teaching us through this passages on how we can wait in hope is waiting in hope Does not only mean living by faith, but it also means living in perpetual preparedness. PP. Perpetual preparedness. I didn't say PP, I said P P. See Jesus again is answering the questions the disciples are asking again in verse verse seven if you look at it. Um he says in verse seven and they asked him, Teacher, when will these things be? And what will be the sign when these things are about to take place? So there is a question at hand that Jesus is trying to address here. And so Jesus tries to provide all this information and he does provide inf information. And if you read ahead in verses 10 uh and following, you see he lays out all the things that are going to happen, the the destruction of the temple, the persecution, political upheavals, the fall of Jerusalem, and and finally he describes here in our passage. Now, it's true that Jesus knew that his disciples wanted some information. They wanted to understand How is the end going to come? How is the kingdom of God going to be ushered in? And Jesus knew as well that we would be sitting here on this particular day and asking the same question. How will the kingdom of God come to be? And so as a tender teacher, if you will, as a loving shepherd of his sheep, he admonishes them and he says Be on your guard always. You want to know how the kingdom of God is going to come off? Let's forget about that for one second, okay? This is how you ought to live. Be on guard, verse 34 through 36. Again, knowing so well that we view with temptation in life That even in our questioning, we may find ourselves questioning so much that we actually begin to doubt the very things we're actually asking. But that we also live with people who doubt. And that those people are also able to Kind of take us there in their doubt and we begin to say, oh you know, I never thought about it. Maybe you're right. Maybe he is not coming. Or maybe this is the sign that he's coming. And we we also know how powerful our emotions are, right? When our emotions can get the better of us sometimes, if not most of the time. So we have to be careful. So Jesus cautions them to be on their guard. And he's basically saying that that that if you're following me, you must live in the light of these exact exciting events That are to come and not to give way to temptation. And I really believe in this verses as we read them That Jesus is reminding his people, even as we've just talked about, the it's not the depth of knowledge about these things. It's not the depth of knowledge. It's not uh how much research you've done and now you know. How all these things are going to play out. But that what matters is an energy, energy of our actions. To use the common cliche, how then shall we live in light of what Jesus says? So Jesus says, watch yourselves. He says, be careful. So I was read reading through this passage. I was reminded that that language that I'm sure all of you use, and I know I use that language every single day of my life with my son. Be careful! Watch yourself you can afford. Don't touch that. Don't come here. Don't go there. Don't say that. Don't do this. Every single day I am telling my son to be careful. Just because I want him to live. Because he does things. He's sitting on a couch and he just wants to throw himself and I'm like, you're gonna break your neck. Be careful. Watch yourself. Be careful that the day does not come upon you like a trap. Again, I gotta use my African uh you know growing up in Africa and I'm glad a friend of mine is actually visiting today and he's here so he's gonna identify with you. This. You see, I grew up trapping animals, okay, when I was a kid. And so Jesus is saying, don't let the day come to you as a trap. Do you know what's the best way to trap an animal? What's the best way to trap an animal? It's an element of surprise. You're saying food, I I may not even say that. It's an element of surprise. You've got to catch it by surprise. So if a gazelle wants to come and eat my my cow peas and my my stuff, the best way to do it is set up a little you know wire in the in the fence And make sure that I disguise that trap so well that he cannot see, and then make a hole, a big hole, a gaping hole. He goes in and he's like, oh wow, look at the Corn and all of that stuff it's in there. I can go eat and there's actually space for me to go in. These people must be craving. They're just letting me go in and he goes boom and you're done An element of surprise. Boom. So if you're not ready If you're not living in the perpetual preparedness. But look what he says. He says, what's yourself that you know weighed down by what? Dissipation. What is that? Drunkenness and the cares of this life. Now, even before I address what dissipation is all about, Notice how intensely personal and practical these warnings are. But notice something else too. Who is Jesus talking to? Who is Jesus talking to? You can say it. Is Jesus talking to the Pharisees and the Sadducees that don't believe in him? Is Jesus talking about some pagan Worldly sinful people living out their life. Who is he talking to? Jesus is addressing the very man Who had deserted their own lives and given up everything to follow him. And he's saying to them, brothers, be careful how you live. As J. C. Lyle, one of the great Anglican theologians says It this teaches us humility. And he puts it this way: that there is no sin so great, but a great saint may fall into it. And he follows that out. There is no saint so great, but he may fall into a great sin. In short, when I think I'm standing, I begin to fall. Watch the story of Scripture from the very beginning. Adam and Abraham and Noah. David, a man after God's own heart. Watch their story. What's this story? They fell. Fell. Big time. Jesus says, watch yourselves. You probably would have expected Jesus to say Stay away from sexual immorality and pride and all this gross sins. You know, things that we can identify and say, Yeah, those are the things you ought to be staying away from so that you may be prepared as the as Christ returns. But what does he say? Dissipation, which I had to look up, by the way. I know it meant a little indulging yourself, but I didn't know that it means wasteful consumption of money or resources Squandering that which have been given uh which we've been given to enjoy along with that inordinate indulgence of physical pleasure. Huh Lesson here. Don't take the things that God has given you in the wrong quantity or at the wrong time. Did you hear that? Don't take the thing that God has given to you in the wrong quantity and at the wrong time. There's a time for everything. It's the story of the prodigal son, right? That undisciplined and dissipated, so to speak, he wasted everything he had. Drunkenness. The language of drunkenness that's been used is actually very careful language. It's actually the after-effect of intoxication That's that's the language here. Which makes me believe that we ought to be careful as we read this, that there are two extremes that we can go to One is to take our Christian freedom that God has given to us, I can drink and that's okay, and stretch it too far that we're intoxicated, or go on the other side side and say, if I see you holding a glass of wine, you're going straight to hell. Both are wrong. But I think there's more to that. I think there's more to that. I think there's a metaphorical application of intoxication. I think we ought to think about this in terms of how we view life. That we ought to watch ourselves that we don't succumb to the intoxicating attractions of this sinful world. Because when our spiritual matters are dulled by our drunkenness, by our intoxication, We're gonna be drowsy. We're gonna have a hangover. And we'll be sleeping when he shows up. The warning is that the sign is there for you to see. The warning is Jesus will come suddenly and unexpectedly. The last one is the cares of this life. Now you may say dissipation, eh, maybe. Drunkenness, yeah. I can go from here all through, and I can a hundred percent Convinced that every single one of us sitting here struggles with this: anxiety and worrying about the cares of this life. We worry about our health. We worry about our children. We worry about our grandparents. our parents, we worry about our relationships, we worry about our money, we worry about anything that you can speak of. Even a 10-year-old. We worry about how we look We worry about what people think of us. We are an anxious people. And you know what anxiety does to us? Anxiety paralyzes. completely paralyzes us because we cannot think straight when we worry about the things of this world Anxiety is a drive for security without God I've shared this with you, I'll share it again. I don't sleep at night. Do you know why? Because I'm angry Because I'm anxious about tomorrow. Because I'm anxious about the church. Anxious about my life. Anxious about Everything. And Jesus is telling us Don't let the things of this world choke the life out of you. Jesus is saying, Don't let the things of this world choke the life out of you. And this is hard for me to even say. Jesus is saying to us, learn not to hold the things of this world so tightly. The moment you take a grip on the things of this world You are letting go of who he is. And that's a hard thing for us to learn to do. Because we struggle. And then he says he continues, he says, stay awake Stay awake all the time. Be alert. That's what he says. So all those who are falling asleep, because I'm boring this morning, stay awake. And pray, Jesus says in verse 36. And again, of course, I make a joke out of it. Jesus is not saying, do not sleep. Please you need your sleep. Jesus is not saying, you know, let's go be hermits, let's go be monks, and just spend all day praying and and and and you know and doing all these things. No. What is Jesus talking? He's talking about spiritual wakefulness. Spiritual alertness. It's guarding our hearts against sin and temptation. It's refusing to be preoccupied, as we mentioned, the adulters of this life come because we are so preoccupied with excuse me with what other people are doing. We're so preoccupied with all what uh with with what other people think, not even just about us but about everything else. I mean go to Facebook or Instagram, it's like I want to know what you think about that this and that. Well, it's there, but who is really standing in the need of prayer? Who is it? It's me. It's me, O Lord. Standing in the needle of prayer. Keep your gaze on Jesus. Don't be distracted with what people are saying or doing. Keep your eyes on Jesus. What a timeless warning for us, right? But I think the question that we also have to ask ourselves as we think about staying awake and praying is Are we settled here as if this was our final and permanent home? Or are we living in permanent state of expectation? There's a difference. We ought to live in the shadow of the eternity because that's where we're going, that's our home. Again, we can't hold on so tightly to the things of this world. Stay awake and pray. Stay awake and pray. How often do you rely on your own resources before you turn to Christ in prayer? How often do we believe, oh I can I got this? I got this. And then when you reach the end you're like, oh, I should have prayed. Leaning on Jesus daily. And I think the prayer that Jesus is urging us here is really it's an attitude about life. It really is. Every day. We're walking in communion with the Lord. Why do we pray? We pray because sin is around us. Sin is about us. Sin is in us. And so every day we've got to be asking the Lord to help us put on the whole armor of God. Every day we've got to be asking the Lord, Lord, please help my spiritual drowsiness. I'm falling asleep. Wake me up. And so we may ask, so how do we prepare ourselves then? In terms of him saying, you know, telling the disciples to prepare themselves and be able to stand before the Son of Man when he comes, I say this, for those who do not know the Lord, you gotta run to him today. For those who do not know that they need Jesus, you need him. And he's your Savior. You gotta run to Him. And for those of us who know him, you gotta stay awake. Keep trusting on him. Keep pursuing him. Don't fall asleep Speak with Jesus daily. Have communion with him daily. And not just communion about what's going on, but about your soul. Talk to Jesus about your soul, about your dark, dark, dark soul. Talk to him. That's what you need. That's what I need. Help him to give you the grace. Ask for help. Instead of dissipation and drunkenness and the cares of this life, stay in a state of perpetual preparation. Badness. Let me end with a beautiful story. A story that is told in the book of Jeremiah. As Jeremiah is prophesied, we find in chapter 16, verse 2, God commands him Not to marry or have children. It's a horrible thing. It's a shocking thing. It's something that stands out like a sore thumb. For him to not take a wife, for him not to experience life as a normal person, it's a shocking thing for for God to command him to do And then later on in chapter 32, Jeremiah is asked to go back to his own village to do something. The command that God had given to him not to take a wife and all these things was actually supposed to be a sign of the looming judgment that God was coming to destroy his people, completely destroy them. But this call to go back to his village is about redeeming a piece of land. What So we shouldn't prepare because you're going to destroy and you're going to judge this whole place, but now I'm being asked to go back and redeem a land that's about to fall into someone else What's the explanation that's given? Jeremiah 32:1 through 15 is this: God's promise is going to be fulfilled, and that you will buy houses and vineyards and buildings. Oh, wow, what a hope! And here's the story. Though we may anticipate, though right now we may live in anticipation and waiting because We seem to be living in this dark cloud and in trials and difficulties and all these things going around us. We know that the sun will rise again We know that the Jesus who came and was born as one of us, who died on the cross and and rose again and ascended into heaven and made the promise that he was returning, he is surely coming back. The question for you and me is this. Are you waiting with vigilant faith? And are you living in perpetual preparedness? when he comes. Lord Jesus, we thank you for this day. Thank you that you remind us of your call for our lives and that you are returning, that you are coming back again Would you help prepare us for that day that's coming? Praying this in Jesus' name. Amen.