Well good morning. Good to be with you all. We're going to be continuing on in our series in the the short little book of Habakkuk. Reading from chapter three, Habakkuk chapter three, verses one through sixteen. Pastor Sam will be with us next week to finish up this this little series that we've been doing and then we'll we'll actually be starting probably a study in Jonah after that. But uh for now we're going to be in Habakkuk chapter 3 verses 1 through 16. And if you will stand, we'll honor the reading of God's word. Hear now the word of the Lord. A prayer of Habakkuk, the prophet, according to Shigeonov. O Lord, I have heard the report of you, and your work, O Lord, do I fear. In the midst of years revive it. In the midst of years make it known. In wrath, remember mercy. God came from Timon, and the Holy One from Mount Peron. His splendor covered the heavens, and the earth was full of his praise. His brightness was like the light. Rays flashed from his hand, and there he veiled his power. Before him went pestilence, and plague followed at his heels. He stood and measured the earth. He looked and shook the nations. The eternal mountains were scattered. The everlasting hills sank low. His were the everlasting ways. I saw the tent of Kushan in affliction. The curtains of the land of Midian did tremble. Was your wrath against the rivers, O Lord? Was your anger against the rivers, or your indignation against the sea, when you rode on your horses On your chariot of salvation? You stripped the sheath from your bow, calling forth many arrows. You split the earth with rivers. The mountains saw you and writhed. The raging waters swept on. The deep gave forth its voice. It lifted its hands on high. The sun and moon stood still in their place, at the light of your arrows as they sped, at the flash of your glittering spear. You marched through the earth in fury. You threshed the nations in anger. You went out for the salvation of your people, for the salvation of your anointed. You crushed the head of the house of the wicked, laying him bare from thigh to neck. You pierced with his own arrows the heads of his warriors, who came like a whirlwind to scatter me Rejoicing as if to devour the poor in secret. You trampled the sea with your horses, the surging of mighty waters I hear, and my body trembles. My lips quiver at the sound. Rottenness enters into my bones. My legs tremble beneath me. Yet I will quietly wait for the day of trouble to come upon people who invade us. The word of the Lord this morning. Let's pray to God. Oh Lord God, we so desperately need you. We come to you troubled about so many things. Things happening in our world, things happening in our lives. So many concerns, so many cares, and we come to you like a backup, needing to be reminded of who you are. And how you care for us and how you work. And Lord, above all, we come to you needing to behold the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. Needing to see Him, to be with Him, to be comforted by His presence, to grow in our love for Him. Lord, would you show us Christ. Holy Spirit, lift our eyes to see His glory and to behold Him and to be more like Him. We pray, O Lord, that you would help us to understand your word as we As we walk through it this morning and even more than understanding, we hope and ask, O Lord, that you would shape us and sanctify us by your word, that we might be more like you and might be able to live for you in a way that honors you. Well Habakkuk is is a really interesting book, a really helpful book that it If it does nothing else, it reminds us that this life is full of trouble and difficulty. We've seen that in these first two chapters, as Habakkuk has been going back and forth with God, complaining to God about why is the world the way it is? Why are you not responding to the injustice that we see in the world around us? And and when God says, I am responding, I'm responding with discipline for my people by sending your enemy to come and exile you, he Habakkuk responds and says, How can you do that and still be good? Right, he he's he's wrestling with God through some of these deep questions that we still wrestle through today, trying to understand our experience in light of who God is and who he tells us in his word. But above all, it reminds us that this life is hard and full of trouble. I don't know what trouble you're experiencing. Maybe it's just the distress and the anxiety and and maybe even the depression that comes with all that's happening in our world around us right now with coronavirus and so many of the things that that hit the news and reminding us of of the fact that we live in a fallen world where injustice so often rains and brokenness is everywhere around us. Maybe it it's hitting closer to home with loss or conflict, uh with uh other relationships There's so many ways that we feel the trouble and uncertainty and difficulty of this life. And I think the question that this passage points us to is: where do you go when things look really bad? Where do you go when it seems like when like there's no hope? When all you can do is step back and wait for God to work and to act? How as Christians do we wait on God? Maybe to put it another way, what hope does the gospel give us in these uncertain and difficult times in which we live? and all the struggles we face in this life. This morning. And he's working through it, I don't know if you notice, the entire chapter is a prayer. We've only read the first 16 verses, but this whole this whole chapter is Habakkuk praying to the Lord, working out these questions in God's presence, which is always a good lesson for us. as to where we must work these out. But the lesson he learns is he remembers that our God is a God of deliverance. And the lesson he learns is that when we struggle to trust God in difficult times, we need to look back on his past works. When we struggle to trust God in hard times, we need to look back and see how he's worked in the past. And that's really what we do as we go through this passage. We see that Habakkuk remembers God's works in the past. And then we'll see that Habakkuk waits for God to work again. So we'll spend most of our time on the first fifteen verses this morning as we see Habakkuk remembering God's past works. So we'll walk through these verses, see what they say, and then we'll see what we can learn from them about God. We find out in verse 1 there that th this whole thing, as we said, is a prayer, and it's it's a prayer of Habakkuk according to Shagyanof. Uh we're not really sure what that means. It shows up in in one other place in Psalm 7 where it it seems to be a the type of psalm and and song and prayer where we're crying out to God for deliverance in our distress. But maybe like me you have a footnote there on on Psalm 7 at least that says it's it's probably a musical or liturgical term. It's the type of notation that would tell us either what type of tune we're supposed to use as we sing this song, maybe what type of instruments were to be used in worship as this prayer and this song were sung back to God. So it's a musical or liturgical term that tells us what's going on. But he starts there in verse 2, beginning with this prayer. And I don't know if you'd notice this, it's kind of interesting to see that verse two actually is the only request that Habakkuk makes of God in this entire prayer. I love the way the NIV brings out the sense. Habakkuk says there Lord, I have heard of your fame. I stand in awe of your deeds, Lord. Repeat them in our day. In our time make them known. In wrath, remember mercy You see, Habakkuk there is reflecting on the stories that he has heard about God's mighty works and the way He's He's proclaimed the fame of His name and shown His glory and the ways He's worked to save His people in the past. And his prayer is this Lord, don't forget us. God, would you do those same works again in our day? I know you're angry with us. I know we've been unfaithful to you. I know we're going to be receiving some difficult circumstances under the hand of your fatherly discipline. But Lord, I beg you don't forget your promises, your covenant to be our God and to take us as your people. In your wrath, show us mercy. God, don't utterly destroy us, but deliver us. Even though we don't deserve it, even though we've done nothing to earn your favor, be faithful because you have promised and remember that promise. Do the works in our day that you've done in the past. We're gonna look through the specific works he mentions in a moment, but notice what he's doing. He's trusting in the promise that God never changes That the God he prays to is the same God that delivered his people in all of the circumstances he's going to rehearse. And friends, that's a reminder for us because the God we pray to is the same God that Habakkuk prayed to. Our God never changes. He's the same God now that he was then. Keep that in mind as you pray. As long as you as you long to see God work in a mighty way, remember he has done it before. And he can do it again because he never changes. He's the same yesterday and today and forever. After making this request in verse two, he begins to reflect on God's past works. And he remembers there in verse three how God revealed his glory after the Exodus. He uses language there that that borrows from Deuteronomy 33, verse 2. Even though he doesn't mention Mount Sinai, it It draws our attention to the way God revealed Himself on Mount Sinai. In Deuteronomy 33, two, Moses says, The Lord came from Sinai and dawned from Mount Sair upon us. He shone forth from Mount Pharon. He came from the ten thousand of holy ones with flaming fire at his right hand. And Sabakek remembers the Holy One coming forth from Timon and and from Mount Peran. It's it's these places that they would have passed or maybe camped in in their wilderness wanderings, but it reminds him of the way that God revealed himself on Mount Sinai when he came down on the mountain in in thick cloud and smoke and fire and the mountain is trembling and and the people were there to meet God, but because he revealed himself in his holiness, they couldn't even approach to the mountain to touch it because of God's holy presence. He met there to establish his covenant and to give him, give the people the law, showing himself in all his glory and splendor and his holiness, and the people trembled at his sight. You remember the people there in Exodus say to Moses, Moses, you go and talk to us talk to God for us, and then come tell us what he says. Don't let God speak to us directly because we're so terrified because of his splendor and his holiness. This is what Habakkuk is remembering, how God has revealed Himself in this way, that the whole world saw His His glory. And all these verses that follow after verse 3 go forth and depict God as this divine warrior who is on the move in order to save his people and defeat his enemies. He goes there and highlights all kinds of things throughout the history of of God's people. He shows how how God brought plagues upon the Egyptians to lead his people out into slavery. He talks about how God has saved them from every opposition they faced in the wilderness, all along the way, throughout their travels, or even in the conquest of the land. How he shook the nations, removing all who stood in the way of his people. He's talking about God in a way that that highlights that nothing could resist him. Even the mountains scatter away and the hills are flattened in God's sight, symbols of God's power and might and impressive security. Symbols of the power, might, and impressive security of things in the world, yet saying that all of them pale in comparison to the power of God. Because God's counsel is established, and he does as he pleases. He talks about how God split the earth with rivers, right? Providing water from a rock to give people water and quench their thirst when they thought they might die from dehydration. Talks about how God parted the Red Sea and the Jordan River, how he then marched ahead of his people, fighting their battles for them, defeating their enemies, even making the sun stand still as Joshua fights there at Gibeon, fighting the enemies of God's people. All of these classic examples of God's faithful deliverance of his people throughout the Old Testament are being brought to mind by Habakkuk as he's trying to remember how God has cared for his people. He remembers there even the period of the judges when they were in the land before they had a king and God raised up judges to defeat enemies like Kushan and raising up Gideon to defeat the nation of Midian as they attacked and persecuted God's people. Rehearsing the faithful deliverance of God for his people over and over again. And don't forget, all of these great stories from the Exodus through their wilderness wanderings through their Conquest into the land, through even the time that they're settling in the land during the period of the judges, all of these stories it is nothing but a catalogue of the unfaithfulness of God's people. As you read through those stories in the Old Testament, they're complaining, they're criticizing, they're telling Moses they want to go back to Egypt, they're asking why he brought them out there to let them die in the wilderness. Criticizing him, rebelling against God, worshiping idols. They're as unfaithful as you can be, and that they show themselves in a way that appears anything but the kingdom of priests and the holy nation that God had called them to be. And yet, time after time after time, God is faithful. He keeps his covenant promises to deliver them. And in verse 13 there, Habakkuk tells us why. He says, You went out for the salvation of your people. For the salvation of your anointed. You crushed the head of the house of the wicked, laying him bare from thigh to neck. God was always at work to save his chosen people. He does it all for their salvation. He's always at work for their good. Habakkuk paints this picture of a God who will move heaven and earth to deliver his people. And ultimately he points to God's anointed. Reminding us that this salvation ultimately comes through God's anointed one, the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the one ultimately in whom God saves He is the eternal Son of God who took on our human nature, who became a man and came down from heaven in order to enter this world and live and die in the place of his people. Not only did he obey in our place and take our punishment upon himself, but through his death and resurrection he defeated sin and death and Satan and crushed the head of the serpent Disarming him and stripping him of his power to accuse. You see, Habakkuk is reminding all these things and looking forward to the Messiah and remembering that all of God's past works to deliver his people. were aimed at the goal of preserving them so that Christ one day could come and accomplish the great deliverance for once and for all to save us. Habakkuk is gaining confidence in God as he remembers these past works. And as Habakkuk reflects on God's works in the past, just notice some of the things that we learn about God from his works. Two things mainly. God's works display His power, and God's works bring deliverance. Notice how God's power is always on display in this prayer. Right? Nothing can resist him. He he not only defeats his enemies, but he pierces them with their own arrows, throwing them into confusion so they defeat themselves. He scatters the mountains and flattens the hills. Right? He's bringing the same kinds of description of God's power that the Psalms do, right? Our God is in the heavens and he does as he pleases. Nothing and no one can resist his will. No one can thwart his plans or his purposes because he is all powerful and almighty. He's never overwhelmed He's never at a loss for what to do. He's never outwitted. He's never surprised. No, he is the Lord. The nations may rage and the peoples may plot, but they're trying in vain to derail his plans. Because he who sits in the heavens laughs. God's works reveal his power, and the greatest work is Christ's work in the gospel, right? The gospel is the power of God for salvation. for all who believe, because in it God overcomes all of our sin in Christ. God's works reveal his power. But above also we see God's works bring deliverance for his people. We've already seen there that God has been working to save his people. He works to deliver them. But notice, so many of the things that Habakkuk mentions are situations where all hope seemed utterly lost. Think about that. Think about how the Israelites must have felt at the edge of the Red Sea with Pharaoh's army bearing down on them from from Egypt. They they were trapped, the army on one side, the water on the other. There there was no path of escape, and all of a sudden the Lord makes a path through the water where there was none before. It seems hopeless, yet God parts the waters. Who would have even thought to ask for God to do that? And yet He makes an amazing way of deliverance, a miraculous deliverance when all hope seems lost. Isn't that so often how our Lord loves to work? He's able to do far more than we could even ask or imagine. Our imaginations can't even begin to grasp the ways that God might work to deliver As we think about Christ and the gospel, I mean it doesn't get more hopeless than the cross and the sealed tomb. And yet three days later Christ rose. To deliver his people once and for all. I I don't I don't know about you, but I feel like it it really is hard For us to wrap our minds around it. I think so often it's hard for me to wrap my mind around it that our greatest problem we face in this world is our sin. There's so many other real problems that we face, but we live in a time when when we don't have a clear sense of God's holiness, we don't see our sin as evil as it is, and we we tend so often to think that That we're not as bad as other people, we're not doing things that others do, and so we're not all that bad. But we we we forget how heinous our sin is in God's eyes and how it truly is the greatest problem we face In this life, that friends, you and I have rebelled against the God who made us. Living as his enemies, we are corrupt in every part of our being by nature. That you don't you don't become a sinner because you sin. You sin because you are a sinner. Your sinful actions flow from your wicked heart. And all the brokenness and evil that is in this world is the result of our sin. Right? COVID, racism, conflict, depression, death, these things only exist in a fallen world. And yet God has worked in Christ to bring deliverance. Amen. Most important in this deliverance is that he has brought reconciliation, that though we were once hostile to God, we were his enemies, alienated from him. That while we were his enemies, Christ died for us. That if you're in Christ, that means he has sent his Holy Spirit to change your heart, to take out the heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh. to show you his favor, draw you to himself, and fill you with a love for him in response to his love for you. That you've been created to glorify and enjoy him, and now you can That by faith, instead of being alienated from the God who made you, you can behold the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. His deliverance brings about the reconciliation that we desperately need, but friends, it also brings relief. Relief from sin, from its power over us and its presence in our lives and in our world. And from the suffering that it brings. And that's the hope that we have. Is that though we experience a a taste of that now as we get victory over sin and are delivered from its bondage in so many ways, That the day is coming when it will be no more, and its suffering will pass away, because it will be gone forever. You see, friends, our hope in troubled times is to look back to the cross. So remember that God did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all. How much more will he not give us all things graciously in him? He won't withhold anything that you need for your salvation. He has already acted and worked to deliver you. And you can be sure that he will finish what he started. Because he's a God that never changes. When we're struggling to trust God in difficult circum circumstances, difficult times, we need to look back on God's works. We need to look back on his works in scripture. The same stories that Habakkuk records here and brings to mind. Paul tells us these same things were written for our instruction. And written to encourage us. We look back on these stories and remember that it's the same God who leads us today and cares for us. We look back on his stories in the past. He preserved them so that Christ could come, so that he might deliver us once and for all. But we don't have to just look back to the stories in Scripture, right? We can look back throughout history and see God's faithfulness to his church. How he's built his church and preserved his church, that even in the darkest of days, it's the blood of the martyrs that is the seed of the church. That somehow, mysteriously, the church thrives under persecution, even when it seems all hope is lost. God finds a way of deliverance to preserve his people. We've seen it time and time again in in the Middle Ages when it started to look like the flame of the gospel was all but extinguished, God converts a German monk named Martin Luther and reformation begins to spread throughout the world. There are many other revivals and awakenings that the Lord has used to preserve his church. He was faithful in the past, friends, and he will be faithful in the future. No matter how dark and how grim it looks, he always has his remnant, his seven thousand who have not bowed the knee to Baal. No challenge that you and I face is new. Even this novel coronavirus, right? This isn't the first plague to hit the church. And it won't be the last. God's people have faced all these things before, and we will all face it again unless Christ returns before they happen. And through it all he has built his church, and the gates of hell will not prevail. We can look at God's works in history and gain comfort. We can also just look in our own personal lives and see how He has worked. See his faithful hand at work to care for us. Look back and see how God has provided and cared for you and met your needs. I know this is such a comfort for our family in times of uncertainty Just wondering what what the future looks like, not not knowing what what it means and and where we're going, never knowing where the Lord is leading other than maybe the very next step, right? And yet we can look back and see how he's cared for us. How even when we don't know how, he's helped us not to miss a meal. He's helped us to have everything we need, to provide for us, to lead us to where he's guiding us, even when we didn't know that's where we were headed. He's always been faithful to care for us. It's a great comfort when we don't know what the future holds, knowing that God is faithful and unchanging. I hope that's a comfort that you can see as you reflect on your own lives and see his loving hand at work. When you're struggling to trust God in hard times, look back and remember how he has worked in the past and rest in his unchanging faithfulness. That's what Habakkuk is doing for the bulk of this prayer, looking back and seeing how God has been faithful, trusting that he will be faithful again. And finally, at the end of this passage, after looking back and remembering God's works. He's comforted. Looking for God to work again. But but notice, he found comfort in verse sixteen And yet he's still troubled. I think that's such an encouragement to me. He says there in verse 16, I hear, and my body trembles, my lips quiver at the sound, rottenness enters into my bones, my legs tremble beneath me. Yet I will quietly wait for the day of trouble to come upon people who invade us. Reflecting on God's past works hasn't changed the fact that Babylon is coming, and that's terrifying. And so he's scared as he thinks about the coming of Babylon and the coming exile. He is deeply troubled. Just notice that sometimes, friends, even after seeking the Lord. We can still be troubled by our circumstances. We can have peace in Christ and yet still wrestle with fear and anxieties. My At My Seminary Professor Scott Swain has a really helpful article that came out towards the beginning of the pandemic. And he talked about our our heart and and different metaphors for how we understand the heart when we think about these kinds of things. And he says one of the reasons that we we struggle with this idea of how we can be full of fear and yet find peace in God is because we we tend to think of the heart like it's a cup It's a cup that can be full of one substance or you can empty it out and fill it with something else, but it can't be full of two things at the same time. And so it when we think of the heart that way we we tend to think that we're We're full of fear, we're full of anxiety, and we have to dump that out so that we can fill it up with the hope that we have in Christ. And he said that that's probably not the most helpful way for us for you and I to think about our hearts. Our heart is much more like a scale, maybe weighed down by fear and the burdens of this world, and the hope is not that we can pretend like these things aren't real, that they don't exist. We're worried about real things that matter The answer for us in those moments is not to pretend that they're not real and to act as if we are not afraid of them, but to outweigh them with the promises of God and His hope in the gospel. Balance them out with a counterweight that weighs far more than any of the things that fear uh fear and that we're feared up full of and weigh us down. That is why that Habakkuk can say that he's he's trembling with fear, and yet in the very next sentence say that he will quietly wait for God's deliverance. Because though he's scared, though he's worried about the very real things that he's facing, he also has the peace that passes understanding. He's being patient and submissive in spite of his fear about the future. And he takes comfort in God who has cared for him and in who God is and how God has worked. And this helps him to wait on the Lord and to strengthen his faith as he waits for God to work again, knowing that God will do what is right, that he will deliver his people and punish his enemies. I think the great hope that you and I have is that that we stand in so much better of a position than Habakkuk had. He stood on the other side of the cross looking forward, not not knowing all the details of God's plan, but you and I, we don't just have to look back to the works that Habakkuk looked to, we can look back to Christ Himself. We can look to him who is God and man. Trustworthy and powerful because of he the fact that he is God and sympathetic and understanding because he is a man like us. We can see him in the garden where he was deeply troubled. Sorrowful even unto death, as he thought about the sufferings that awaited him on the cross, and saying to the Father, Lord, if there is any other way, if it's possible for this cup to pass from me Let it happen, but not my will, but yours be done. Troubled as he thought, not only of the physical pain that awaited him on the cross, but the spiritual torment of his soul, suffering under God's wrath for our sake. He knows what it means to be deeply troubled with it with a kind of trouble that makes you tremble. And yet for our sakes, for the joy that was set before him, he endured the cross, entrusting himself to the one who judges justly. suffering the the agony of the cross so that we might be delivered from our sins And we can look back knowing he's done that in the past and confident that he's promised to come back in the future and set everything right Looking for God to work again. Because he has promised to deliver his people. But friends, you have to notice as as you look at this passage, the deliverance is only those who repent and trust in Christ. Most of this passage has God depicted as a warrior going forth to fight for the deliverance of his people, but what happens to his enemies is quite terrifying. We have to to wrestle with the fact and reckon with the fact that we are sinners who have stand as God's enemies apart from Christ. We have to See ourselves as God sees us, as the ones who have heinously sinned against him, defied his authority in our lives, living for ourselves instead of living for him, to make a reputation for ourselves. for our own name instead of living for his glory, and we have to come to the point where we see our sin as ugly as it is and turn away from it and turn to Christ in faith. And friends, if that is you, the promise held out is that if you seek him, you will find him If you come to him, he will never cast you out, but he will preserve you and deliver you on that last day and spare you from judgment. But friends, the very real warning of God's word is that if you do not turn, you will be among his enemies. To suffer under his unending wrath. The wrath that Christ trembled to suffer under on the cross will be yours for all eternity. So friends, I urge you to turn from your sin and trust in Christ if you have not done so. And find the hope that has held out that our God is a God who delivers his sinful, unfaithful people, not because we deserve it, but only by his grace. This life really is a life that is so full of sorrow and trouble. It's been an especially poignant week, not only thinking of all that's happened in in this world, but also remembering the 19th anniversary of September eleventh and just the the the evil that exists in this world and the suffering that we endure. Friends, sometimes it can be so hard to trust in God and to wait on him in the midst of the uncertainty because things can look really dark and really grim. Friends, in those moments, cling to Christ. He knows what you're going through because he has been there. He has suffered, but his suffering was for you He didn't have to suffer. In fact, because he was God, he couldn't suffer. The only way that he could suffer is because he chose to become a man for the express purpose of suffering for his people. To atone for our sins and reconcile us to God. So friends, look back to Christ and remember his work, but also look forward because he has promised to return, promised to judge his enemies and fully deliver his people from even the presence of sin. We look back and we look forward. And until then, we wait in faith, praying, Come, Lord Jesus, come quickly. Let's pray together. Our Father, we thank you so much for this day. We thank you that you are a God who delivers your people, who is so faithful. And just to forgive all those who turn from their sin and trust in you, delivering us from our sin and promising one day that you will deliver us from all the painful heartache and difficult circumstances that we deal with in this life. Lord, that the great hope we have in the gospel is that though in this world we will have trouble we can take heart because you have overcome the world. Lord, comfort us with these promises. Help us to look to Christ every day, to focus on him, to fix our eyes on him, and to press on into faith. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen.