Okay, our passage today is in 2 Corinthians chapter 12, 2 Corinthians chapter 12, 1-10. Let me start with prayer before we hear God's word. Our God in heaven, we thank you that you've created us and that you've called us to yourself. Thank you that you've given us your word so that we can know you and that we can know how you want us to live As we look at your word today, we pray that you'll help us to understand what you're saying to us, to believe it, and to walk in accordance with it. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, in 2 Corinthians chapter 12, Paul writes, I must go on boasting. Though there is nothing to be gained by it, I will go on to visions and revelations of the Lord. I know a man in Christ who fourteen years ago was caught up to the third heaven. Whether in the body or out of the body, I do not know. God knows. And I know that this man was caught up into paradise. Whether in the body or out of the body, I do not know. God knows. And he heard things that cannot be told, which man may not utter On behalf of this man I will boast, but on my own behalf I will not boast except of my weaknesses Though if I should wish to boast, I should not be a fool, or I would be speaking the truth, but I refrain from it so that no one may think more of me than he sees in me or fears from me So to keep me from becoming conceited because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations, a thorn was given me in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to uh to harass me, to keep me from becoming conceited. Three times I pleaded with the Lord about this That it should leave me. But he said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. Therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me. For the sake of Christ, then I am content with weakness, weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities. For when I am weak, then I am strong In today's passage, Paul talks a lot about weakness. He says, I will boast of my weaknesses. He says, I'm content with weakness. He says, when I am weak, then I am strong. Do you often sense your own weakness? Are there things that you would like to do, but you just don't seem to be able to do them Are there outcomes that you would like to bring about, but you just can't make them happen? In our years of work working as missionaries in Japan, there's nothing we've seen more clearly than our own weakness We can't make people understand the gospel. We can't change their hearts. We can't convince them to do what God says that they should do. Walking in weakness has been our constant experience on the mission field. And I suspect that for all of us, it's our frequent experience in many areas of our lives. Paul says that walking in weakness was his experience also. In Paul's case, he was made conscious of his weakness by the presence of what he calls a thorn in the flesh. There have been all sorts of speculation about what this thorn in the flesh was, but Paul doesn't tell us what it was. If the particular nature of Paul's thorn was important, certainly he would have told us. Perhaps he intentionally didn't tell us, because what he learned through his own thorn is relevant to us, however we experience our own weakness. Paul says that this thorn was given me to keep me from becoming conceited because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations which he received in the vision that he was shown. Paul speaks of this vision as if it were someone else who saw it, but it's clear that it was Paul himself who saw the vision. We don't know what Paul saw and what Paul heard in this vision, but there would be no danger of Paul becoming conceited because of somebody else's vision. Whatever this thorn in the flesh was, it was Paul's constant companion for the rest of his life. He was constantly reminded by it of his limitations. constantly aware of his frailty. Paul wrote about weakness in a passage I think you're probably familiar with earlier in 2 Corinthians. In chapter 4, he wrote, For God, who said, Let light shine out of darkness, has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. But we have this treasure in jars of clay to show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us. It seems that walking in weakness was part of God's plan for his people. We have a treasure. We have the knowledge of the glory of God through our faith in Jesus. But we carry this treasure in jars of clay. In ancient times, treasures were often carried in clay containers to protect them But in comparison to the treasures, these clay containers were noticeably drab. They cracked easily. Their plainness was obvious We are the jars of clay. We have the glorious gospel in our hearts, but our cracks and our weaknesses are plain for all to see. But the glorious gospel that we carry in our hearts was also wrought in weakness. The eternal Son of God took on some of the limitations of humanity to come to this earth. He allowed himself to come under the power of Jewish religious leaders and Roman officials, and he died on a cross. Jesus put himself in a place of weakness in order to save us. As I said before, we constantly experience our weakness on the mission field in Japan. Let me tell you about one such instance Some of you have heard in the past about a man I'll call Mr. X. We first had contact with Mr. X when his daughter and her friend came to a children's outreach event at Shin Unayasu Grace Church We invited the children who came to this event to come to Sunday school the next day, and these two girls came. The next week Being a good father who wanted to see just what his daughter was getting involved in, Mr. X came with her to Sunday school. Then he began to attend worship at the church. Later, he began to attend a men's Bible study on Sunday mornings. From the things we heard him say, we could tell that he was rapidly growing in his understanding of what he was reading in the Bible. Then, suddenly, about a year and a half later, he stopped coming to everything. At first there were excuses. He wasn't feeling well. He had to work. But soon we began to be concerned that something bigger was going on And then one night he showed up at our door. He was clearly very shaken, and he told me what had been going on. Earlier in his career, he had regularly patted his expense account on business trips and when meeting with clients. He'd stopped doing this once he began learning from the Bible, but what he had done had been discovered by his company. He was afraid he would lose his job and not be able to provide for his family He was afraid the company would make a public example of him. He was in anguish about the shame that he would bring on his family. I began to meet with Mr. X three or four nights a week. We memorized scripture together and we prayed together Through his eyes, I understood the Psalms of Anguish in ways I never had before. There had been an initial meeting with this company's lawyer But after weeks of silence, Mr. X was becoming increasingly paranoid. He thought the company might force his aged mother to sell her house to recoup the funds. He thought that the family of a co-worker in whose wedding he had a prominent part would harass his wife and his child. He considered going into hiding with his family One night he confided to me that he had thought of killing himself earlier that day. Each time we met, we talked over the same spiritual truths again and again. That's because the fear of the unknown and imagining all the worst-case scenarios would drive them to the brink since the last time we had met He was frequently at the breaking point. But we talked over and over about God's ability to protect him and his family and how God could turn even these terrible circumstances into something good. Finally, seeing his condition, his company asked him to consult with a psychiatrist. He was treated with medication and after several weeks off from work, he was asked by the company to return to the office. It became clear that the company was not going to prosecute it. Eventually, he resumed his previous role in the company. God did exactly what we had hoped and prayed for. He protected him with his family. In his mercy, God restored him despite his sin God worked in these excruciating circumstances to show him that he had for him and his family a hope and a future. And Mr. X simply drifted away. He stopped coming to meet with me. Despite repeated invitations to come back to church into the men's Bible study, he's never done so. If I see him on the street, he'll be friendly, but any spiritual interest seems to be gone. I felt like I did all the right things in this situation. I stood faithfully with Mr. X in his time of hardship. I pointed him to God with scriptural truths and in prayer. And he seemed to hold on to those things. But there was something I couldn't do. I couldn't change his heart. I couldn't cause the seedlings of faith to take root and to endure once the crisis had passed. Those are things that only God could do. I was confronted with my limitations. my weakness. Paul doesn't only talk about weakness in what we've read today. He also talks about power God's message to Paul when he asked that author in the flesh be taken away was, My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. He learned to be content in that place of weakness, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me. He came to understand that when I am weak, then I am strong. Our experience as Christians is not only one of walking in weakness, we also experience walking in power. Though we're jars of clay, there's a glorious treasure within us. It's the treasure of the gospel, the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. And precisely because we are jars of clay, the power of the gospel in us is obvious. It shows that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us. Though we constantly experience walking in weakness as missionaries in Japan, there are times that we experience walking in power as well. Let me tell you one more story. There was a missionary working with us in Udayasu who learned about an international church in Dubai in the Middle East, which was reaching out to Japanese families who were transferred there for work. So she left Japan and she went to Dubai of all places in order to reach Japanese people. No sooner did she arrive in Dubai than she met a Japanese woman who had just been diagnosed with cancer. I'll call her Mrs. Y. She'd become a Christian when her family was earlier transferred to another country, and she was now attending the church in Dubai. She wanted to receive treatment for her cancer in Japan, so our missionary friend contacted us to see whether there was a place where she could stay during her treatment. We had a room in our apartment that we could offer to her, so she came and she stayed with us. Of course, the treatment was very hard. And the outcome was far from sure. We prayed often with Mrs. Y and sought to encourage her with truths from Scripture. In fact, some of the same truths I had earlier shared with Mr. X Mrs. Y had a sixth-grade son who came from Dubai and stayed in her home with his mother during his school spring break. I'll call him, you guessed it, Z. Now, imagine that you're an 11-year-old boy and your mom is being treated for cancer in another country. How are you doing? Naturally, Z was terrified He was afraid his mother was going to die. He was very worried about what was going to become of him. So when Zee arrived at our home for spring break, his heart was very soft. He attended worship at and Sunday school at Shin Urayasa Grace Church. He participated with his mother at family devotions in our home. I read to him from the Chronicles of Darnia every day. In God's word and in fellowship with God's people, he found comfort for his hurting heart. When he returned to Dubai at the end of spring break, he told his father that he wanted to be baptized. And his father, seeing how Christians were caring for his wife and his son, gave permission. And so Z came back to Japan during the school summer break. And as he stayed with us again, we worked through a children's catechism to help lay a stronger foundation for his faith. And he was baptized late that summer before returning to Dubai. God's power was clearly apparent in the transformation that took place in Z's heart. God was already at work, using circumstances to soften his heart before he even came to Japan. And God worked dramatically to seal biblical truth to his heart in a very short time and to bring him to a surprisingly substantive faith for such a young man. And his faith has stood the test of time. Even as his mother seems to have recovered from cancer, and even as he's had to make choices between church activities and other activities as a junior high school student. It was an opportunity that we didn't foresee at all. God simply dropped it in our lives. And God worked powerfully and dramatically in those unique circumstances. Walking in weakness is not something that only missionaries experience on the mission field. We all experience it. And we experience it in a wide variety of areas in our lives. So I suspect that you also know what it's like to be confronted with your own limitations and your own weaknesses. Do you know what it's like to walk in weakness as a parent? I certainly do. To not be able to influence your children or to protect them as you'd like. Do you know what it's like to walk in weakness at your workplace or at your school? I do. To not be able to overcome the interpersonal challenges to create a peaceful and productive environment. Do you know what it's like to want to help someone, but to have your efforts to help not be received? I've been experiencing that lately, and it brings me face to face with my limitations and my weaknesses. Walking in weakness is hard. Paul says about his thorn in the flesh, three times I pleaded with the Lord about this, that it should leave me. But God didn't grant his request. Instead, it seems that God had a purpose for the thorn remaining in Paul's flesh. It seems that there was something God wanted to accomplish through Paul continuing to walk in weakness In the passages we've read today, we see two possible things that God may be doing by allowing his people to continue to walk in weakness. One is something that he does in them, and the second is something that he does through them. First, God uses the experience of walking in weakness in his people. He uses it to shape them. For example, Paul says that one of the reasons that God allowed the thorn in his flesh to remain was to keep me from becoming conceited because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations. The constant pressure of the thorn kept Paul in a state of humility. If the thorn were removed, There was a danger that Paul would become conceited because of the special privilege which he had been given You've probably heard of the Japanese art of bonsai, in which beautiful miniature trees are made by pruning and shaping the branches. One particular style of bonsai is called puki nagashi or the windswept style. I don't know how well you can see this, but here we go. In this style, all of the branches of the tree point in one direction, as if they'd been bent this way by many years of strong wind. In actuality, wire is used to bend the miniature branches all in one direction. And the wire has to be left in place for a minimum of several months. If the wire is removed early, the branches will simply go back to their original shape. We as people are like this also. We're all a little like Mr. X. Under the pressure of trial, our hearts may become soft and pliable. But when the trial is removed, we may go back to our old ways. In his wisdom, God knows that there are times when we need to be in the place of weakness for a prolonged time, so that the changes that are brought about will be changes which last. In addition, we often encounter God in the place of weakness. God said to Paul, My grace is sufficient for you. As he endured the thorn in his flesh, Paul was sustained by God's grace. Through this experience, he came to know God in deeper ways, and he learned to rely on God in new ways. He found sustenance in God's power. And this brought him to the place where he could say, for when I am streak, strong, when I am weak, then I am strong. In the same way, we often encounter God in new and deeper ways as He sustains us in the midst of trial and hardship. Second, God sometimes works powerfully through his people when they're in a place of weakness. God said to Paul, My power is made perfect in weakness. And in the passage from 2 Corinthians 4 that we read earlier, we saw this because the treasure of the gospel is in jars of clay. Because Jesus lives in the hearts of weak people, then it's clear that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us. God can use us when we're in the weak in the place of weakness in ways in which he can't otherwise. And when he does so, no one will be tempted to think that the power came from us. So what do we do? Let me suggest two things. First, when we find ourselves in situations where we're longing for change. We should look to God and not to ourselves for the power to bring change. I failed recently in this area I was trying to help someone, but the person wouldn't take the first step they needed to get the help. I thought I could outsmart the person and nudge them to do what they ought to do So I said, if you want help today, this is what you need to do. If you want to wait till tomorrow, that's okay. I thought the person would either do what was needed to get the help, or if not, at least they would learn that the next time help was offered, they needed to seize the opportunity. But it fell flat. The person didn't take the necessary step, and the person didn't learn anything either. Seeing my failure, I realized That I was looking to myself, to my cleverness to bring about the change. I learned that I didn't have the power that I thought I did When faced with my own weakness, I was convicted that I needed to look to God in prayer to work in that situation. Second, we should be willing to walk in weakness, willing to be in the place of weakness. In part, this is a matter of faith. Can we trust that what God is trying to do in us while we're in the face of weakness is a good and necessary thing Can we trust in His wisdom and in His goodness? And it's also a matter of willingness. Are we willing to be in the place of weakness so that God can use us? Willing to be used by him in unique ways as we walk in weakness. I'm told that Francis Schaeffer once said, to be a Christian is to walk with a victorious limp. I've never been able to find this quote in anything he wrote. If you know where it is, please tell me. But I think this is the profound truth. As Christians, we walk in weakness. But as we walk in weakness, God will bring us along to victory. Victory over sin as he transforms our hearts. Victory over death as he raises us to eternal life. Because of the victory of Jesus at the cross and at the empty tomb, we will share in his victory. So limp on, brothers and sisters. Limp on all the way to victory. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that you are the sovereign God, sovereign over all the circumstances that we face, and sovereign even when we're put face to face with our weakness. And Father, we know that you are a God who is eminently trustworthy and that when you put us in the place of weakness, we can trust you. We can trust that you have a good purpose And you're doing something that really is for our good. And so help us to remember that as we face the different challenges that we come across in life and in whatever we try to do And uh we thank you that you don't leave us in the place of weakness, but that you will bring us to victory and so We just continue to trust in you and trust that you will bring us through all the challenges and all of the hardships and all the trials that we face to victory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.