Good morning, good morning. As we continue in the Gospel of according to John, if you are able, we're going to read the scripture. If you're able, please stand. as we give attention to God's Word. ESV translation of the scriptures. John 13, 1-20. Now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour had come to depart out of this world to the Father, Having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end. During supper, when the devil had already put into the heart of Judas, Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him. Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands and that he had come from God and was going back to God, rose from supper. He laid aside his outer garments, and taking a towel, tied it around his waist And then he poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet and to wipe them with the towel that was wrapped around him. He came to Pete to Simon Peter, who said to him, Lord, do you wash my feet? Jesus answered him, What I am doing you do not understand now, but afterward you will understand. Peter said to him, You shall never wash my feet. And Jesus answered him, If I do not wash you, you have no share with me. Simon Peter said to him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head. And Jesus said to him, The one who has bathed does not need to wash except for his feet, but is completely clean. And you are clean, but not every one of you For he knew who was to betray him. That was why he said, Not all of you are clean. When he had washed their feet and put on his outer garments and resumed his place, he said to them, Do you understand what I've done to you? You call me teacher and lord, and you are right, for so I am. If then, excuse me, if I then, your teacher and Lord, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet. For I have given you an example that you also should do just as I have done to you. Truly, truly, I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent him. If you know these things, blessed are you. If you do them. I'm not speaking of all of you. I know who whom I have chosen, but the scripture will be fulfilled. He who ate my bread has lifted his heel against me. I'm telling you this now, before it takes place, that when it does take place, you may believe that I am He Truly, truly I say to you, whoever receives the one I send receives me. Whoever receives me, receives the one who sent me. God's word. Let's pray. Father, this is a long portion of scripture. Help us to do it justice. Help us to learn what you have here for us that we might walk with you in the days ahead. Thank you for the gospel. Thank you for Jesus. We pray in his name. Amen. Maybe seated. Washing the feet of the saints. Washing the feet of the saints is my title. Many of you know that I as a younger kid, I wasn't a younger person. I was involved with Innervarsley Christian Fellowship. And um I Innervars just was very dramatically important for me in my life. Uh I was I served on staff uh in the seventies and eight late seventies and eighties, but uh I was a student in the middle seventies and um many of you how many of you have heard of the Urbana Missions Conference. You ever heard of that Urbana Missions Conference? Very very good. All right. Um I was a student in the in the middle seventies, but in Urbana's uh nineteen seventy was a dramatic Urbana for university and for the world, I believe, for the church in the world. Um one of the the spe the I was not there, I was in high school those days, but I have access the some of the speakers here. Tom Skinner, great, great message he gave on the urban crisis. But the Bible teacher for the week was named John Scott. John R. W. Scott, British expositor, wonderful uh gentleman. He he preached on That that that uh uh week on John thirteen through sixteen, which is the passages that we're about to enter into uh here Stotts always has great stuff to say. I had the privilege of actually meeting him. I went to a conference in the 70s in Philadelphia, the Philadelphia Conference on Reform Theology PCRT, we used to call it. I think it still exists. I don't know. It was the 10th Presbyterian church in Philadelphia. I was a student with a carload of us from Frostburg went to PCRT that year. Because we heard that John Stott was going to be there. And and we loved his little book, Basic Christianity. It's just a great book. So we went we went to we gotta hear John Stott. R. C. Spool was there as well, by the way. But anyway, we didn't know what John Stott was the guy, all right? So, um and I'll never forget that Sunday morning we had to leave we were about to head back and but one of the one of our friends, you know, said we gotta let's go meet him. Let's go let's just go thank him for his for his ministry. I said, man, okay, let's go. So we went, so it was a handful of us. Now here he just finished preaching, and he, you know, so people are, you know, the line. And so Again, 10th Presbyterian Church in in the 70s. It's a historic, beautiful church in downtown Philadelphia. And there's probably about maybe two thousand, twenty five hundred people in that church. I don't know. Big church. Huge church. And um I would say maybe about a half dozen look like me if you know what I'm talking about. About a half dozen of them. Okay, so we go up so you know these students would go up to go up to John Scott and and and and Marsha says, Oh just thank you for your book, Chris. Oh he says he's welcome. And and and then I'll never forget this He just looked at me and said, and thank you for being here, my brother. He's British, my brother. And he gave me a hug. And I and and I and it was it startled me. I was like, oh you know, it's just kind of cool. And of course my friend said, why'd he hug you instead of us? But John Scott was a sharp guy. John Scott knew that in the sea of evangelical whiteness He wants to publicly demonstrate his solidarity to a person of color. This is in the 70s. John stopped. So I again, John, from that point on John Stein always had a a great place in my heart and his writings are wonderful. If you ever have a chance, he he died a few years ago. He's a great but he when I when I saw the passage today I thought okay I've got to access again that that great sermon From John 13. And so some of my thoughts are from John Stott here in this passage. He says that the upper room discourse It's the holy of holies of the New Testament, this upper room teaching that we're about to launch into, chapters 13 through 16, and then the prayer in 17. It's like the most important words a person says are before they die. And Jesus in 24 hours is going to go to the cross. You have to understand that. And he's preparing his disciples for that that experience that he's going away. As we've said, John's gospel slows down. He packs into the last uh one-third of this gospel is this last couple days of Jesus' life. So the path the passage itself, it's structured. Verses 1 to 5, we see Jesus does the foot washing, he washes the feet of the disciples. Verses 6 to 11, he gets some pushback from Peter. We'll look at that. Regarding the fact that he washed feet, his feet, their feet. And then verses 12 to 20, he teaches them the importance of footwashing. That's the way this passage is structured. Now, we're going to reverse the structure in our outline for the sermon here. I want to talk about first the example of foot washing, verses 12 to 20. The example of footwashing. Secondly, the barriers to foot washing, verses six to eleven, and then the power for foot washing. The power for foot washing, verses one to five. Now many people have the habit, maybe some of you do, of of asking people when they enter their house to take their shoes off. There might be various reasons. I don't know. It might be that there's a wooden floor and there's some splinters on the floor, and you don't want to be embarrassed when they cut their feet. I don't know. It could be there's a new carpet, you don't want the carpet to get dirty could be an old carpet, you don't want the carpet to get dirtier. For some reason and people have that and that's okay. You know, when in Rome do as the Romans do. If they say take your feet off, take your shoes off, take your shoes off, okay? You know? You want to get on a good foot with people, pun intended. So any in the ancient world Before going to a friend's house, you would bathe at home. You'd clean up at home, okay? But of course they walked, or they were horses, or whatever, donkeys, and uh And the journey your feet would get dirty, despite the fact you might have sandals on. You'd get you'd get dirt, mud, clay spattered on your feet. So the as uh upon the arrival of the house, the servant of that house Would um do the honor of cleaning the feet of those who were the guests. Of course, beyond the problem of dirt and mud, It's the problem of sometimes the aroma of dirty feet. I learned a word this week. Bromidosis, which is a Francy word for stinky feet. Bromadosis. You use that word this week whenever you well don't use it when you No, you got rhomidosis. John records that Jesus died and he did but he did this first as an example for us. for the disciples and for us. So the first point is the example of footwashing. It's an example. In this verses 12 to 20, but we zero in on verse 15. He says, I have given you an example that you also should do just as I have done to you. Foot washing as an example. Jesus says, I'm your teacher and I'm your Lord. I'm your teacher and I'm your Lord. Some of you know that I teach at a seminary, Metro Baltimore Seminary, and um It's funny, I'm used to being called for years Pastor Stan and and now the the the students there they call me Professor Long. It's kind of interesting. And um I got an email from one of them the other day that said Dr. Long. And I felt like I'm not a doctor, I'm just a pastor. I said, just a pastor. Or whatever. But I'm not a doctor I guess I'll tell her on Tuesday. I'm not really a doctor, I'm just a professor. But you know, titles are kind of important. And Jesus says, I am you, you call me teacher and lord. And so I am. And I I've been called teacher or professor, and I am But they better not call me Lord. I ain't. There's only one Lord. And Jesus says, You call me teacher and Lord and I am both. I'm not just your teacher. I am your Lord. Stat says he is our teacher to instruct us because we are his students, and he is our Lord to command us because we are his servants. Teacher and Lord. Jesus ministered through word and through deeds. Jesus life he ministered through the words he said, but not just the words he said, but the deeds that he did in the Gospels. And in the Gospel of John This is where the the signs of Jesus, the signs that he did, pointing to the truths of who he was. He's he said I am the light of the world. He declares it, but he doesn't just declare it. He demonstrates it by healing a blind man. Demand had get sight. He says, I am life. In him is life. He declares it, but he also demonstrates it by resurrecting a man who's dead. I am life. I am the bread of life. He declares it, and then he feeds multitudes with the little boy's lodge. So one of the things in the gospels is he serves in word and deed, the deeds which confirm the words. And even more so, his words and his deeds point to the great reality. That he is divine. He's the son of the living God. Word and deed coming together. No, we we're to care for one another in word and deed. We're to care for one another through word and deed, both together. Through words, spiritually, emotionally, psychologically, helping people to understand and embrace the truth. And physically, because human beings are not just invisible souls. We have bodies, word and deed. As as you've been praying for my mom, thank you for those prayers. She's doing a lot better. She had a stroke and um excuse me, two strokes. And it's been it was incredible to watch the progress that's happened. um over the days uh she's now moved from the m the hospital she was at she's at a more of of a a step down unit at another hospital And uh it it one of the interesting things is to see the care of nurses. When you're you know we spent three days there down in Richmond, to see the care of nurses, the the sacrifice, the how they just serve. And that's a real calling. And and what the other thing is to see is to see the uh my sisters, my two s one sister in Richmond, the other one from from Dallas that came up and uh to see their abilities to stay overnight and just help mom and you know all all the all the very simple practical ways that she needed service. It was a cu there was a time when when Terry and and and my sisters went out to to to have some fun and they left me there. And I'm thinking, well I hope there's no real meaning to it, 'cause I'm just a guy. I don't know how to do that kind of stuff. Now I know that I know that might be sexist, but I'm sorry. But I I Some for some reason. It can they they can do that. And I'm not trained and I have problems doing that as easily But serving we we're we're we're we're not just hearts and in indivisibles of beings. We have bodies and that's important and and in the ministry of Jesus we see that and in the ministry of the church we are mind and and body Does the Christian face historically has taken uh physical things very seriously? Think about it. I was thinking about um just schools. How many how many the the schooling movement in our country often was was it was often churches that began some of that movement. Think think of the medical needles look at the hosp think of the hospitals in Baltimore I mean half of them were are are are religious based, had religio had religious foundations, St. Agnes, Good Samaritan, Saint Joseph's, Mercy Hospital, Bon Secure Amen? That's good. That's good. And then there's there's the word. Word. We serve each other through not just physical bodies, but but through the things we say and how we encourage people's hearts and spirits with the words we say. And we're to confess our sins to one another. We're to forgive one another. We're to give words of encouragement to one another. That's what the body of Christ is called to do as we walk together. See, we are holistic people. We're holistic people My wife Terry, she's a counselor. She she gives words to try to seek help people in their spirits to give encouragement. We're bodies and we're souls. And uh the two are connected in incredible ways. Feet are used to walk. Now I was thinking about the Bible The word walk and it it's all over the place. Even in in Genesis chapter 2 and 3, Adam walked in the garden with God. Remember that? He walked in the garden, cool of the day Later in Genesis, it says that Enoch walked with God. And then God suddenly took him. He was not God took it away. Walking with God. Just think of that image there. In Colossians chapter 2, it says this. Therefore, as you have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him. Walk with God. Rooted and built up in Him, establishing the faith. And you know, one of my favorite books in the Bible, the New Testament, is the book of Ephesians, and the idea of walking is all over there. There's a couple of verses from Ephesians Chapter 4. There are therefore a prisoner, for the Lord urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you've been called. Walk in a worthy way. With all humility, gentleness, with patience, bearing one another with love. Later in chapter 4. Now this I say in testifying the Lord that you must no longer walk as the Gentiles do in the futility of their minds. Don't walk as you used to walk. Walk. Walk. Walk with God. Don't walk as the Gentiles. Chapter 5, Ephesians. Therefore, be imitators of God as beloved children and walk in love. As Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, the fragrant offering sacrifice to God. Later in Ephesians 5, for at one time you were darkness. But now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. Walk. Walk. One step at a time. Don't crawl, walk. Don't try to run. You can tell. Walk. Faithfully, step by step with God who is with you. And then Ephesians 5, 15 and 16, look carefully then how you walk, not as unwise, but as wise, making the best use of the time, because the days are evil. Walking. Your feet are used to walk. And if there's symbolism here, and Jesus tells us to wash one another's feet. The early church um they they kind of understood this as an example. That wasn't just a literal walking, a literal washing of the feet, but there was more to it. In um the book of 1 Timothy, chapter 5. Um, for example, which is the only other time in the New Testament where we see the phrase of of of washing the feet. First Timothy five is uh is a list of qualifications for godly women, godly widows. First Timothy five. And and read verses nine to eleven. Let a widow be enrolled. So there's a role, a list, a role of widows that Paul is telling Timothy. uh uh the qualifications to be enrolled in the widow's list. If she's not less than sixty years of age. Now he comes back later to say, well he says he says uh uh but refuse to enroll younger widows for when their passions draw them away from Christ they desire to marry. So he wants this is this is a list of of women who are going to focus It's almost like the Catholic Church has nuns. These are women who are going to commit themselves wholly to serving God in the church. He says the younger women they may get, quote, distracted By marriage. So on this widow's list, you want older women who are at least sixty years old. This is what Paul is telling Timothy, okay? And he says this having having having been the the wife of one husband, her husband may be p may have passed away And having a reputation for good works, if she's has brought up children, she's shown hospitality, and then she's he, Paul says, and has washed the feet of the saints. There it is. Has washed the feet of the saints and has cared for the afflicted, devoted herself to every good work. She's washed the feet of the saints. Now, I don't think Paul is saying she has to walk around with a bucket and sponge to every house in the church. I don't think that's what he's saying. He's using the symbolic thing of one who does whatever it takes to love and care and serve for God. people. That's what he's getting at. Well not no nothing is too low for her to do. That's that's that's we're all called to to have that attitude. Now, why do we not always joyfully do this? Why is it that we don't we're not eager always to serve? What are the barriers to washing one another's feet? Let's look at Peter Look at Peter in the in the in in verses six to eleven. Peter's got some issues, as we know. Look at verse 6. So Jesus came to Simon Peter who said to him, Lord, do you wash my feet? So Jesus is washing feet, and Peter says, Lord, you can wash my feet. And Peter's sense is that you know he felt unworthy, okay? Verse 7. Jesus answered him, what I am doing you do not understand now, but afterward you will understand. So if you don't understand, please go let Jesus do it But but first he says, Peter says, You no, you you're never gonna wash my feet. Jesus answered, If I do not wash you, you have no share with me. me share the word share is the word for fellowship or or part fellowship in the New Testament. You have no share with me. You have no fellowship with Jesus if you don't allow Jesus to wash your feet. Simon Peter said to him, Lord, then not my feet only, but also my hands and my head. Whatever it takes, Jesus, I want to have fellowship with you. If it means you have to wash me, then give me the whole bath again. Where Peter goes with this. So but let's let's look at the let's look at the the the barrier though. Wha why do we hesitate to have our f to have our Jesus uh wash. Wha wh wh why did Peter hesitate? We we hesitate to have our feet washed because it's a lonely job. And and We don't like washing feet. I mean, we don't again feet feet can sneak, right? It's a lowly job. It's a job of the servant, the job of the slave. And we don't know what we don't want to do the lowly, difficult job, do we? It's a humbling to do we we're often proud. We don't want to have it done to us. Peter did not want to have it done to him by Jesus. We we we we secretly hope when we're called to to serve in some simple way, we secretly hope that maybe somebody else will do it. Hey God, I know I s I uh maybe you call me do this but but maybe somebody else will do it this time. Bring somebody else into the into the picture who who somebody who has that gift. The gift of service. Don't we do that? You know, in one sense it's because we're pretty self-centered and and we just think about ourselves and our own comfort. But those are barriers to to washing the feet of others and to having our feet washed. You know, all of us are called to serve. All of us are called to serve in simple ways. And some, yes, have the gift of service. That special anointing, that special gift to serve. So what is what what's the distinction? What what's the difference between those who who are called all of us who are called to serve and some who have the gift of service? I think it's two things. Those who have the gift They serve joyfully. They serve joyfully. And they serve eagerly looking for areas to serve. When an opportunity to serve comes, they grab it. Yes, I want to help this person. I want to do that. Those of us who don't have the gift, and I say those should be us who don't have the gift of service, we do it because we're called to do it, and we should we we we should be feel that sense of calling. But we don't it's more difficult to to do it with joy. And we're not looking for opportunities to serve. So what am I saying? I'm saying that all of us are called to serve. Some do it because they're gifted by God, and the body of Christ needs those who are especially gifted to serve, right? Or a lot of things just wouldn't get done, right? So all of us need to follow the example of deacons and women who have those gifts of serving, because that's why God is giving us giving them to the body of Christ. But then there's also some barriers to the to the spiritual foot washing that I'm talking about. This not just the physical washing of feet that we did just The the the the spiritual um footwashing, there's barriers to that as well. Again, look at look at Peter's Peter's objection is because he doesn't he feels unworthy. He feels unworthy. Jesus draws an interesting distinction here. The distinction between uh getting a bath, a whole bath, versus just being washed, having your your feet washed. And and there's an important distinction for us to understand that that that is in this passage and uh like we stopped draws this out. Um When a person comes to Jesus Christ and he takes away their sins, there's a we we call that the the the the the the bath of salvation. Their sins are washed away. Okay That's a bath. But but when a per after that happens, walking in a dirty world, our feet get dirty. They get muddy. They start sinking a little bit, right? W when that when when you've come to Jesus Christ and you realize that, uh oh, I'm uh I I'm not all I want to be. I'm still I I still have these These thoughts, these desires, these the I'm I'm not where I want to be. I need to be cleansed again. Do you need to get saved again? No, no, no, no, no, no. You don't need to get saved again. You've been saved. You've been redeemed by Jesus Christ. But you do need to have your feet washed. You do need to you do need to have know that your walk has gotten a little dirty. You need to go to the God to the Lord and ask him to wash your feet And that's what's happening here. Jesus says, Peter, no, no, no, no. You don't need another bath. You have been cleansed. All of you have been cleansed, except one of you. He's talking about Judas. He hasn't named Judas there. One of you needs to be clean because Jesus still hasn't gotten it right. But he says, no, you don't need to when you've been bathed, you don't need to be bathed again. You've been born again once. And that's and that's all it takes. But you get dirty. You you gotta get your feet washed because you when you walk with God, you you you get your feet get dirty. You see We have been washed, yet we need to be washed. We've been bathed that that one initial washing of of salvation. See, the Bible talks about this initial washing. Titus chapter 3 says, when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness. but according to his own mercy by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit. the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior. That initial washing, when we know that we need to be cleansed from our sins and we go to Christ. We have been washed. That's the bath. That's the bath that Jesus is talking about with Peter. Another passage that uses the same phrase. 1 Corinthians 6, verses 9 to 11. Paul is talking to the church at Corinth. Do you not know that the righteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived, neither the sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality. Nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. And Paul says an important phrase here, and such were some of you. He's not pointing the finger at all people out there. He says, that's what some of you were. He says, but you were washed. You were washed. You were sanctified. You were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God. Washing And and in the renewal of the Holy Spirit. You were just sancti washed, sanctified, and justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. We have we've we've been if you know Christ, you've been bathed. Amen. And yet we need to be washed. Our feet get dirty. The ongoing dirt of this world. 1 John 1:9. If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. My my one of my friends from college, my my one of my college roommates, Bill, uh was raised Catholic, came to Christ high school, end of his high school years. And he once told me about the Catholic Church of his birth that they got it almost right. I said, What do you mean, Bill? He said they got God right, they got Jesus right, they got the Holy Spirit right. But they made a fatal mistake in not getting the cross exactly right. I said, what do you mean? He says, see, they have a Jesus that's still on the cross He's still on the cross and he needs to be crucified over and over and over again. When Jesus in the scripture says it is Finished. It is finished. But sadly, in that system, it seems like it's never finished. It's never finished. And what Bill was saying was, and what Bill had learned was that they had failed to learn the lesson of this passage, that once you've been bathed, all you need is have your feet washed. Jesus is no longer on the cross, amen. Jesus has died for us and he's been raised and now he's now seated in glory. He's our high priest. And we can take our concerns to him and take our weaknesses to him and take our failures to him and he goes to the Father and says, I died for that. That's the gospel. Christ is no longer on the cross. He's there to give intercession for us. It's been said that in salvation there's three tenses. There's the tense of The fact that I was saved, that's justification being declared right by God. Justification I was saved. There's the sense of uh that being saved from the penalty of sin. There's a tense of I am being saved right now. I'm being saved, sanctification from the power of sin in my life right now. And that's a process. It's an ongoing process. And then there's glorification. I will be saved from the presence of sin when we're with Christ. There's three tenses to salvation. And Peter Peter doesn't understand that because of his easing process. John Stott says that fush m fush washing footwashing demands that we sacrifice. That's why it's hard. It demands sacrifice. Second we he said sacrifice of our dignity or our money or our energy or our time. Sanctification is a heart is a process. It's a difficult process. But that's where we are now In the sanctification, God exposes the idols of our life. And he often does that through giving us opportunities to serve. One of the one of the the things one of the commitments I made early in life was in parenting was to just be there for my kids. And one of the one of the things I like to do is I like to drive. Now Terry doesn't like to drive. She drives but she doesn't like to drive. I think you know, kids, you know, I you know I I I'll try to be available as much as I can, okay? That was my commitment to my kids. Um and and uh my conservation, I guess I was pretty good with that. Now one of the situations right now is and I'll talk about this m maybe some other time, is one of my sons still lives with us. He has Two of his kids are with us, so we've got three generations in our house. And you know, and quite often, you know, there's the s there the the childcare, he works evenings quite often. And often, you know, I'm finished work and I'm relaxing. And he's got to work later than he thought. And so he'll call me or text me, hey Dad, can you pick up the girls? And at that point, that's when my flesh begins to say, well, you know, why can't you start working and get him yourself? You know, you know what I'm saying? You know, you know, th that yeah, you know, I I I did this for you and all the your siblings and now I I'm in gr I'm in grandparents' state. I'm not supposed to be doing this All that stuff that flesh starts coming out. And uh and it and it usually happens, I'll be watching the game, and it's never a blowout. It's always a real tight game. You know what I'm saying? And I want to see the end And and of course sometimes he'll text me and and so I ain't gonna answer it yet. So he's learned. He calls me now. I gotta pick it up. Opportunities to serve, they reveal our idols. Serving is not easy. My last point, I want to talk about the power. Where does the power to do this come from? The power for footwashing. Because it's it's it's not easy to do. But the I I I I want to to end the passage with the beginning of where where where John begins. Look at look carefully at how this passage begins. Before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew, so that word, he knew that his hour had come to depart out of this world to the Father, having loved his own who in the world, he loved them. to the end. Now that I think that's he's talking about really through the next couple chapters. He's going to love them with the teaching that he gives them. But verse 2, during supper, this is the last supper, okay? And and tonight's gospel doesn't give us It doesn't really go into the Last Supper like the other three uh gospel writers. You ever notice that? And again, I think we've said already, the other three gospel writers wrote before John. John is sort of Say, here's some things that Matthew, Mark, and Luke left out is what John is doing in his gospel. So everybody knows about the Last Supper. John is just pulling the curtain and say, here's some of the private conversations. conversations that Jesus had at that last supper. That's what's going on here. So the devil had already put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's friend to betray Verse 3, Jesus knowing, here's the word again, knowing, that the Father had given all things into his hands, he'd come from God, was going back to God, rose from supper, laid aside his outer garments, and taking a towel, tied around his waist. He poured water into a basin, began to wash the disciples' feet, and wiped them with a towel which was wrapped around him. Here This was the part of the message of John Stott that I that gripped me the first time I heard it. Scott says this in verse 4. He rose from supper. Jesus rose from eternal his eternal throne in heaven. He laid aside his outer garments, just as Jesus had laid aside his glory in the incarnation. He girded himself with towel. Just as Jesus took the form of a servant, girding himself with our humanity. Verse 5, Jesus, it says he washed the disciples' feet. Just as Jesus would die on a cross to wash away our sins. Then down at verse 12, it says he sat down. And it starts says pointing us to Hebrews 1. 3, which says that Jesus made purification for sins, and then he sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high So John is giving us like some images of the incarnation in the gospel of Jesus right there in the beginning of this. He's showing us the extent of his love. His love didn't just begin during that night. His love began when he came down from heaven. So free, so infinite his grace, emptied of himself of all but love, and bled for Adam's helpless race. Amazing love. How can it be? The power to wash feet comes from knowing some things It comes from knowing some things, resting in the gospel, knowing the gospel, embracing and believing and trusting in the gospel of Jesus Christ. Knowing that Jesus has washed you and bathed you completely, and that it is his love that strengthens and empowers you. Paul said, you've been bought with a price, so glorify God with your body. We sang the song. Maybe it's a new song for you. I know who I am. There's a lot of repetition in that song, isn't it? I know who I am, I know who I am, I know who I it's a lot of repetition that's we need it. We need to remember, you know, because we forget who we are, don't we? When that phone comes or that text comes to do something, your flesh says, I don't care. No, you need to know who you are. In those moments when tempted to not serve, when tempted to think of yourself. So the question, Saint, is do you know? Do you know who you are? If you don't know, I urge you to to believe in Jesus Christ, to trust him for yourself. You were created by God to know him, to know God, and and only in him will you find who you are and why you are here In this world. And if you do know him, he's your teacher and your Lord. Your Lord commands you to wash one another's feet. So go and serve. Go and serve. Go and love. Go and forgive. Go and confess. Go and be forgiven. Romans 12, let love be genuine. First Peter, love covers a multitude of sins. Go forth and wash one another's feet. Let me close with just, I wanted to read, just simply read the passage from Philippians chapter 2, which is is in the kind of in the foreground of this entire Episode that Jesus did on that night. So just read it. Philippines 2. So if there is any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from love? Any participation in the in the spirit, any affection and sympathy, complete my joy, Paul says, by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests But also to the interests of others. Have this mind among yourself, which is yours in Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God Did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself by taking the form of a servant Being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that's above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every need Should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Therefore My beloved, Paul says, as you've always obeyed, so now, not only as in my presence, but less more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it's God who works in you both to will and to work for his good pleasure. And then he says this, do all things without grumbling or disputing That you may be blameless and innocent, children of God, without blemish, in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation, among whom you shine as lights in the world. Let's go and shine its lights. Let's seek to do it without grumbling, disputing, because we know who we are. Let's pray. But the principle here is is is simple and yet difficult. We're to love each other. We're to care for each other. We'll serve each other. Thank you for the love and care and service that's taking place. in this body and we pray that it would continue, that it would grow, and that you would just help us to be your people, to be the presence of Christ, to be the light of Christ. to a a decaying world and to one another. But in the days ahead, uh as we walk with you, help us to to to discern by your spirit the idols in our own hearts Ascertain ourselves to you in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.