We want to thank you for your prayers and support for our ministry. Um this coming weekend on Saturday we are taking our students to DC to see the Cherry Blossom Festival. And it's predicted that uh this coming week is is the the peak of the bloom. Um please stand for the reading of God's word. Turn your Bible to John chapter seventeen. Verse fourteen to twenty six, John seventeen, verse fourteen to twenty six. I have given them your word, and the world has hated them because they are not of the world. Just as I am not of the world, I do not ask that you take them out of the world. But that you keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. Sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth. As you sent me into the world, so I have sent them And for their sake I consecrate myself that they also may be sanctified in truth. I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me through their word, that they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in me. And I in you, that they may also be in us. So that the world may believe that you have sent me, the glory that you have given me, I have given to them, that they may be one, even as we are one. I in them and you in me, that they may become perfectly one. So So that the world may know that you sent me and love them as you love me. Father, I desire that they also, whom you have given me, May be with me where I am, to see my glory that you have given me, because you love me before the foundation of the world O righteous Father, even though the world does not know you, I know you, and these know that you have saved me. I made known to them your name, and I will continue to make it known that the love with which you have loved me may be in them and I in them. Is it good? Oh okay. I think it's better that it's praying that you will it will stay for um thirty minutes also. Oh, thanks for your body. Very good. Thank you. Praise the Lord. We have an IT director right here. So my wife and and I like to go hiking and and we usually go hiking Uh in the city of Baltimore there's Lake Rowland Park, it's beautiful there. Um but once a year we like to go to a national park and and hike on a mountain Uh we want to see the mountain and enjoy the beauty of God's creation. Uh and that's our purpose. Uh last year we took uh a vacation and we went to Mount Rainier National Park near uh Seattle in Washington. At Mount Rainier National Park there is there is an area called Paradise. I have never been in the biblical heaven or Paradise. But the paradise at Mount Rainier National Park is the most beautiful meadow that I have ever seen. I felt that I was in heaven. There are beautiful white flowers everywhere And and the the mountain, the view of the mountain and the landscapes, they were just captivating. Uh if you've never been there, I recommend you to to visit uh Mount Green In the near future. There are easy trails to hike and and the view of the mountain is just gorgeous. In Romans chapter 12, verse 5, the Apostle Paul tells us that although we are many, We are one body in Christ and individually we are members of one another. Apostle Paul wrote to the Christians who are scattered around in different Roman provinces. And he told them that they were one. So as followers of Jesus Christ, although we are scattered around the world, we are one in Christ. We are brothers and sisters. We are one family. We are one body, spiritually speaking. And therefore we have one identity and one single purpose in our our life together. Although each member of the body does different things in our life. And here in John 17, it's it's a beautiful prayer Isn't it? We see that Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior, pray for us, pray for His people. John 17 is known as the High Priestly Prayer. And Jesus spent the last three years of his life with his disciples. He taught them the Word of God, He discipled them, He equipped them and trained them And then he had done all his best in the night before Jesus was arrested and crucified. He spent time with them. He had supper. And then he washed their face. feet and then he prayed for them. And his prayer here is not only for his disciples at the time, but for all his disciples in the past, in the present. And we will look at a portion of Jesus' prayer here for us. at three things about us as followers of Jesus Christ. The first one we have one identity and then second we have one purpose And then third, we have one destiny. So one identity, one purpose, and one destiny. First one, we have one identity. In his prayer to God the Father, Jesus says in verse 14 I have given them your word and the world has hated them because they are not of the world. I am not of the world. I do not ask that you take them out of the world, but then you keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, yes as I am not of the world So Jesus said that his people are not of the world, just as he is not of the world. What does it mean here? We know that Jesus is not of the world, he is of heaven, but what about us? Are we not born in this world? Yes, indeed we are born in this world, but we are not of this world. Why? Because we belong to Jesus. In in verse six, Jesus said to the Father, I have manifested your name to the people whom you gave me out of the world. Yours they were, and you gave them to me. Me. So there is a group of people whom the Father has given to Jesus out of the world. This group of people do not belong to the world but belong to Jesus only. The Father gave them to Jesus, and this group of people is not everyone in this world, but a selected and chosen group of people. They belong to Jesus because the Father give them special saving grace. God the Father gave everyone in this world his common grace, such as the sun, the rain uh the beauty of nature that everyone can enjoy. But to a chosen group of people, the Father give his special saving grace. The Father give Jesus to them And the Father give them to Jesus. The Father give Jesus to you and me, and the Father give us to Jesus So you and I belong to Jesus. We are in a covenant relationship with Jesus. We don't belong to this sinful, corrupted world. We belong to Christ and His heavenly kingdom. The Father sent his own Son Jesus Christ to die on the cross for the punishment of our sins as our substitute, so that by putting our faith in Jesus Christ, trusting and surrendering our life to him, we might might be saved. This is God's special saving grace for us. God by his special saving grace sends his Holy Spirit to work in us. Bringing us alive from death in sin, helping us to understand the truth of the gospel and to see the beauty of a crucified Savior on the cross, his own Son. By his special saving grace, the Holy Spirit enables us to believe that Jesus is the Son of God, who came from heaven to save us from our sins, and who has died on the cross for us. His special saving grace, the Holy Spirit, give us the gift of saving faith and enable us to put that faith in Jesus Christ alone. So who are we? We are sinners saved by God's special saving grace. alone, through faith alone and in Christ alone. Therefore we are not of this world, just as Jesus is not of this world We are of the kingdom of Jesus. We belong to Jesus and we are in a covenant union with Him. Jesus is the head and we are the body Spiritually speaking, we cannot be separated from Jesus. The union we have with Jesus is a living union, and nothing can separate us from Him and His love for us Nothing and no one is more powerful than Christ. In verse 15, Jesus asked the Father to keep us from the evil one. So we have three enemies in our life the flesh, the wolf, and the devil. The flesh is our sinful nature that is still attached to our bodies and the world is this sinful and corrupted world. This world is our enemy because we are not of this world. The devil or the evil one always attack us by using this corrupted world and our sinful nature and weaknesses. So we must be careful of the temptations that the devil puts before us. He wants us to fall and to sin against God He wants to ruin our union with Christ and with one another. But we can be assured that Christ is not going to let that happen. He will hold us by his mighty power He will protect us, but we need to trust and obey him. We need to be faithful, we need to be healthy and strong. Christians. So how can we be spiritually healthy and strong? What has Jesus given us according to verse fourteen? Jesus has given us the Word of God. We have the Bible, the Word of God, and we need to consume the Word of God daily. This is our spirit spiritual food. Only by consuming the Word of God daily we are nourished spiritually and become healthy and strong and fruitful. Christians. Only by consuming the word of God we are we abide in Christ. Just as Jesus said in John fifteen, abide in me, I am the vine, you are the bread branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing Do you know what happened to a child of God who spends his time with his heavenly father daily and reads the Bible? Psalm chapter 1, verse 1 to 3 tells us: Blessed is the man whose delight is in the In the law of the Lord, the Bible. And on his law he meditates day and night. If we want to be healthy, strong, and fruitful Christians, we need to read and meditate. the Bible day and night. And as we consume the word of God and we feed on Christ, He will make us fruitful. A fruitful Tree that yields its fruit in its season, and in all that we do for the glory of God we prosper. The evil one cannot make us fall into temptations. Strong, healthy, and fruitful. Second, we have one purpose. We have one purpose. We are the body of Christ, and as one body, we We have one single purpose, which is our sanctification. As the body of Christ, sanctification is what we are aiming for in our life daily life. This purpose is actually Jesus' heart desire for us. He wants to see us being sanctified every day. He wants to see us Beautiful and more beautiful than any flowers, more beautiful than roses, more beautiful than than the view of the mountains or anything in this year And therefore in verse seventeen Jesus asks God the Father, Sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth. Now what is sanctification? According to our confession in Westminster shorter catechism sanctification is the work of God's free grace renewing us completely after the image of God and enabling us more and more to die to sin and to live to righteousness. So what Jesus wants to see is that we are being renewed completely after the image of God and become more and more righteous In other words, Jesus wants wants us to be like Him, holy and righteous and beautiful. This is His heart's desire above all things, Jesus want us to be like him. We are Christians, aren't we? And Christians mean like Christ. The Greek word that is translated sanctify here has the idea of separation. So to be sanctified is to be separated from what is common For a special purpose. To be sanctified is to be set apart for God alone. It is to be consecrated to the service of God alone. And this is actually what Jesus has done for us. He says in verse nineteen, and for their sake, for us, he says Followers, I consec I consecrate myself that they also may be sanctified in truth. So for our sake, Jesus consecrated himself for the special purpose To sacrifice himself for the punishment of our sins as our substitute, so that you and I we can be saved and sanctified in the truth So how does God sanctify us? It is by His Word. The Bible is the Word of God and the church of Christ. The Bible does not contain the Word of God, nor it becomes the Word of God when we are reading it, as as some people say Say the Bible is the Word of God 100% and the truth of God. That is why it is very important for us to spend time reading the Bible Day and night. Reading, studying, memorizing the Word of God is very important in our life. We are sanctified by the Word of God God alone. We are not sanctified by watching T V and movies or playing video games. We are sanctified by the Word of God alone alone. And this is why we need to spend more time consuming the Word of God. Every morning I drink orange juice because it's good and it makes me physical But orange juice doesn't make me spiritually healthy. Only the Bible does. In the night I drink apple juice with my dinner. But apple juice does not sanctify me. Nothing can sanctify us but the word of God alone. Second Timothy three verse sixteen, Paul tells us that the Word of God, the Bible, is profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correct. And for training us in righteousness. The Bible is the Word of God and it is powerful. It can do a lot of things in us and make us Spiritually strong and healthy. What happens when all of us as the body of Christ are spiritually healthy? What happened? In verse twenty to twenty one, Jesus said to the Father, I do not ask for this only, the the current apostles at at the time of Jesus, but also for those who will believe in me through their word, that they may all be one. Just as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be in us, so that the world may believe that you have sent. So Jesus asked the Father to sanctify all his people in this world, scattered in all nations. What is Jesus' heart desire here? His heart desire is to see all his people sanctified And what will be the result of us being sanctified, corporately speaking? Jesus said that they may all be one. Jesus wants to see the unity of all his people. And what kind of unity or what kind of union? Jesus said, just as you, Father, are in me and I in you, that they also may be in us. This is deep. This is actually beautiful. What what what what does he mean by that? What kind of union that Jesus has with the Father? It is a perfect covenant union and covenant love relationship. From eternity to eternity. The triune God, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, they have a covenant love relationship And a covenant is not a contract that can be broken by mutual agreement. A covenant is a binding agreement that cannot be broken When a man and a woman got married, they make a coffin and promise to love and to cherish each other, regardless of of any situations in sickness in health, for better for worse, for richer for poorer. You remember, don't you? And I like a Like us, God is perfect. Each person of the trial God demonstrates perfect confident love and confident promise for the others. They give and receive perfect love from one another. And the covenant union of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit is a perfect one. And this kind of perfect covenant union and love with one another is what Jesus wants to see in us. So not only having a perfect covenant union among ourselves as his people, Jesus also wants to see us as a perfect and beautiful covenant union together with the triune God. And do you know that Jesus has brought us to this covenant relationship with the triumphant God? We already in this circle of covenant. Love with the tribe of God. When we put our faith in Christ, when we believe in Him and put our faith in Him, trusting and surrendering our life to Him, He brought us to this circle of covenant rule. relationship with the triune God. And this is the truth we are already in, and we will never be out of this covenant relationship with the triune God. Why? Because the triune God has committed to love and to cherish us and to be faithful to us. us. Regardless that some days we are loving and faithful to him and some days we are not Regardless whether or not we are loving, God is always loving and faithful to us. He has promised to love and to change. So each person of the triune God, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, has made a covenant promise to you and me. They will never abandon us. They will never divorce us when we are not faithful or loving. There is nothing that can separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus. And not including our self too. So this is how powerful God's covenant love is. Love is patient. Love is kind and God patiently and kindly loves us and He sanctifies us. He is making us to be like Him day by day. And this is Jesus' heart's desire. So that one day in the new heaven and the new earth we will be able to love him like he loves us. Having been completely sanctified and glorified by Him. And right now, Jesus wants us to practice covenant love to one another as a body of Christ. And that's why he sanctifies us. That's why he wants us to be spiritually healthy and strong. So let us love one another. Christ centered love. We are already in this covenant relationship with the tribe and God and with one another. That's why we need to remember that when we have Have the Lord's Supper. We are celebrating our covenant relationship with the Lord and with one another. The Lord's Supper is a covenant renewal, pledging our love and faithfulness to the Lord and to one another as one family. In verse twenty-three, Jesus said to the Father I in them and you in me, that they may become perfectly one, so that the world may know that you sent me and love them even even as you love me. So when we love one another with Christ centered love, it is attractive to the people around us in our community. They will know that we are Christians by our covenant love. So let us love one another, so that the world may know Jesus Christ our Lord and Savior and be drawn to Him His saving grace. May our friends, co-workers, and neighbors know him and join us to enter this covenant love relationship with the triangle God. believing in Christ and trusting their life to Him. Third one, we have one destiny. We have one destiny. destiny. But what is our destiny? Where where are we going? Or maybe a better question is where is Jesus taking us to Uh my wife Ben and I we got married in October twenty nineteen. When and when planning our wedding I asked some friends where is a good place for honeymoon in early October and not too far from Baltimore because we were new in Baltimore Um some friend said to me that Nova Scotia is only two, three hours by flight from Baltimore. And to be honest with you I didn't know where Nova Scotia is is. I lived in the South for eighteen years and before moving to Baltimore uh and studied RBF Internationals at Johns Hopkins. campus in in fall twenty eighteen. So I had to look at Google Map um to find where Nova Scotia is. And when I shared with Pay um about going to Nova Scotia she was excited And when we got to Nova Scotia that week that early October was the peak of the four colors there. So it was very beautiful. And We didn't know this. That the second Monday in October is the Canadian Thanksgiving Day. The second Monday in October is the Canadian Thanksgiving Day Thanksgiving Day. There were a lot of free stuff on Thanksgiving Day in Canada. Free crossing the bridge without paying toll fee Free dinner upgrade at a restaurant from just a plate of seafood to a seafood buffet. I have never tasted such a delicious fresh grill scallop before and it was a buffet for us. So we just kept going back and and they grill it and we got more to eat. There was a beautiful honeymoon location at a prof Don't go there now, it's still winter. Uh the trees have no leaf there, no colorful leaf, just just branches and twigs. Jesus returned to this world. There will be a beautiful wedding, a groom and a beautiful bride. Who is the beauty? Beautiful bride, we are as his church, as one body of Christ. We will be very beautiful that day. Why? Because now we are being beautiful. Spiritually speaking, we are being sanctified by Christ. Jesus Christ is making us more and more beautiful and holy for that special day. And that day when Jesus returned, we will be Will be glorified with a new physical with a new body and there will be a beautiful wedding. Perfect for the wedding. And then what happens after the wedding? What happens after the wedding? Honeymoon. Yes, there is honeymoon for us. Where is Jesus taking us to? honeymoon. Will will there be any surprises for us, any good stuff for us in our honeymoon that like like the Canadian Thanksgiving Day that we don't know right now? Yes Yes, yes, absolutely yes. There will be a wonderful honeymoon location with much more beautiful surprises than Nova Scotia on Thanksgiving. Thanksgiving day. In verse 24 to 26, Jesus said, Father, I desire that they also whom you have given me May be with me where I am to see my glory that you have given me because you love me before the foundation of the world. Oh righteous Father Even though the world does not know you, I know you, and these know that you have sent me. I made known to them your name, and I will continue to make it known that the love which you have loved me, maybe in them and I in them. So this verse here revealed to us Jesus' ultimate desire. He wants to be with you forever. He wants to be with us forever. He loves us so much. And he came to this world to sacrifice himself for the punishment Of our sins. So that by trusting our life to Him we can receive God's forgiveness and then a new life with Him, a covenant relationship with him. Jesus loved us so much and he cannot wait for us to be with him forever. Where is he now He's in heaven, in his heavenly glory. And and what is heavenly glory? Wha what kind of place is heaven? We don't know. None of us have been in heaven. Otherwise we won't be here this morning. It will be a surprise for us for sure. It'll be much better than Nova Scotia or any places in this world Heaven is much more beautiful than any national parks in this world. There'll be good stuff for us. There'll be heavenly rewards for us. It'll be surprising. Beyond what we can imagine. Think about this. If in this broken world there is such a thing as delicious fresh grilled scallop and beautiful mountain There'll be much more good stuff in a perfect world. Heaven on earth. places in this world cannot be compared to the real paradise, the heavenly paradise. And Apostle Peter said in First Peter chapter 4 verse 4 to 5 that we We have an inheritance that is imperisable, undefault, and unfading, kept in heaven for us. It's a lot of good stuff there for us, who by God's power are being guarded now to That's what Peter said. Jesus will bring heaven down and renew this world and unite the heaven and the renew world And in this world honeymoon places are temporary places, right? honeymoon my wife and I came back to Partimore. But we wish we could stay for longer, honeymoon. We couldn't. In the new heaven and the new earth. Our Honeymoon with Christ is forever. The new heaven and the new earth will not just be our honeymoon place, but will be our new home. So we will be there enjoying all the heavenly good stuff and enjoying time with Jesus Christ in this heavenly paradise. forever. This is our destiny as God's covenant people. So we must live our life in the lack of eternity. We need to remember, brothers and sisters, that our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ is doing all these things now for us. He loves us so much. And in order for us to live with him in heavenly paradise, he must come first to this world, born as He must redeem us first. And he did. He came. And he died for us. And this prayer that Jesus made to the Father for us happened in the night before he was arrested. and crucified. The next day after he prayed this, he carried our cross, not his cross, but ours. And his sacrificed himself for us. He died on the cross as our substitute. So that by believing in him and putting our faith in him, he can save us from our death. sins and bring us to a covenant relationship with God in Him. He loves you and I so much. Even in heaven now He never stops praying. For you and me. And he is trying to sanctify us by nourishing us with his word patiently and kindly So let us love him with all our hearts and love one another because we are one body of Christ. To him be all the glory. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for saving us from our sins. We thank you for sanctifying us daily. Help us to Be obedient to you. Help us to love you with all our hearts. Help us to be more and more like Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior. Help us to love one another as a government family. Forgive us our sins and teach us to live our life as your faithful witnesses in this world. And we pray this in the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior. Amen.