If you're visiting with us, so it's good to have you here. My name's Eric. I'm one of the pastors here at Grace Church. And uh we are continuing on with our mission Month and our missions themed sermon. So we're still taking a break from Ephesians. We'll be back in Ephesians next week. It's still October, but it's referenced. We're going to get back to our normal pattern of uh going through Ephesians. But Pastor Stan will be here next week. He's going to be teaching Sunday school and he's going to to be talking about uh the ministry he's involved in with Balm. So I encourage you to uh plan to come early and and check out that so you can hear a little bit more about what Pastor Sand does when he's not here Helping us out. And so we are going to be looking this morning at Psalm 87. If you have a Bible, I'd invite you to find it there so you can follow along as we read together. You'll find it on page 627. in the Pew Bibles. And before we read it, when you get there, you'll notice that the title of that psalm tells us that it's a Psalm of the Sons of Korah, a song. You read about Korah in the book of Numbers. Back in Numbers 16, we read of Korah's rebellion. He was part of a Levite family. He was someone who was tasked with With serving in the temple, and he eventually became jealous of Moses and Aaron, and particularly of Aaron and his role as the priest. He wasn't satisfied with the role that God gave him. And so he he tried to to rise up and rebel against Moses and Aaron. And God judged Korah and those who followed him. The earth actually swallowed them up, and fire came down from heaven and consumed men But as you read on in the book of Numbers, in Numbers twenty-six, you're told the sons of Korah did not die. The sons of Korah continued to serve in the temple, some of them as doorkeepers, others serving as singers in the temple. And evidently as you read through the Psalms you can see that they seem to have learned from Korah's mistake. Because as Psalm 84, another one of the Psalms of the Psalm The sons of Korah, the Psalmist there says he would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of the Lord than dwell in the tents of wickedness. The sons of Korah authored many of the Psalms, and one of the themes that runs through all of the Psalms that they wrote is a love for the temple and for Jerusalem or Zion. And you'll see that clearly here in Psalm eighty-seven, which is a a general song written for God's people to delight in his holy city. So, with all that by way of introduction, let's stand as we honor the reading of God's word from Psalm Psalm eighty-seven this morning. Hear now God's word. A psalm of the sons of Korah, a song. On the holy mount stands the city he founded. The Lord loves the gates of Zion more than all the dwelling places of Jacob. Glorious things of you are spoken O city of God. Among those who know me I mention Rahab and Babylon. Behold Philistia and Tyre with Cush. This one was born there, they say And of Zion it shall be said, This one and that one were born in her, for the Most High Himself will establish her. The Lord records as he registers the peoples, this one was born there. Singers and dancers alike, say all my springs are in you. This is God's word. Let's pray together this morning. Our Father, we thank you. For your word. Thank you that you've spoken to us, that you've revealed yourself so that we might know you, that we might know who you are, how you save us, and how we can live for you. And Lord, we we know that we need your word. We so have so many needs in life, but we need to be reminded yet again that our greatest need is to hear you speak to us from your word. So I pray, Lord, that you would speak to us. We are listening and we long to hear from your word. Give us eyes and ears to hear and see what it is you would speak to us from your word. And we pray this in In Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. Well, you may have heard someone say something along the lines of this in recent years. It's been a growing trend to hear someone say something like, I like Jesus, but not the church. I'm fine with Jesus. I'm just not really that excited about the church. We live in a culture that at best seems to have no use for the church. And at worst seems to despise the church. And I think if we're honest, when we think about the church, we don't always feel a whole lot better. We look around the world, we see the church being persecuted. Persecuted and oppressed. We think of our own experience in the church when we get hurt, we get disappointed, we get offended by one another. Sometimes we might think about our own spiritual lives and maybe it doesn't really fit feel like it makes all that much of a difference whether or not you even come to church. I think every one of us at certain times in our lives are probably tempted to ask the question, what is so great about the church? I think that's what Psalm 87 tells us. And Psalm 87 says the church is not great because the church has the best minds. The church is not great because we're full of the most successful, wealthy people. We're not great because we're we're perfect moral examples. The church is not great because of our power or influence in the culture. The church isn't even great because of our work in the community No, there's only one reason why the church is great. The church is great because God loves her. That's what Psalm 87 teaches: that we must love the church because our God loves the church. And as we work through this psalm together this morning, I want us to just look at two ways that God shows his love for the church. First, God has made the church His home. And second, God has made the church our home. So let's look first at verses one to three. We must love the church because God has made the church his home. Right off the bat, you see there's there's something special about this city. It's it's speaks of a holy mountain. If you think about the area around Jerusalem, there's lots of mountains surrounding the city. Think of the Mount of Olives, think of the Temple Mounts. And one of these mountains was Mount Zion. And because of its location, Zion becomes another name for Jerusalem. Jerusalem. Two names for the same place, Zion and Jerusalem, synonymous. We're told that this is a special city because it was founded by God. And of course we can step back and say that all cities at the end of the day are founded by God, and yet Zion was founded to be his home. The psalmist says in Psalm 123, for the Lord has chosen Zion. He has desired it for his dwelling place. In fact, other translations of verse 1 say his foundation is in the holy mountain. If Isaiah says, heaven is God's throne and the earth is his footstool, well Psalm eighty seven says, God's feet touch the ground in Zion. The mountains are holy because they are the home of the Holy One of Israel. Verse 2 tells us that the Lord loves the gates of Zion. Zion more than all the dwelling places of Jacob. The gates are the entrance to the city, so they represent the whole place. And we're told there Zion's not just greater than all other cities outside of Israel But it's even better than any other place in the Promised Land. And it's special because he has chosen it, not the other way around. Because Zion is God's dwelling place, that means it's also the center of his kingdom. It's God's base of operations, if you will. His plan of redemption is centered on Zion. Right? This is where God brought the people after the Exodus. This is where God established his throne and set David over it to rule and to reign. This is where Christ came to die on the cross and make atonement for his people. Glorious things are spoken because it's the city of God. It's the place God calls home. It's the place where he centers his kingdom. But I think we're going to miss a whole lot of what this Psalm wants to teach us if we only think of Zion as a piece of land in the Middle East. You see, the hope for God's people was never just the earthly Jerusalem. In Hebrews 11, we're told that Abraham didn't set his hope on Canaan, he set his hope on the city that had foundations. Whose designer and builder is God. You can hear the echo of Psalm 87. His foundation is in the holy mountains. Hebrews 12 tells us that speaking to believers, it says, you have come to Mount Zion. And to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable angels and festival gatherings, and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven. And to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect, and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant. And to the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel. You see, ultimately we're meant to see that Zion is the church. The church is the city of God. In fact, all the Old Testament language used to describe Israel and the temple in the New Testament is applied to the church as the people of God. Exodus 19, God tells the people they are a treasured people, a kingdom of priests, a holy nation. In the Old Testament, worship was by sacrifices, ultimately in Jerusalem at the temple. As you flip over to the New Testament, you find all of that applied to the church. Peter tells us in 1 Peter chapter 2, you yourselves, like living stone. are being built up as a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God. Through Jesus Christ. You as the church are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession. Paul in Ephesians 2, we've seen in recent months, is saying that in Christ, both Jews and Gentiles are being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit. You see, the psalmist here is rejoicing and delighting in the glory of Zion, but ultimately the Holy Spirit inspired those words to point to the church. The church is the place where God I think one important point we have to mention is that just like Zion, the church is not special for any other reason except that God dwells in it. He loves it because he has made it his home. That's important for understanding of salvation as well. God didn't choose us because Because he saw something good in us, whether uh our faith, our love, or our service. No, he chose us in spite of the fact that he saw nothing good in us. He loves us simply because he chose to love us, not because we were inherently lovable. In fact, he loves us in order to make us lovely. The thing that makes the church great, friends, is not you and I. It's the God who's pleased to dwell in our midst. That means our job is not to make the church attractive or desirable. Our job's not to craft the perfect programs or events. Those things can certainly be helpful, but they don't make the church great. The church is great simply because of the God who is found there, the Lord Jesus Christ. Think about it another way. A hospital doesn't get a good reputation because of the patients. It gets a good reputation because of the doctors who work there and heal the patients. Same is true with the church, not because of us, but because of our God. Our job is simply to point to the church and say, that's the place where healing is found. That's the place where life is restored because there's no disease that the great physician cannot cure. David Clarkson was a Puritan pastor. He's a pastor who succeeded John Owen in his pulpit. He once preached a sermon on Psalm 87, verse 2. The Lord loves the gates of Zion more than all the dwelling places of Zion. of Jacob. The title of his sermon was this, Public Worship to Be Preferred Before Private. He says, it's safe to assume, as you look at Israel, that God was worshipped privately in families throughout Israel But there was a key difference in that Zion, Jerusalem, that's the place where God was worshipped publicly, in the temple. And so the reason he loves Zion best of all is that he loves public worship. more even than private fa private worship or family worship. And that's why it's such a blessing to be in the Lord's house on the Lord's Day because friends, we gather with our Lord. Christ is he Here, wherever two or three are gathered in his name, he is there among us. By his spirit, he speaks to us through the reading and preaching of his word. Showing us his love in the sacraments. He hears our prayers as we pray and sing to him. That means we need to remind ourselves that there is no substitute for the gathered corporate worship of the church. And I have to say that that gathered means present physically in person. It's such a blessing that we have a live stream as an option for those who aren't able to be here But we also have to recognize that's not a long-term solution. None of us were meant to be cut off from the assembly of God's people. We need to gather to worship our Lord. Private devotional life is important. Family worship is important. I hope you do both of those things. But net nothing and neither one of those can ever take the place of First importance, the gathered public worship of the Lord's people on the Lord's day. Christ's love, knowing the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge. And I almost miss that phrase that he says. We don't actually comprehend it on our own. He says we comprehend it with all the saints. We are meant to grow together and to know Christ together and growing in our love for Him and for one another. The church is great because it is God's home. It's the place where Christ dwells. And he's invited all who are weak, who are weary, or heavy laden to come to him. And that's really the second thing we see. It's not just that the church is God's home. But the church is great because he has made it our home as well. That's the second thing we see in verses 4 through 7. We must love the church because God has made her our home. Verse 3 tells us that glorious things are spoken. And verse 4 tells us what those things are. There's a shift when you get to verse 4, and God begins to speak. He said, Among those who know me I mention Rahab and Babylon. Behold, Philistia and Tyre with Cush. This one was born there, they say. Notice there, he he's speaking about those who know him. To know God is intimate knowledge, it's a relationship of faith, of love, of trust. Right? Knowing God is equivalent with Salvation. That's what Jesus says in John 17. This is eternal life, that they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have saved. If to know God is to have salvation, then not to know God is to be cut off from salvation. You might know all kinds of true facts. about God. You might know of Christ's incarnation, of his death, of his resurrection, of his ascension. You might know that he's coming back. You might even believe those things are true, but that by itself is not saving faith. The Bible tells us even the demons believe. Those things. Satan has good theology, but he doesn't know Christ. He doesn't love Christ. He doesn't trust Christ. He hates him. We're to have not just a mere belief, we're to trust in him, to receive and rest on him alone as he's offered to us in the gospel. And we see from this psalm, that's not something that we can do on our own. That's why the psalm uses the language of birth, to be born in Zion. He's talking about spiritual birth. That's the same thing Jesus speaks of in John chapter 3 when he talks to Nicodemus and says, unless you are born again by the Spirit, you cannot see the kingdom. Just as we're passive in our physical birth, we're passive in our spiritual birth. Paul says in Ephesians 2, we're dead in sin until God in His mercy makes us alive together with Christ. Until God takes out the heart of stone and gives us a heart of flesh to make us obedient to him from the heart. Then we're no longer his enemies, but now we become enemies. Friends. And that's really the picture that we see in these verses. Look at the nations again that are mentioned in verse 4. Among those who know me, I mention Rahab and Babylon, the hold Philistia and Tyre with Cush. Rahab is a reference to Egypt, the nation that enslaved God's people for 400 years. Babylon, the nation that destroyed Jerusalem and the temple and took God's people into exile. Philistia, the nation that's the s the thorn in the side of God's people during the time of the judges and the and Saul and David. Tyre was a wealthy merchant nation on the coast. And Cush is a reference to Ethiopia and beyond that to the the far out nations to the ends of the earth. You see what's happening there? God is making these enemies into his friends and giving them a home in his kingdom. They become natural-born citizens equal with the Israelites. No matter what your background, no matter when you where you are, when you come to Christ, you are an equal member of Israel Israel. Of the people of God. These nations represent nations to the north, the south, the east, the west, all corners of the earth. You see here that Zion has become the hope of the nation. People from every walk of life are coming to worship the one true God. It's as if everywhere he looks, the psalmist sees children of Zion. I think this should give us a lot of hope, even greater hope than it gave the psalmist, right? Because the psalmist is writing during the days of the Old Testament. He's the one that's looking forward to the day when the nations would come to Zion and worship the one true God. We see that promise as we read through the Old Testament. Abraham was promised that he would be a blessing to the whole world. The people were saved from Egypt and brought to the promised land in part to be witnesses to the surrounding nations of the beauty of God's kingdom. The prophets repeatedly talk about how Gentiles will one day come and worship the Lord. They all looked forward, waiting in hope for that day to come. Yet we get to look back and see how God has already begun to do this very thing. We read about Pentecost when the Spirit was poured out and the disciples preach in many languages. We read through the book of Acts and see how the gospel started in Jerusalem, went out to Judea and Samaria, and ultimately to the ends of the earth. We read about how God takes his enemies and turns them into his friends, men like Paul Paul and Cornelius coming to faith. We also see this is our story as We are the ones who were far off and have now been brought near. We are the ones who once were not a people, but now are God's people. His marvelous light, because while we were still his enemies, Christ died for us. Friends, you and I, if you're in Christ, you are living proof that God can turn his enemies into his friends. And the good news is, God's not done yet. The church is persecuted and oppressed throughout the world. We see some of our brothers and sisters in fear for their lives. And yet God is and will call some of these very persecutors to be his people. Because there's no sin that God's grace can't overcome. One day in glory persecutor and persecuted will stand together and say Amazing Grace, how sweet the sound that saved A wretch like me. I once was lost, but now am found, was blind, but now I see. What a great God we serve. Don't miss the important movement of this psalm. Month because it first focuses on God's present and his worship, presence and his worship, and then it moves out to the missionary task of the church. John Piper has a great quote. He says, Worship is the goal and the fuel of missions. Missions exist because worship doesn't. I think that's such an important principle to grasp for a healthy church. We exist first and foremost to glorify God and to enjoy him forever, right? That means that the that corporate worship is the most important thing that we do in our lives. It's what we're going to do for all of eternity. That's the goal that we long for, is to worship Christ forever in his presence. And yet, as we said a couple weeks ago, there's a reason Why we worship here on earth instead of in glory. The reason the sun came up this morning, the reason why Jesus has yet to return, is because he still has people that he wants to draw to him. He has enemies that he intends to turn into his friends, and he wants to use us in that work. That's why the mission of the church is to make disciples of all nations. All we do as a church needs to be directed at Seeing God glorified as sinners are delivered from the domain of darkness and transferred into Christ's kingdom and then transformed into Christ's likeness. Throughout the course of their lives, so that one day we will all gather together around the throne complete, beholding his glory and praising his name for all eternity. That's the great mission that our Lord is about. Drawing his enemies to himself and making them into his friends, and then giving them a home with his people, where he will dwell with them forever. That's the mission our Lord is about. And friends, that's that's the hope he holds out to you this morning. If you're here this morning and you don't know Christ, that's the offer he makes to you. That God made you to live for him, and you sinned against him by living for yourself, but he didn't leave you there. He sent his son to live in your place and to die in your place and to rise again and calls to you that anyone who turns from their sin and trusts in Christ. Will be saved. Anyone who comes to him that way, he's never going to turn out, but he's saying, No, you are a child of Zion, in his kingdom, forever, secure. That's the mission God is about, and that mission will be successful. One day the knowledge of the glory of the Lord will cover the earth as the waters cover the sea. That's because the Lord is going to establish his church as the home of his people. The church is going to be the place where God's people will dwell secure because he has established church. Those who come to faith in Christ become part of the church, and God records their names. We see that in the Psalm. He knows those who are His. Their names are written in the book of life and can never be erased. The church isn't just the place where we're born, it's the place also where we are meant to be sustained and nourished in our lives. Zion here is described as a mother. One translation of verse five actually says: Zion shall be called a mother in whom men of every race are born. Many scholars think that Paul had this verse in mind when he's writing in Galatians 4, and he says, That the Jerusalem above that is free, she is our mother. Isaiah speaks about Zion as a mother as well. Isaiah speaks of Zion as a mother who gives birth to children and then nurses them and carries them on her hip and comforts them when they mourn. We see there that the church has a vital role to play in the lives of God's people. We're not saying there's anything magical about the church that saves us, but we are saying that Jesus has chosen the church to be the place where he wants to. save us. It's the school where by his spirit he teaches us to obey and trains us and transforms us from sinners into saints. Not to say that you can't be saved apart from the church. Right, Jesus has the freedom to work when and where and how he pleases. And yet he has told us where we can expect to find him. We think of that in other areas of life, right? If you're thirsty, you might happen across water in the desert. If you're really thirsty, you probably ought to go to a spring because you know you'll find water If you're sick, you might happen to find a doctor in the grocery store, but you're better off going to the hospital. That's how the church works. It's meant to be the place where you are promised to find God if you seek Him. Rightly with all your heart. Jesus has given gifts to his church and pastors and teachers so that his people can grow into maturity. And that's why in verse 7 these singers and dancers say, All my fountains are in you. They see the church as the mother who's given to them by God to his people for their good, to sustain them, to comfort them, to teach them, to discipline them, to mature them. Do you tend to think about the church that way? Do you value the great love that God has shown for you by feeding you with His Word week after week? By giving you elders to watch over you To protect you from those who would do you harm and to step in and help correct you when you start heading down the wrong path. By giving you the sacraments as visible signs and seals of his love for you. So that you might not only hear that he loves you, but see that he loves you. Loves you and taste the promise and see that the Lord is good. By giving you a community of people to walk the hard road of life together. Not just in this congregation, but anywhere around the world that you go, you're likely to find your brothers and sisters as well. Frankly, that's been one of the things that's been such a comfort for us as we think about moving somewhere that we don't know anyone. We're moving of course I'm a pastor, so we're moving to a church that already knows us, but the same is true of you. You can pack up and move to another part of the country where you don't know a soul, and when you walk in the doors of a church You are among your brothers and sisters. You have a family there to care for you, invested in your spiritual well-being. Have the church as your home is a wonderful privilege that we We must never neglect friends. What's so great about the church? It's great because God loves her and has established her to be the home where he will dwell with his people forever. Christ is the one who's founded his church. He unites her to himself as a husband to his bride. He's the one who died for her. He's the one who purifies her. He's the one who's poured out his spirit on her for her life and salvation. And no matter what happens in this world, his promise still stands that he will build his church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against it. He said before he died that he's going to go and prepare a place for you so that you can be with him where he is. That gives us a lot of hope because in the church he's already given us a taste of that, hasn't he? And one day he's gonna return. We're told in Revelation that when he does, with him the holy city, the new Jerusalem will descend as a bride. Adorned for her husband. Heaven will be brought down to earth, and a redeemed community of people from every tribe, every tongue, every language will dwell together with her Lord forever. The dwelling place of God will forever be with man. He's going to dwell with us, and we're going to be his with him as his people, and God himself will be with us as our God. He's going to wipe away every tear from us And in the meantime, he's given us a front row seat as he works to be able to do it. Take his enemies and transform them into his friends. Church, that's what our great God has promised for you. If that's not a reason to rejoice But I'm not sure what is. Let's pray together. Oh Lord, we thank you. Not just that you have saved us, but that you have saved us to be a part of To be a part of your people, to be a part of your bride, the bride that you wash in water with the word, the bride that you will one day present to yourself perfect in holiness, without any spot or blemish or any such thing. Lord, we long for that day. And Lord, as we wait for that day, may we be faithful to see others brought into the fold of your people, to reach out to the lost and hold out the promise of life and salvation. That's there in Christ. We pray all this in your name. Amen. Let's stand and sing a hymn based on Psalm