Uh it is uh it's been a a a good journey, I think, to go to the wilderness. At least I I hope it's been for you a uh profitable time Uh but we want to shift uh over this next uh coming months and we'll see how long it goes if God uh provides somebody else in the pulpit. Uh um before the series is out. That would be wonderful. But we will wait and see what God has to do on that. But I want to turn our attention to A different theme. And it's going to be thematic, but we're going to stick in scripture and let scripture speak to us around the theme. And it will be around the theme of one-anothering. There's a lot of scripture That talks about this reciprocal interaction that we have as God's people. And we just want to pick up some of the salient themes that are set out in that one one-anothering context through. scripture. One of the things that probably most of you have have read and have known about was the uh the follow through of the flourish uh engagement uh with you as a company congregation. And they've pointed out something in that report that is is actually I hope will be nurtured in this particular uh series. And that is, we can be familiar with each other. We can even avoid a presence of conflict But not necessarily be engaged in encouraging each other's lives to grow and to bear fruit Uh so there there can be a comfort level, which is wonderful, uh, but yet not a deepening level, which is a greater call that God has called us to. And I think that was something that the report was pointing to. So as we come through the series, I I might prayer for you, my plead with you is to uh take these scriptures uh not only in your head and in your ears, but ask yourself the question and What the application questions are all about. What is it that I can do? What is it that I can learn? How can I practice what God wants me to practice? This particular text, before I have you stand and uh and we read it, is framed around three questions. Uh the text itself doesn't raise the question, but uh but the questions uh it answers the three questions. And the three questions are uh you can almost call them three different sides of a triangle uh that focus on that center. What the first question is what do you want? But actually it's what do you need that we're going to focus on. What do you need Often I meet your needs with my wants. So if I can identify my wants and say, well I want this, you need that. Together, we have to come around and ask the question, what is God's interest? It's not ultimately about what I want or what you want. And ultimately it may not be about what I feel I need, but about what God says is the core of his interest. And and that changes our exchange and our relationship to each other. And what we say and what we do. uh if we could do that we would have a very different focus uh in many of our conflicts and many of our conversations. So I want to read and I'm gonna ask if you would uh stand as I read from Philippians chapter two. I'm gonna read just the first eleven verses So, if there's any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from love, any participation in the Spirit Any affection and sympathy, complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord, and of one mind Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. Have this mind among yourself. Which is yours in Christ Jesus, who, although he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God, a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form. He humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Therefore God has highly exalted him, and bestowed on him the name that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, in heaven and on earth, and under the earth. And every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Pray. Father, we have heard your word. Would you give to us now your spirit to overwhelm us, overwhelm our hearts with what you have done With the gift of your Son Christ Jesus. Fill us with that presence we pray. And we might look fully into your face And that we might leave this place as we look into each other's faces, seeing you and hearing your voice. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. It may be seated. This um this idea of one anothering in scriptures sort of a uh a basic question. uh that guides us in all of our engagements. It's really a definition of Christian behavior. And the text opens up if there's any encouragement. And it reminds us that others are more important Because Christ's comfort is a comforting love. And it raises that second point. It's if there's any fellowship. What's fellowship? So that reminds us that others are more important, and the Spirit fellowships among us. And then it raises that third if, if there's any affection and compassion. These terms are just they so much incorporate and surround our Christian faith, our walk in the Spirit, and what God wants to do in the church. And so they they they illustrate really the fabric of the gospel. The gospel which says, I need Christ Jesus. He has come and has met not only the things that I think I need, but the things that he knows I need. Because I often don't really know my needs adequately. I might confess, I might see, but Christ knows And he meets that. So it's a fabric of our relationship with each other and a relationship with God in Christ. It causes us to ask a couple questions. If I focus on your need, uh uh w what do I what do I see? What what do I think I see? Well I should see. Uh I need you That's I need, I need you. I need you to encourage me. I need you to receive my encouragement. And sometimes Others aren't always encouraging to us. Just like sometimes I'm not always encouraging to somebody else. So this reciprocity is core to the gospel, both giving and receiving. And our giving and our receiving is based on whether or not I can re give and receive. I can't give anything to God I can give God glory what I receive from him. And that's the context of this particular text. It's a wonderful text for us, and it leads us in his direction. Now, there are a couple of things that we we just sort of have to get before we head on, and that is the sort of understanding the polarity, and there are almost three poles. It's the question of needs of wants and of interests. And if we can sort of get those three words in our head and in our mind, then it'll help us as we go And all of you, uh if you can uh remember the children that have often gathered around you, um I'm now in my mind thinking of my grandson, my youngest grand grandson, who has this uh very articulate way of saying, I need the superhero. I really need it Really? Or you really want it? No, I need it, Baba. I need it. Well, you know, we can laugh at children. The problem is That same idea that often happens with children sort of carries over, and we keep it as adults. I really need this, Lord. I need it. I need it now. Uh and and if if we could just sort of shift that language to say, I want it. I really want it now. I and when we look at a lot of our uh difficulties with each other uh outside the church Certainly in our world, often our wants are carried over into demands. I want it, I expect you to fill my want. And this text helps us balance because it draws us back out of seeing our wants to looking at others' needs. And it puts it all in the context of So I I want you to see the uh the the structure of these uh verses for us. Uh we're going to look at our perspective, because when we look at Christ Jesus It's all about living in the midst of Christ, living in Christ. That's the perspective that this text takes us. And then it opens up our purpose. We live for Christ. And then it takes us into our priorities. And our priorities are living like Christ, and that means understanding others in truth. interests and actually putting those more importantly than our own. So with that, let's look a little more deeply into some of these verses The first is our perspective. And we've already looked at that a little bit in verse 1. If there's any encouragement in Christ, Any comfort from love, any participation in the spirit, any affection of sympathy. If there's any, if there's any, it's almost like when Paul's writing here, he's reaching down to the bottom. Have you experienced it at all? Is there any love? Is there any time you've been encouraged? Is there any, any, any, he's not, he's not reaching to the height He's not even saying, listen, look at the magnificent level of God's love. He's saying, listen, if there's anything that you've experienced That's the perspective. There's so much more. But we have to ask: wait a minute, have I experienced any living in Christ? Well, so suppose that your child, and you most of us can remember this. Uh if you haven't remembered it, you've been to a friend's refrigerator, and you've seen a child's drawing. It's not exactly uh a Motor Lisa. Uh it's probably not a it might look like a Picasso Uh because you can look at it and say, I wonder what that is. And graciously you ask the child, uh, can you tell me about your drawing? And you don't say, oh, uh that's a beautiful family drawing. No, no, that's the farm uh that we visited last week. Don't ask them that question. Ask them what it is in their drawing that they've drawn. Uh you know that. You receive it how? You criticize it and you say, no, no, the legs are too long, uh the ears are too big, uh, the stomach is is No, you receive it. It's a wonderful drawing. The child has done the best that they can. That child grows up to be a teenager And uh one day it happens that the teenager decides that he or she will just sort of hang out with you and the family. Instead of going into the room and hiding. And uh and you think to yourself, you really need to talk. And so you can scold and say you really need to open up more. Uh you're you you're too withdrawn But supposing you simply took that young person and said, thank you for joining us You see what happens? Often we look at what it means to be in a family from different perspectives. Very young will accept almost anything. As a child grows, we accept less and less. Sometimes we accept even less of our adult children What does it mean to be in a family? That's really what this text is asking us, because it says if there's any of these things, if you've been living in Christ, You are in Christ. That is the family that surrounds you. That is the love that surrounds you. That's the encouragement that surrounds you. That's the fellowship that surrounds you. So while I can describe this as a family, kids growing up, and you know, kids grow up and they leave the home, and sometimes they do things that we wish they wouldn't do How do we handle that? They're still in the family, right? Sometimes they do some really dumb things. And sometimes I do some really dumb things But it's all in the family. So this is the context. Paul says, listen, if there's anything If there's any love, if there's any encouragement, if there's any hope, if there's any affection, any sympathy That is the context. That's our perspective. We are in Christ. In Christ. But then he takes a step on in verse 2. Based on the if there is any, then he says, Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourself. So Uh you know, complete my joy. Complete it. Uh by being of the same mind, of the same love, being in full accord with one mind If then that's that's where we're where where we're walking with this. So our purpose. Our purpose is to live for Christ. Our perspective is that we're living in Christ, but now we need to live for Christ. What does it mean to live for Christ? There's one item that I'm going to guess is in most of our homes, and that is a printer I remember the day when uh we had typewriters. Uh I know, it shows my age. And I even remember the day when uh when a church would uh do its bulletins on a mimeograph machine like this. Some of you are as old as me and you can remember those days too. And it would be all blurred and the ink would get smeared and it doesn't look nearly as nice as we have today. Well today we have printers Supposing you try to print and you have no cartridge. It doesn't print very well, does it? So that's the point. The cartridge is for the printer. It works for it. It's the output of it. So if we are in Christ, we are also to be living for Christ. We are thinking cartridge. He calls us into account. He says, listen, I want you to put my mark on the world. Live for me. Complete my joy. Be of the same mind. Be of the same love of Christ. Be of the same accord. Print who I am on the world around you. Now you know, and I know, that's not just hard, it's impossible. I can't do it. My print cartridge jams up. It just doesn't squirt out the right color. It just blurs it altogether. And that's where I have to go back to my perspective and say, I am in Christ. Let me remember his forgiveness. Let me remember his compassion. Because I can't do it. I can't do it by myself. I can't put that ink out onto the world's page without remembering what Christ did for me. I can't do it Paul says, actually, complete my joy. Complete it. Christ's perspective is greater than the Father that receives a pencil cup from his son. And it doesn't look like much and it doesn't hold very much, but he proudly puts it on his desk Christ does so much more than that, Father. He takes the little that we have to offer. The struggles that we have to offer, the wrong words that we sometimes say, the attitudes that we sometimes hold. He takes it and he puts it out there and he says, you Are mine. You are mine. I have bought you with a price. I have loved you. I have sent my son for you. My eternal, everlasting Son Jesus Christ. I've sent him for you. He doesn't just take our lives, broken as they are Mangled as they sometimes are, and set him on his desk. He embraces us. He embraces us in a very special way. So it's our love for each other to get Printed on the world because it reflects God's love for us. It's our unity. It's our unity because God says, I will make you in my family. I'm not going to let you go. You can think the wrong thoughts, you can do the wrong things, you can listen to Satan's voice that says, don't believe anymore, don't trust it anymore. But I'm still going to hold you. You could same thing with our children. They grow up and say, uh mom, dad, I I don't want to believe that anymore. I'm still going to pray for you, son. I'm still going to pray for you. I'm going to walk with you. I'm going to walk with you on this road as far as I can possibly walk Because God has not let me go. He will not let you go. It's his love. It's the love of the Father. It's the love of the Son So he simply calls us to complete that joy, and we put forth that joy Now let's look a little bit at the third piece. That's our priority, because this is really where this text now chews into our lives and into our yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others So, our priority. This is where needs and wants and desires and interests come. Who's first? Well, the text was really clear. First of all, it tells us Look not to your own interests only. That doesn't mean that we are throwing our interests away, right? It says you have an interest, but others have an interest also Consider that interest as more important. Now what's the difference between interest and want? It doesn't say consider others' wants as more important than your interest. If my interest is the interest of God and Christ, maybe my my fellow combatants sometimes Believes that their need, their interest is more in line with God's interest. How do we know? How do we know that what I want isn't just my want How do I know that your need is actually a need? And this is what God asks us to look at in every transaction that we have as humans. What do you need? None of us are going to get all we want. But what do you need? What draws you closer to the Savior? What allows you to walk more faithfully in His way? What allows you to grow in your confidence? What encourages you? What helps you? If I ask those questions And if I begin to get an answer to them, then I am considering your interests above mine. It's tough to do. Because we have different interests. We do. But if I can differentiate between what I think I need and what I think I want It will move me forward. And if I can engage with you in a conversation and understand deeply what do you need How can I be engaged in your life in a way that will encourage you forward to see more of Christ, to see more of what God wants? How do we do that as a congregation, as a fellowship? I think that's the question that God lays before us today. We do nothing from selfish ambition. We have a war going on, not well maybe in our country too, but certainly on the other part of the world there is a huge war going on Built probably around self-interest, from all I can read in the news. Primarily one individual who believes that the world ought to die for him Uh it's amazing how far we get down the road in warfare uh when we don't follow this and when we take the extreme And the same thing is true in the church. We may not roll in the tanks. But we do sometimes deploy heart-to-heart missiles And take people down, uh take interests down, take needs down. God simply says, listen Nothing from selfish ambition. But in humility, consider others more significant, more important. Yes, look at your interest. Sometimes you say, well, this is my interest, but maybe you need to change the words and say, this is my want, or this is my position. Notice that this teaches us, it helps us engage in a conversation. My position is this, your position is that. Actually, what do you need What do I need? What's behind, underneath our needs? And so God is calling us to simply say, yes, your interest is there But the other has an interest. Look at that interest. Again, I want you to look back at your children, look around at your children It's very easy to expect them to do certain things. It may be easy ultimately to reject what they choose. Or do. It may be easy to criticize. God simply calls us, and we know this instinctively as parents, to bear with the pain. It's uncomfortable. The choices that are sometimes made Made. And so we're in a family. We're in a family with the perspective that God has called us together. He's done something for us. That means I can bear with you. And I need you to bear with me because I will fail. I will say the wrong thing at the right time. And say the wrong thing at the wrong time. I just have a knack for it. And maybe you have a knack for it. But that's where we bear with each other And we recognize that it comes from God's embrace of us in Christ Jesus. We live in Christ. We live for Christ And we live like Christ. Can we do it? Can we do that as a body of Christ? Can be one another like Christ, so that I seek your interest and you seek my interest. I will forgive because I'm forgiven You will forgive because you're forgiven. And we will understand how our differences weave us together Weave us together in the gospel of Jesus Christ. We in Christ are able to be woven as a basket is woven And be like Christ. It's the reality of what God calls us. He calls us to walk And as we come to the table this morning, the table of the Lord, I want you to reflect on what Christ has done for you. If there's any love, any encouragement, any growth, make my joy complete And demonstrate it. One another. Let me pray for you. Father, as we come to your table this morning Remind us whose we are, and remind us who we are In the world around us. Work in us. Father, work through us that we might know your strength and your presence. In Jesus name, Amen