Thought my journey was gonna uh only allow my visit to be with you uh by a pre-recorded uh presence. Um I thought I was uh dealing with these symptoms of COVID. Well I'm thankful to say that apart from some congestion and coughing, which you may hear this morning, um, I'm not. So I'm thankful to be able to be with you. Uh, it is a joy. I want you to uh turn in your Bibles with me. I'm not gonna read the entire passage right now, but we're gonna go through the whole passage. Exodus chapter sixteen. And you will remember that we are in the process of journeying with the Israelites. So uh that's why I I begin asking where your journey is. We're gonna pick up the Israelites uh as they are journeying in the wilderness, and they haven't been there very long uh as we come to this text. Uh actually only about two months. So um they if you figure how long two months is into forty years you get some sense of where they were in their journey, not very far. And uh and and here is where we find them. uh as they journey along. So Exodus chapter sixteen, if you are there, I will begin reading uh at verse one. They set out from Elam, and all the congregation of the people of Israel came to the wilderness of Sin, or Shin. which is between Elam and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month after they had departed from the land of Egypt. And the whole congregation of the people of Israel grumbled against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness. And the people of Israel said to them, Oh, would that we had died by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt when we sat by the meat pots and ate bread to the full For you brought us out into this wilderness to kill this whole assembly with hunger. The Lord said to Moses, Behold, I am about to reign bread from heaven for you. And the people shall go out and gather a day's portion every day, that I may test them whether they'll walk in my law or not. On the sixth day, when they prepare what they bring in, it will be twice as much as they gather daily. So Moses and Aaron said to all the people of Israel, At evening you shall know that it was the Lord who brought you out of the land of Egypt. And in the morning you will see the glory of the Lord, because he has heard your grumbling against the Lord, for What are we that you grumble against us? Moses said, When the Lord gives you in the evening meat to eat, and in the morning bread to the full, because the Lord has heard your grumbling That you grumble against him, what are we? Your grumbling is not against us, but against the Lord Moses said to Aaron, Say to the whole congregation of the people of Israel, Come near before the Lord, for he has heard your grumbling. As soon as Aaron spoke to the whole congregation of the people of Israel, they looked toward the wilderness, and behold, the glory of the Lord appeared in the cloud. And the Lord said to Moses, I have heard the grumbling of the people of Israel. Say to them, At twilight you shall eat meat And in the morning you will be filled with bread, and you shall know that I am the Lord your God. It's the word of the Lord. May his glory shine Around us. Let me pray. Father, would you come and draw near to us? We are in our own Wilderness. And whether we're there in the first month of it or in the 31st year of it, we recognize where we are. We stand in need of your grace. So we ask that you would pour it out upon us this morning. Give to us your glory. In Jesus' name. Amen. We most often think about our needs and God's provisions in sort of physical terms. You know, what I need to eat, what are where I need to sleep, the job that I need. uh the sickness or the health that I have, we we quite often frame God's provision in the sense of physical being. I want to start there, but I do want to say that this builds on what I want to call the blueprint of God. to help us understand in a deeper in a deeper level, in a deeper way, what it is that we come to God and ask Him to provide us with. and how it is that he does provide for us. And he gives us the basis for giving thanks and for praying in a much deeper way than often we are wont to do. Many years ago, I was um pastoring a congregation on a good day. We had about as many as are here this morning. Uh we had just started. I had just started to uh plant a new congregation. Then I had a uh a friend who started to come to the uh to the worship time. He was a a carpenter. He was a a s what I would have considered sort of a rough carpenter, although today he's probably one of the finest Finnish carpenters I've known. And uh Gary was about to marry uh a another friend of ours whose husband had died in a tragic motorcycle accident and she um had was carrying her second child. So she'd come through a lot of tragedy. My friend Gary, as I came to know him, uh actually came to uh a personal relationship with Christ in jail. He was there on a drug bust. So I'm I'm describing some people that were um sort of like normal. And um I met with Gary and Jill for their premarital uh counseling time and uh just as a routine thing, I talked about finances and I talked about tithing. And uh Gary never said anything to me. Gary Jill never said anything to me, but time went on. And um uh eventually I talked with Gary and he and he said, you know Frankly, I thought you were crazy. I never heard of anybody giving 10% of what they have. Uh even to think about more than that I said, well, consider what God provides for you. He said, I will. Time went on. And uh Gary lost his job He lost his uh job and he didn't quite know what he was going to do. Uh economic times were difficult and difficult indeed for a carpenter of his uh at that time time skill level. But he kept working. He had this little job and that little job and this little job and he kept thinking. I I didn't know what he was thinking about But he kept thinking about what it was that God was providing for him. And as he reflected on that, he um he thought, well may maybe this is all sort of extra income that I'm making right now. I think I'm gonna try giving something to God out of what I have. And he did. And he discovered that his uh little side job turned into another little side job, turned into another little side job, turned into another little side job. One day he came to worship and he said, um I'd like to just share my testimony. And he did. And he probably preached the finest sermon I've ever preached. He said, uh, I want to tell you about my journey with God. in the wilderness that I've been on. I didn't believe that God could actually provide until I tested him and tried him Well Gary and Joe went on. Their first son, her first son, his adopted son by marriage, committed suicide. They went on and they lost one thing after another. And as I've journeyed with them through the years, what has impressed me Is that they come back to the God of mercy. They come back to the God of provision. And they have learned in their journey What the pathway of the king really is. The provision is not just about what I'm going to eat. That's important. But that's not the only thing We come to the Israelites in the 16th chapter and they were grumbling. Did that word grumble stand out to you as I read the text? It just it was again and again and again and again. The grumble started to sound like a rumble in the text. It just sort of was growling at you. Well, I think that was the context. I think that was the feeling. that Moses had. Grumble and grumble and grumble. So I want to take just a minute to uh go through the text and I I want to um uh commend one of the recommendations that have come through the session and you will find it starting to happen this week. I I I want to commend you to actually praying about the text that we're going to be preaching on uh in the beginning of the week. When you get a a printout of uh needs to pray for and things that are happening, you're gonna get a set of uh next questions for the next uh message or uh at least the text. And and I want to encourage you just to be reading through it. and praying through it. We will be a reading and a praying congregation as we go through on this journey together. Uh and I want to encourage you for the first several days of the week, starting today, tomorrow, Tuesday, to reread this passage And to reflect through it again and to pray more deeply about how it speaks and sinks into your heart. There's not enough that we can begin to do in a you know a half hour if I usually do what I do, it's a lot longer than a half hour. And uh that's not enough. God's gotta d dig it down and and drip it down into our heart. So I just want to commend that to you. Let's take a look at this uh sixteenth chapter. And the the paradigm is what we saw uh two weeks ago. It was the paradigm that we watched again last week as we looked at leadership. But it's that love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, with all your strength, and your neighbors yourself. That is the paradigm. That's the shape of the building of our lives. So when we come to provision, God is drawing up on each of those, can I call them, foundational walls that surround us. Take a look at it. The whole Israelite community. That was a social network. That was the place Uh they set out from Elam, they come to the desert of Shin, uh, and it is only the fifteenth day of the second month. If they had thirty-day months, which they didn't, It would have been about six weeks into their journey. So clearly it hadn't gotten very long. In the desert, the whole community, the whole set of neighbors, everybody Uh it started to go viral and they didn't even have an internet. Uh they didn't even have smartphones. But somehow it went viral. The whole community begins to grumble against Moses and Aaron. The leaders. Okay, that's where we were last week. Follow your leaders. God provide your leaders. Well they grumbled against the leaders That's what the people did. The Israelites said to them, If only we died. How's that for depression? Uh you know, just take me away. It hurts too much. If only we died by the Lord's hand in Egypt. There we sat around pots of meat, we ate all the f food we wanted. Well um excuse me talk about misinformation talk about bad memory tracks did they remember what they had been doing six weeks earlier they had been running for their lives. Did they remember the fact that they were making bricks and having to cut everything that was there? That went into the bricks? No, they didn't seem to remember that. So if I got my microphone as hanging Hanging out, can I do better? Stick it in. Is that better? Alright. Keep me straight here. I don't want you grumbling. So s so the whole congregation, the whole of Israel exercises this great lie of yeah well we used to have everything we possibly wanted. We used to have anything. We had all the meat we wanted. We had all the bread we wanted. Yeah right But you brought us to starve. Well, there probably wasn't a whole lot after six weeks for all those people. They were in the desert So they did have a a valid point, didn't they? I I mean they really did. Okay, they had their flocks the flocks that they had taken with them from Egypt. And they could have milk from the goats. The goats could eat in the desert. The cows are probably getting skinnier But they didn't have a whole lot. And whatever they had was diminishing, getting smaller and smaller. So God says, all right, I'm going to rain down bread from heaven. The people are to go out each day and gather enough for that day, and this way I will test them. So the whole reason of provision is a test It's a test. God says, I want to see if they'll obey me. On the sixth day, they're to take twice as much of what I provide Let's see if they can get that. Let's see if they can understand it. Let's see if they'll choose to do what I've asked them to do. So Moses and Aaron in verse 6 come to the Israelites and they said, Well, this evening you're going to know it was the Lord that brought you out of Egypt, and the morning you're going to see the glory of the Lord. So from the evening to the morning, you are going to know that you are in the hands of the Lord, not ours. Evening to morning. Because who are we that you should grumble against us? You're the people. We are the people. And don't grumble against us because you're really grumbling against God. So Moses tells Aaron, say to the entire uh community, God has heard you He's heard all of those grumbles. He's heard all those rumbles. He feels your pain, if we could put it in our contemporary language. He feels your pain. He understands So the Lord says to Moses, yes, I've heard the grumbling. It's the community. You are going to receive, he says, at twilight you will eat meat And you will know that I am the Lord your God. In the morning you're going to eat bread, and you will know that I am the Lord your God. You will be satisfied. Satisfaction came differently for the people of God. They each gathered. Some, the text says, gathered more, some gathered less, but the each had enough. So sufficiency was the measure of satisfaction. We tend to measure our satisfaction in sufficiency or in abundance. I'm going to say most of us measure our level of satisfaction in abundance. If I have too much, I'll be satisfied. If I have something left over, I'll be satisfied. But if I just enough, and I somehow feel like I like I'm not there. Like God hasn't he he he's been cheating on me. He just hasn't really been adequate Even though it is adequate. So there's a testing that God gives to us. And God rains down manna, and they call it, and that's actually the Hebrew word it sounds like, what is it? Well what is this stuff? And and when they gathered it up, it was about a a a pound and a half, two pounds, maybe even three pounds for each person Now, you know, go to the store, get your flour out, and figure out uh what what am I gonna do with let's see we've got a family of five. I need ten pounds of flour. It's gonna be doomy for a day. Whatever this stuff is. I don't know what this stuff is. It's manna. Mana stuff. And and and and I got ten pounds of it or I got fifteen pounds of it. And and I and I'm gonna mix it up. I'm gonna Mm put it with oil, I'm gonna fry it. I don't know what I'm gonna do. Boil it? And a bake it? It's sort of you do you do whatever you want with it Uh I don't think they had recipes that they could put on the internet, but I uh you know, I uh a recipe for preparation of manna. But uh but that too seemed to go viral. They figured out what to do with this stuff. And God says, listen, you need to understand my provision. Not just that I will provide, but what I've provided and what to do with my provision. You start to understand what God's doing in this? That's the blueprint. I want you to deeply understand who I am, what I give to you, how you deal and how you use what I give to you. Understand it. These are my directions. Gather what you need. Don't gather what you don't need. And you know the story. The story went on and uh some of them said, well, uh we better take a whole lot more because maybe we're not gonna see this stuff again, whatever it is. And it rotted. The sixth day, God says, take twice as much. And he said, Oh well, we did that on the first day. We're not gonna we're not we're not gonna deal with these maggots So they went hungry. They couldn't quite get it. God said, it's really clear. Let me make it simple for you. You go out in the morning and you get what you need. I will provide for you. Have you ever prayed the Lord's Prayer? I know, we all have. Give us this day our daily bread, we pray. Actually the better way of translating that is give us today tomorrow's bread. It's probably the better way of understanding that actual text. And you say, well, that doesn't make sense. Give me today tomorrow's bread? Well, it's to say, give me one day in advance. What I received today is what I will use tomorrow. That's what we pray for. We're not praying for, Lord, please give me the next 50 years Now that's what we like to do with our 401ks. Lord, give me the next 50 years. And fill my 401k full. And and if it's full, then I'll find another place to spill it over. And if they're not quite enough, then I'm not sure that you're enough. That's how we come to our provision. And I'm afraid that that's a little bit how the Israelites came to their provision as well. So God said to them, I will give you my peace. Understand who it is that you are and who it is And they continued their journey together. God provided for them day by day. They continued to disobey. They can some of them continued to trust. Let's take it another step. Let me take this Text to you, because that's the paradigm. Trust God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, with all your strength. And your neighbor as yourself. Those are the foundation walls. How do we deal with that in God's provision? vision when we're on that journey. I want you to take another step with me. We have looked at the sort of the uh the the way that God's going to do it. I want to look at the at the specific Specifically at the measure. Uh at the measure of God's provision. It's it's our needs, not our wants. So how full is if I can reduce it to a physical measurement? How full is the cup? Our many years in Africa told us when you were buying grain or potatoes or fruit or anything in an African market You'd often go to a series of women who were seated in the midst of their grain and they have a big grain sack here, and you would negotiate for a certain amount of grain. And uh you you know very well that if you go to the grocery store today, uh they will measure it out precisely Uh you have five, you know, whatevers, maybe there are five apples, you're gonna pay so much for each apple. If it's this kind of apple you pay so much. It doesn't happen on the African market. You buy go out and buy grain and uh you say, well how much is it? Well it's so much for this container full. Well you don't know how much a container full is that a pound, is that a half pound? Well it's a measure Say negotiate for the measure. And then you will watch them, they'll put the measuring cup in the middle of the grain, and they will pour the grain in with their hands. until it's mounded up. You don't get a flat measure. It's mounded up. And they'll pour that into your bag. Yeah you have to provide your own bags. And then they'll take a another hand scoop and put it in. It's full and running over. Does that have a little more meaning if I put it in African context? If you're gonna buy oranges, you'll have a group of oranges You'll negotiate for the price of the oranges and they'll add one more to it. But that's what we mean by measure. What is the measure of God's provision? Well the Israelites looked at it and they say, hey listen, we don't have any leeks, we don't have any onions, we don't have you know, Lord, all we have is manna. What is this stuff? We yearn for the leeks and the onions. That actually came out in Numbers chapter 11 when they had been doing this for several years. It was after they had left Mount Sinai. They were still grumbling. They were still complaining. Now we remember the leeks and the onions. I'm not sure how well they remembered the leaks and the onions, but it was part of the myth that they continued to tell themselves. Actually, a big view of provision is more than the momentary view And that's what God wants us to see. That's what he wanted his people to see then and now. We have a sense of provision of what God gives me today God says, follow me for tomorrow. Follow me for next week. Follow me for next year. And what I give you today Will help you understand that you can follow me the rest of your life. Are you following? What's the measure of your follow? When I don't receive what I need, am I thinking in my mind, well, where is God? Did he get lost? No, he didn't get lost. He's showing me a different way. He's showing me his faithfulness of what I not what I think I need, but what he knows I need. That's his measure. You know, there's a child And um children are often this way. Well maybe it was just me when I was a child. It's like why does grandma always give me socks for Christmas? I'm never quite happy with the gift I get. I I I I want something more The measure of the gift is my immediate satisfaction. That's how we tend to measure it. God says, I want you to begin measuring satisfaction. by what I give you, because I am able to see where your life is going. I will give you what you need. Remember Abraham. He went with his son Isaac to sacrifice his son. And his son says, well, well father, he here Here's the knife, here's the fire, but where's the sacrifice? The most basic thing we're going to do. We don't have it. Abraham says, God himself will provide the sacrifice, my son. The measure of the moment is stretched out into God's eternity. We um we want to focus on the moment. God's focus is on understanding how we're going to respond in that moment Trusting him for that which is yet to come. We look at the immediate. What I can afford today. God looks at generations And in the end of this story, what we found is that God said, listen, I want you to take a homer of this man of this stuff you don't even know what it is. The stuff that rots and grows maggots if you keep it the next day. And I want you to keep one measure so that future generations will know and remember Wow. You mean this one measure isn't gonna rot? It's not gonna turn into maggots? No, God says I'm gonna keep it for you. Just so you can remember the daily walk I've gone into a number of businesses, especially in Africa, where the first dollar that or the first amount of unit of money, folding money that they had, they actually had on the the on the wall, uh the their first income as it were. To remember where they started from. Have you ever been in a shop like that? Well that's what God's saying to his people. He said, listen, take one unit and keep it for posterity, for generations to come, so that you will remember my faithfulness. Year by year by year by year. Do you do that in your family? Do you remember God's faithfulness year by year by year? A year. Do you look back? Do you look ahead? Do you remember as a child? having a parent that looked back and looked around and looked ahead. If you can't remember that, if that's not in your genetic memory, I want to encourage you to begin doing it with your children too. Look back. Look ahead. This is the God that we've followed. He's faithfully been with us. He has provided all we need, not just the food. But the presence of the King, the enjoyment of walking with him, the beauty and the glory, the joys of peace Begin to reflect on God's full provision, not just the measure of mana that you consume one. day to the next, but the journey. So finally when we come to this, it's not just about the measure, but it's really about the man or the person That God has provided. We know about Moses. We know about Aaron. And we know that God used Moses and Aaron as leaders amongst the children of Israel. We know that. But it wasn't enough. Uh you know, even Moses couldn't get it right. Where did they come to him later and and uh you know, the people were thirsty. Well, of course, they were in the wilderness. The natural place to thirst. And they grumbled again. God said to Moses, speak to the rock. And in his frustration, and I get that. He takes his staff and he strikes the rock. God still gives water, but it cost Moses the end of the journey We'll come to that text. Here it is. The man that God provided in Moses wasn't enough. It was only a reflection of the man that was yet to come. The Christ who was yet to come, who was the full provision. We grumble against each other. I don't like this about what you do. I don't like that about what you do. Why didn't you do this for me? Why didn't you do that for me? Ultimately God says it's not about your neighbor. It's about Christ. Come to him. And that's what the people had to learn. It wasn't Moses. It wasn't Aaron. It wasn't their clan leader. It was God. God himself would one day walk with them. We learned to love God's provisions. And I learned to love provisions as a child. I learned to love my grandmother's cookies. one kind. And I learn learned to love my mother's pot roast. I could smell it. But but actually if I'm really truthful. It was less the cookie, it was less the pot roast than it was the person that provided that for me. It was the gentle word. It was the everday presence. It was the walking with me. It was the anticipation of my desires as well as my needs. You know, all of life. I you did get that, didn't you? My mother gave me meat. My grandmother gave me cookies They were gentle in my life. They were forming in my life. They knew what I needed, what I desired, but they knew more than what I just wanted. They provided for me. So my satisfaction becomes because I receive it from God's hand. The Israelites could see the glory of God in the morning Yes, it was the glory of God that was going to walk with them and say, I will provide what you need. It's the glory of Christ. That comes alongside of us in our sense of emptiness and fills us. So you've got to identify where you are in this journey. Are you empty or are you full? Are you emotionally empty? Are you struggling to make choices and decisions that are godly and wise? And you recognize, Lord, provide my need. It's not for a cup of coffee. It's for a right choice. It's for a right habit. It's that I might follow you and be emotionally full and see your glory and feel your glory and love you. Can you see that need? Do you see that hole? That God-shaped hole in your life? That's what you pray for. And that's what God provides. He said, I will fill that space. And I fill that space in Jesus Christ. And Christ will walk with you. We celebrate with God's people, with each other, over God's provision in Christ. The Spirit of Christ dwells and he fills us. I said, well Lord, I we need this. As a church, we do, don't we? We need God's wisdom for the next choice of leader. Last week we learned about leader. This is about God's provision. When does it happen, Lord? I need it now. We need it now. Well, yeah. Maybe not. When do we need it? time. And God provides. Meanwhile, we rejoice in what He's given We rejoice in each other. We rejoice in the fellowship of moving in our journey together. So let me just ask the question again. How has God provided for you as a family? As an individual, as a congregation? Think about it in these next few days. Take this little paradigm, this little blueprint that God has given to us that's so mighty and say, well, what are the choices that we're facing that God has promised to give? What's the gathering of our hearts, of our of our emotions, of our love for each other that God has promised to give? Let me pray for that. What has he given? Is it enough? What are the physical needs? Has God provided for them? What does he want you to do with them? There's something new? Something you haven't reached out to yet? What is it? That's exactly what the Israelites said. What is it? What is this stuff? I just want you to look at your life this week and say, Lord, what is this stuff? What do I do with it? What is the manna in my life? God knows our weakness. He knows our temptation. He knows our need. He is on the journey with us. Us. Let's pray. Father, we come to you this morning, and we recognize that you have provided all of our needs in Christ Jesus. And you still walk with us. You still hold us by the hand. You send us forward into the pains and difficulties of our lives and of our journeys. Lord, would you take this week, these next few days, help us to begin to catalog What you provided for us, that our hearts might be lifted up with joy, that we might receive your peace Because we have seen your presence in our lives. Take away the grumbling from us. And give to us her voices, full-throated voices of praise, of adoration, and of joy. Thank you, Father, for walking with us in a journey that we couldn't have known, might not have chosen But you knew we needed to be on it. Thank you for your presence. In Jesus' name. Amen.