Um my name is Doug Servan. As you know, I'm not the pastor. Um you have votes to take and evaluations to make. Um I am glad Julie and her mom, Jeannie, are here And uh you'll get to know them. I'm gonna talk a little bit and then we'll read the scripture, okay. Um I had occasion to uh send a text to my kids and to Julie about um a topic that There's a long list too, and I was reminded of this list, things that I personally have been obsessed about over the years. That's what was on my mind. And uh I didn't know if they were gonna say anything. Right. I can tell on myself. Um there there's so many. And and they're no big deal for the most part. Um we I went to Athens one time when I came back and we ate Greek salad for uh two years. Um in college I had a thing where every day I ate every meal I I drank milk and ate jello. Not only, but it was Food network, port wine cheese, potato salad, sriracha. Um I'm very interested in something, the Covenant Seminary murder, which I'm happy to tell you about sometime. There was a murder on the grounds of Covenant Seminary Where I went in nineteen ninety, and it's unsolved. Don't get me started. Um and then, you know, right now it's sailing. I think about sailing every day, either my little sailboat that's close by, you know, is it windy enough to sail? Is it is it the right temperature? Who wants to go? And then I also take trips and so I think So these are the things that are on my mind, right? And I'm confessing them to you. It's probably a there's a lot more. I was surprised oh yeah, oh I forgot about that one. Oh yeah, that's true That's true. Julie has them too, by the way. Crunchmasters. Ask her about Crunchmasters. So, and what about yours? What are your obsessions? Are they big? Are they small? Are they good? Are they bad? Are they temporary? Are they long-lasting? Because what's on our minds is connected to what we value. What we worry about is also connected to what we worship. Fitness, education, cars, politics, gadgets Entertainment, our schedules, comfort, security, safety, upward mobility, power, job satisfaction, relationships, and our kids I mean people certainly can worship their families and their their children. So what about you? What do you worship? Okay, we're going to read from Malachi. That's what our uh our theme today is what we worship. And um And I yesterday I was with the the uh pulpit committee and the a few of the other uh workers or staff and I had in my brain that I was preaching on uh Obadiah. And so I gave Joan a panic attack because she had prepared the text for for Malachi, which is what I was preaching on. And so I was gonna do that again, but I just mentioning. I'm sorry, John. Um you you did the right thing. If there's any fault in the bulletin it's always my fault, that's for sure. So let's stay in. We have a few passages just to read a little bit Here we go, Malachi three and then some from the end of Malachi four. Behold, I will send my messenger and he will prepare the way before me. And the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to the temple, and the messenger of the covenant in whom you delight. Behold, he is coming, says the Lord of hosts. But who can endure the day of his coming, and who can stand as he appears? For he is like a refiner's fire and like fuller's soap. He will sit as a refiner and purifier of silver, and he will purify the sons of Levi and refine them like gold and silver, and they will bring offerings in righteousness to the Lord. Amen. And the offering of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasing to the Lord as in the days of old and as in former years. And at the end. Remember the law of my servant Moses, the statutes, and the rules that I commanded him at Horeb for all Israel. Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes. And he will turn the hearts of the fathers to their children, and the hearts of the children to their fathers, lest I come and strike the land with a decree of utter destruction. Amen. Some people uh jokingly call Malachi the the Italian prophet Malachi Uh Malachi, yeah. This prophet we don't know much about. It comes from 400s, maybe 460. Malachi means my messenger. So it it could be a proper name, it could stand in for someone. What's happening in in Israel this time is things are going pretty good Uh better than they had been in some time. They're they seem to be back on track, stable and somewhat independent, but Something is terribly wrong. It's not economics, it's not politics. The people are in spiritual distress And it's evident in their worship. They have the form, but not the heart. There's a temple culture, the temple ministry has been corrupted. The spiritual mission has been compromised. Now let me pause here. Why would a guy who's applying to this church pick these texts It is a great question, right? What in the world am I thinking? There's a lot easier passages in the Bible than this. Well, it's because if if we end up working together and I pick a text in the middle of Ephesians and I preach through Ephesians You've already heard that sermon, and what am I gonna do? So I wanted to pick some like outside the box ones at first and and there's better ones ahead, right? Okay But but we often don't dip into these we we sort of all have a functional Bible because we don't dip into these difficult passages nearly as often as the ones we learn Like so so it's good for us to do this. How do I worship? How do I live in this world What do we love? And might say we have a a little shift or perspective change on our our priorities or even my So the first point is worship care. It seems to me that the the two big camps in Christianity or American Christianity right now are there's a vague spirituality. Um uh don't pin me down type. And then there's also the the every single thing matters. There is no nuance at all. I am gonna go to war about each and every m every matter. Cultural Christianity is becoming less prevalent, but it certainly is still there. A lot of people that would would have checked the box, yeah, I'm a Christian, are not checking that box anymore. You know, they're called the nuns. Not the N-U-N, but the N-O-N-E, the nuns. What religion are you? Nuns. So that's becoming more common. And in some ways, that is a little more refreshing Because they're they're not fooled to think that they believe. My cousin, he uh converted to Judaism to to marry his wife and and so I I said, What did you convert from? And he said, Oh well, I guess nothing So I said, well we've got a lot to talk about. We have a lot of books of the Bible that we can discuss. But but but but a lot of people don't read the Bible, don't believe in it, don't go to church, they don't confess their sins. They don't believe Jesus is the only way to God, but don't tell them they're not a Christian. I had a friend in in Norway When I worked on campus and she was the fact that she was a woman is nothing no bearing on this story. She just was. She was a Presbyterian minister and she didn't believe any of it She didn't believe in miracles, she didn't believe Jesus died on the cross for our sins, she didn't believe he raised again from the dead, and she was a Presbyterian type That's scary, right? She was also an evangelist for her position. She couldn't stand it if anyone believed in him But she would stand up in the pulpit and use those terms as if she did. She would stand up and preach Easter sermons, because that was how she grew up, and it was a metaphor of any way to go God. Wow. Whatever problems we got in the PCA, it's not that. Praise the Lord, right? Or we offer we offer up catchphrases at City Prez, you know, in Oklahoma City, we s we did love God, love people, love the city. It was very easy to remember. But you can say love God and and Certainly not love God. What does love God look like, right? Loving people is one of the hardest things to do in the world. We can say we do it Jesus even says, Love your enemies. That's how far he goes. We can say we we love the city, but are we rolling up our sleeves and letting Loving the city, you know ESL is awesome. You guys are doing that. That's it's remarkable. Love it. Or we latch on to some principle and s Squeeze the life out of it. We love it so much we will argue about it every single moment. That's how much we love it, right? That's not loving, that's becoming a zealot about something. So Malachi has several things like this in mind. And he and he helps us. And he points out um one of them, he uses this metaphor of a covenant of marriage Okay, and so he's talking about uh Israel's relationship with God, like Jesus with his bride, the church. Same thing. But he he's also talking about it marriages. Actual marriages. And you know, like if if I brush onto some I don't know Julie, this is not about you. Um you know, the let's talk about the biblical sex biblical ethic for a minute. Sex ethic and marriage ethic. The biblical marriage ethic is that Christians should marry Christians And that's because the way I put put it, and I would talk about this with college students a lot when they're thinking about getting married It's like if you go to a party and and one of you thinks there's ten people there and one of you thinks there's twenty people there Well you can talk about the ten people that you both agree on. But if there's twenty more ten more people that the other person doesn't see or know about That person can't talk about them. And if you're a Christian, you have a whole dimension of things that are off the table in any real way Right? So a lot of times a non-Christian will marry a Christian and it's like, okay, you can do that, that's fine. And that doesn't work for very long. You start to partition your lives. Okay? And that damages your soul. The other part of it is, you know It's sort of a little crazy that I have to say this these days. A biological male marries a biological female For a lifetime, and that's where sexuality for those two people resides, is within that covenant Right? And there are reasons to break that covenant. He's talking about breaking that covenant and so he sort of moves around between a metaphor and not a metaphor. This is in 211 through 16 So guard yourselves in your spirit and you Do not be faithless. There are reasons. The Lord allows this, with you know patience and guidance and um uh wisdom uh whenever there are cases of adultery or abuse or desertion Um it might be right. It would be wrong to stay in a marriage that that has those things, but it's not required that you get divorced It might be wrong to stand. It's possible to reconcile and forgive. Our relationships matter with each other We're connected to each other. Even if we're not married to each other, our relationships and how we're doing with our relationships affect each other. So we should advise and mentor and pray for and forgive each other, pursue fidelity and chastacy and um Intimacy within our marriages and follow God's commands and and walk with Him the way He wants us to walk, which is certainly not easy So what I'm trying to get at is there's this everyday faith that's that's involved in all this stuff The other one is is how we treat people. This is in ch chapter three, verse five. Then I will draw near to you for judgment. I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, against the adulterers, against those who swear falsely, against those who oppress the hired worker and his wages. and the widow and the fatherless against those who thrust aside the sojourner and do not fear me, says the Lord of hosts. But if we hate people and harm people, if we oppress the underprivileged and marginalized, God stands against that. He calls that evil Incredibly evil. God stands with the hired worker, the widow the fatherless, the poor, the sojourner. Those people are close to the heart of God. Jesus Emmanuel came to seek and save the lost. If people don't think they're lost, they're very hard to find, aren't they? If people think they're okay, there's not a big reason to need Jesus in their minds. And so that's one reason why you see people that are really struggling cry out to God because they know they need. It is not lost on them their need They know it every day, they feel it, they cry out to God because He's the only person they have, the only one they got. So we need to bring to God our need. It's one of the most one of the things that's most required is our need for him. I think Tim Keller says the thing we need is our need And you know we're let's just realize we're trying as much as we can to never need anything. We construct our lives around not needing stuff We're hoping our kids don't need us forever, of course. But we train ourselves to be functioning to where we we we don't want to have needs, but that's what we need to have. Spiritually for the Lord, not this cultural Christianity or this crusading Christianity. With forgiveness and love and compassion in our relationships, because our worship is private and public and it's plural We worship God in our work, and in our classrooms, and in our kitchens, and in our in our bedrooms. So do we care? Do we care? Okay, next thing worship care, worship life. Another thing that's important in these days is sincerity, right? You gotta be genuine. Which is Totally fine. Except you can be sincerely wrong and genuinely wrong. Let's just remember that's also true. And so God wants our best. He forgives our worst. And so in this point, I just want to say worship is not completely subjective. Here's a weird example for that, but um when Saddam Hussein was killed way back a while ago, remember that there were Saddam Hussein imposters like on purpose they would they would walk around and try and get people to think that they were Saddam Hussein. There were like six or seven Saddam Husseins And so when they killed the one they thought, they weren't just gonna take his word for it, although that's you know, they wanted DNA testing to make sure they had the real thing. So there's like the form of this, and is that the real thing? And Malachi teaches that they had not brought their best to worship. And I'm not talking about what clothes they wore. Sometimes people think that's what bringing your best means. You dress up like an With a suit, dress, that's what bringing your best. No, that's not what he's talking about. He's meaning that the that he wants them to bring their first And they're purest because he owns it all, right? And they aren't doing that, and the priests are in on it. So so they're bringing defective animals. And the the the rationale in the Israelites' mind is, well, if I bring defective animals, they're not the best, they're not the first, they're not the worst, but I can bring more of them. Like I don't have to just bring one, I can bring ten. And the priests are going, like, you know, the this defective lamb tastes pretty much the same as the perfect lamb. So I want more lamb. I'm not sure that's what they were thinking, but you know that's the logic, right? Um But God sees and he cares, right? He isn't he isn't fooled. They're going through the motions We hear about going through the motions in sports or or performances or music, you know, like I can tell they were going through the motion. I could tell. There wasn't enough passion to it. But we also do that sometimes in work. In marriages and in worship. In this place, the the priests just don't care. So this is this corrupted covenant. And it's bringing shame, and God judges us. Look at 2 2. If you will not listen, if you will not take it to heart to give honor to my name, says the Lord of these hosts. Then I will send the curse upon you, and I will curse your blessings. Indeed I have already cursed them, because you do not lay it to heart. Another aspect of this is tithing. So here is the pastor talking about tithing. I'm not going to talk too much, but remember, God owns it all. It's his. So we give him a part. We're supposed to give him the first part because it's a picture of our remembrance That that we know he has it all. And he gives us ninety percent And God is generous. And He wants all of you. Can you imagine giving God 10% of your future? Ten percent of your sexuality, of your goals, of your dreams, of your time, of your brain space. You know, he says, I'm In all that. The ten percent is a picture of all of it. And so you know some of us we're not in a place right now to to do that. So let's think about what's moving toward that place Where maybe it's debt reduction, maybe there are things in your life that are distractions, of course. And we can sort of grieve that we're not giving God all of that at first and then move toward the faithfulness Of that enjoy. Enjoy. Not in any sort of oppressive way, but enjoy. So that we can be free to give. We can be free to be more generous people. That we can maybe make a mistake of being too generous instead of too miserly, doling out a little bit at a time There's a a documentary that I like. It's called Confessions of a Superhero. And this is takes place in Hollywood, you know, these are the people that dress up and they get pictures for m a dollar or two. You know, do you know what I'm talking about? And so they pick a character and they dress up like that character every day, all day. And they're the one that the movie sort of centers around is Superman guy. So he dresses up like Superman every day. And not only does he dress up like Superman, he goes home, it's all Superman. There's nothing else in his home. He's obsessed with Superman. Which is sorta cool and good for a documentary, and also so sad. There are other things to care about, man. And and also it makes me feel better because okay, that's what real obsession looks like, hey, right? This is a way minor league over here. But he's devoting his life to Superman. Superman directs his life. He's not given ten percent of his time or brain space. He it's all. Now I'm not suggesting fill your house with Christian trinkets and because that's not Christianity. I'm talking about your space, heart space, head space. Point three is worship God, worship care, worship life, worship God. And so this is where I'm not talking necessarily about Sunday morning worship from ten to eleven fifteen or more. However long we go, it's what happens on Monday through Saturday. How we interact with the world, how we treat people How we show grace to our parents, spouses, kids, co-workers, neighbors And how maybe on on Saturday night, whatever we're doing, we might think about, oh you know, I got worship on Sunday morning. That that might change our plans a little So that we're ready to come or we're looking forward to it. Because God is our great King, weighty King, but He's also our intimate father. Close, loving. And sometimes we veer on those directions, don't we? But he's both. He's not either one or the other. And so we can come too casually Or we can come too formally, but at least you're here. Coming is good, right? God invites us to know him. So really, you know, one of my questions today is do you know him? And that's different than knowing about him. You guys know who Dwayne Johnson is, right? Right. The rock Dwayne Johnson. Do you know things about Dwayne Johnson? He used to be a wrestler. famous movies. He owns the XFL. Blah blah blah. Well, you see one thing you may not know about Dwayne Johnson, he was a football player at the University of Miami in the early nineties. I went to high school with a football player in Miami. Who was at my little town, he w he he got to go and play football at Miami Miami, and he was awesome. His name is Rusty Madeiris. I can't wait to tell you about him. I'm trying to write a movie about him. And and Rusty Madeires was roommates with Dwayne Johnson So so whatever we know about The Rock, Rusty has his phone number in his phone. They call him Dewey. So whenever I hear Rusty talk about Dewey, I'm thinking, you are calling the rock Dewey? Dude. And that's the difference between knowing about something And knowing someone, knowing about a person and knowing the person. Knowing about God and knowing God is very similar because he's a person. And there are a lot of factoids about him. That's not the same thing as knowing him. And when we know God, Malachi helps us a little bit. He reminds us that knowing God means you know he's sovereign. It's not just knowing about him that he's sovereign, that you know that he's sovereign. So he's in control. He directs all things. And this passage has a very famous part of it in chapter one where he talks about loving Jacob and hating Esau. And I don't want you to stumble on that because it is it is famous, but he's talking about how he loves his people. The people who love him, he loves. And the people who are against him, he's against And he can switch those around. Like he draws people that were previously against him to love him. So it's more about the the direction than affection. And he chooses his people. For reasons, right? What are the reasons he chooses his people? They're smarter than everyone else, right? More attractive. Better people all around. No, not strongest, not wisest, not mightiest. In fact, it's almost the opposite We should realize that if we are following Jesus, he's picked us because we're sort of crazy. We're fools It's not because we're good, it's not because we're holy, it's not because we're smart, it's not because we're hardworking, because we fa fail over and over and over again. But this just keeps happening. We start to think God will love me even even now. God will love me if I Whatever it is you think, and especially if you're here and you're not a believer, it it's very common to think, okay, I'm gonna get my life a little bit more together, and then I'll start coming God doesn't want a mess like this and and the church doesn't want a mess like this. Depends on what the mess is, honestly, but no. That's not true. In in the in the main, we do we want you no matter what. But it's like we we think um It's like God's telling us, okay, you gotta go upstairs. You're sort of ruining dinner for everybody. Go upstairs, and then when you get your act together, you can come down and be with us again None of us have ever told anyone to do that. None of us were ever told to do that when we were children, right? And I'm not saying it's crazy to think that, but that is not the way God treats us. And and I do think we need to be a little careful as parents. Um when you can be nicer, you can be with us. You you are very dirty. When you go up and get clean, you can come in to the church. Take that bath first. But some of us realize that that's not the type of dirty I am. Like what is the bath for this type of dirty When I played softball a few times in um various church leagues or I have a definitely softball rule, no sliding. I will not slide. I w I'll get out. I'm not sliding. And then I broke the rule one time, right? And what happens when you break the rule, you you're wearing shorts and you get this terrible raspberry, but it's it's got dirt just embedded in it. to the core of your leg. 'Cause it's not just like falling on grass or even concrete. And so I get this terrible and you you can't get it out. I was like, okay It'll come out. And then the next week I did it again. I broke my rule two weeks in a row on the same spot because when you slide you sort of have a way to go. And so now It's really in there. And it is it's not coming out under normal circumstances. So that's what I'm saying, is there are some things, that's a metaphor, right? That's in your life or in your past that you're like, I can't And in fact, I keep on putting more in there. Can I come to God that way? Had a woman in our church and she had an affair and um she was coming out of it and and repenting And she said, Can I still come to church? Yeah. We can't wait to see you again. And that's not the end of it. the conversation, right? I had a friend uh in my church and he was struggling struggling with same sex attraction like so many I can't come to church anymore, can I? No, it's not true. It's where you need to be. So we sort of ingest this philosophy. Philosophy. And and we can't just scrub all that away before we come to God. Because, I mean, really, truly, right? Are all of us perfect tithers? Are all of us imperfect marriages? Are all of us treating people exceptionally every minute Do any of us go through the motions? Are any of us proud? Or lazy? Of course we are. Of course we are. The other thing is, you know, the the Bible tells us we're not just dirty, we're we're dead. And dead people don't scrub. So there is a way to be clean. This is the good news. Well we haven't had a lot of good news thus far. Sermon over. See you later The good news is there's a there is a way to be clean when someone else's clean gets on you. It's almost like the the thumbprint, you know, it's not your thumbprint, it's somebody else's thumbprint, gets you access in. Your thumbprint would be You're out. In fact, arrested. But if someone else gets and this person said, No, she's with me. You get to go in You get to be clean and forgiven. You actually gave that person your dirt, and that person gave you his clean, right? That's what Christianity is. We come to him dirty and dead and disrespectful and distracted. But if we come to in in our need, He takes that all and He gives Himself to us, right? Amen? And then we have a new identity We're in union as we walk in the Spirit with Him, not to get His love, but because we have His love, we are free to tell the whole world, I am no great shapes. And Jesus loves me. And he loves you. And we can love him together. He went upstairs to find me To be with me, so I could be with him. Because he chooses bad people Sovereignly in his goodness. He never changes. We read this in in Malachi 3:6, right? But we are called to change because we love Him. And we have the Spirit with us. And Malachi teaches this, right? And he teaches us also that that this will be infectious. He talks about how the calves will leap for joy. So when we understand this, we are not just Remember that? And then it was like all the other things. And it was like, this is what charismatics do when they're hearing a bad sermon. This is what Presbyterians do when they're hearing a good sermon. We are not gonna be that way, right? Joyful, joyful. Now when it's sad, we are gonna cry. But when it is good and what is the best is salvation comes from the Lord to people like us. That is such good news for us today. We leap for joy with that news. Now before I'm done, this is an interesting little part here. I'm going to A little longer than I would want to, but um this is the last book of the Old Testament. It's it's even clearer if you have a physical Bible, right? When you're scrolling it doesn't seem But but even if you're scrolling, okay. So so think about this. When I turn the page on my last page There's this one page that has no Bible on it, right? Right here. It says the New Testament and the Bible starts on the. . So this page right here, think of this. It's 460 years ago. Between this last page and this first page. Four hundred and sixty years go by. And what's the last word of the Old Testament? The last word is destruction. Yo, God. You've got to be thinking, you know, like in in three eighty uh What where are you? You you went silent. Two hundred, you know? Think about all that's happening the the Greeks and the Romans. Israel eventually gets put under oppression by the Romans Okay, destruction. Is there gonna be another word? Is God done? Okay. Any anyone My kids are driving me crazy. God, do you care about that? My parents are driving me crazy. I can't handle these classes. I can't handle this boss. I can't catch a break. I'm sick again. We're gonna have the same two candidates run for president again. God, where are you? Somebody different, please. We are stuck in a loop. It's gonna happen again four years later. These people are never gonna go away Where is God? Because all I see is destruction. National, and here we are talking about it again. God goes up and shoots people. Adam's fall really stunk, didn't it? God says He will come to judge in four two. We talked about the day of the Lord last time. The day of the Lord judges and it brings freedom and joy. It brings covenant of life And then we, as we follow God, we leap for joy. What a day. When will it come? When will it come, Lord? When will it come? And in this text, this last book, he says, I'm going to send a messenger and I'm going to send an Elijah. Who are those people? John the Baptist, right? John the Baptist was the last Old Testament prophet, in my opinion. It's like he pulls in from all this. He's speaking all of this language, and he was the messenger. And what was his message? Jesus is coming. And what did John say the first time he saw Jesus? First time what did he say? Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. Oh. What an awesome thing to say. Maybe sometime we'll talk about the Lamb all throughout the scripture. Even at the very end, right? The Lamb of God, the sacrifice, the perfect sacrifice. And we don't have to do it over and over again, Hebrews talks about We we were always in this loop of like every year we gotta go through this again. No, this is the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world That's such good news today. The true messenger, the true Elijah, came for us. The word made flesh, who obeyed God, fulfilled the covenant, the great high priest, was uncompromised. And he gave him life. We are giving him covenant breaking, and he is giving us covenant keeping. He is taking God's wrath so we can be bathed in God's love, right? So we can be close to him He was despised and rejected so we can be adopted and respected. He was killed so we could live. He was destroyed so we could be made whole. So what do you worship? Last illustration. When Julie and I moved here, um she knows uh My favorite sport is baseball. So not everybody can say that. And so um it came to be around March. It was a nice, beautiful day, and Camden Yards had a an open house where they're trying to sell season ticket packages. You know, like thirteen seats. Not eighty-two, but thirteen. And so I said, you let's go over there and we're not gonna buy season tickets, but This is to be our first chance we can go together. It's not a game. We can wander around, meet the bird and and all this stuff and I don't meet the Oreo bird, that's what he's called. Or she, I don't know And um and so she said, Yeah, great. So we get over there. It's a googly eye up here. Alright, so um so we so in there we're walking around and and it's it was awesome. I mean came in Yards. The best. The one that got it all started. And so um I said, okay, it's time to leave. She said, No, no. We're buying tickets. And I wept for joy. I was so happy. I couldn't believe those words came out of her mouth. I mean now in retrospect I s it wasn't hard to believe after all. But I feel like when I go into things like that, there is some sort of worship. Like we're all together, we all showed up at the same time. We're all watching the same thing. We're all reacting to the same experience. And and there are in these things that are like priests and prophets and kings involved in all of it, right? Someone's gonna tell me that they do good, somebody's gonna tell me that they do bad. Someone's gonna prognosticate that And so we're all in it. We're wearing our uniforms. We're we're in on this. Church should be something like that, right? Should be in that ballpark, so to speak. So let's let's let's come to him and worship. Amen? Because he's calling us to feed on him. We bring our sorry selves in, and He loves us no matter what. Amen. Let me pray for us. Lord, thank you that you do that. You do that very thing. You call us each and every week. You are so faithful to your covenant You're so forgiving of us as as we fail. Help us to uh repent, but not in um shame or cowering. But because we know you love us, we can come to you and say, forgive me, Father. I know how Or I believe help my unbelief. Or cast away the doubt doubt from my mind Holy Spirit, come more alive in me so I can walk with you in joy. We ask this in your name. Amen.