Good morning. Please open your Bibles to Luke chapter six, the pew Bible, page ten seventy-eight. Please stand as we prepare our Bodies and minds to receive the Word of God. Just several verses here this morning. As we consider uh uh the magnetism of Christ and And what it is that uh was drawing people to uh to seek out Jesus there in uh his uh earthly ministry. Luke 6 verse 17 and following. Hear the word of the Lord. Jesus went down the mountain with them. That's the pot And he stood on a level place, probably a plateau. A large crowd of his disciples was there A large number of other people were there too. They came from all over Judea, including Jerusalem. They also came from the coast of Tyre and Sidon. They had all come to hear Jesus and to be healed of their sicknesses. People who were troubled by evil spirits were made well. Everyone tried to touch Jesus. Power was coming from him and healing them all. The word of the Lord. May he encourage you through it. Please be seated. Probably almost all of you have sought out Jesus. You've come to him at the different a different point in your life Some of you were older like myself. Life was half gone, so to speak, 26 years old before I really began to seek out the Lord. Some of you uh sought the Lord very early in your life and uh you've each come from for different reasons. Uh and if you had to try to put your hand on what it was or what it is that keeps you uh seeking Jesus. I'm sure we all can give different testimonies But I'm also sure that in one way or another that you sought him out because in some way he was going to give you something that you needed That in some way there was something missing in your life. Something, some void or something that needed to be filled. And you saw in him something that you couldn't bring uh to the table for yourself, something that only he could give you. And so you've sought him and continue to seek him in a fuller in a regular way. We see there was a crowd here. Actually there are three crowds of people who are following Jesus We see the uh the first group, uh the apostles there in verse seventeen. Uh he had just uh spent uh the day and evening in prayer and had chosen these twelve apostles uh has his very select group. And uh he's with them and they come to a class We're not sure exactly where that was, probably uh maybe a Capernaum area. Uh but uh other people have been drawn to follow him, not just the twelve. There's a larger group as well. The group number two in verse 17, it says a large crowd of his disciples was there also. And so you had uh the inner twelve, then you had a larger group of disciples. And then you had an additional group, a third group. It says there were others too who were there, a large number. And where had they come from? They had come from uh all we're still good here, yes. They had come from uh various places, uh all over Judea, including Jerusalem, uh and uh the coast of Of Tyre and Sidon, which is largely a Gentile area. And so there was this great crowd of people who had gathered. And Jesus uh begins to do some things among them. Uh by the way, you remember the old Superman show? Those of you who It starts out right faster than a speeding bullet, more powerful than a locomotive, able to leak tall buildings in a single bound. Look up in the sky. It's a bird. It's a plane. No, it's superman. You remember it. Contrast these uh superheroes like Superman. Contrast uh the superhero To Jesus. Our Lord didn't leap tall buildings with a single bound. He didn't fly through the air like a speeding bullet He didn't, as some would have us to believe, throw rocks and they turned into birds. Or he didn't just flick his fingers and out came thunderous. And lightning, you know, this spectacular display of his powers. It's true, our Lord walked on Water. It's true that uh our Lord acquired a stormy sea, and at one point even he cursed a fig tree which wasn't producing anything helpful Hopeful or fruitful for his uh followers to eat from. These were perhaps a bit sensational miracles. But if as you look at the at the Lord's ministry and the and the how he did the miracles and and why he did those miracles. It really had very little to do with him wanting to to display the spectacular. In fact we know that uh our Our Lord was very interested in not saying, Look here, I'm the great Messiah. He was very interested in taking a low, humble position. And to come to minister Although it's it's true his uh ministry is filled with miracles. But he when he did the miracles, he did them not to show the spectacular, but he He did them, and the people knew why he did them, uh, and it was because he was interested in healing people. He wanted to make people whole. And that's why many of them had gathered there. They were there because they knew that whatever was ailing them in their bodies or in their uh spouse's body or friends, that These people who ha who needed help to be made whole that Jesus could likely give them what they needed. He could fill up what was missing in their lives And so he comes uh and as he comes he he does miracles among them. And we see uh the scriptures and and we know that uh it speaks of his miracles here in this text. Unfortunately, some people deny or doubt the miracles of Christ. Uh some claim that uh for example that raw science uh is in contradiction uh with miracle. That uh science uh says that miracles are impossible. That's what some would have us to believe. And of course, we also know that science at one time uh did not believe uh in bacteria or viruses, that there there could be these uh organisms who are strong and powerful that we can't even see. And so science uh begin to grow up and learn a few things along the way. Some have a great problem with the miracles and no thanks to the uh uh the enlightenment period in the eighteenth century primary where you had your uh your uh deists and your atheists, uh those who uh basically uh poisoned a lot of uh churchmen later on uh and they questioned the miracles of Christ like David Hume, uh the Scottish philosopher, who out and outrightly uh denied uh the miracles of Christ, saying that they were complete contradiction to to nature itself and stood in defiance to any irrational human being, uh rational thought Now when we see the Bible though, we see that the Bible speaks plainly that Christ did miracles, and people were drawn to him because that many of them were hoping he would do a miracle for them. And that's what had brought him to the mountainside there that day. Sometimes the miracles, by the way, you know, they're called signs. The miracles are uh a type of sign. In Acts 2. 21, for example, it says Peter is preaching to the crowd. And he says to anyone who calls on the name of the Lord, you will be saved. You'll be made whole Forgiven for your sins and your life will be put together. And he goes on to say in verse 22. Men of Israel, listen to this. Jesus of Nazareth was a man accredited by God to you by miracles. Wonders It's interesting that uh the people uh during the biblical times, and you can read through the biblical accounts, Matthew, Mark Mark, Luke, and John, nobody ever denies the miracles. He does them. No one ever says, Oh, that was a trick. They all just try to deal with them some other way because they couldn't deny outright What he was doing. They were just facts of life. In fact, it was those miracles that drew many people to trust In John 11, 45, it says, and I quote, Many of the Jews put their faith in him after Lazarus had been raised from the dead. The crowd had come to him when Lazarus was raised from the dead because many had seen how powerful he is and they wanted him to come and touch them with his touch Day and just a quick count, I found ninety references to the miracles of Jesus that are recorded in the Gospels. I found 47, at least 47 healings that are distinct and different miracles within the Gospels. And the Gospel of Luke itself I counted in just a quick Through list of at least 22 different references to Christ doing the miraculous, which raises a question. For you and for me to ask. If it's true that Jesus did these 90-some miracles Then who is this Jesus? It's a question that really why the miracles were there, and that's why they're called signs so that we would ask the question. We would look beyond the healing and ask the question, how does he how can he do that? Who is this? What is there about him that's able to touch a person's eyes with a little mud and they can see? What is it about him where he can walk over to a sick child who is on the edge of death or some have even died and she can just he can touch her and she can just sit up and Begin to move around. Who is this Jesus? J. C. Ryle, a significant evangelical leader in the Church of England in the 19th century, listen to what he says. J. C. Riley Rao, he says there are many strange thoughts about Christ when he was on earth. There are many strange and wrong thoughts about Christ now when he is in heaven. The thoughts of some people about Christ are simply blasphemous. They are not ashamed to deny his divinity. They refuse to believe the miracles recorded of him. They pretend to find fault with not a few of his sayings and doings. They tell us that he ought to be ranked with great reformers and great philosophers like Socrates, Seneca. Thoughts like these are purely ridiculous and absurd, says Rile. They utterly fail to explain the enormous influence which Christ the influence which Christ in Christianity The difference between him and others, says Raoul, is a gulf that cannot be expanded, and a height that cannot be measured. It's the difference between the sun and a candle. Nothing can account for Christ in Christianity but the old belief that Christ is very God. Reader, are the thoughts I've just F Fru Bruce put it this way, who's a scholar renowned scholar, he says we must first make up our minds about Christ before coming to conclusions about the miracles You see, if if you've already figured out that Jesus is God, then the miracles are not a problem. But if you're just looking at the miracles And nature, you say, obviously this can never happen. And so we have to make up our minds about Jesus. And that's what the miracle should be helping us do Is to help us make up our mind. Is Jesus the Son of God or is He not? Is He the Lord of the universe? Is He the Lord of your life Or is he not? It's a question that we need to ask ourselves. I need to ask myself every day. Is Jesus my number one? Does he have first priority in my life? Is he the first thing on my list? Is he at the at the top of everything that I think and do. Which often leads us to confession, doesn't it? And repentance. Because that's where he is, and that's where he needs to be. He is at the top He's at the top of God's list. There's no other name compared to his. And no other name, as we sung earlier, whereby we can be possibly saved. I'm not asking you to be perfect. I'm just asking, are you letting Jesus perfect you? Are you letting Jesus take more and more control of your life. This miracle worker. Of course miracles can be disappointing, can't they? This miracle worker, he can we look Look at him and we say, we can get discouraged, especially when we don't have our miracle. When there's something wrong with us, it's not fixed and we're we we Come to him and it's still undone. It's still not right. And so we can get discouraged You see, many were getting their miracles. Many of them were reaching out and touching him. Look at it. It says that the power is going out from him. And pr some of them probably had some very confused, mixed up notions. But apparently they had an ounce of faith and as misdirected as some of the Their thoughts were that they knew that somehow if they could just get close to Jesus and get over there and touch him, that they may get their healing. And he was healing everyone who could get in touch with him. That's what it says. They were all trying to touch him, and every one of them got his healing. And for us, we can get discouraged in our day and age Because we're trying to touch Jesus too, and we don't always get what we want, or maybe not even what we need, so we think. I just told you that the people want to transplant plant list for years waiting for a kidney. Everyone trying to touch Jesus. Power's coming out from him and he's healing them all. And so sometimes we say, Why why is it everybody seems to get their healing or their blessing and not me Augustine of Hippo never had that problem. You know what he said? And I quote, Augustine said, I never have any difficulty believing in miracles. Since I experienced the miracle, it would change in my own heart. See, the truth is that if you know Christ, you've already had at least one miracle in your life Do you know that? When you came to Christ, it's a miracle. To believe that you are under the judgment of God and to turn from your sin, you're not going to do that on your own That's a touch from heaven. It's a miraculous touch in your heart. He's moved you to confess your sin. He's given you the gift of faith. If you trust in Jesus, that's a gift You believe in his death, his life, his resurrection. It's a gift he's given to you, and you're on your way to heaven. And your ability to keep trust him now is his Then there's of course there's the issue of your body. We still need a miracle for our bodies, don't we? We all need a miracle whether we need whether Whether you need something major or whether you're just getting older and you're still in good health. We all know that we're weak, we're getting weaker. If you're sixteen or eighteen you probably don't quite know frail and fragile we are. But when you get to be older and you're getting retirement age, you don't have to think very long to realize about things like osteoporosis and and uh your hair falling out and all those other things that we don't even like to talk about, cataracts and etc etc, etc. Uh but you know the neat thing is that the overhaul's coming, the miracle's coming. It's your miracle. If you've had the first miracle, you've got another big one coming. It's on the way. The final healing is just around the corner. And even though you'd like to reach out and touch and say, give it to me now How you know and so we need a little patience. First Corinthians fifteen fifty one Paul says, Behold, I tell you a mystery, we will not all sleep, but we will be changed in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye at the last trumpet. The trumpet will sound, the dead will be raised and perishable, and we shall be changed. For this perishable body must put on the imperishable, and this mortal body must put on immortality Or as Jude says, and as we'll end the service later on, Jude 24, to him who is able to keep you from falling and to present you before his glorious presence without fault. And with great joy. So we just need to wait patiently until we were made whole in the body. Why were people being attracted to Christ? They were being attracted because He could make them whole. He could touch their bodies and fix them. Do you know what else why else they were drawn? They were drawn because he could Touch their minds. Not just their body, but their minds. They came not only for the healing, but look at the text. Not just to be healed in their bodies, but they came to hear Their minds needed to hear a word from Christ because so many were diseased in their minds. They had uh the wrong kind of thoughts. There some thoughts need to be fixed. They need to understand better who they are, where they were going, how they should deal with their daily lives. And so they came, as it says in verse Verse 18 to be healed of their sicknesses, yes, but they had also come to hear Jesus. See, he's not only the doctor of the body, he's the doctor of the mind What about you this morning? You've gathered here. Why did you come this morning? I pray that one reason, I hope a major reason, was you came to hear Jesus. That you came because you knew or believed that somehow Jesus was going to speak to you In a personal way in this context of worship. You know, there's a phrase, the crowd asked Philip in John 12, 21. You've heard it before. It's a popular phrase. And it's it says that in Germany uh there are a lot of uh pulpits, especially a lot of loot especially a lot of Lutheran pulpits, because that's I guess that's for primarily where the Lutheran churches are started. And it says that when the minister goes to speak in a in a a German church, he'll get in behind the pulpit and he'll see uh something written on the back of the pulpit. The congregation doesn't see. And it's a reminder to him why the congregation supposedly is there Written on the pulpit are the words, sir, we would see Jesus. You see, you're not out here to hear from Dan Broadwater. I hope Obviously I'm a real person and it's gonna words are gonna come out of my mouth, but it's much, much more than Dan Brawder or or some other minister, whoever it might be, that stands up here but we would see Jesus. Why were the people gathered on that day there on the plateau as Jesus had come down off the mountain. Why were they gathered? Some had come for their healings, but it says they were also there because they wanted to hear Jesus. Unfortunately, many of the modern pulpits, uh you go to church, I've been to weddings, I've been to funerals, and we went there and we spend anywhere from 15 minutes to a 20 45 minutes. We walked away. We never heard one single word from Jesus. How empty and you futile and void it is When somehow we've got some religious activity going on, but nothing from the center of our religion Jesus himself. So the people, Luke says, have come. They've come to hear Jesus. And where do we where do we hear from Jesus? You know, I I have to tell you this morning that he's not standing Behind the pulpit. He's not here. He's risen. Are we glad? He's risen indeed. He's ascended on high. That's where our Lord is. But fortunately, we have him in the Gospels. We find Jesus by going through the book of Luke or by studying Mark. Matthew, John, the Gospels. Uh in in these writings we have the the life of Jesus spoken to us and and preserved for us us and in the in the New Testament letters we have the life explained and expounded and and applied to our lives as to the relevance, what it means And and Jesus says, truth is that uh the Old Testament itself, the Psalms, the prophets and writings, when they spoke, they spoke of me. And so the bottom line is when we when you have the Bible And when you visit the Bible, sooner or later you'll find Jesus. You don't have to read very far as you look at the pages of the Scripture Why were people attracted to Jesus? Why what was it that was drawing them? Well, we said that he did the healing, then he said he did the And what was it specifically about the speaking that drew them? Let me just draw a few things to your attention here. Uh in general, first of all, uh Somebody put it this way, John seven forty-six when some of the officers they were they were told to to arrest Jesus and of course eventually He was arrested. The officers are going to arrest him. And they come back to the scribes and the Pharisees, these Jewish leaders who were intent on Bringing Jesus down. They come back and these officers come back empty-handed, these police, if you will, and they're asked the question, why? What happened? Why didn't you You bring him to us. Do what they said? He said, No one ever spoke to us like this man. When he spoke to us, when we interacted with him, we just couldn't do it. He just bef He just took away all our power by his words. No one ever spoke like this man Another scripture put it this way. When Jesus spoke, he spoke with wisdom. Even the people in his hometown who were not ready To accept him. You know what they said in Matthew 13, 54? And coming to his own hometown, he began teaching the people in their synagogue, and they were amazed. Where did this man get this wisdom? And these miraculous powers, they ask. They're puzzled. They knew he had the miraculous powers. They didn't deny his miracles, and they did not deny his They were just beside themselves. How did he learn this stuff? Who taught him? Where did he get his wisdom? In fact, in Luke, Luke 31, it's interesting It speaks about the people who were traveling from the ends of the earth, uh like the Queen of Sheba. You know, they had come, you know, they come to hear, right? They come to hear Solomon. They travel from all over. The wisdom of Solomon, everybody's heard about the wisdom of Solomon. Solomon. And Jesus says in Luke thirty one, eleven thirty-one, he tells his students, and you as you a student of Jesus, he says, Behold something greater than Solomon is Here. And so we're attracted to Jesus because something far greater, someone far wiser than us, Solomon, is here among us and has something to tell us. Some insight that will help us. You know, do you ever go to a conference, a Christian seminar conference, or some maybe a workplace And you walk away and you say, Boy that was a total waste of time, right? A total waste of money. I just spent like three hours or three days and you just it took have not I tell you, when you go to one of Jesus conferences, you've got something to show for it. When he speaks to you, he's going to give you a word of wisdom to help you. And he spoke not only with wisdom, but he spoke with authority. Matthew seven twenty eight. Crowds were amazed at this teach at his teaching because he taught as one who had authority. You know we live we live in a society and by the way and not as the teachers of the law. That's what it says. We live in a society w which is r basically 'cause a lot of life is a lot of gray and a lot of confusion. A lot of it doesn't need to be gray by the way, in many areas. A lot of it is gray. But there's a lot of confusion. And and people uh uh want answers. You and I want answers. We got enough questions. We don't want just another theory. There's all kinds of theories, and I'm sure there's a place for it. But there's too many voices. There are a thousand different voices leading us in a thousand different ways and in a thousand different directions and the neat thing about Jesus though when he speaks he speaks with authority. And he's going to lead us straight to God. Remember the disciples are asked him how to find God. And he says, I'm the way I'm the truth. I'm the life. And as we hear his word, we know that he's going to lead us directly to God. And the neat thing about him being a student of Jesus, he also says that my sheep hear my And so you hear the authoritative voice of Jesus calling you. And I don't know what he's speaking you specifically this morning. But as you hear him, as as he brings his teaching to you, and as the Spirit takes something he's teaching you I pray that as you hear his voice you will you'll follow him. Finally the the part about uh his teaching that attracted people as he spoke, uh he he was relevant. And I tried to find the word relevant in the uh in the concluding accordance but it's not there. But I know that he's relevant. And here's how I know. There's a little phrase, it's in just a little earlier in the text. Look in Luke 6:8, if you would. Jesus points out a little phrase. It says, or Luke says that Jesus knew what they were thinking. There's a little it's a little uh statement that occurs several times in Luke. Luke 5, 22, Luke 9, 47. It's also in a couple of the other gospels. Jesus knew what they were thinking Jesus teaching draws us to himself because he's relevant. He knows what you think. He knows what I think. He knows what's going in our minds. He knows the kind of things you worry about. He knows the kind of things that you that challenge you He knows your weaknesses. He knows you through and through. And therefore, when He has His Word, when He speaks, He knows what you need to hear His word is relevant to our lives. In fact, Thomas Ekempus put it this way, writing about the 15th century. He said the teaching of Christ is more excellent than all the advice of the saints. And in it we will find a hidden manna. The truth is, as as you begin to more and more meditate on the Christ, on what he has said to us. We will find food for our souls. It's a manna from heaven. It's something that will feed us because it relates to who we are are, what we need, and he always has something uh particular to tell us as appropriate to who we are as individuals Well, as a as I draw to a draw to a close, um let me just try to apply this. I've said already That Jesus was drawing people to himself like a magnet And he drew he drew them because people wanted to be made whole. Some of them wanted their bodies to be touched and healed. Some of you need your bodies He starts to kneel. And many of us need our minds to think right every day, every week. We need a touch from Jesus so that We will have healing in our minds, so we'll make better decisions and begin to live our lives the way we should. Which brings us back to the to the point uh where can we find Jesus? How can we get close to him? And the way we get close to him is pretty simple I mean we hear it time and time again, but uh right here is where we can find it in the Word. And I'm glad you're here studying His Word this morning. Uh we need to study it, we need to listen to it. We need to you need to pay attention to his word. You need to use his word like medicine. Uh you need to evaluate. We need to promote it, announce it, appreciate it. obey it, to send out missionaries. Because in the word is is is the healing power that's going to make us whole. It's the word as we continue in the word uh it's going to to give us what we need. In fact in second john one It says, anyone who runs ahead and does not continue in the teaching of Christ does not have God. If you don't continue in the teaching of Christ, you do not have God And it says, and whoever continues in the t in the teaching has both the Father and the Son. And so we need to continue to teach Teaching, following the teaching of Christ, holding to it, observing it, promoting, doing all that we can. Colossians 1. 28. He says, We proclaim him, that's Christ, admonishing and teaching everyone with all wisdom. Why? So that we may present everyone complete in Christ. People were coming to Christ. Why? They wanted to be complete. They want to be made whole. Friends, if you continue in the teaching of Christ, your bodies will be made whole. Just need to wait patiently. until he heals you. And you continue teaching the teaching of Christ, holding to it, he's also going to give you proper thinking in your mind. Finally, our minds are renewed totally when we think exactly like Him in the world to come. Lord, we bow before you. We pray you'd give us grace to keep holding to you. uh until our bodies are made whole. And give us grace to keep holding to your teaching and that our minds might continue to to meditate upon you and be filled. Fed with a manna of heaven. This we pray in Christ's name, Amen