Isaiah chapter two. The word that Isaiah the son of Ahmai saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem. It shall come to pass in the latter days that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established as the highest of the mountains, and shall be lifted up above the hills, and all the nations shall flow to it And many people shall come and say, Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob, that he may teach us his ways, and that we may walk in his path. For out of Zion shall go forth the law and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. He shall judge between the nations and shall decide disputes for many people. And they shall beat their swords into ploughshares and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more. O house of Jacob, come, let us walk in the light of the Lord. For you have rejected your people, the house of Jacob, because they are full of things from the east, and of fortune tellers like the Philistines. Their land is filled with silver and gold, and there is no end to their treasures. Their land is filled with idols. They bow down to the work of their hands, to what their own fingers have made. So man is humbled, and each one is brought low. Do not forgive them. Enter into the rock and hide the dust from before the terror of the Lord and from the splendor of his majesty. The haughty looks of man shall be brought low And the lofty pride of men shall be humbled, and the Lord alone shall be exalted in that day. Against all that is lifted up, and it shall be brought low, against all the cedars of Lebanon, lofty and lifted up, and against all the oaks of Bashan, against all the lofty mountains, and against all the uplifted hills. Against every high tower and against every fortified wall, against all the ships of Tarshish, and against all the beautiful craft of the rocks and the holes of the ground, from before the terror of the Lord, and from the splendor of His Majesty, when He rises to terrify the earth. In that day mankind will cast away their idols of silver and their idols of gold, which they made for themselves to worship, to the moles and to the bats Stop regarding man in whose nostrils his breath for what of what account is he? Amen. Please be seated. Thanks, Janet. The big question this morning is what are you hoping for? Uh Julie lost one of a credit cards this week and she was hoping to find it. We we're texting each other. We can just talk in person. We're hoping for more Orioles of Victories. course. I'm hoping the Cardinals turn it around a little bit. I don't think that's gonna happen. You're hoping for a good grade, a good day. Maybe a good sermon, finally. A good meal afterwards, good behavior on the drive home, good outcomes, clear traffic, blue skies. We hope for a lot in a dark, dark world, don't we? Last week we were talking about Isaiah one and and I referenced Jesus in John 12, where he said, I have come into the world as light, so that whoever believes in me may not remain in darkness. Jesus is the light in a dark, broken world. And in Isaiah 2, verse 5, we read, O house of Jacob, come let us walk in the light of the Lord. Light gives us hope. Light eliminates darkness. Light illuminates our path to show us our way. Fill us. with hope. So I want to talk about false hope and gospel hope today. And then what gospel hope does to move us back into the world. False hope. So where do we find hope? Where do we find value and meaning? Look at Jeremiah 2 2 It shall come to pass in the latter days that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established as the highest of the mountains. It shall be lifted up above the hills. And all the nations shall flow to it. And many people shall come and say, Come, let us go to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of house of the God of Jacob, that he may teach us his ways, that we may walk in his paths. Mountains. Deities dwell on mountains. Where does Zeus live? Mount Olympus, right? There are lots of these mountain gods. And in our God. What mountains can we think of that are important to us in the Bible? Mount Sinai, where Moses went up and got the Ten Commandments. Right? In in Mount Zion, where the temple is built. Mountains And it says, it shall come to pass that God will ultimately be the glory shining forth to the whole world, and the nations will flow to him. And that's been his promise all along. God promised this to Abraham: that the nations would be blessed through the seed of Abraham, that he would have countless people. Over more than the stars in the sky and the sand on the shore, that God's people would be a blessing. To the world, that God's people would be fruitful and multiply, that God's people would go forth, go out, bring in, bless. And did they do that? Sometimes, partially, not zero, but but not nearly to the extent that we would have hoped. Look at six through eight. For you have rejected your people the house of Jacob, because they are full of things from the east, and fortune tellers like the Philistines, and they strike hands with the children of foreigners. Their land is filled with silver and gold, and there is no end to their treasure Their land is filled with horses, and there's no end to their chariots. Their land is filled with idols. They bow down to the work of their hands, to whatever their own fingers have made. God's people, the house of Jacob and Judah, are worshiping other things, other gods. They've made alliances with other nations. They're amassing wealth and strength. Trusting in them, serving those things, consuming, not blessing. They are being tofu. Soaking up the flavor of where they are instead of flavoring where they are. Which is what they're always supposed to be, which is what we're always supposed to be. When we absorb the taste of the world, the values of the world, we are not walking with God in the way that we should. We're being consumers instead of worshipers. We're manipulating God, trying to get what we want out of it, giving ourselves What we think will make us happy, what we think will give us hope, but they're false hopes, aren't they? We Trust in ourselves, in our accomplishments, in what I can fit on my resume In my strength, in my effort, in my charisma, in my wisdom. And it ultimately fails, doesn't it? Judah, God's people, during this time, during Uzziah's reign, things are going really well for them. And and they they're getting silver and gold and chariots, some of the stuff they want really badly. But it's ironic because Uzziah's name means the Lord is my strength. But what they're doing is, I am my own strength. And I sort of trust in God too. Will that work? Look at verse twelve. For the Lord of hosts has a day against all that is proud and lofty, against all that is lifted up, and it shall be brought low. This is where that part of where we have a jealous God. He does not like his people to have other loves. And he will come after his people. And that's true back then and that's true now. And so as a church We need to remember what we value. And it's not just more and more people, more and more budget. It's following the Lord with all our heart, soul, mind, and soul. Strength, worshiping him instead of using him. And so often we hope in finances in our budget. We hope in our kids doing well. We hope in our health. All those things are good things when they're in the right place in our hearts. But ultimately, if we really do trust in those things and hope in those things, we will be left empty. Bumping around in the dark. Straying, wandering. 211 says, The haughty looks of man shall be brought low, and the lofty pride of men shall be humble And the Lord alone will be exalted in that day. Amen. So is there good news? There is good news. There's a gospel hope. We have all these false hopes, all these things that we trust in and go after, but there is something so much better, even for people who have done the wrong thing. These are God's people. Even for people who have trusted after false hopes, we will not be left empty. If we understand and follow the gospel. The world says, go be all you can be. The world says, follow your dreams, follow your heart, achieve all you can, get what's yours. But the gospel says our hope is in Jesus Christ alone, the one who has achieved it all and given it to us. He's our ultimate hope. So if we have union in Christ, union with Christ, if we follow him and believe him and trust in him, Then we are significant no matter what. We are his children. We are his bride. We have infinite worth 222 reminds us of that. Stop regarding man in whose nostrils is breath. For of what account is he? So often we worry all the time about what other people think about us. We to some extent care about our social media likes. Our clicks. Maybe who's looking at you on your single app, whatever, you're trying to find somebody. I don't know if you guys remember there was a show called Black Mirror. It was sort of this twisted weird world. I'm not rem recommending every episode, you know. But there's one Episode called Nosedive. It came out in 2016. And the premise is that that yeah, you have this social media status on a rating from one to five. And the more you move up, the better actually it it affects your per personal life in real real time. So there's this one, it's about this one girl named Lacey. She's a 4. 2 And she's trying to get to a 4. 5 because if she gets to a 4. 5, then she gets a better apartment. But She's on her way to something and she misses a flight and and so she gets bumped down a little bit so she can't get to the next flight. And then she goes she has to get to this place so she hitchhikes with someone who's a 1. 5. So her status goes down, down, down, down until eventually she shows up this at this thing that she's no longer welcome to because she's dropped so much and she freaks out and goes to jail and Blah blah blah. Doesn't matter. Now that's crazy, but but really we crave approval. Now, this is especially true for younger generations, but it's still In our lives, what do people think? But the gospel can break us free from From that, because we have God's approval. This is one of the ways where we gotta apply the gospel to our lives each and every day, that we have to remember it's not what all these people think about me that matters the most It's what the Lord thinks of me. And if I'm in Christ, I am His. I am beloved. I can be free from all of that I can stop looking for love in all the wrong places, right? Because God has come after me while we were yet sinners. God demonstrates his love for us in this. There is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Jesus enters into our brokenness. He enters into our idolatry even. Because he came and he lived and he ministered and he died and he was raised for us. That means he can break our self-righteousness. Our hopelessness, our arrogance, our indifference, because he conquered death itself, and all those dying things are connected into death. itself. We have a risen Savior. Amen. We often chase after other saviors that cannot save That's good news for us today, isn't it? It gives us a purpose to come to worship, but to go out into this crazy world with that message itself. When we are lost, we need to know where to look. Now, okay, Steve. I moved here. Fell's point, right? See that? This is I don't know. Yeah, right there. Thank you. Okay, so I've never lived on a harbor before. And for the maybe the first year I was like, I never know where I am. Because it loops around, right? I can see Under Armour Headquarters and it would take me an hour and a half to walk there Okay, and then l it gets worse. He's showing the other look at that I would get completely lost in a minute. How many little coves are there everywhere? And because they go like this, I don't know which is I'm pointing toward the water, but the water is all over the place. Okay, but Julie and I for a summer, two summers, lived in Colorado Springs. And in Colorado Springs, you can look at Pikes Peak and know where it is. And know where you are in relationship to Pikes Peak. That's totally different. Look to the mountain, right? The mountain looms up there so big. I go toward the mountain. I know the way home In John 14, Jesus had that conversation about, I'm going to prepare a place for you, and you know the way. And Thomas says, whoa, yo, dude. We don't know where we're going. How can we know the way? I think that's a pretty good question He has a Baltimore Harbor mentality. I don't know how to get there. He's in the Chesapeake Bay. Whoa. Which cove are you in? And Jesus says, I am the way. I am the truth. I am the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. What is the way to God? Jesus Christ alone. He's the mountain. That's our hope in this crazy, crazy, confusing world in the darkness. Look to the mountain. Look to the gospel. There's a nice little song written by Horatius Bonar. Kevin Twitt readed the music. I think Sandra McCracken sings. It goes this way. Upon a life I did not live, upon a death I did not die, another's life, another's death, I staked my whole eternity. Not on the tears which I have shed, not on the sorrows that I have known, another's tears, another's griefs, on these I rest alone. O Jesus, Son of God, I build on what thy cross has done for me. There both my death and life I read, my guilt and pardon, there I see. It's his life. It's his death. It's his grief. It's his tears that we stake our eternity. And that puts us on mission. See, that's the thing. That's the bacon part of this whole deal. So we now have a a reason to go out into the world wherever spots we are. Our neighbors, our workplaces, where we rest, where we play. And we have this message because ultimately What did we read in 2-2? It shall come to pass in the latter day that the mountain of the Lord, of the house of the Lord, shall be established as the highest of the mountains. And it shall be lifted up above the hills, and all the nations shall flow to it upwards toward the mountain To go see what the Lord has for us. Come, let's go to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of God of Jacob, that he may teach us his ways and we may walk in his paths. Amen. Wouldn't that be beautiful? We need to do that too. But it would be so awesome to see people going to the mountain of the Lord to worship him, to love him, to follow him, and someday, friends, we will. I I love walking to Orioles games. And I when I when I go, it's sort of like that, right? Everyone is going toward this one spot. From wherever. Some people have come all the way from out of town. They've flown here or taken a train here, driven here, and we're all going to end up at this one spot, 1235. On Thursday. First pitch. It's glorious to be there at 1235. And it was like 75 degrees on Thursday. You remember that? The storm went through. It was like ugh Got my computer, I'm working, watching the game. But as great as that is, how awesome is it gonna be When people are streaming to the mountain of the Lord to worship him. We're getting a taste of it when we come to worship today. Where God has made peace And we're no longer at war with him. Swords will be beaten down to plowed chairs, and we'll be not at war, but at peace, because the Lord has done all this work. It's going to be awesome. I can't wait. Oh, it's in verse four. He shall judge between the nations and shall decide disputes for many peoples, and they shall beat their swords into plowshares And their spears into pruning hooks, nation shall not lift up sword against nation, nor shall they learn war anymore. Oh, hallelujah. Come, Jesus, please Another mountain Jesus went up to the Mount of Transfiguration, right? And the disciples are up there, and they see Moses and they see Elijah, and they are so pumped, and they're like, let's stay here for a while. And God speaks. And he says, This is my son. Listen to him. So what are we hoping for? Yesterday I finished working on my serum and I was thinking about reading a book that I have for a class and I'm going to take this next semester about reading scripture And so I had this book, and I was in the cat's eye pub where I go to listen to music a lot. So you know, it's maybe three in the afternoon. And I remembered I did not get the tofu yet. I need tofu. Which is a weird thing to remember and neat. And so you know I'd already parked my car and there's a Whole Foods close enough away. It was maybe it's So I leave my stuff with next to this guy. I said, I'm gonna I'm gonna be back in twenty minutes, you're gonna be here. And so I just leave it all there because I don't wanna walk with it. I'm gonna be right back. So I come back with tofu and he's like That's an odd odd odd errand. I said, I know, I know, I know. And he said, well, I wanted to ask you about your book. Are you a Christian? I said, yeah. Um I'm a Christian. And he said, so am I. Can we talk about it? I don't know any I don't know very many Christians. I'm here with these three other people. They're not Christians. They think I'm crazy. Am I crazy? No, you're not crazy, man. And so we talked for I don't know, twenty minutes. They're all trying to get him to go. Uh and they don't really like what he's talking about, I can tell. But we have a delightful conversation. He he's only been a Christian for four years. He late 40s, so he became a Christian when he's 44. And he told me, you know, I used to think Christians were weak people Because they just needed something. And then I was weak and I needed that thing. I'm like, yeah, and we talked about what we talked about. All you need is need. If you don't think you need stuff, you don't need God. He doesn't make sense to you. But if you know you need him, it's a beautiful thing. And then he started telling me about he's been reading Keller and Schaefer. I'm like, dude, you're killing it. He's we talked about one of the people was his girlfriend who's not a Christian. Should he be with her? I'm like, whoa, whoa, you know, counseling session, maybe not all the way. I am here to listen to music too, right? Um but he told me, you know, when I trusted in Jesus just four years ago, it's like the scales fell from my eyes and I could see for the first time Time. It's one reason why you take weird books into weird places, you know, and sit on the lake. And I was thinking about when Jesus met the woman at the well. And she asked a very similar question. Let's go to it. John 4 Remember what she asked him, among other things. She asked this for nineteen The woman said to him, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. Our fathers worshipped on this mountain. Oh, mountains. Our father worshiped on this mountain. But you say that in Jerusalem is the place where people ought to worship. And then he has this fascinating deep convo with her. Like they're having a theological conversation at this well, remember, and he he's already outed her as like you have tons of husbands and like So she asked this question, but then at the very end, the woman said to him, I know that Messiah is coming. Okay, now she's using that technical term, right? There's going to be a king coming. There's a savior coming. There's something that's going to save us. That's in the water. And when he comes, he will tell us all things. And Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am He All those things that you want to save you, the things that we hope in, the things that we trust in, Jesus Saves. That is our hope. That's what we cling to. It's what we go out with. It's what we share. It's what we got. We got nothing else. But that changes all types of stuff. May that be true for us. And may that be true for this guy I met yesterday. His name's Christian. He lives in California. I got to meet him. He's trusting in Jesus too. Amen. We have several ways to respond when the word is