Well good morning everyone. Glad to see those of you that are able to be here in person and uh glad to be able to have uh a live stream for those of you who aren't able to be here. We were we were praying as as a a worship team um just before we went live and one of the things that I was praying about was just how this is this really is in some ways a a bittersweet day. It's a real cause for rejoicing that we can take a step back towards corporate worship that some of us are able to gather. And yet for those of you who are watching at home, we really are painfully aware of the fact that you're not here. As we've been singing and saying our prayers and the creed and confessing our sins, uh we've missed your voices and uh we long for the day when we can all join together uh again and we We find great comfort knowing that that Christ is not bound, even though we can't be together. But um know that you're missed and that you're loved, and that we we feel your absence pretty keenly here this morning. Um If you have a Bible with you, I'll ask you to open it up and turn to John chapter 21. We're going to be finishing John's Gospel next week, and then we're going to take one One week just to kind of have a a separate sermon and then uh starting in August, Pastor Stan will start us off with a study in the book of Habakkuk, which is a a really timely book, really fitting for all the things that are going on. But for for this morning we're gonna look at the first half of John 21 verses 1 through 14. So I'll ask and invite you all to stand as we honor the reading of God's Word together this morning. Hear now God's Word. After this, Jesus revealed himself again to the disciples by the Sea of Tiberias, and he revealed himself in this way. Simon Peter, Thomas, called the Twin, Nathanael of Cana in Galilee, the sons of Zebedee, and two others of his disciples were together. Simon Peter said to them, I'm going fishing. They said to him, We will go with you. They went out and got into the boat, but that night they caught nothing. Just as day was breaking, Jesus stood on the shore. Yet the disciples did not know that it was Jesus. Jesus said to them, Children, do you have any fish? They answered him, No. He said to them, Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find some. So they cast it, and now they were not able to haul it in because of the quantity of fish. That disciple, whom Jesus loved, therefore said to Peter, It is the Lord. When Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put on his outer garment, for he was stripped for work, and threw himself into the sea. The other disciples came in the boat, dragging the net full of fish, for they were not far from the land, but about a hundred yards off When they got out on the land, they saw a charcoal fire in place with fish laid on it, and bread. And Jesus said to them, Bring some of the fish that you have just caught. So Simon Peter went aboard and hauled the net ashore full of large fish, a hundred and fifty-three of them. And although there were so many, the net was not torn. Jesus said to them, Come and have breakfast. Now none of the disciples dared ask him, Who are you? They knew it was the Lord. Jesus came and took the bread and gave it to them, and so with the fish. This was now the third time that Jesus was revealed to the disciples after he was raised from the dead. This is the word of the Lord this morning. Let's go ahead and and pray. Our Father, we come before you praising you for who you And yet you are pleased to to call us out of darkness in the world. into your marvelous light to call us to be your people to come and worship you and praise your name and we we do worship you. But we also know that as we we so desperately need to hear from you through your word, we know that on our own we are not capable of rightly understanding and applying your word. So Holy Spirit, we need your help. We pray, O Lord, that you would help us open our eyes, open our ears, that we might see and hear what you have to say to us. that you might show us Jesus, because he is the one whom we've come to behold. And we pray that you would speak, O Lord, for your servants are listening. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen. I mean my seated. One of the things that that we enjoy doing as a family when we watch a movie is At at the end of the movie to skip to the very end of the credits and see if there's one of those bonus extra scenes there at the end of the movie. And We just enjoy watching them. They're cute and they're funny. They don't normally add anything to the story, to the plot of what's going on, and yet we we do enjoy watching them. The movie's not quite over, there's another second left. I I think sometimes as we turn to John twenty-one, we don't really know what to do with it and and some people kind of see it in that way, almost like it's It's interesting stories, neat things that are just kind of tacked on to the end. But you know, if we're honest, we read the end of John chapter twenty and it seems like he kind of wraps things up rather nicely for us there. He just kind of ends the book there, and then he goes on for this epilogue. I think sometimes we're we're not overly sure what we ought to do about that. And I think it's important for us to to remember that that John has included this for a reason. He's included it for an important reason. We'll see next week. It answers some questions, right? How Peter is restored by Christ and finds this prominent role in the church, as essentially one of the leaders among the disciples. But I think we also see that it reminds us that we're a lot more like the disciples than we sometimes think. Just like them, we're also prone to doubt. We're also prone to forget our need for Christ. We're we're prone to forget his care for us. That's how the disciples are. I mean, we see that at the end of Matthew's gospel, right? In chapter 28, just as they come to Jesus at the mountain to receive the Great Commission, we're told that all the disciples came to him And when they saw him, they worshipped, and then Matthew includes this great phrase, but some doubted. Jesus had appeared to them over and over and over again. He's about to ass Ascend into heaven shortly. He's giving them this final marching orders for his church. They see the risen Christ. Thomas has already put his hands in the nail marks and the spear hole in his side and all these things. And yet, they doubt it. That's comforting to me. I hope that's comforting to you. The disciples have already had Christ appear to them two times. In John's gospel that we find recorded. He's already, as as Pastor Stan showed us last week, commissioned them, said, you know, you're going to receive the Holy Spirit. You're going to have this mission that you're sent out on. And yet Jesus saw fit to reveal himself again, a third time, to these disciples. Because I think it's important to know that if they're going to carry on this mission, they need to be assured that their Lord has risen, beyond a shadow of a doubt. And I think that's how this really connects to us, right? Because we inherited the same mission that Jesus gave to his disciples. And we need to see how it depends on a risen Christ. So as we look at this passage this morning, we'll just see that Christ reveals Himself to help us live for Him. And as we look at it, we'll see that he really reveals himself in two ways. First, he reveals himself as the one we need, and second, he reveals himself as the one who cares for us. So let's look first at verses 1 through 8. We'll see that Christ reveals himself as the one we need. And just notice right off the bat that the whole focus of this passage is on Christ revealing himself. John tells us there in verse one, after this Jesus revealed himself again to the disciples by the Sea of Tiberius. And he revealed himself in this way, and then in verse 14, this was now the third time that Jesus was revealed. Revealed to the disciples after he was raised from the dead. He kind of bookends the entire passage by saying, Jesus has revealed himself. This is what it's about. This is the focus on how Jesus reveals himself. You see that unfold as you go through the passage. The disciples start out not knowing who it was, but by the end they know it was the Lord. Some have even seen the the movement from night to day as as John's way of saying not only what time these things really happened, but also a picture of what's going on in their their understanding as they go from darkness to all of a sudden understanding and having clarity becomes in the light, that that parallel that he weaves throughout his gospel in so many ways. And we're told this is the third time that he appears It's not counting the appearances to the women, because the eleven at this point. And it's not counting the the appearances that John doesn't tell us about. It's just the three that happen in this gospel. But I want you to see the emphasis on the way that Christ reveals himself. There's something about what Christ does and how he acts that is what helps them to understand that it's Him. He acts in these familiar ways, connecting what he does, deliberately setting up this encounter to mimic or resemble two key events in their time walking with him. When he first called them to be his disciples, and when he fed the five thousand. We'll see these as we as we go through, but just notice first of all where Christ reveals himself, the Sea of Tiberias, which is also the Sea of Galilee. It's two names for the same place. The only other place in John's Gospel where it's called the Sea of Tiberius is John chapter 6, where he feeds the 5,000 and then gives the bread of life discourse. And so it's Already right off the bat it's it's familiar territory. You you can imagine the disciples there on the beach, kind of looking on the boat, looking out at the beach, saying Remember when all that crowd was there and Jesus fed the disciples, remember what that was like? You can imagine that they're already primed to be thinking about these events. And the fact that it's the Sea of Galilee makes it clear that the disciples actually went home, right? They were in Jerusalem when Christ was crucified. Now they've made the journey some 78 miles north to Galilee. And have returned home. Now it's important to see they went home because Jesus told them to do that. Right? And in the other gospels, Matthew 26, Jesus tells about his death ahead of time. He says, After I'm raised up, I will go before you to Galilee. They understood that they were supposed to go back to Galilee and meet with Christ. So they're back home where they're from. Seven of them are together. Peter, Thomas, Nathaniel, James, and John, and two others who are unnamed And Peter says, I'm going fishing. And the others decide they're gonna they're gonna come with him. We need to kind of unpack that a little bit because there's there's lots of disagreement about how we ought to understand the disciples going fishing. Right? Some some look at that and say, see, Peter's completely abandoning his calling as a disciple, forsaking Christ, going back to his worldly employment, going back to the way life was before he ever met Jesus. And so clearly the disciples here are sinning by going fishing. It's a lack of faith and unbelief and all these kinds of things. I don't know that the text sets us up to take that interpretation, though I mean think about the reason they're in Galilee is because Jesus told them to go there. Jesus has already appeared to them. Just in the last chapter, he gave them this commission that says they're going to receive the Holy Spirit. He's told them to go to Galilee and to wait for him. And while they're waiting, they need to eat. Peter has a wife, at least, he's got a family to provide for. Use their time. And it makes sense that they would go back to the very thing that was their livelihood for many of them before they met Christ. And so I think probably we should see this as the disciples trying to obey Christ waiting for him, maybe unsure of what to do, so they do what comes naturally, right? Though it is it is hopeful to see that they have not yet received the Holy Spirit in all his Fullness as they will on the day of Pentecost. It's pretty hard to imagine the disciples after Pentecost doing this, going back and going fishing, right? So there is a difference that comes when they receive But in this point, they're kind of in this waiting period, waiting for Christ to come and reveal himself. So I don't think we ought to read too much into them going fishing. But whatever it is, this fishing trip is just a total failure. And it's interesting to to see because they're professional fishermen, several of them are. The they're in their home territory, right? They they know the best time to fish, they know this this sea, this body of water, they probably know the best spots where the fish tend to migrate and And all of these things. This is their normal turf. And yet, after fishing all night long, they catch nothing. And then John tells us in verse 4 that just as day was breaking, Jesus stood on the shore. Yet the disciples did not know that it was Jesus. Now at this point they're they're about a hundred yards off from the shore. Add in, you know, the morning fog rising off of the sea, the fact that the sun is just starting to come up and It's reasonable and understandable that they wouldn't recognize who Jesus was at this point. It's also possible that, as in some of the earlier instances, they're kept from recognizing But even if that's not the case, it's kind of understandable that they would have a hard time recognizing Jesus with all those circumstances happening. And I just I just love this interaction that happens between Jesus and Jesus and the disciples. You can just imagine how how they must have felt. Up all night fishing, these seven guys who know what they're doing should be catching stuff. I'm sure They're angry and frustrated. They've probably been arguing back and forth with one another, each trying to think they know the best way to do it and where they should cast the nets, just kind of as as we do when we get frustrated. Just going back and forth And all of a sudden here shows up this guy. And if you kind of read the the question maybe in the way that it's it's in the Greek, it kind of comes out with this expectation of, guys, haven't you caught anything? Do you just picture them just rolling their eyes? No. We haven't caught anything. Thanks for pointing it out. And then Jesus says, Have you tried casting on the other side of the boat? Can you can you just picture yourself in that situation? You've been fishing all night. Well, thank you. I've never thought of that idea. I've been casting in the same spot over and over again for 12 hours and nothing happened. I never thought to try the other side of the boat. And yet, this is the most obvious suggestion, right? It's the person that comes to you when you've been trying to get your your computer working for hours and they say, have you checked that it's plugged in? If I was in the boat, I probably wouldn't have responded as politely as the disciples had. And yet, for some reason, they tried it Maybe they're too tired to argue with him, or maybe they just want to humor him, so he goes away and leaves them alone. Whatever the reason, they decide to give it a shot, and immediately they've caught so many fish that they couldn't pull it back into the boat. It's a miracle And it's at that precise moment we're told that John, the beloved disciple, realizes this is the Lord. You see, because he remembered the familiar situation from a few years ago that the day he met Christ. Because almost the same thing happened. We read about it in Luke 5. Jesus comes to them and he says, When Jesus had finished speaking, he said to Simon, Put out into the deep and let down your nets for a catch. Simon answered, Master, we toiled all night and took nothing, but at your word I will let down the nets. And when they had done this, they enclosed a large number of fish, and their nets were breaking They signalled to their partners in the other boat to come to help them. And they came and filled both the boats so that they began to sink. But when Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord For he and all who were with him were astonished at the catch of fish that they had taken. And so also were James and John, sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon And Jesus said to Simon, Do not be afraid, from now on you will be catching men. And when they had brought their boats to land, they left everything and followed him. See, John's going through reliving almost the same situation. And it just clicks in his mind, I've been here before. This is the Lord revealing himself to us. And so he says to Peter, it's the Lord. And again, you you see this difference between John and Peter. They're not presented in in competitive roles, right? They're very much equals, they're very much friends, and yet you see the difference in their personalities. In that John usually is quicker to kind of understand and grasp things with his mind, and yet Peter is just first to act. He's there stripped for work, probably just a loincloth or something, and the second that John points out that it's the Lord, he throws on his cloak and jumps into the water to get to Christ. I love that he just leaves the others to deal with this fish. It's already too heavy for all of them. And Peter just says, I don't really care. I'm going to Jesus. Probably would have been frustrated if I was one of the other disciples as I'm just kind of struggling to drag this thing in the water back to shore without our seventh man helping us. But you just see Peter's heart for Christ. He loves him. And he longs to be in his presence, and so he doesn't care whatever else is happening. Nothing is going to stop him from getting to Jesus. And I love that this is this is before he's restored in the passage we'll look at next week. After he sinned and let down the Lord. He doesn't do what you and I are so tempted to do when we sin, does he? Right? When you and I sin, we think I've got to like do my penance for a certain amount of time, I've got to stay away, I can't go to Jesus in prayer, I have to feel bad enough for long enough so that Jesus wants to hear from me again. Peter Peter doesn't have any time for that. No, I'm going to Jesus. I don't want to be anywhere else. Friends, I hope you share this love for Christ, that you long to be near him, and that when when you feel drive, when you don't feel that love, that you ask his Holy Spirit to fill you with love for Christ, because that's why he's sent. It's certainly an interesting scene. Just a great story, but uh what's the point that that all this is is happening? Why does Christ reveal himself in this way? I think what's going on is I think he wants to remind them Of their need for him. Think about what's happening here. He he shows up to these fishermen the same way that he first met them. And in that first interaction when he met them, he told them You're not going to be fishermen anymore. You're getting a new job. You're going to be fishing for souls of people. You're going to be fishers of men. And now he appears to them in the same way. Reminding him of that calling and showing him that showing them that you can't even catch real fish unless I give them to you. How much more true is that of the mission of fishing for souls? It's a it's a story that acts out the truth of John fifteen five. Abide in me, because apart from me you can do nothing. This is how Jesus reveals himself to us as well, because you and I we're so tempted to forget our need for Christ, aren't we? I can't tell you how many times I sit in this office over here working on a sermon thinking I I don't have time to pray. I have to write my sermon. Foolish. I I can't I can't understand this book on my own apart from Christ's help. And and beyond that, when I stand up here in the pulpit, I have no power to actually change any of your situations, any of your hearts, any of your lives. I can't do this on my own. Unless Christ shows up to work by his Spirit through His Word, and yet so tempted every week, just gotta grind it out and get it done. I think I'm not alone in that. I think we do that in all areas of life. I think we do that in our parenting. We've got to raise our children in the discipline and instruction of the Lord, knowing that we can't actually produce any change in their hearts and lives. We're called to love and serve our spouses, picturing the gospel and the way we relate to one another, knowing that we cannot do that perfectly. With your friends, with your work life, your school. We're called to represent Christ in every area of life, counting others more significant than ourselves, loving our neighbors as ourselves, walking with honesty and integrity. Friends, as a Christian, you are called to live and walk in a way that you can't do without Christ's help. That's why Paul says, work out your salvation with fear and trembling, knowing That it's God who works in you both to will and to work, to give you the desire to do it and the ability to carry it out. But beyond that, we we have to see this in light of the mission that Christ has given to his church to make disciples of all nations. We cannot do that on our own. We need Christ. No matter how many times you share the gospel with your friends and your family and your coworkers, no matter how many ways you give the perfect answer to their question or just come up with the most wonderfully convincing arguments that just shatters every objection to the Christian faith. You can never bring someone to faith by your own work and your own words. We do not have the power to bring people from death to life, out of darkness and into light. Only Christ, by his word and spirit, can do that. We need him. Apart from him, we can do nothing. This is something we we have to always remember as a congregation, that the very thing we've been called to do is the very thing that we cannot do on our own. We're called to reach our community for Christ. We exist together here because there's people out there that don't know Jesus, and we're called to go to them and bring them to Christ. And yet we can't do it unless He blesses it. Unless he builds the house, we labor in vain. We could be fishing all night long and we'll catch absolutely nothing. This is just a wonderful reminder that salvation belongs to the Lord. All of grace. He builds the church. And unless he builds it, we labor in vain. Apart from him, we can do nothing. Christ reveals himself to the disciples to remind them of their need for him, but he doesn't stop there, and that's the beautiful thing. He also reminds them that he cares for them, that he provides for them, that he takes care of them. That he will equip them for the very thing that he needs them to do, that he wants them to do. That's what we see in verses 9 to 14 that Christ reveals himself as the one who cares for us. We need him. Without him we can do nothing, and the good news is that in Christ we have a Savior who cares. He's the one who provides, and he provides abundantly. Do you see that in this text? Notice the massive quantity of fish. Seven men who are some of them professional fishermen. These aren't you know weak guys that need to hit the gym. These guys can lift some fish and they can't even get the net into the boat. So many they can't get them in. 153. There's all kinds of speculation about that what that number means. Throughout church history, people have come up with all kinds of creative ways of interpreting it and trying to figure out what it means. Some are are more convincing than others, but I I think the real point is that it's a lot of fish. Not just that they they caught nothing apart from Christ. But when Christ shows up, they have more than they know what to do with. And the miracle goes even further because the net wasn't torn. Right? Just like the last time, the net was torn, the boats began to sink. Christ preserves the boats and the net. Abundance of fish and preserves the net. If there's any symbolism in that, it's surely that when Christ sends us out to fish for souls, he's going to make sure that he doesn't lose a single one. The net will never break. None of his people will be lost. That's not all. Notice they come to shore and he feeds them. Isn't that a beautiful statement? Come and have breakfast. You've been working all night. You're frustrated and angry and tired. You're hungry. Yet he cares for them enough to serve them and feed them. The same Lord who washed their feet now fixes them breakfast. Even in his exalted state, he's the humble servant king who came not to serve be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many. And friends, he takes care of us in the same way, meeting our needs. There's nothing in our lives that's too big for him to handle, and there's nothing in our lives that's too small for him to care about. And in light of all this, there's just no doubt who it is anymore. Right? Not only are they closer to him as they're up on the beach, but they've seen the way he provides and cares for them, and they know that it's Christ. But don't miss just the care and provision that he offers. They need him, but he doesn't leave them hanging. He provides abundantly. He called them to serve them. He's going to care for their needs as they go, and he's going to equip and bless them in the Ministry that he's called them to undertake. Establishing the work of their hands. He's ascended into heaven, and that doesn't mean he's stopped working. He's still there interceding for us continually before the throne. He's still the one by his word and spirit who reveals the will of God for our salvation. He's still the one who rules and defends his church, restraining and conquering all his enemies and our enemies. As prophet, priest, and king, he is the one we need and the one who meets our needs. And yet, in this text, there's even more, right? He doesn't just provide for us, he gives himself to us. Don't miss the symbolism there. By the Sea of Tiberias, the same place where he fed the 5,000, he prepares a meal of bread and fish, the very same meal he used in that miracle. And in John 6, when he said the 5,000, he made it clear that he is the bread of life. Right? You don't need just a lunch, you need Jesus. I think it would be reading too much into this to see the Lord's Supper here. But nevertheless, when Christ feeds them in this way, Showing that he's able to provide for them in miraculous ways, you better believe that they remember this teaching, that he is the bread of life, that he is the one that they need. Friends, that's good news for us because you and I, our greatest need is Christ. We need his righteousness and we need his grace because we are fallen sinners who offend God by all the things we say and think and do. And we have all kinds of other needs, but our greatest need is Christ. Because through him, he is the one who forgives our sins and gives us access to the Father, making us children of God. Friends, we need him, and he gives himself to us freely and fully. What good news is that? The disciples are still adjusting to the fact that everything's changing, right? He's going to be with them, but he's going to be with them by his spirit, not in the flesh. And he's still trying to teach them that though the way they relate to him is Is going to be different as they relate to him by the Spirit. He's still the same Christ. He's still the same Christ that walked with them and taught them and met their needs and cared for them. And he's the same Christ to us as he is to them. The same yesterday and today and forever. He never changes. Friends, do you know this Christ? I hope you do. I hope he has revealed himself to you. I pray that you seek him through his word. If you do not know this Christ, as you are here this morning or listening today, ask the Holy Spirit to reveal him to you. Seek him and you will find him because he is the one you need. There's no one else that can satisfy your longings. There is no other way. It doesn't matter what you believe about God in the abstract if you don't know God in Christ, as He has revealed Himself as the Savior of sin. If you do know him. And I suspect like me you also know many people who don't know him. And I hope that this is a text that encourages you and motivates you to live to him. Because friends, we share this mission that Christ has given to his disciples here, to be witnesses to the ends of the earth, of Christ, and of the wonderful things that he has done. And we're powerless on our own. But we're not alone. Because we have Christ. He's the one who sends us out, promising, as we fish for souls, that the net won't break. He won't lose a single one of his people. Because Christ is at work to build his church. The gates of hell will not withstand it. They have no way to stop the advance of his kingdom. He will have the prize for which he died. An inheritance of nation, a people from every tongue and tribe, and nation and language surrounding his throne, praising his glorious name for all eternity, never ceasing. Let us be committed to this mission. Let it shape our whole lives and all that we do, and ask the Lord of the harvest to draw many to himself through our efforts. Never forgetting that he does not send you alone, but he goes with you. Don't forget your need for him, because apart from him, you can do nothing. Let's pray. Oh God, we do need you. Every hour we need you. We have all kinds of other concerns and needs in our life, but none of them comes close to the need that we have for you And yet you promise that we can come to you and buy without money, without price. That if we open our mouths, you will fill it. You feed us from your word. You strengthen us in all the ways that you call us to. But I pray that you would fill us with great love for Christ, sense of our need for Christ. And a great sense of Christ's love and care for us, Holy Spirit, that you would keep us close to Jesus and never let us forget how faithful He is to provide for us. As you fill us with love for Him, give us the longing to go and tell others. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.