Good morning. God is good And we're fortunate to have his word this morning. He's done many acts in history, spoken revelation, and preserved a number of his communications with us. uh preserved it in writing for our own benefit here uh generations later. This morning we'll be looking at 1 Samuel 27 as we continue to go through the book, coming uh closer to the ending. Uh I would ask you a question as we prepare for reading. If you were struggling for your life, just trying to stay alive uh you might find that you would make some questionable, even radical choices What did David do to finally get away from his persecutor who was trying to literally kill him? King Saul Let's stand and look at some of David's radical and questionable choices. Please stand. So we read from the Word of the Lord. I'll be reading from the English Standard Version. Hear the word of God. Then David said in his heart Now I shall perish one day by the hand of Saul. There is nothing better for me than that I should escape to the land of the Philistines. Then Saul will despair of seeking me any longer within the borders of Israel, and I shall escape out of his hand. So David arose and he went over, he and the six hundred men who were with him to Akish, the son of Maoch, king of Gath. And David lived with Akish at Gath, he and his men, every man with his household, and David with his two wives. And Jehoam of Jezreel, and Jezreel, and Abigail of Carmel, Nabal's widow. And when it was told Saul that David had fled to Gath, he no longer sought him Then David said to Akish, If I have found favor in your eyes, let a place be given to me in one of the country towns, that I may dwell there. For why should your servant dwell in the royal city with you? So that day Akish gave him Ziklag. Therefore, Ziklag has belonged to the kings of Judah to this day. And the number of the days that David lived in the country of the Philistines was a year and four months. Now David and his men went up and made raids against non-Israelites, the Gesherites. And the Geersites and the Amalekites, for these were the inhabitants of the land from of old, as far as Shur to the land of Egypt. And David would strike the land, and would leave neither man nor woman alive, but would take away the sheep, the oxen, the donkeys, the camels, and the garments, and come back to Akish. When Akish asked, Where have you made a raid today? David would say he fought against the Israelites. He would say against the Negev of Judah, or against the Negev of the Jerahmielites. Or against the negative of the Kenites. And David would leave neither man nor woman alive to bring news to Gath, thinking lest they should tell about us, and say, So David has done. Such was his custom all the while he lived in the country of the Philistines. And Achis trusted David, thinking he has made himself an utter stench to his people, Israel. Therefore, he shall always be my servant. The word of the Lord, may he open our eyes and activate it into our hearts. Please be seated. Don't you just get tired of the struggle? I'm standing here now and my legs are feeling tired. My body's a little bit achy. Not to get your sympathy, but to to put you in touch with the fact that there's the tiredness and the struggle touches us all, and sometimes more intensely than others. Sometimes we feel like we're just struggling to survive. And then you find yourself just feeling down. Feeling down. Let me say, when you're feeling down because of the struggle, know this. First of all, even choice people, even choice people can get tired of the struggle. David was really tired of it. And we see that He's going to make a radical choice. As in his life there seems to be nowhere to go, nowhere else to go. He's been pushed all around Israel, running from place to place. From Saul, who was threatened by David's presence because he knew David would be the next king. Saul wasn't so easily ready to give up the throne. And so we see in verse 27, David said in his heart, Now I shall perish one day by the hand of Saul. There's nothing better for me than that I should escape to the land of the Philistines. It's the land of Goliath. Israel's enemy. Then Saul will despair of seeking me any longer within the borders of Israel, and I shall escape out of his hand. David Just wanted to get the struggle behind him. He wanted peace from that which was Oppressing and coming against him. Historically, scholars think that after David was anointed by Samuel, the prophet anointed to be Israel's next king, that David had to wait fifteen long years before ascending to the throne. And during that 15 years wait, knowing that God had something special for him, it was not easy. And roughly eight of those years, he was literally just trying to stay alive. Well on the run. And from our human calculation, he was moving Every six months, from one place to the other. And moreover, he was behind enemy lines. So desperate that he couldn't find refuge and safety in his own country, his own place where he's to be king. And so he moves into enemy territory Moving from Gibeah to Ramah, to Nob to Gath, to the cave of Adolam, Mizpah, Zif, Hereth, and the forest there To Kala, to Engedi, to Maon, back to Gath, the city of Goliath, and here now he will end up in the city of Ziklag. Among the Philistines. It's exhausting just reading that list of a man on the run, struggling. To get through life. Who was David? Who was he? He was in line for the throne. He was God's chosen, like you. You who know Christ, you are God's chosen. You're in line someday to sit on a throne Well, he was going to sit on the throne of Israel, of the Israelites, God's people. Elsewhere, he's described as a man after God's own heart. He wasn't perfect, but at the core of his being, he and God had a lot in common. And by the way, if you know God through Jesus Christ, guess what? You are a woman, a man, a child after God's own heart. You've been declared a new creation, chosen, headed for a throne, and yet, and even at your core, you're not perfect, but you have an inclination. To want to do the things of God. Fortunately, that's your default. Although we often said bye to the old woman or old man. But our default is we have a heart of God at the core. And it keeps driving us toward God and wanting to do the right thing and to follow Him. And now we see this chosen man of God with a heart for God, but we find that he is not a stranger to difficulty. Nor are you. Though I doubt no one's actually pursuing to take your life, though there is one unseen unseen spirit who would go around like a wild lion seeking however he may tear you apart to destroy you, uh, to lead you into a path which would be self-destructive David was not a stranger to trouble, nor are we who know Christ. And let us remember that in our struggle, as we're looking for relief, that this world is not our home. We may look all over the world to find a place of rest and peace. But like David, he couldn't find it even in Israel, which was The promised land, a picture of a better world to come. Like David and Abraham, we are looking for a country. a place, a city whose builder to maker's guy. But in the meantime, until we get there, it's a struggle. And some days your leg hurts, your legs hurt, your back hurts. uh the children are driving the bananas. You know, uh yeah, you look at the stock market and you wonder, am I even going to have anything? If we have another like six hundred points to fall or or whatever, you know, if people were making us fearful that the whole thing could crash at any moment. But remember, this is not our home. And there's no place where you'll find this the kind of peace and rest that you want and so desperately learn, yearn for. To loosely paraphrase Romans 8, our present sufferings, however, are not worthy to be compared with the glory that will be revealed in us. Therefore, let us wait for our inheritance and let us wait for it with patience, with integrity. Let us wait with Hope, believing that the Lord is at hand. Something better will soon come When we're feeling down, let's remember, first of all, that even the most choice of people get tired of the struggle. You're no exception. Secondly, let's remember that when struggling, even choice people make questionable choices questionable decisions. When you're struggling, you don't always think the best. Or your choices might not always be the uh black and white you might have to find yourself choosing something that you yourself wonder is this right But yet you've chosen something. What questionable choices do we see David making? Well, first of all, he takes up residence in enemy territory, as we see in verses 1 and verse 11. You've got to be pretty desperate. To do that, to to move into enemy territory and basically find a place to live behind enemy lines And so David we find has put himself in a very precarious situation. Maybe you've done that. Maybe you're there now. A choice you've made because you felt the the struggle was so difficult that you just had to do this or else and now you find I might even be in a worse situation than I was before. The commentators are all over the place whether they uh about David's decision. Many of them just like get in his face and say, this is like David's weakest moment. Of course we know the story But um but perhaps he was a bit in ingenious here. Maybe we shouldn't be so harsh upon him To say, oh, he should have just trusted God, living in the promised land, because it God had delivered him time after time. As you read the text, it's hard to reach a conclusion on that. All I can say is it's choices uh a number of them are questionable. And I'm not going to pass judgment upon him. But we also see that he he here he takes up uh a posture of lying lying to king akish he gives akish the impression that he's no longer loyal to israel Of course, Achis is probably glad to have him and his 600 men, because who knows, he needs some help. He's got trouble with the Israelites himself No doubt David never tells the Philistine king that he is in line to be Israel's next king And in verse 8 following, we see David pretending that he's killing off different groups of Israelites. But these aren't Israelites, these are basically Bedouin groups. who were down south or southwest of the Dead Sea and between there and Egypt The Amalekites we're all familiar with, but the other groups we don't know a whole lot about them. So when struggling, remember that even choice people do questionable things. And of course, here we see in verse 3 the issue of practicing polygamy. Verse 3 tells us David had more than one wife, common practice in Israel. One that God tolerated, but one one that God did not endorse. In fact, in the New Testament period, you were disqualified as persons. You might be qualified to to serve as an officer in God's church, although you might be qualified in every other way. But if you had a second wife, as some had in uh and still do in certain countries uh it was uh uh disqualifying to you and yet David we find him in this situation. Sometimes they chose a wife for practical reasons because to help her out She had her husband had been deceased, like in the case here, Abigail, who was a widow. But uh we must at least say that the choices are questionable that David makes. And it puts him in a situation where he finds himself. And sometimes the truth is we may tell white lies. Uh sometimes we may tell bold lies. Uh sometimes we may uh take on something that uh uh we now have second thoughts, should I have gotten into this relationship or in this situation? And maybe there's not much we could do about it, or maybe there is. Sometimes we run away uh uh because uh it's too difficult where we are, but reality is in our hearts we know we should stay there And just work it through, press it through, uh make the hard decisions. And it's hard to find a brave and courageous woman or man who will stand their ground when the rest of the world is saying, Hey We're doing something else here. We're all doing this. You gotta say, huh, leave me out. I'll take my licks, see how things come down. Whatever precarious situation. Our choices put us in. I want you to know this. Because your choices have brought you to where you are. Wherever you find yourself, because of the choices you've made or not made, I want you to know this: that God is right there. He's right there in your situation where you find yourself. You know I often think of the my friend and um who joined this church. He was uh a an Egyptian Coptic Christian. He joined our church and some of his customs were weird and he looked at us and Our customs here, many of us, some of our customs are weird to him, and sometimes they just we banged heads because we didn't quite see things through the same glasses And uh and he was a little bit worried about coming to the United States, as many people in the believe it or not, in the Middle East are worried about coming here because of the immorality and our standards are not the same often and the same way we might worry about us going somewhere in the Middle East. We might be worried like David would just be about being killed or something because our complexion or our nationality or our uh citizenship. But uh she says to her her son as as he comes to the United States uh to America, this Egyptian Coptic Christian mother says, Son, I want you to know that I know you're leaving Egypt here, but going to the US, but I want you to know that God lives in the United States. Some of our families have sent kids to Afghanistan. Once you know that God lives in Afghanistan Some of you sent them off into to China. God lives in China Some of you sent him to a liberal college, maybe more liberal than you thought. Some of you sent him to a conservative college or something. God lives right there on campus. Wherever your child is Where shall I go from your spirit? Where shall I flee from your presence? If I ascend to heaven, you're there. If I make my bed in Sheol, that's the place of the dead, you're there. If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there your hand shall lead me. Your right hand shall hold me. If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me, and the light About me be night. Even the darkness is not dark to you. The night is bright as the day, for darkness is as light with you. Matthew Pill Poole, writing back in the 1600s, says this about David's question of choices, and I paraphrase a little bit. He says, It pleased God to leave David to himself. In his choices, as well as in other particulars, that those might be visible demonstrations of the weaknesses of the best of us And by seeing these weaknesses, we are reminded of God's grace and his daily direction and assistance. And how God is How God in His free and rich mercies passes by such offenses You see, as we look at the text, we see not only uh a choice man struggling, trying to relieve him get relief from the struggle. And we see him making these questionable choices, but yet all the while what else do we see? Something marvelous. Something encouraging. You know, do you ever have trouble with your memory? Sometimes my memory feels like, you know, I've gone to the Bermuda Triangle. Information comes in and like it just disappears. Really? Uh the truth is if my memory gets any worse, I'll be able to plan my own surprise party. When you're feeling down, we've got to remember not just that we're not alone in this, and we may have be down because we made some questionable choices. But I pray that God grant you mercy to have a great memory. That God, when you're feeling down, God is still in the business of granting kindness. When you're at the bottom, may your memory be as clear as a cloudless day. That God is still in the business of granting kindness. We see David here Weary, hunted down, struggling to survive for eight long years. But in the providence of God's kindness, we see David catches a break. David he flees to Gath, and it says there in this fourth verse that Saul no longer seeks him. Saul's done. Can't touch me behind enemy territory. David also we see in verse 7. Uh seven and earlier finds favor in the eyes of the enemy king. There's a break. Your enemy says he's going to grant you Some slack. Cut you some slack. Dave and his man are given a place to live in the city of Ziklag. And David says, Give me something out in the country, because it wouldn't be right if I should be in the royal city. You know what he really means? You can't keep an eye on me. That's what I think he means. I'll be out in the woods and I'm free to roam. That's at Rome, and that's exactly what he did. As they went out and they raided these Bedouin groups, and God gives them victories. He gives them food. supplies and garments and camels and you know, to feed the six hundred men in his army and their wives and their families and to to live a life at least for these sixteen months. See the providence of God. Granting kindness to David in a very difficult situation, partly that he has brought upon himself in a way. And he also keeps Akish in the dark. This last little section tells us this was David's practice. He would just go out, you know, and and raid these groups and uh and he would just lie through his teeth to Akish. And he would just wipe out the whole community. I suspect they all had rendered the judgment of God anyway. The Bible doesn't tell us here. We know the Amalekites certainly weren't a a wonderful group. But the um The point being that uh Achis was kept in the dark. In fact, he was going to end up being the bodyguard. You'll hear more about that when uh Pastor Josiah Preachers. He'll be King Achis, the Philistine King's bodyguard. And he's going to have to make some really difficult decisions because he's put himself in a precarious situation. And so when you're struggling through life, I just want to remind you that you know God makes the rain to fall on the just and the unjust. Upon believers and unbelievers. He's still in the business of kindness to lead us to repentance and to trust in Him. In Acts 2. 39, Scripture says, the promise is to you and to your children, to all who are far off, for all whom the Lord our God will call. 1 Peter 2. 9 says, you are a chosen race, like David. You're chosen, a royal priesthood, a holy nation. A people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him, who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy Ephesians says, remember that at one time you were separated from Christ. You were alienated. You were strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope, and you were without God in this world. But now in Christ Jesus, you who once were far off, you've been brought near by the blood of Jesus Christ. You know, in Isaiah 49, God, verse 15, God asked a great question. And I'd ask this this morning of you. He asked us, can a woman forget her nursing child? That she should have no compassion on a child from her own womb. And even if she might forget, yet I will not forget you. As we find ourselves struggling in this world, can it be that God's still in the business of granting us his grace? Can it be that God still cares in the midst of the struggle? Can it be that God is still in the business of gifting us this kindness? Reformer Charles Wesley thinks so. What do you think? The scars on his hands. And tell us the whole story. Amen. Father, we bow before you. And can it be, as Charles Wesley has asked That we shall be recipients of your kindness. Lord Jesus, your hands tell the whole story. God incarnate, perfected. Substituting your life for ours, that we might find forgiveness and the smile of God upon us this day. O Lord, help us to believe in your kindness. Every day, amidst the struggle, amidst the situation we find ourselves in, because of our decisions, may we remember that you're still kind to us We know it in Jesus. Amen.