Good morning. We are looking into chapter twenty-four of first Samuel, and I will ask you if you'll able this morning to stand with me as we honor the reading of God's Word. Hear now the reading of God's Word this morning. When Samuel returned from following the Philistines, he was told, Behold, David is in the wilderness in of Engedi. Then saw when Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel and went To seek David and his men in front of the wild goats' rocks. And he came to the sheepfolds by the way, where there was a cave, and Saul went in to relieve himself. Now David and his men were sitting in the innermost parts of the cave, and the man of David said to him, Here is the day which the Lord said to you, Behold, I will give your enemy into your hand. And you shall do to him as it as it shall seem good to you. Then David r arose and stealthily cut off a corner of Saul's robe, and afterward David's heart struck him, because he had cut off a corner of Saul's robe He said to his men, The Lord forbid that I should do this thing to my Lord, the Lord's anointed, to put up my hand against him, seeing he is the Lord's anointed. So David persuaded his man with these words and did not permit them to attack Saul. And Saul rose up and left the cave and went on his way. Afterward, David arose, also arose and went out of the cave and called after Saul, My Lord the King. And when Saul looked behind him, David bowed his face to the earth and paid Paid homage. And David said to Saul, Why do you listen to the words of men who say, Behold, David seeks your home. Behold, this day your eyes have seen how the Lord gave you today into my hand in the cave. And some told me to kill you, but I spared you. I said, I will not put out my hand against my Lord, for he is the Lord's anointed See my father, see the corner of your robe in my hand. For by the fact that I cut off the corner of your robe and did not kill you, you may know and see that there is no wrong or treason in my hands. I have not sinned against you, though you hunt my life to take it. May the Lord judge between me and you. May the Lord avenge me against you, but my hand shall not be against you. As the proverb of the ancient says, out of the wicked comes wickedness, but my hand shall not be against you. After whom has the king of Israel come out? After whom do you pursue? After a dead dog, after a flea, may the Lord therefore be judged and give sentence between me and you, and see to it, and plead my cause and deliver me from your hand As soon as David had finished speaking these words to Saul, Saul said, Is this your voice, my son, David? And Saul lifted up his voice and he wept. He said to David, You are more righteous than I, for you have repaid me with good, whereas I've repaid you. evil. And you have declared this day how you have dealt well with me, in that you did not kill me when the Lord put me into your hand. For if a man finds his enemy, will he let him go away safe? So may the Lord reward you with good for what you have done to me this day And now behold, I, I know that you shall surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in your hand. Swear to me, therefore, by the Lord, that you will not cut off my offspring after me And that you will not destroy my name out of my father's house. And David swore this to Saul. Then Saul went home, but David and his men went up to the strongest The word of the Lord this morning we pray that God you would reign supreme in our hearts this morning. Remind us of these beautiful words, of what it truly means. means for us to come before you, to trust in your unfailing word, to hear it, to believe it, and to walk in light of what you're calling us. We pray this in your holy name. Amen. Please be seated. If God could arrange for a timely rescue for David in chapter 23. When he was hiding in the caves, and Saw and his men were about just to capture him and destroy him. And yet a messenger shows up right at the moment when David really needed a rescue. If God could provide such a timely rescue for his son, why could he not also arrange for David to take the kingdom without so much pain and so much suffering? and so much waiting. Maybe you might not identify with that. Maybe a question that you could identify with this this morning is this. That you may be asking, as I've been asking this all week, if the promise of the new heavens and the new earth that God gives to us that one day We shall be, we shall go to a place where there's no more suffering and no more pain and no more tears. Why Do we have to wait? Why does the journey to this kingdom that God has promised have to be so long and difficult? Why does it have to be filled with so much tears on the way? You know, I heard a story one time when I was a seminary student. It was a story told by one of the professors, I think he was the president. At the uh Evangelical School of Theology in Cairo, Egypt. And he came to us to share with us about the good things that were going on in Egypt And he told the story to us, something that we might know but not really ex uh be able to identify with. It's a story of the persecution of the church in Egypt. With tears in his eyes, he shared with us how many of his friends or family friends had been killed at the hands of Muslim extremists. And after his talk, the obvious time where we have a question and answer time, the one one student asked one of the questions. He asked, What can we do to help? Which is code for, especially coming from the church in the West. Where can I sign up to send money to help the church in Egypt? Of course, it's a question that he had heard so many times being asked by people, especially being here. His response was both unexpected and indeed convicting. He gently, yet so lovingly told us Not to focus on sending money to Egypt, to the church in Egypt. That's not really the big problem. He said, Don't worry about talking about let's send the troops to go and fix the problem Don't even say that we need to stop the the the persecution that's going on. Of course, he wasn't saying that we should in hell. But he said, listen to me, brothers and sisters I have one encouragement for you, and I ask of you as a church in the West to pray and to pray and pray some more. But I ask you to do something else as you can I pray that you would also not just pray that we may not be persecuted, but I pray for you. I ask that you would live lives that show your obedience to God's word. I pray that you may live a life where you are loving God more than anything else, and you're loving your neighbor more than anything else, and that your life is a true testimony. Your life is a witness of the gospel of Jesus Christ that has come upon us. Because you know what? When those men and women are killing us, they point out to the hypocrisy of the Christian faith. And I want you to know this: we will die, and it's okay for us to be persecuted. It but I want to point to the people that are killing us and tell them look, this faith, this Christian faith that you're killing me for is true. All you need to do is look at the church and see their faith. the obedience. Don't try to fix the problem. What a powerful statement. You know, the story that we just read Here is David being caught up in this in this place where he has an opportunity with a sword in his hand. He can fix his problem, he can achieve the kingdom right now All he needed to do in secret, nobody would see, was cut off the head of Saul, and he would be done. But what does David choose? David chooses to trust the Lord's promises upon him. His life. And then he shows us in verses 1 to 8 that when we when we trust the Lord's promises, we obey his word. Look at verses 1 to 8. David has no rest whatsoever. He's being relentlessly pursued by this man who seeks to kill him. Saul, who always has his soldiers and his servants guarding him and protecting him. But David is the man who is always running for his life. You know what? David only had to fail, to elude Saul for just one moment, and he was done. Do you think about that as we think as we read all these chapters in verse? Samuel. Just one big mistake that David could make, and he is done. But look at the irony. As day as Saul chooses 3,000 men 3,000 finest of soldiers out of all Israel to chase one man that God has chosen out of Israel. Of all the caves in Ngadi. And there was many. We actually told there was a ton of caves where David has been hiding. Saul chooses to Pick one cave where David is hiding. A place for him to deprecate. A place for him to relieve himself. You know, there are things that we all need to To do that they're not even even kings, it's experience. A time when they need to go into private and help themselves, where nobody's watching, where you're vulnerable and you are alone And Saul is here with his pants down at the mercy of God, at the mercy of David. He is unaware of it. Of course he doesn't see David. But with one stroke. just one stroke, just one, David could have peace. You know, while Saul is right there sitting or resting Doing his business. There's a debate that's going on between David and his men. I love how Ralph Davis puts it. It's as if this man was singing, This is the day. This is the day that the Lord has made. Look, David, it's your time. You can kill this man right now, and all your troubles are over This man has been delivered into your hands. You can take things into your own hands right now, but David chooses to take a portion of Saul's garment and not his life. Is this sim symbolic? Does it mean anything that David chooses to cut a piece of of ro of of Saul's robe? I think it does. Chapter 15 Verses 28 of 1 Samuel. Remember, Samuel had told or had taken the tearing of Saul's robe as symbolic, it's a symbol that the kingdom of Saul was going to be torn apart. And what does he tell him? The way your robe has been torn apart, your kingdom has been torn apart, and it's going to be given to a neighbor of yours who is better than you. Only such heavy symbolism would explain David's remorse in verses five. Look at verses five. David is so heartbroken that he's even cut a piece, a piece of Saul's robe. He's saddened by his actions. Why? Because even cutting this piece of Saul's robe was to him an act of rebellion against God Saw did not remain at the helm being the king by accident. David knows that. Saul is remaining king in Israel because God is sovereign, and that is sovereign, that is his sovereign will He might have little respect for this man who chooses or keeps on hunting him, but he has a deep reverence for the office that Saul is holding. He knows that the king represents it is a he is a manifestation of God's reign over his people. I will not touch him. Look at what his response is In verses 6, it says, The Lord forbid that I should do this thing to my Lord, the Lord's anointed, to put out my hand against him, seeing he is the Lord's anointed. See, Saul might have forfeited his right to be king. But David. David still saw him as the Lord's anointed. What does that mean anyway? Why is why is David thinking, I am not going to touch Why is that so important? We read throughout the Old Testament that one that God had appointed anointed so to Speak was someone who was set apart and consecrated for God. There was a specific bond and relationship that existed between the person that God had chosen and anointed for Himself and God Himself to touch Him To defile him, to attack the Lord's anointed, was to approach the Lord Himself and seek to defile God Almighty Himself. He was to seek to bring harm, to remove the Lord from his rightful place. David says, I want nothing to do with that. Look at how he rebukes his men in verses 7. In fact, your English translation does not even get close. To how powerful David's words are to his men. It's not a mere persuasion, it's not, he's just trying to restrain them. In fact, the Hebrew says this: it's tearing them up, it is cutting them down, it is telling them, stop. You cannot, you may not, you will not, you shall not touch the Lord's anointed. Because David is devoted to one thing. He's devoted to his genuine love for God, his obedience to his God. He doesn't want to be tempted to take advantage of the situation He chooses to wait. He chooses to trust patiently in God, God who will eventually deliver him from Saul. He believes that You know, I'm sure there's one question that David was asking himself, and I'm sure we must be thinking about this question as we think about this story. We're not told I wish the narrator gives us the emotional roller coaster that is going on in David's mind. Oh how I wish I would hear him. Struggle, asking the question, what is the difference? How do I discern the difference between God's providence and temptation? Did you ever wonder that? How do I know that this is God's providence? How do I know that this is just mere temptation? How do we discern that It was one thing for David to understand that the kingdom has been given to me. It was another question on how the kingdom was going to come about, on how he was going to achieve that kingdom. Different question. But David understands one thing. One thing that we all need to understand: that God's will must be achieved in his own way. The end that God has ordained must be reached by the means that God approves. Do you hear that? It's not just enough for us to know that God has a will for us and his promises for us. It's important that we know the means that God has ordained for us to achieve that will for us. How many times are we guilty? How many times are you and I guilty of justifying our unbiblical, our sinful, worldly action, saying the results Are what matters. So long as there's a godly end, the means don't matter. You know, we face the same temptation in our life. I call it the the temptation of shortcut. We love to take shortcuts instead of obeying God. You know our Christian life is filled with times when we're always looking for the key. Just one key. We're looking for a major breakthrough as many of those self help books tell us. We're looking for one one decisive insight, one thing that will place our Christian Living on a plane where we are almost always above hindrance, above frustration, above despair. What is the secret That I can just find one secret that will lead me to that place where I don't have to suffer, I don't have to be frustrated, I don't have to feel despair in my whole life. In fact, some claim that they have found it. They have found the secret. A secret of not wanting the arduous and the weary, time-consuming labor of God working in our lives and chiseling us and making us what He wants us to be The mere fact that God has provided an opportunity for us does not always mean or guarantee that we should exercise it. Did you hear that? Just because these opportunities does not mean that that you're supposed to act on it. How I need to hear that We must ask ourselves, what is the state of my heart? What is the state of your heart? The reason why I asked that is because most of the times our faithfulness is being tested. Do you ever think that God sometimes allows us? for us to even have opportunities and I dare say this, even opportunities for us to sin For us to sin. Why? In order to make us know of the true condition of our heart. In order that he may cause us to and help us to draw near to him, that we may come to him for strength, that we may come to him for protection. An open door is not in itself proof of God's will. It's not The power of God's word must be what governs our emotions, our passions. The power of God's word, the weight of God's word must be what helps us to have self-control, to restrain us. From exploding into violence and into sin, from from doing what our emotions, our flesh tells us to do. It is what helps us not to walk by sight but by faith. Do you remember Jesus? Do you remember David's greatest son and his testing in Luke chapter four in Matthew sorry chapter four verses eight and nine When the devil tempts him and comes to him and says, all the things of this world, the wealth of the nations, all the splendor and the glory is all yours if you will worship me Giving Jesus the promise that he already knew that God had given to him. But Jesus realizes and he knows That the gift of God upon his life, the gift of salvation might must come to pass, but through God's way, through God's means. It is not through obeying the devil, but it is through the means of Of the cross. So I ask you, church, this morning, are you living in obedience to God's word and his will and what he's telling you to do? Or are you merely every single day looking for opportunities to achieve your best life now? Secondly, when we trust the Lord's promises, we do not take matters into our own hands. Verses nine through fifteen. See the story seems a little anticlimactic, doesn't it? As David refuses to kill Saul. I mean, I I'm I'm just here standing and wondering, this is the Goliath Killer and here is is Mr. Israel. Where's the bloodshed? Where's the sword fight? Let's have a one-on-one. Saul and David. Let's see who wins this battle But it's not there. There's no action whatsoever. But it's such a beautiful thing because actually the fact that there's no action sets up Such a beautiful story, such two powerful speeches that you will never see in scripture. And the first one is by David himself as he steps out of the cave, risking his own life. If David's speech fails, he is done He's gonna get killed. Three thousand men, you've got six hundred men in your cave, and you're coming out of your hiding place and approaching Saul, you are done, brother But David is only rehearsing what we already know: that he is innocent. Can you imagine Saul when David raises up that piece of the robe that he had cut? from his robe and raises it up and says, Look, look what I got. Can you imagine how Saul felt? A clear proof David is telling Saul, I am not your enemy. I am not the man that you see you're seeking to to destroy. David is holding up his own innocence He's holding up his own faithfulness. He's holding up his own kindness. He's holding up his own mercy towards Saul. But see how David is not seeking security for From or any change of heart from Saul. Do you hear that there's no words that David is trying to talk to David, trying to tell him, Can you can you stop killing me? Can you spare my life? Or can you he he's not doing that. Look at verses twelve. What is David doing? He is casting it all to God. He is giving it all to God. He's saying, May God judge between me and you. I leave it to him, not to me. I leave it to him. Then he gives him this powerful proverb here. Out of the wicked comes wickedness, which is really David vindicating himself. He's saying, Look, if I was wicked, I would have killed you But look at yourself, you're the one who's seeking to destroy me. So you are the wicked person. Of course, using a he's using a proverb trying to save his own life because he doesn't want so to see that he's attacking him But he's condemning him as he's vindicating himself. He's basically telling, so you're a foolish man. What am I? A mere dog, a flea? What how would those affect your kingdom? I'm not a threat to you. I am a I will not take matters into my own hands. I leave it to God. But how can David be so Patient. How can David be at a place where he has all the power, the ability to destroy, so and gain the kingdom? How can he withhold? How can he restrain himself? I think it's because he's a man. Who has confidence in God's justice? Do you have confidence in God's justice? He's saying, I'm gonna bring all these things before God because I know God will do right by me. He will bring justice. He's leaving the cause to God. David will wait. David will not try to grasp the kingdom by his own hand. He'll wait until the Lord grants him as a gift. Have you ever read the impregatory psalms? That are calling upon judgment, upon the enemy of God and God's people. Have you ever noticed that the psalmists or the authors of the Imperatory Psalms never once, never once do they say, give me the power that I may go and attack and kill the enemy, even though they are wrong. That they always call upon God. God, you are the one who avenges. God, vengeance belongs to you. Consume the enemy. Destroy the enemy. Do that to the enemy. Not me, but you. I will not take matters. Into my own hands. Romans 12, 19, beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. It is not yours. What is our only hope? Our only hope is this. Our only hope is in a God who rights the wrongs that have been done against us. And the secret to waiting upon this, God's waiting upon this is appealing to his justice. That's all we can do, appeal to God's justice, that God will do right by us. Not us taking matters into our own hands. And he will do so in the way and in the manner that he has appointed, not by our own strength. And so we must resist the temptation to always wanting to take matters into our own hands. Own hands. What is the time that you need to hear this? What is the time that I am most tempted to want to take matters into my own hands? Is when God's promises Feel like they are delayed. It is when I'm going through a difficult time when I feel like God, you are taking so long to come and rescue me. And we must be reminded that God has promised us all these things: healing, provision for our life, shelter. Anything that you might be asking from God, but you dare not try to force the issue with your own efforts Because sometimes the reason why we are so wanting to take matters into our own hands is is because of this. We believe the promise, but we don't believe that the one who was promised is able to fulfill them when and and if he when when he wills. To do so by the means that he has appointed. Lord help my unbelief. David is a man of faith. He declines. He refuses to do that Which Saul has been trying to do for years, that is killing. He proves to be a man of principle, a man who trusts God. Can the same be said of you, brother and sister? Can the same be said of you? Especially when the world seems to be against us? Can we? Can you Stand faithfully? Can you not take matters into your own hands? Can you be trusted? Can you be the one who would be trusted in the way you act by repaying? Evil with good. The man after God's own heart does not seize the kingdom promised to him, but he chooses, chooses to wait. I will wait. I will not take matters into my own hands, but I'll wait for God to fulfill it. Where in your life? Where in your life Do you need to wait? Where in your life is God telling you, daughter, son, child, I want you to wait. I want you to trust me and wait. Thirdly, when we trust the Lord's promises, we will not be disappointed. Look at verses 16 to 22. Second speech it is by Saul. It is Saul's response to David, which is really a confession. It's a confession From Saul who seems to have been really hit really hard by David's work. We can split it into three, trying to be Trinitarian, of course Verses seventeen to nineteen is what Saul acknowledges. Verses twenty is is what Saul knows. Versus twenty-one is is what he What? What does Saul acknowledge? He acknowledges that David is good to him. You have been good to me. What does he know? He knows now, and he publicly says that David will be king over Israel. Verses 21, what does he want? Favor, mercy. Please do not kill my family when you come on the throne. An oath that he had already made to Saul Son Solomon. You know this is a jacks to uh jaxtaposition of uh David speech in verse Verses nine to fifteen, which culminates in this great confession from Saul publicly admitting that David surely will be king. And in fact, that's what legitimizes this. This whole deal that Saul is not even being choked out of a confession to say, Oh, yeah, well maybe maybe you will be king. No, it is through David's own righteousness. Mercy and kindness and faithfulness that forces that God uses that so powerfully for Saul to admit that truly David will be king. But look at the confession from from It's worth looking. Look at what he says. What did he say? You're more righteous than I. Think about that for one second. Let it sink in a little bit If he's saying I am not you know if you're saying I am an unrighteous man, that's not what he's saying. He's saying oh you're a little more righteous than I than I am Listen to the words of the tax collector in Luke chapter 18, verses 13. Lord have mercy upon me, a sinner. Is that what Saul is saying? Absolutely no. There is no repentance in this man. He's merely acknowledging what he has done, but there's no deep confession and repentance. Excuse me. In relying on God's mercy, Saul is here bearing the eloquent testimony of the suppressing blessing that comes comes to those who trust the very God that Saul has refused to accept. What a great reminder for us. That when we are faithful, that when we trust the Lord, that He surely does come through for us and we're not gonna be disappointed. But what about David? What is he gaining from all this? From from giving all this speech and and bearing his life out there and then and and putting it himself in arm's way, trusting the Lord's promises and saying, Well God, I'm not going to grasp this kingdom now, but I will wait. I will wait for you. It is this. And it is what's encouraging for all of us. An assurance that God's promises of the kingdom will surely come to pass. Do you believe that? That whatever God has promised will surely come to pass. Verses 20. And sometimes we see that maybe even some of the surest and the best and the firmest assurance that we can have. Of the promises of God that can actually come from the enemy himself. David's reassurance is not counting From God here. Of course, it is in a way. But it is coming from the very enemy that seeks to destroy him. We are showing him that you will be king in Israel You know, if David was so determined to seize the kingdom, he wouldn't have killed. He wouldn't have promised to spare Saul's life. I'm sorry. Why? Because as we've seen before, when a new king came on, he destroyed the family of the predecessor, destroyed them to avoid a revolt later. So he would not be Making that promise that yeah, I will take an oath and I'll protect your family. If he was determined to take this kingdom by his own hands. A man of honesty, a man of Trust a man who believes that God will provide. God who does right by us, even when the world, when others do wrong to us Towards us. And he is not disappointed in the end because God vindicates him. In fact, Saul goes on ahead to bless David. He says, May the Lord bless you. Lord be good to you. He he showers him with blessings. A reminder that God truly does vindicate his own when we when we rely upon him, when we trust him for justice. It takes us back to the very beginning of the text, the very beginning of 1 Samuel. Remember the story of Hannah? Where did Hannah take her distress to? Her husband? The people around her? She took it to the Lord. She said, Lord, I know and I trust you, and I know that you can do right by me. And I will take my distress to you, my oppression to you, and I know that you will do right by me. You will vindicate me because it is true. God will vindicate us when we trust him, when we believe in him, when we we're trusting his promises, we know that his blessings will come to pass. To be reassured is one thing, but to be stupid is another thing. David has no illusions. Look at verses twenty-two. Saul can go home and leave David alone, but where does David and his men go? Back to their hiding. Because he know. He knows this man is not gonna stop hunting me. Church, who needs to hear this message this morning? I do. I'm not sure about you, but I do know that I want to hear this message. This morning. Be convicted. Because you know what? I know how many times I'm tempted to take the crown of salvation without the cross over life that is governed by God's obedience. Every single day of my life. Church, I need to hear this because I know I'm tempted every single day of my life. to justify my own sinful and worldly means because of the outward result, saying the means don't matter Because I see the end goal. Lord have mercy. May God grant me the power to look at the crucified and the resurrected Christ. Never, never, ever to lay my hands on the blessings that God has promised upon me in a manner that is contrary to God's will for my life. May that be true for you May God have mercy upon me that I may commit and receive whatsoever blessings that God has for me and for my life, from his own hands or not at all. I love what um A. W. Pink says as he speaks of David holding a sword, ready to destroy David. Listen to this. With one stroke of his sword, David, and he steps into a throne. Farewell to poverty. Farewell to the life of a hunted goat. Reproaches, sneers, defeat would seize, adulations and triumphs and riches would be his, but this at the sacrifice of faith At the sacrifice of a humbled will, ever waiting on God's time, at the sacrifice of a thousand precious experiences of God's care, God's providence God's guidance, God's tenderness. No, no, no, no, no. Even a throne at that price is too dear. Faith. Faith will wait And of course. Church, I beseech you this morning to keep waiting upon God's timing. I beseech you to keep believing his promises for you because God, God will deliver what he's promised for you Church, please don't be fooled by the lie that comes and the need to achieve things by the quick and the painless. That's a lie from the devil God's kingdom is God's kingdom and it cannot be achieved by the human power. Only by God's word and by his spirit. God will act in your life life in his own time in the means that he has ordained. To have Jesus, to have him as your king means to have this godly patience and restraint to wait upon him like Christ himself did as as Peter reminds us that he He committed no sin. Neither was deceit found in his mouth. When he was reviled, he did not revive in eternal. When he suffered, he did not threaten, but continued entrusting himself to him who judges justly. Church, he has made a promise for you for the new heavens and the new earth. And that promise is worth the wait. You can wait. In the meantime, He says, trust in me, trust me, because my promises are true. And he He will surely come and save you. Father, help us to believe your word every day that you have made this promise to us. That it surely will come to pass. Lord, forgive our unbelief and where we have refused to obey you, to wait patiently. upon you. Grant us the mercy and the grace to do so. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.