The last few weeks has found me uh in Chicago, found me in Fredericksburg, but I'm glad to be found here this morning. It's a joy to be back with you. I've missed uh the privilege of seeing uh your faces and it's actually uh a joy to see more faces this morning. um and a greater portion of the faces. I am you know w one of the mysteries one of the mysteries of of coming and being um in interim is that there's a lot of people that that that I've never had a chance to see unmasked. And uh and as we uh come to that point of time it is it is uh Wonderful. But I I want to I want to say I'm also deeply appreciative that as a congregation we can recognize that uh it's important for all um to be comfortable And uh so yes, there are those that will continue to wear a mask, and I I just want to say thank you, and thank you for the body as a whole, of saying, you know what, you can be comfortable both ways. And um uh I want to give a public uh appreciation uh and uh shout out to Art for uh his early work several weeks ago in getting uh the the HVAC system in this building uh redone. I I think that's uh one of the significant safety features. So I just want to say thank you. It's wonderful to have the journey uh go Going along with you and it's great to be back. And we do pray, indeed, uh that an interim that disappears for weeks the time will in God's good time be replaced by somebody that's here on a regular basis. So I am I am very thankful to I want you to open your Bibles and then I'm going to ask you to stand. We're going to continue our reflections through the whole theme of one-anothering in Scripture. Textually based, but thematically approached. So I want you to open your Bibles this morning to Galatians chapter 5 It's a familiar passage, and I want to put it all together for you. So before I read it, let me just give you a little very brief background. Galatians 5 is probably best known for these two long lists, the list of the gift of the Spirit and the list of the problems of the human spirit. Uh you know, both good and evil uh come together in this. But there's a context around it, and that's why I want to read the whole chapter this morning, because the context around it was a dispute about identity And the identity dispute had had to do, as it did in many churches uh in the New Testament time, with the implementation of circumcision. And or not, and who all should be circumcised in order to belong to the inside. the inside people. So the whole setting is done with identity. So that we we need to feel that as we come to this text to recognize So with that I want you to I want to ask you to stand and I will read uh our text this morning Galatians chapter 5. For freedom Christ has set us free. Stand firm, therefore, and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery. Look, I, Paul, say to you that if you accept circumcision, Christ will be of no advantage. I testify again to every man who accepts circumcision. That he's obligated to keep the whole law. You're severed from Christ. You who would be justified by the law, you've fallen away from grace. For through his spirit, by faith, we ourselves eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness. For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything, but only faith working through love. You were running well. Who hindered you from obeying the truth? This this uh persuasion is not from him who calls you. A little leaven leavens the whole lump. I have confidence in the Lord that you will take no other view, and the one who is troubling you will bear the penalty, whoever he is. But if I, brothers, still preach circumcision, why is it that I'm still being persecuted? In that case, the offense of the cross has been removed. I wish that those who unsettle you would emasculate themselves. For you were called a freedom, brothers. Only don't use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh. But through love, serve one another. For the whole law is fulfilled in one word. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. But if you bite and devour one another, watch out that you're not consumed by one another. But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you'll not gratify the desires of the flesh. For the desires of the flesh are against the spirit, and the desires of the spirit are against the flesh. For those who were opposed to each other to keep the body and the mind, and were by nature children of rat I missed it Sorry, I two pages. Let me back up. I'll back up to to the earlier sentence. For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the spirit are against the flesh. For those are up these are opposed to each other to keep you from doing the things that you want. But if you're led by the Spirit, you're not under the law. Sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you As I warned you before, that those who do those things will not inherit the kingdom of God. Peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such things there is no law, and those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified them. The flesh with its passions and desires. If we live by the Spirit, let us also keep in step with the Spirit. Father, we receive your word this morning. Open our ears. Open my mouth that we might hear you, that we might see Christ Jesus, that he might be lifted up in our midst, in our lives, in our walk. In his name we pray. Amen. You may be seated. This thing of identity is uh is is really crucial uh to who we are But in Christ, our identity is drawn up in Scripture differently, and this this chapter really draws it in a in a very unique and special way. Because it draws it around the single theme of serving each other. That one little verse that is sort of buried in this whole piece is in a sense it's the axle, the pivot point on which everything turns, serving each other. I took just a moment to try to inspect the question of what does service mean? Uh we are in a business world, a world in which service is often proclaimed. So let me ask you the question If grace were to have a tagline of serving each other, what would be appropriate? Uh if you I'm just going to give you a whole bunch of taglines that that come out of business, whose business it is to serve, right Customer service is our business. We're here to help. You're in good hands with a support. We'll help you. We'll be there for you when you need us Treating your customers like humans, bonding people, your best help. We've got your back. We have you covered. We're always here for you. We're here for you 24-7. Sometimes the best help is right at your fingertips. We're on the line for you. Satisfaction is guaranteed. Support that understands. You're in safe hands You have any idea how long I could go on? A really long time. Think about all of the organizations that have some line in it for customer care. For serving the people that come to their door. And those become descriptors. Well, goals, not always descriptors. We actually have a number of businesses that do it well. And you may not like all those businesses But you have to recognize that some of those businesses have really refined what it means to understand and to implement customer service. Apple is actually number one in some lists for customer service. You may not like an apple Apple computer. You may not like your Apple phone because it does funny things to you. But uh, you know, for customer service They have refined amongst their associates. They don't call them salespeople, they call them associates. There's a reason for that. Because they're not selling you anything. That's the idea, although you spend dearly for it. But you're an associate. They are walking with you. Just the language. So they have refined their language. to which when you walk into a store or you're dealing with somebody on the telephone, their words will be empathetic Uh they will understand your problem, or at least pretend to understand your problem. They will try to sympathize with it. They will make it important. No matter how small it is, they'll make it important Imagine if everybody of Christ, every Church of Jesus Christ, were to make service for each other that important. Can you imagine what would happen in the body of Christ? And so with that, you need to sort of feel where this whole chapter Uh Paul's letter to the Galatians is moving. That is the center point. How do we serve one another? another. We're gonna have the privilege this morning uh of being able to ordain a new deacon The role of deacon is specifically focused on service. But it's not the only person that serves. Imagine if every church had only one server. Or had only two servers, or if the ones who were called to service were only the ordained deacons, we would be a limping wounded body So when we proceed to or to is to recognize that we we need leadership to help us in that I believe that probably most successful organizations that focus on servant or service to their customers have somebody that leads the charge That reminds everybody of the language, that reminds everybody of the need, that steps up to the plate. That's simply what the body of Christ is about. And God recognized it earlier. On. In fact, he created us that way. To be able to recognize that we serve each other. And it's that service that binds us together. And that draws others in. That is the central point. That's the axle around which the entire body spins and moves. I want you to think with me about that identity and about what this text talks about that uh understanding loving our neighbor uh through serving one another. So it comes out to us in verse 13. For you are called to freedom, brothers, only don't use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love. Serve one another. Just very simply put, serve one another. For the whole law is fulfilled in one word. You will love your neighbor. as yourself. And you remember, uh Jesus was asked in his sojourn and his teaching by a teacher of the law, what's the most important thing to do? As if uh to do the most important thing I didn't have to do anything else. And Jesus asked the question, well, you know, what is it? What do you say? What do you think? And and he spits out this uh this response. Well, it's to love the Lord with all your heart, soul, and mind And your neighbor is yourself. And uh Jesus says, Good. If you've done that, it's fine. And then wanting to justify himself, the man says, Well, who's my neighbor anyway? And then you remember Jesus tells a story. And in that story, the neighbor, and the neighbor, one who was acting as a neighbor, was the story of the Good Samaritan. uh who shouldn't have been a neighbor, shouldn't have been one who cared but was, and he was the only one who cared. And Jesus said, so go and do likewise. That's the context that comes out of us or to us in in this particular text. Um you will love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, with all your strength, and your neighbor as yourself. That one-anothering is built into the core of who we are. So let's look at it just very briefly. First is this: we serve each other. With the fruit of the Spirit. That's what verse 22 is about. Serving with the fruit of the Spirit. Imagine that our tagline from that was we serve the best fruit. Not the worst fruit, we serve the best fruit. Not the part that you have to cut off and throw away. We serve the best fruit. That's the fruit of the Spirit. And when you look at that uh at that verse, verse twenty-two, uh imagine. The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control Does anybody not want that? Do you want to be in a family that doesn't have that? Do you want to be in a church that doesn't have that? Do you want to be in a business that doesn't have that? No those are the things we all want We want gentleness. We want to receive it, even if we don't want to give it. We want to receive it. It's important to us We want to take the things that God has done for us and in us and grown in us. That's the fruit of the Spirit. It's not your fruit. It's not my fruit. So this is not a description or a discussion about our natural gifts and tendencies. This is not to say, listen, if you are a friendly person, if you're an extroverted person instead of being an introverted person, then somehow that's better If you find it easier to have a conversation, then that somehow but no, the those are the f the fruit of the Spirit is different. It's not the way we define our personalities. It's not the way we like to work. It's the fruit of God and His Spirit working in us. To cause something to bud. We were at the farmers market uh yesterday and Debbie bought sticks. I k Well they were, weren't they? They were budding sticks. I I'm I'm but that's the whole point. They were shoots. They were shoots of spring. And the tiny little buds were starting to come on them. The beauty of spring was beginning to push out the coldness of winter. That those buds came from what was inside of those sticks. They weren't dead sticks. They were living sticks. And the flowers that were blooming were the fruit, and eventually if they were cut off, they would actually bear fruit. One of them was an apricot. So it would bear fruit. One was an apple. It would bear fruit. But it got cut off So our fruit-bearing is when we are grafted into the tree, not just set on the table for beauty, but actually to bear fruit, and we give that fruit to each other. Uh you know the problem with most of the way we look at fruit is that I I like this fruit. It's good for me. I I like strawberries and I like bananas and I like mangoes and I like apples and I like oranges and uh you know so I'm thinking about what I like And uh if if I were to serve you a fruit platter, I would probably choose the fruit that I like and assume that you ought to like it too. The fruit of the Spirit is what God serves. It's what God serves. It's what God makes. It's what God gives. And it's His love that opens through us. So we serve fruit. The fruit of the We serve secondly with life in the spirit. Look at verse 25, the first part of verse 25. If we live by the Spirit, let us also keep in step with the Spirit. So if we live by the Spirit, we're going to serve that life in the Spirit. It's a little heavier. He didn't do it for himself. So if we are living in the Spirit, the whole purpose is God's purpose. You remember Jesus was in the garden and he said, Father, if it's possible, let this cup pass from me. It wasn't Unless he was living for himself. He wasn't living for himself. He was living for you. He was living for me. And so he gave his life that I might have life. There might be something hopeful, there might be something different in me. That the brokenness of my world, the brokenness of my life, the brokenness of my mind, of my thoughts would be healed. in Jesus, in his life. And so we are to live for others. So living by the Spirit Means our choices. That's what Jesus prayed in the garden. If it's possible, no, it's not. Nevertheless, not my will, but yours be done. That was his prayer. He made a choice. He made a choice to die for us. And he simply says, if you're going to live by the Spirit, you've got to make a choice. A lot of choices. Every day we make choices. You you not only make choices but but you emote. You love, you hate, you disdain, you fear, you have joy. Our emotions are a part of our lives. And those emotions are the way that we often understand each other and we feel each other and we receive from each other. Think of the ways we do it. Culturally, they're very, very different all around the world. Do you hug somebody? We have huggers. Do you shake hands? Sometimes you just shake hands. Do you wave? Sometimes you just wave. Are you willing to ever shed a tear for somebody else? Or does that embarrass you? Some cultures it's embarrassing. Wouldn't do it. What is it that shows our emotions as not just being hid behind some sort of an iron curtain behind us? But that actually reaches out. So God says, live in the Spirit. Live in the Spirit. Your possessions. You remember, even the cross. Jesus was still busy taking care of the last possession on earth he had. He'd been stripped of his clothes. Didn't have that to share, did he? Even if he wanted it. And so he looks down and he says Mother, see your son. The depth of human emotion, of human connection, was given away. Not as if it didn't belong, but as to incorporate. And so Jesus, even on the cross, lived To share. He lived for his disciples. And he looks at you and he looks at him and he says, live for each other. Third, if we're going to live, we also have to keep in step with the Spirit. That's the second half of verse 25. Keep in step with the Spirit. So maybe if if we had a tagline on this, it would be service in step with the Master. We're watching, we're listening to God's call, to God's marching order of many years ago. I was when I was in college we were required to take ROTC. And uh I found myself having to march early in the morning when it was cold on the college of on the campus of of Wheaton College. And and I found myself learning to march. And then I found myself eventually having to be the timekeeper so that everybody else could march in step. And I never quite uh understood why that was so important. It seemed to consume much of what we did in ROTC besides some really boring lessons. But there we were, we were marching. Well, the whole point of of that exercise was that you have a group of people that learn to walk together I th it's not that okay I'm gonna march and I'll walk any old way I want to walk. I put my foot down when you put your foot down. It's not your left foot, it's your right foot. So we're not, you know, we're all in step. We are marching, and God simply is the one who says, I want you to walk in step Left, left, left, right, left. You ever heard that call? Well that's what God says. I will give you your walking orders Left, left, left, right, left. Go, go, go. Care for each other That you are identified as one body. We serve by walking in the Spirit. So if you have life in the Spirit, if you bear his fruit, you will be in step. And it you know, frankly, I'm really glad I've spent Not the rest of my life marching, not to those times. But God has a different timing in all of all of our lives. Where he speaks to us and says, You need to step forward. You need to step forward in this person's life. in that person's life. Make a telephone call. Say something encouraging. Show them how you love them. Be there when they have a need. Ask them about their children. Find out what you can pray for in their work week. Ask them if they're struggling with anything. Share your struggles. Do you see when the commander says I've got something for you to do. It's not left, right, left, right. It's this whole array of the gifts of the Spirit. Those are the steps of the Spirit. Receive His gifts Take his life, live that life, and stay in step. Let's pray. Father, we ask that you would walk with us, for it's difficult often. For us to hear your voice. And sometimes the just our own self-absorption makes it really hard. To ask others what their need is and how we can serve them. But you've called us to serve. You've called us to have that identity that the world might know. And how can the world know if we don't know So Father, give us that spirit of Jesus that would serve each other. That your love might embrace us, might hold us in the times when we fear In the times when we fail, in the times when we're uncertain. For we are your broken people. That you have come to heal and to forgive and to transform So, Father, we give our lives to you one more time that we might live in your spirit. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.