Good morning. Another Sunday, another day that the Lord has given to us as we continue our study uh in the Gospel of John. And this morning we're looking at chapter 9, and I just want to make a comment here as I will be making throughout the sermon that chapters eight, nine, and ten actually ought to be read together. uh they seem to sort of uh flow um as as as one one whole and so there's there's gonna be things in here that you may want to recall um chapter eight as we So would you, if you're able, stand as we honor the reading of God's Holy Word, reading the whole chapter nine of the Gospel of John As he passed by, he saw a man blind from birth. His disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned this man or his parents that he was born blind? Jesus answered, It was not that this man sinned or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him. We must work the works of him who sent me while it is day. Night is coming when no one can work As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. Having said these things he spit on the ground and made mud with this saliva. Then he anointed the man's eyes with the mud, and said to him, Go wash in the pool of Salon, which means sin. So he went and washed and came back seeing. The neighbors and those who had seen him before as a beggar were saying, Is this not the man who used to sit and beg? Some said, It is he, others said, No, but he's like him. He kept saying, I am the man. So they said to him, Then how were your eyes opened? He answered, The man called Jesus, made mud and anointing by eyes, and said to me, Go to Siloam and wash So I went and washed and received my sight. They said to him, Where is he? He said, I do not know. They brought to the Pharisees the man who had formerly been blind Now it was a Sabbath day when Jesus made mud and opened his eyes. So the Pharisees again asked him how he had received sight, and he said to them He put mud on my eyes, and I washed it I see. Some of the Pharisees said, This man is not from God, for he does not keep the Sabbath. Others said, How can a man who is a sinner do such signs? And there was a division among them So they said again to the blind man, What do you say about him since he has opened your eyes? He said, He is a prophet The Jews did not believe that he had been blind and had received his sight until they called the parents of the man who had received his sight, and asked him, Is this your son, who you say was born blind? How then does he now see His parent answered, We know that this is our son and that he was born blind, but how he now sees we do not know, nor do we know who opened his eyes. Ask him He is of age. He would speak for himself. His parents said these things because they feared the Jews, for the Jews had already agreed that if anyone should confess Jesus to be Christ, he was to be put out of the synagogue Therefore his parents said, He is of age. Ask him. So for the second time they called the man who had been blind and said to him, Give glory to God We know that this man is a sinner. He answered, Whether he is a sinner I do not know. One thing I do know that though I was blind, now I see. They said to him, What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes? He answered them. I have told you already, and you would not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you also want to become his disciples? And they reviled him, saying, you are his disciples, but we are disciples of Moses. We know that God has spoken to Moses for this man We do not know where he comes from. The man answered, Why, this is amazing thing. You do not know where he comes from, and yet he opened my eyes. We know that God does not listen to sinners, but if anyone is a worshiper of God and does his will, God listens to him. Never since the world began has it been heard that anyone opened the eyes of a man born blind. If this man were not from God, he could do nothing. They answered him, You were born in other sin, and would you teach us? And they cast him out. Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and having found him, said, He said, Do you believe in the Son of Man? He answered, And who is he, sir, that I may believe in him Jesus said to him, You have seen him, and it is he who is speaking to you. He said, Lord, I believe. And he worshipped him Jesus said, For judgment I came into this world that those who do not see may see, and those who see may become blind. Some of the Pharisees near him heard these things and said to him, Are we also blind? Jesus said to them, If you were blind, you would have no guilt. But now that you say, we see, your guilt remains. The word of God this morning. Lord Jesus, you truly are the light of the world. You are the source of all light. And we come to you this morning asking you, who is the only one who can illumine our hearts and minds, Lord, please illumine your word unto us. Make it to come alive, so that we may see you. Pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated. So as I mentioned, this chapter does relate to chapter 8. And I begin by reminding you that the lights are out. We saw last time that there were lights that were lit in the temple, four lamps that were lighting the temple and illumining the whole city of Jerusalem that you could actually be able to see and oversee the whole city because of the feast of the tabernacle that was going on and and the lights were just glaring and beaming and you could see everything that you wanted to see. But now Jesus has left the temple. There's no more light. But remember what Jesus had declared in chapter 8, verse 12. He declared to the people: I am the light of the world. And so the question becomes, is Jesus still the light of the world now that the lights of the temple have ceased to be? The truth is, Jesus is the light of the world because we come face to face with the reality of those words that Jesus declared that I am the light of the world. Here we see a story of a man who was born blind, a man who lives in utter darkness, unable to see. The question is, is Jesus going to give him the light? Is Jesus gonna be the light to this man? But it would be so easy for us to basically focus on the spiritual on the physical aspect of this man who lives in utter darkness And completely fail to see the spiritual aspect of what's going on here. The point is, Jesus had been pointing to the feastgoers this reality That you are living in darkness, and unless I show up, you will not be able to see the light. But the reason I have come is not so that you may light up this candle so that you're able to see Jerusalem. The reason I have come is so that you may be able to see, so that your eyes may be opened, so that God, through me, through Jesus, may shine his light upon you. And the reason is because we're blinded by sin Jesus has come to give us spiritual sight. The first thing I want us to look at here and see together in this verses is how God uses our trials to expose our spiritual need. Do you hear? How God uses our trials in our life to expose our spiritual need. And then we'll see how God uses our feeble faith to expose our constant need of Him. So first God uses our physical trials to expose or in a spiritual need of him. Again, we're not giving details in in chapter nine verses one a as to this nameless blind man, if you will, uh how they found out that he was born blind. That's really not the what John is trying to discover here. But the point That the John is making is this, and Jesus through these words is making it that we are spiritually blind from birth That's the reality, right? We are born into sin. The blind man here is a representation of fallen humanity that is languishing in utter darkness of ignorance and sin and without hope, except Jesus light. That's the truth here. And so this whole idea of this man being born blind initially just causes trouble for his disciples and the Jews and they And the question that they want to know is not, Jesus, can you be the light to this man? Can you heal this man? What is the question that they ask? We want to know how is it that this man was born blind? Whose sins Him or his parents? Who is being punished for sin here? Because to the Jews and to the disciples Suffering equals sin, or sin equals suffering. You sin, you suffer. They're intimately connected. And so we may want to ask the same question as the disciples ask, right? What is the relationship between suffering and sin? And you know the truth is in one sense the disciples are right. In one sense the disciples are right because they they're simply working out the entailments of Genesis chapter three, the fall That brings about sickness and death and all this brokenness in the world. And so for the disciples, they're actually making this type connection That either this man sinned in the womb, as Jews actually believe that you could sin in your mother's womb, or his parents committed sin when he was conceived. And so that he is somehow implicated in their sin. The problem is the answer to that question, the relationship between suffering and sin is much more complex than we would want to say it is yes or no. Again, we studied the book of James and we saw how James speaks about trials. Sometimes trials are meant to test our faith. And mature our faith. Sometimes trials do come because of our sin, directly connected because we've sinned and fallen. But here we see trials can also come to display God's glory. Some trials are meant to display God's glory, not simply as a result of one man's or one person's sin. And the reality again is so clear for us here of how sin Has caused so much misery in our lives and in the world. For a man, just imagine, for a man to be born blind, just take one second and think about it. For a man never to have seen colors The color of rainbow, for a man not to have seen his own parents, for a man not to have seen the beautiful ocean, all the things that we take for granted That he fully depends on others to walk and to do things. It's a horrible thing. He's robbed of the joy of seeing. And there's one commentary that says You know, it is it is one thing for us to say it is a horrible thing to be blind, but it is only after we've lost our sight that we could actually know the value of seeing Only when we've lost our sight can we know the value of seeing This man is fully dependent on others. He's helpless. Jesus is here dispelling the notion That Job's miserable comforters came to him saying, You must have done something wrong, and that's why Jesus. There must be a secret sin that you've committed. That's why you're dying, that's why you're you're you're suffering But he's dispelling the notion that we know so well. Karma, right? In Hindu religion that Says that the immortal soul has to go on working out in the whole series of lives the consequences of its actions so that the good is rewarded by a higher life in the next reincarnation and the evil punished by a lower life Or as we may know it, the whole ideology of the New Age movement. A do gooder. I give to charity. Because if I do that I know that in my next life I'm gonna gain something. You know it's it's so hard for us sometimes to you un universalize suffering in all situations and particular chapter, but also what goes on in our own lives that sometimes our suffering is meant to display the works of God. William Barclay puts it this way, he says affliction Sorrow, pain, disappointment, and loss are always opportunities for displaying God's grace in our life. It enables the one who is suffering to show God in action. The one who is suffering to show God in action. And it's interesting here that Jesus is in fact not interested in answering the people's Question about what really happened to this man that he was born blind. What does Jesus point them to in verse 3? He's actually actually verse 4. He's pointing them to his mission, to why he came He's saying, my mission is to do the work of the Father. There's no time for me to start answering your question and giving you the answers to all these things. I am the one who was sent by God to shed light On to the lives of people so that if they're living in darkness, they may be able to see the light. John wants us to see that the long-awaited Messiah has come That his coming would be the one that brings upon the light to his people. And then he he he goes on to actually address this man who is living in out of darkness and try to help him and help him see the light. And so he uses an an orthodox method of healing. I mean Jesus could have easily said, Go back home, son, you are healed. Walk away. He could have touched him and said, Be healed. He could have gone. But what does he do? Saliva? Mud? And then put it on his eyes? And then you don't even tell him you're healed. He tells him no. Go wash up in the pool of salmon. You know, it's interesting that when the Pharisees begin their investigation, they're not curious about why Jesus healed the man. What are they curious about? It's the how. How did you do this? And and we we we get a sense of it, right? So so so let's let's let's do a little investigation here. We get a sense of why they're going there because Jesus is spitting and making mud and putting in his eyes and and and John makes sure that he tells us that Jesus does this on a Sabbath Oh boy. Oh, on a Sabbath, Jesus is doing work. Now, pe people have talked about what saliva meant. You know, there's ancient belief that saliva was actually used for Medicinal purposes. I don't think that's where that's where John is going, but it it's possible. Again, John doesn't explain to us, and Jesus does not even also explain to us why he does this, but it you know it's also believed that the Jews Do not like people spitting on the Sabbath. Because what if the spits Ran downhill and made mud. Making a brick or something. You're working You are doing work. Again, I don't know, speculation. But it could be that the Jews are so offended that Jesus actually did work in order to heal this man. He made mud on the Sabbath. And so Jesus sends this man to to wash in this pool. Now don't disregard the fact that John takes great pains to tell us what this fool means or the name of it. Sense. Because there's a huge significance. Jesus The Messiah is the one who is sent. Jesus Himself is the sent one. And that granting of sight to this blind man is really symbolizing the spiritual illumination without which this man cannot see. Jesus is the fountain of all healing. He is the fountain of light. Again, we shouldn't miss the fact that this man obeys yes and does what he's told. Yes. But it's not because of his obedience that he is healed. The power is not in his obedience. The power lays in the fact that Jesus is the one who has come and he's the one who heals. The blind man finds healing in Jesus, both In the symbol that is represented by Salah, but also in reality, that Jesus is the great physician who is able to heal him. Notice Jesus' great power. No medicine, just saliva and mud. I mean I I think this really should cause us to just take a pause and and think about the great power that Jesus has in terms of Him being a great Savior who is able to cure us from all of our disease, all of our spiritual disease. And he's able to open our eyes Even the most sinful person that we think they're so blind that they cannot see, that Jesus has the power to open their eyes so that they can see. That he sheds light into the darkest of all places and dispels darkness. Now, can you please imagine how this man felt as Jesus put mud on his face and he started to work to walk? Can you imagine? Can you just see him walking into the pool of Solomon with mud in his eyes? And trying to find where it is. And think about what he's thinking about himself. He's like, man, what if this works I'm gonna be able to see. What if this works? And he starts walking and he goes and then he gets to the pool and he starts to wash his face and all of a sudden he starts seeing, and the first thing he sees is his reflection on the water. Who is the who is that? And then he looks up and he can see the water. He looks up, he sees the trees. And he's like, Oh my goodness, I can see. I can see. I can see. And he starts walking back into his home Just think about it, walking slowly, thinking, Man, I can actually see where I'm going. And and his face picks up and he starts running and he starts going and he's thinking, Oh my goodness, I can see Do you hear the excitement from this man as he as he comes to his pants and he can see them? Man, a woman a man and a woman that he's only known by their voice People speaking to him and he knows I know that voice, but now I can put a face to it. I can see And then they ask him, where is he that gave you sight? The man has never seen Jesus Because the last time he saw him he had mud in his eyes and he couldn't see, but now he can see. He says, I have no idea what you're asking me You know what's beautiful? He may not know Jesus, but Jesus already saw him He's been known by the healer, by the one who gave him sight, and that is enough How is it possible that this beggar who is blind can now see? See, it is easy for some to just say, whoa, wait, wait a minute. You must be a clone of some person, but you cannot be the person that was rubb, you know, healed See, this man really points to us what faith looks like. As Pastor Eric was preaching last week about faith. Faith is a journey that looks towards Jesus. Faith is a journey that looks towards Jesus, to up to the point of commitment to him as Lord. And when that happens, sights Is born. And when that happens, we know that something has happened in our life. Let me ask you a question. What do you say about him who has opened your eyes? What do you say about Jesus that has opened your eyes and you can see? He has given you the light. See, the Jews are unable to see this miracle. They are blinded by their own ignorance, and whatever else is blinding their eyes. To them, Jesus has broken the law of the Sabbath. That's all they see. Why? Because the Jews are caught up in their own religion that's nice and tidy and rigid. Here are the rules that Moses gave to us. This is what we do. We see nothing else. Do you see where I'm getting at? Listen, this man was able to allow his physical trials To see them as interruptions in his life, that Jesus was able to work in him to give him sight. The Jews to them, God lives in a box There are no interruptions that Jesus can bring in our lives. To them, the Sabbath, the law, that's all you got. And you obey it, you keep it, you live it like that, and nothing else happens without their little tidy religion. See, it is so easy for us to think the same way. Let me tell you how we think the same way. When we go through trials in our life, when we face pain and suffering, sometimes we're just looking for that perfect answer that will tell us what's really going on in our lives. Sometimes we're so blinded we don't see that as an interruption for us to actually face and expose our spiritual deprivation. I have shared this story with you before about my hand. This scar will always remind me of How easy it is for me to be a pastor and to point people to the fountain of the living water and forget myself to follow the same place that I'm pointing people to go to. And so listen, friends, the next time that Jesus interrupts your life with some trial and some brokenness, some blindness of some sort. Just know that he's using that to expose your spiritual need of him. Secondly, God uses our feeble faith to expose our constant need of him. The Pharisees, again, as I mentioned They cannot recognize the miracle that's before them. Why? Because they're preoccupied with the law, their oral tradition. This is how things are supposed to be. And there's no way that God can be sovereign and over all things and come in con Mess things up. No way. They're also caught up in the whole idea of he must be a transgressor of the law. He for crying out loud, he broke the law, the Sabbath. And as I mentioned, the inquiry lies or centers on the fact that how did Jesus perform this miracle? We want to know how this man that was born blind has gained sight. Again, John shows us how even within the school of thought or the school of the Jews and the people that are watching, they're kind of told. Man, there's no way that he could have done this if it's not from God. And others say, well, no, it can't be. Polarizing character Jesus must be Notice the trans uh just how the the the the this blind man begins um identifying Jesus. His first recognition of Jesus is what? Jesus is a man. He says, yeah, the man they call Jesus. He did this to me. And then secondly, he recognizes him as a prophet. Notice how his faith is slowly growing as his eyes are being opened. But notice what's going on to the Pharisees. They're becoming blinder to make up a word. They are really becoming blind. They continue to get blind. Their seeing of Jesus is becoming even more clouded than before. What a stark contrast. The man, the prophets, and now Lord, I believe. Jesus goes from man to a prophet to He is my Lord. In verse 24, it's kind of hilarious that the Pharisees are asking the man to do what? They tell him, give God the glory. Do you think that's they're saying, give Jesus the glory? Honor him, praise him. No. You're basically telling the man, tell the truth and nothing but the truth, but the truth according to them, the way they see it. Basically, they're telling the man, conform to what we're telling you that this man who you claim has healed you is a sinner, has broken the law, and he's not from God A mighty act of mercy and kindness, a miracle has happened. And this man, they cannot see it. They are completely blinded by their own oral tradition. They can't see the beauty of the miracle that is before them. All they can see is the Sabbath. And again, they're misunderstanding the whole idea of the Sabbath, aren't they? Yes, the Sabbath was a day of rest, it was a holy day that was meant for God's people to worship Him in spirit and in truth. But The spirit of Sabbath was also for man. It was not meant to neglect the works of necessity and works of mercy. Their focus on the law shows their ignorance of it and what it means to fulfill the Sabbath. And Jesus had come in order to fulfill the Sabbath so that we can find our rest in Him. So they're failing to see the Sabbath, the law from its covenantal framework. Here's the deal They knew Exodus chapter 20, verse 3 through 17. They knew it really well. That's the Ten Commandments. But you know what they fell to read? They fell to read the verse that comes before verse 3. Verse 2 says, I am the Lord your God who brought you out of Egypt, out of the land of slavery, and then God gives them the law. What am I getting into? The law that God gave to his people was a law of grace. It basically said this. I am giving you the law, but the law is not the means through which you secure your standing with God. Your standing with God is only by grace. You don't earn it. You cannot earn it by being disobedient. In fact, your obedience is a show of your gratitude to God for what He has done for you. He is the Lord your God. Who rescued you, who took you from slavery, so that you may be his people. Not the other way around. Again, the law was for those who lived by the merciful deliverance of God. As for the blind man, verse 25. He's still being called to tell the story. I mean, how many times do I have to tell the people the same story? It's amazing, right? So the first time he was asked to tell how he gained sight, he said, yeah This man called Jesus, he told me, you know, he he took saliva, made mud, put it on my eyes, told me to go wash. The second time, you know, the prophet, he Put mud on my eyes and I went to Syllaum and I washed and I'm now he says, I was blind, now I see. The story is getting shorter and shorter. I mean you would be tithed too by keeping or telling the same story over and over, right? But it's actually beautiful. It's actually awesome. But the man just recognized that, listen, it doesn't matter how you did it It doesn't matter how all those things work. What I know is I was blind and I'm not blind anymore. End of story. But again, he will not be moved from his story, from his personal witness of what Jesus has done to him. I love this. John is adding humor. And he says, hey, you guys want to you want to know how this happened because you're secretly desiring to become Jesus' disciples? Is that what's going on here? But they're asking because they're trying to trip him, right? I love it. Do you notice this the blind man uses the syratical reasoning argument? What does he say? He lays it out to them. He actually gives them a pretty nice theological response. He basically says, listen. God does not listen to sinners. You guys know that, right? You're good. Now we're good. So then if God does not listen to sinners, then how come this man heal me? Jesus is from God, he can do nothing. Take that, you Pharisees. Beating them at their own game. Here John may have added, but one thing is clear, that the Pharisees have closed their eyes to the truth. That they do not want to hear it, that their eyes are shut, they cannot see it. And this is really John pointing us to the worst and most dangerous state of mind. That state that basically says, I know I can see, and there's nothing that God and His Word can teach me. That's a horrible place to be. And I think we our attitude as Christians might almost always be to ask the Lord to help us to have a childlike faith. To be teachable in the things of God. That He would open that God, we would pray that Jesus would open the eyes of our hearts that we may see the beauty and the wonders of the gospel working in our lives Even when that is coming from a place where we feel like, man, those guys are not reformed like we are Because sometimes we have this standard. And we say, Do I believe that that person is really a Christian or that they're really following Jesus? They don't go to a PCA church, or they don't go to this kind of a church. They may not meet our theological standards, but God is able to open the eyes of those that are blind. See even with all the investigations and questioning, the Jews are still trying to convince the man that nothing happened to you, brother. That's really what they're getting to But uh but the he he will not hear it. He he knows that he was blind, he could not see, and now he can see And he says, whether this man that healed me was a sinner or not, I do not know. I cannot tell you that. One thing I do know for sure. I cannot explain it, but it is real. Isn't that what the Christian life is all about? I don't know about you, but there are times when my knowledge of God becomes really small. So small that I can't see the next step. That I I can't even conceive. Pastor Eric was teaching this morning at Sunday school class, and he was only speaking of two verses that just made him sweat. Not just him, but all of us. Because they're hard to understand. Sometimes the things of God are just hard to grasp. We can try to understand them, but sometimes they're just too difficult for us. There are times our faith is feeble at best. And all we can do is, Lord, help my unbelief. All we can cry out is, Lord, please help my unbelief. But if Christ has transformed our life, if we've been transferred from death into life, if we have experienced the mercy of God in our life, we can say with certainty I was blind and now I see. I may not be able to explain it, but I was lost. Now I see I was dead. Now I'm alive. That is truth. This poor man is able to see what the mighty man cannot see He said if this man were from God, if this man were not from God, he could do nothing. I just love his humility. I love his humility of coming to Jesus Recognizing his need for him, and that lands him in trouble. He's kicked out of the synagogue, kicked out of the church, so to speak. He's become a persona non grada. Which I think is really what leads us to the to the miracle behind the miracle of what's what happens to this man. And the beauty of it to me is how this man is cast out of the temple, basically cast out of the church of the Jewish people, and yet they don't recognize they cannot cast him from Christ. They can cast him out of the synagogue, but not from Jesus. They have no power to do that. You know, this morning we we think of the church of this being persecuted all over the world, the church in China and Turkey and Nigeria and other parts of the world and and those governments are using all kinds of ways to try and interrupt people's faith and and persecute them Trying to force them to denounce Christ. And many of them are stuck through it. Many of them are faithful, following Christ and having church churches underground. But you know the comfort for us who are in Christ Jesus, if we ever face anything like that, and God forbid that we do, but if we ever do, to be comforted to know that there's absolutely nothing that can separate us from The love of Christ, not even death. And how beautiful is it that after this man has been cast out, that Jesus goes and finds him, knowing that he had been cast out of the or out of the synagogue, Jesus goes and finds him. Remember, he still hasn't seen Jesus. And so Jesus comes to him and he says, Hey, do you believe in the Son of Man? And the guy's like, Hell, who's that? Sir, please show me who this man is from. Do you hear? Do you see his feeble faith? I mean this man does not say, you know what? Let me try and understand justification by faith. Let me try and understand the difference between between infant super lapsenism. Let me try and even try to figure out what the Trinity looks like. What does he say? Jesus, I haven't figured you out yet. I I don't know everything about you. I don't know everything proper in terms of theology and where you're from and what you can do and cannot do. He basically says this word, I believe. The man of a simple faith Pharisees tell him, you were born in utter sin. And now you teach us? Then they hear Jesus' word calling them blind and they're thinking, how do you call us blind? Because of their pride. Because they were caught up in religion. Without Jesus. Because they were caught up in this attitude that says, we see. I can see the brokenness in the world. I can see the Gentiles and how unclean and how sinful they are. I can see how everybody else is so wrong. But I'm okay. See, church, when we get that attitude of we see And we see only what happens out there, the darkness that's out there, and fail to see the darkness in our own hearts. That we are the ones who really need the light of Christ to shine in our lives. It's a dangerous thing. My grandfather just died last week. He was about 102. My grandfather was a Christian, a pastor, a hymn writer, a singer. My grandfather was an ashamed and apologetic about the gospel. If you met my grandfather, the first question he would ask you would, what's your name? Then the second question he would ask you is, is do you know Jesus? And if you said yes, you're in trouble. Because he would ask you a question that you couldn't answer. Who is Jesus to you? And if you can't answer it, he will take an hour to share the gospel with you. Whether it was in a marketplace, In the middle of the street, it did not matter. Because listen, the one thing that I will always remember about my grandfather is this. My grandfather knew that Jesus had shown his light in his heart, and to him he was like nothing will ever matter in my life Other than Jesus. I will dance for him. I will sing for him. I will scream on top of the mountains about him. I don't care what anybody says about it because Jesus is My life. When I grow up, I want to have just a smidge of my grandfather's faith. Let us pray. Father, we do thank you that you speak to us through our trials. As we expose our spiritual need of you, we do thank you that even though our faith may be feeble at times You use it to show us how much we need you every day of our life. Sometimes it's hard to explain. Sometimes we struggle to even believe it, and so we cry out, Lord, help our unbelief. But through it all, we know that you have wrought a change in our hearts. Continue to work in our lives, Lord, that we may be the ones who cry out as blind beggars. Who keep on seeing that our emptiness will always become an occasion for you to fill us. Praise us in Christ's name. Amen.