Good morning. Let me begin by just saying thank you so much for for your prayers, your text messages, your emails, and flowers that you send to us. We greatly appreciate it and uh trust God is our comfort and strength in everything that we do. This morning we begin a new series. Um in the book of Deuteronomy. And I'm really excited about this new series that we're just about to um start and I hope you're excited as well. It's gonna take us some time, probably more than uh uh you would expect, but we will we'll make through it. Um this morning we're just gonna do an introduction, if you will, of our series and we're only considering a few verses. Uh Deuteronomy chapter one verses 1 through 8. So if you're able, would you please stand and let us honor the reading of God's word as I read it this morning to us These are the words that Moses spoke to all Israel beyond the Jordan in the wilderness, in the Arabah opposite Saf Between Tehran and Sophul, Laban, Hizroth, and Dizahab. It is eleven days' journey from Horeb by the way of Mount Seir to the Kardash Bernir. In the fortieth year, on the first day of the eleventh month, Moses spoke to the people of Israel according to all that the Lord had given him in commandment to them. After he had defeated Sihon the king of the Amorites who lived in the Heshbon, and Og the king of the Shan, who lived in Asheroth and Idrai. Beyond the Jordan, in the land of Moab, Moses undertook to explain this law, saying, The Lord your God say to us in Horeb, You have stayed long enough at this mountain. Turn and take your journey, and go to the hill country of the Amorites, and to all their neighbors in the Arabah, in the hill country, and in the lowland, and in the Legev, and by the sea coast, the land of the Canaanites and Lebanon As far as the great river, the great the river Euphrates. See, I have set the land before you. Go in and take possession of the land that the Lord swore to your fathers to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, and to give to them and to those and to their offsprings after them. The word of the Lord this morning. Father, we come to you and we thank you because your word is living and active. Your word is sharper than any two-edged sword that pierces to the division of the soul and of the spirit and joints and of marrow. It is discerning the thoughts and the intentions of our every heart. And that there is nothing, there's no creature, nothing that is hidden before you, that all is laid bare before your sight. So we come to you asking that you would fill us with your Holy Spirit That we may understand your word this morning. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. You may be seated. We have titled the series in Deuteronomy, Living for God. You may ask or wonder why we would talk about living for God. Or what does that mean when we say we want to live for God? And when we use that phrase, living for God, what does it really mean? Now, if you're honest with yourself, if I'm honest with myself, I'm able to admit that life is difficult, right? That living in obedience to God is not an easy thing. Faith, living by faith, even more difficult. Especially when we experience trials in our life and we we have no answer Or we look to God and we don't think that He's answering us, or we feel as if He is silent, and yet He calls us to live by faith. And so I'm going to ask us a few questions this morning as we begin this series. And one of the questions I ask is, how then do we maintain a life of obedience and grace to God? Knowing that there is frustrations and failures and trials and our struggle with sin How do you respond to God's divine grace to you if that is the way that God is going to bless his people? When he extends his grace towards you, how do you respond to it? How do you keep God's word daily on your mind and on your heart? So that every day you struggle and you go through life, you will not lose your way because the word of God is always before you. How do you keep God's word fresh in your heart and mind so that your heart does not grow so cold and unresponsive so that when God speaks to you It's almost like you're deaf. You cannot hear. How do you daily delight in God's law and his word and his promises and everything that he has given to us so that when when we're reminded of how broken we are and how we struggle in life that that word remains fresh. It still tastes sweeter than the honey. And we delight in it and we say, Lord, we may be going through a tough time, or we may be challenged in our faith, or faith might be vulnerable. But at the end of it all, we have Your word to guide us through it. How do we do that? Moses, the shepherd, the mediator, the minister, the pastor. Is here giving God's people and addressing some of these questions, challenges of faith, as God's people stand in transition? They have just been delivered from slavery in Egypt. And if you read the book of Exodus and Numbers, you saw God's deliverance throughout those two books. And this book in Deuteronomy actually just follows from what the book of Numbers left off. And Moses is addressing all these things as God's people are looking forward to to possessing the land that God has promise to them and yet it's taken them so long to possess the land. And here they are. They stand on the plains of Moab and they're waiting for God to help them as they transition to the promised land. And so we begin our series this morning by looking at the very first words that Moses utters to his people. These words. So we must ask ourselves the question, what do these words have to do with anything? Why should we trust God's word And Moses is here in this first verses, I believe, showing us that we we must, not can, not should, not ought. We must trust God's word because it reveals His will for us, for our lives. So I just want us to look at two things this morning. In order to understand how God's Word reveals His will to us, we must see the timelessness of God's Word. But we must also see here in this verse is the timeliness of God's word. So we begin by looking at verses 1 through 5 and see the timelessness of God's word. So the beginning here of Moses says, these are the words that God spoke to his people through Moses, of course, which is really the name that is given to the to this book, the book of Deuteronomy, in the Hebrew Bible. It's actually called these words, or just simply the words. And this, I think, the phrase really does introduce the main purpose of the whole of this book. It's a book about God's word. It's a book about God's law. It's a book about God's instruction. And it is here in this very first utterances of Moses that we actually see the heart of God. The heart of God in His word, which Paul describes in 2 Timothy 3, as that which is effective for instructing, for rebuking, for correcting, for training God's people in righteousness. so that we may be competent, so that we may be equipped for good work. Moses words here, as he begins to speak to the people, we are told he's not just speaking to a particular group of people, to a particular group of Israelites, he says was spoken or is being spoken to all Israel. Now you may not think that that's an important thing for us to consider or even to think about, but that's actually covenantal language, as we as we always say It is God declaring his covenant promises, not just to the first generation. Again, a little bit of history here. Remember, the first generation that God saved from slavery that was meant to possess the promised land never did. Remember, they all perished because of their rebellion, because of their doubt and lack of faith. And only Moses and only Caleb and Joshua survived. And so the generation that God is speaking to here is the second generation. The ancestors had all been killed. They had all died. So God is telling them, listen, my word is timeless in the sense that it was not only spoken in Mount Sinai to your ancestors, but it's actually applicable to you now as you're waiting to possess the land. That this word applies to you That the same way God was offering a relationship and a covenant blessing to his people, to your ancestors, is the same way that God is offering the same blessings to you now. You must accept his grace as you move forward in your journey. But it also reminds them of what awaits them if they're going to do the same thing that their ancestors did. If you still continue in your own rebellion and rejecting God and living not by faith but by sight. You know what happened. The senselessness of the 40 years that you've spent in the wilderness, and you were told it would only have taken them 11 days, 11 days' journey to get there. But it took them 40 years. He's telling them, listen, my people, you need to be warned. That your ancestors could easily have accessed and possessed the land within that such a short period of time, but their unbelief and and lack of repentance sentenced them to 40 years of virtual exile in the desert. May that not be said of you. See, God's word to Israel is really, through Moses, is permanent, has permanent significance for Israel. Moses here stands before his people as a covenant mediator, as the one who speaks on behalf of God, as the one who has authority to speak to God's people, but he's also mediating God's divine grace. Do you see it? God has been faithful. He's a covenant keeper. And he's still continuing to do the same thing for you. And you know, sometimes we'd like to think of this book as the giving of the second law or something like that. Listen Moses is here not giving a different law. Moses is not you know trying to give some extra laws on top of what was given. No, he is explaining the law that God's people had and they already knew But the explanation is supposed to help them to understand how the Ten Commandments apply to them in their new life, in their new situation. It's supposed to help them see the big picture and be able to understand what does this all, this law of God mean for us as we enter into the promised land. See, here we're given several names of Dizahab and Laban and Hezrath and all these other names that are really archaeologists have tried to kinda try to help us discover where exact places this you know this this locations are. It it's kinda hard to imagine that and it's really hard to put all that together. So I'm not gonna spend time to do that. I'm gonna make a comment about why Moses makes sure that he's actually describing all these names and places for us. You know why? He wants us to see a picture. That God's people are on a journey. They are traveling. They are not stuck in one place. They're not just in in Horeb, which is really Mount Sinai. Jugambi uses Mount Horeb, you know, Horeb to mean Mount Sinai. They're on a journey. But their point of departure is the place that God gives them the law, which is Mount Sinai. But it will always have significance because God will always be taking them back and reminding them of the covenant that He made with them. And their faith and his faithfulness towards them. Then he mentions Kadesh Barnia, which is really the place where the Israelites were camping, uh, just before uh after the Exodus, before they're entering to Canaan. See these words that Moses speaks to his people are being spoken to this new situation. God's people are on a journey. They are now about to embark on this big promise that was given to them through their father Abraham and Jacob and Isaac and all of that and so He wants them to understand how is this law, how is the ten how are the Ten Commandments going to apply to them? And remember, as God's people look at the Ten Commandments and the law that is given to them, this is not mere information. This is not something that They say, oh, we're given this scroll that stands before us. We're gonna bury it and keep it somewhere. We know that we have history. God loved us and He gave us the law, and yeah, that's it. It wasn't ancient history It wasn't something to be archived. The law of God was a true guide, something that was relevant for them. Something that we were told in the Old Testament Testament that they were supposed to be teaching it to their children For generations upon generations, that it was supposed to help them to know how to live for God as a covenant people. Is that what God's word means for you? Or is it just mere information that is given to us in a book that it's archaic and old and insignificant? Or is this a true life-giving God's word that guides us and helps us to understand how we ought to live as a people on a journey? And then Paul Moses makes something even more important here to encourage God's people. He mentions in verses 4 what does he tell them? He reminds them of a historical fact. He says, You remember, God has defeated Sihon and Og. Why? Why is it important for God's people to hear that? That you are on a journey, but God is already making the plans for you to possess the land. He is already conquering on your behalf, He's already overcoming on your behalf. You need not fear because God is already at work fulfilling his covenant promises. Now the question is when they hear his word and see what he has done for them. When they hear all these historical facts of how God has kept his covenant for his people, how would they respond? See, there's an obligation to those who hear God's word. You have an obligation. I have an obligation when I hear God speak to me. When you hear God speak to you. And the question is, what are you going to do about it? See God's word to his people has not changed a bit. As it was for the ancestors that stood And rebelled against God, so it was with the people that stood on the plains of Moab. And so it is for us as we sit here in the 21st century on the verge of the now and then and the not yet as we await Christ's return. The question remains for us. What are we going to do with this timeless word of God, his instruction for us, how we ought to live and what the future holds for us? Are we listening? Are we hearing him? What is he saying? Secondly, we look at the time timeliness of God's word to us. We look at verses six through eight. Verses 6 through 8 is actually the beginning of Moses' first speech. And Moses' first speech is this: which is God's command to his people. Of course, we've mentioned that is the mediator of God, God's word What is he commanding the people to do? It's time to go. You've been here for way too long. It's about time for you to move on. He tells them, Go, move on. And this movement is really not just a physical movement from where they are into the promised land. It's actually a spiritual aspect of it here. Your ancestors never kept the their faithfulness towards God You need to move with God. You need to be those that keep the covenant of God. And this movement that we're being told here, actually, the Hebrew here implies making a decision. It's active, not just merely going, but even in our hearts, turning one's face towards a different direction from where you're facing. This is where your people are looking at. Moses is saying, you've got to turn around and look to Canaan. What a great reminder for us as God's people. We're on a journey, aren't we? We're pilgrims, we're traveling, that this world is not my home. This world is not my home. There's a final destination for those who are in Christ Jesus. We must keep moving on, holding fast in faith. Striving to be the people that Christ wants us to be. So that at the end we may arrive at our eternal home and we can find rest. There is no rest here. On Jordan's stormy banks, I stand, cast a wishful eye to fair and happy land where my possessions lie. Excuse me. The phrase that Moses uses here again is the language of covenantal language. He says Who has spoken to us, the Lord our God? It's an expression of the covenant God, meaning Yahweh, Yahweh, our God. It is the same way that God identifies himself in Exodus chapter 20, as he gives his Sinai a covenant to his people. And here God is saying he's identifying himself as the mediator. Or with the mediator who is Moses. And then he says, the Lord our God, that possession, that possessiveness there just shows us the closeness. The personal relationship that this God has with his people. That God is not just detached from his people, just commanding them and saying, You go whatever you will go, and maybe I will lead you somehow. No, he's saying You are mine. You are close to me. And I'm gonna be the one who leads you. See, the way God's people came to know him was not through some mystical experiences. It wasn't through some information. It wasn't through some philosophical arguments. The way people got to know, and the way we get to know God is through his word that is revealed to us And so God speaks to his people through the prophets and the priests, but he also speaks through specific historical acts, things that God does for his people, so that they may see clearly that there's a God who is at work. And so it is with us how we get to know God. When Jesus appears, his message is not just a mere message, but is a message that is followed up with historical, real actions. He talks about his death. He talks about his resurrection and he backs it up. He goes to the cross and he dies. And he rises again and lives again. He gives us His word. Moses is retelling a story that the people of God know so well. It's not like they have no idea what God has done in the past, his deliverance, his covenant promises that is all the things that He's promised them, the land and all these other things. No. They know it. They know it all. They know it really well And they must be asking themselves, so what went wrong that they were not able to possess the land? What are they going to do differently now so that they may not squander their chances yet again? See it's important for us. It's important for God's people to hear the history counted because it really does remind them of God's acts in the past and that if He is able to do all those things. He's able to be with them in the present, he's able to be with them in the future. But there's a warning. What is a warning? You experienced success in the past with your obedience. But you also have seen the consequences of your rebellion Again, may that be a warning to you that you don't follow the same path. They must go forward, Moses says. I like what Matthew Henry says in this passage. He says, though, though God brings his people into trouble and affliction, he knows when they've been tried far too long. When God commands us to go forward in our Christian course, He sets the heavenly Canaan before us for encouragement. The timeliness of God's word You know how difficult it would have been for God's people to just simply be told, okay, the promised land is ready for you, go and take it. Without God here making it making sure that God's people hear and they see. His actions in the past and how he's enabled them to conquer, how he's enabled them to be where they are. And then now he's saying, look, I've already accomplished so much for you. I've already prepared a place for you I'm already overcoming on your behalf. I'm already fighting for you. So as you go, as I tell you to pick up your bags and go. I am already preparing for you. Reminded of Jesus' words before he left. What did he say? Going to a better place. Going to prepare a place for you. So that where I am, there you may also be. I am the life, the truth, and I keep my commands. You can be sure about it. Where I will be, there you will also be. See, God is here showing his people that the divine gift of possessing a land is not just a gift, but it's actually something that that is to be divinely owned. They must make the steps. They must move. They must go and take possession of it. Yes, God told Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. And all this geographic places that we're going to look at next week from verses 9 with all this land and the Canaanites are just amazing huge groups of people, all this land that that God is going to give to his people. He had promised them in Genesis 15, right? Saying, I'll give you land from River Egypt to the great river, the river Euphrates. And he's saying, I am I've been faithful. I'm gonna make that happen. But God is also using this as a oath. He's saying, You are the recipients of my promises, of my blessings. And you can be sure I'm gonna, there's an irreversible commitment here to God. I'll make it happen Like we like to say, right? You can take that to the bank. It's gonna happen. But you must go and possess the gift, it is only received by an act of faith. Church, do you hear do you hear the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ right there? Screaming to us so loud? This is God's commitment. It's not people's commitments towards God. It is God Himself speaking an oath, saying, I have loved you, not because you love me. I am blessing you and committing myself to fulfilling the promise that I made to you. Not because you've done anything You don't deserve it. If anything, your life is a life of unfaithfulness and rebellion and doubt. There is no intrinsic merit on you that you would deserve my blessings. It is only by sheer mere God's grace. And that alone. You can't miss it So why is he calling them to go? Why is God blessing his people? See the blessing is not just merely land. We like to think of it that way, right? You know, God was just telling the Israelites to go possess this Huge pieces of property. Is that what it what it's about? Land in the Middle East, dry, desert? Is that what it is? No. God's people, well God gives a tangible example of what it means to possess a gift from God, which is land. He wants them to grab a hold of what it means to know the promises of God, to delight in his promises and that in the fulfillment of all these promises that they may see what God is able to do. He says, see in verses 8, see, I have set the land before you a charge that requires a vision, but a vision that prompts action. Go take possession. He's saying I want you to see beyond the mere land that you're going to be receiving. I want you to see the promises of God that are yes and amen. Last night I was really tired. We had some guests that came home and I was about to feed my son. And he's not here now because he's now at that age where he's screaming and talking and And so I'm trying to feed him. He wasn't feeding very well. For the first time he wasn't eating well. My son is a good eater. So I'm holding a bowl and his little spoon with a nice chunk of smoothie and I'm hoping he's gonna eat it all And we've been teaching him to listen when we talk to him. You know, we say stop. And sometimes it just gives us the glare that you can tell he knows what that means. And he stops. Other times of course he pays me no attention. So I'm trying to feed him and he keeps trying to hit take the spoon. And I'm getting frustrated. And so I stop and I looked straight in his eyes and I said, Josiah Stop. And he looks at me, but he's looking on his side. I'm not watching it. He's his eyes are not on me, they're on the ball that I'm holding on this side. And of course I'm trying to talk to him so I'm not paying attention that the ball is pretty close to him. So of course you know how the story goes. He goes whack And there was smoothie on the side of the room, all over the place. My mom came to help me and it's just a mess. I was angry. So I stood there and I'm thinking, I'm gonna give you the spanking of your life So I walk away and I let my mom try to clear just because I'm frustrated I'm tired, you know, and I'm I'm frustrated. And he's not eating. He knows what I know what's good for him. He doesn't know what's good for him. He needs to eat So as I stood aside, I started thinking. And it just hit me. My frustration and anger turned into laughter. And then almost into tears And I thought about today's sermon. I am my son. I am my son. God speaks to me and tells me what's good for me. And yet I'm clueless. I don't hear. I don't listen. And then when the mess of my life and my brokenness is just all over the place He's the one who comes to fix it. The one who comes to clean it up and put it all together. And still feeds me. Again. No anger, no frustration. Just saying, my son, I still love you. I want the best for you What is God saying to you this morning? Where have you dwelt for so long? And God is saying, brother, sister, it's time to move on. It's time to go. Where has your sin broken you so much? And you haven't been paying attention to God Aja's dwelling there and he's saying, come on, let's go. Trust me, I'll be with you What have you prayed to God when you're going through a difficult time of trial? And God is saying Son, daughter, you you're not walking by faith. You're not looking to me. You're looking to yourself. It's time to go. It's time to go because I got you. See church, if we want to live for God, if we want to hear Him speak, We will not look at this word as archaic, old information. This is life. This is life. God is speaking Are you listening? Because I want to listen. I cannot think of a better way that God speaks to us And when the fullness of time had come, God the Father would send his own Son, Jesus Christ, to Come and die for us. To give his life so that we may not die. So that when we die, we may live again. And you know, he continues to speak in such a fresh way. Through this table, right here, through this table. He says we take the bread and we take the cup and we do it until he returns in remembrance of him. So this table is set up for you. For you who professes faith in Jesus Christ and you are a member of a Bible-believing church. You don't have to be a member of this congregation This table is set for you who knows that you are a sinner saved by grace and yet you are struggling and you're sick and tired of struggling and you're saying, God Help me. Stay away from you. Stay away from you if you're struggling with just life. Whatever it is out there. And you're saying, man, I'm tired. Feel me, Lord. For you. It's for you who is joyful in Christ. You're rejoicing because of all that He has done for you. And you need that reminder, that celebration. It's a feast. Come join us. Let's see. That's party for God for Christ. But Paul tells us we can't just go to this table and approach it just the way we want. We must come to him and confess. So let's do that together. Let's confess our sins before him.