Good morning. It is a great privilege to be bringing God's word to you this morning and We are on the tenth chapter of the first epistle of Paul to the church in Corinth. And we as we like to do here at grace, we like to honor the reading of God's word. So I'll ask you if you're able to please stand as we read God's Word this morning. We're reading the first thirteen verses of chapter ten of First Corinthians. Hear now the reading of God's holy and inerrant word. For I want you to know, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud. And all passed through the sea, and were all baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea, and all ate the same spiritual food, and all drank the same spiritual drink For they drank from the spiritual rock that followed them, and the rock was Christ. Nevertheless, with most of them God was not pleased, for they were overthrown in the wilderness. Now these things took place as examples for us, that we might not desire evil as they did. Do not be idolaters as some of them were. As it is written, the people sat down to drink and eat and rose up to play. We must not indulge in sexual immorality as some of them did, and twenty three thousand fell in a single day We must not put Christ to the test, as some of them did, and were destroyed by the serpents, nor grumble, as some of them did, and were destroyed by the destroyer. Now these things have happened to them as an example, but they were written down for our instruction in whom the end of the ages has come. Therefore, let anyone who thinks that he stands take heed lest he fall. No temptation has overtaken you that is not common to man. God is faithful, and he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability. But with the temptation, he will also provide the way of escape. That you may be able to endure it. The word of the Lord this morning. Father, we ask that you will draw near to us this morning as we do so. We ask that your Holy Spirit would come down upon us and may your presence Be with us as we understand, try to understand your word, and help us to believe it and walk in light of what you're calling us to. In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. Please be seated. There's a popular insurance company's ad on TV that you probably have have seen. A young man is sitting by the pool enjoying and having a good time with his friends And he swears to his friends and says, I will never get married. And after a little while we see the young man at a jewelry store and ready to buy a diamond ring Once he's married, he insists, I will never have children. And his wife passes by and she says, We're pregnant. He says, We're never moving to the suburbs. We're never buying a minivan. All these things come to pass, of course. Yet towards the end of the commercial, as they sit together watching TV on the couch, and he's cuddling with his wife and the two beautiful daughters, he says, I am never Letting go. And of course, this particular insurance company that will remain unnamed promises to protect its customers through all the neighbors of your life. What a great source of encouragement to hear from a source that would actually be truthful to say, I am never letting you go, if all the insurance companies were right. Now think about it. Why do we feel as if we've been let down? What are some of the things in our lives that we feel we get to a place where we become overconfident, so to speak, and we begin to depend on ourselves and and we rely on things that promise us that they would never let go and yet they still let us go? Let me ask you a question. Have you ever been tempted or even said, I would never do something like that? You ever said, I'm a much better person. I would never be. I'm incapable of committing such a thing or even saying such a thing or acting or feeling or doing such a thing Viva said, I would never be in such a position in my life, in such a circumstance, because I'm great at saving money. I'm great at always getting my medical checkups and doing everything so well so that when things happen, I'm good to go. Every day of my life. Have you ever said anything like that? Or being being tempted to say something like that? You see, overconfidence leads to dependence on the self. Instead of depending on God's faithfulness, who promises to never let us go. The chapter we just read this morning, Paul is dealing with the people that are feeling so overconfident. Paul is dealing with people that need to be reminded of God's faithfulness in their life. Why? Because the people at Corinth had had begun to think of their baptism that they were given in Christ. And remember In the very beginning of the chapter, Paul addresses the church in Corinth and says, You are the sanctified people. You are the people that belong to Jesus Christ. You have your father, Abraham, he says And so they're thinking about their baptism, they're thinking about their participation in communion. And they're saying, Oh, we are in Christ and we have the freedom, all the freedom Freedom in Jesus Christ, and for that matter, we can do anything and feel anything and do anything that we want, including eating meat that is all that is offered to idols, and we will be safe See, they were placing their confidence on the means of grace that God had provided for them. Instead of putting their confidence in Jesus Christ Himself, instead of depending on Jesus Himself who brings salvation. And so here Paul says, I want you, church, and he's saying to us this morning, I want you to remember God's faithfulness. I want you to remember God's faithfulness when you are tempted to be overconfident. Look at verses one through five. What a better way to remind God's people of his faithfulness than going back into history Paul is taking the church back to the history of God's people, especially the history during Moses' time as he's leading people out of slavery in Egypt into the promised land, and he's using that as a basis to warn the Corinthians of what they are doing. Look at verses 1. Paul is addressing a church that is largely a Gentile church, but what does he say? Does he say, according to the fathers of the Jews or the Israelites? He says. Our fathers, including the Gentile community, into this covenant blessings. So the Gentiles are have the same opportunity in the blessings of God, in the covenant of God's blessings, just as the Jews did And he says, Well you see the Jews enjoyed covenant blessings from God. They they were delivered, miraculously delivered by God Himself from slavery Yet he says most of them perish in the wilderness without seeing the promised land. Why? Two things, disobedience and their unbelief. So for Paul, he's comparing the the presumption, the presumption of the Israelites with some of the a some of the arrogant Corinthians that are are thinking that they had become so absorbed with their own rights And feeling that they were in Christ, and so they were presuming on the very efficacy of their relationship with God. See, they lack nothing, Paul is reminding them. God supplied bread from heaven, which they call manna, which means what is it? They did not even understand what it was. He provided water through the rock in the beginning and the end of the God's people's journey in the desert They were sheltered from the scorching sun by a cloud that accompanied them everywhere they went. God's continued care for the forty years that they were there during their travels, yet Instead of God's people worshiping him and bowing down before him, they failed the test of faith. Paul reminds them they were baptized into Moses, which simply means they were inaugurated. Initiated under God into union with Him, but also under the leadership of Moses, who was God's chosen servant, to lead them into the promised land The cloud here, as we see, it was a representation of God and his glory that was leading his people. And the sea represented his own leadership, his redemption God's people passing through the sea that was part of this was God redeeming his people. Now, every time we think about the Exodus, we always compare it with our Christian life, don't we? We're going through a journey, through an exodus. It's true. But you know, the exodus is both a historical but also a spiritual event. What was God doing through the cloud and the sea and rescuing his people? God was setting apart. A people for himself. He was separating them and saying, You are my people, that you belong to me, and I'm going to rescue you for myself. For my own purposes that you may worship me, that you may honor me, that I may bless you and be your God. Think of it What is the importance? What is the purpose of your baptism? When you become a new believer, you are set apart, you are separated from your sin. You now belong to Jesus Christ. You now belong to Him You are adopted as a child of God, baptized into Christ, which entails your incorporation to the fellowship of God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. See, God providing for his people here is saying, My provisions are my way of showing you just how faithful I am to you. And that my provision to you is not just located or bound to one location That God's provision followed them wherever they went. God never left them. He never let them go. In fact, there was a legend in Israel that the rock that provided the water for the people always went with the people. And so they thought that the rock was what was following the people. Paul might be having this in in essence in thinking about Christ, the preeminence of Christ. He says the rock was who? Jesus Christ He was always there, even before the incarnation. He was always present, redeeming his people. He was always present Caring and providing for his people, his redemptive work, in the same way that he is present with us today. But what is Paul's warning here in verses 1 through 5? St. Paul is saying this: that the enjoyment of high privileges and blessings is not always a guarantee of your blessings or your final blessings in God. Some at Korinths may have thought that since they were baptized, since they were the sanctified ones, since they were the ones partaking of the communion, their final salvation was guaranteed. Why they're still flooded with idolatry. Paul wants them to hear. Brothers and sisters, I want you to know you may have all these blessings from God, but remember, God hates sin. See, the food and the drink in the wilderness were means of grace to God's people. A show of what would come as we're about to celebrate this morning: bread and drink with Christ Him making the sacrifice for us. And that these physical blessings were not just really physical blessings. They had a spiritual value to them. But they nourished the relationship between God and His people. God simply providing the manna and water. Was a means of telling them and showing them that this you are my people and that I will always care for you. There's a relationship that is going on here And yet, what God sees from these people is a heart of unbelief, a heart of disobedience. See, and sometimes we allow ourselves, even here, to think that sin does not matter We rely so much on the means of grace that God has given us. We rely so much on our Christian experiences. And we take those things as our little saviors and not put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ Himself. The privilege can fail, can fail and fall into sin, regardless of how privileged they are See, we can receive the finest of all God's blessings and use that as an excuse to do everything that we want to do. Because we feel like God is still going to bless us, anyways, right? Yet be so far away from Him. Church, let us be warned this morning that our actions and our attitudes can be sinful and displeasing to God. That we need to be aware of how we act, that we don't take God's blessings for granted, that we don't put our hopes and trust and security in God's blessings, but in the God who provides That we don't get to a place where we're saying, We are the right people, we are the people with the right God, we are the people with the right name, the right ordinances, and with the right experiences and the right theology and the right doctrine, and yet forget that God was given us. all things in him. Look at verses 5. With a simple tiny little English word, Paul drops the bombshell on them. Says nevertheless, or maybe some of your translations might say it, but even after God's salvation and rescue Most of them, which is really an understatement. Because do you know how many people survived and saw the promised land? Two of them, Caleb and Joshua, were the only people that were able to see the promised land. God destroyed the rest of them. They died in the wilderness. See, I think Paul is warning the Corinthians here, he's saying Be careful that you don't fall into the same sin of fornication and idolatry and grumbling and testing God and think that you're just going to get away with it. Because you will not. Church, God's rejection and destruction of the rebellious Israelites is a relevant lesson and a reminder for us For the Corinthians, but also for us as well, especially when we're attempted to dabble in idolatry. That Paul wants us to reflect on God's goodness and his mercy towards us. And how God is acting with his rebellious children. And be reminded that God, though merciful and good and loving, He wants us to live lives that are worthy of Him, lives that are pleasing to Him. And secondly, we must remember God's faithfulness when we feel overwhelmed by sin. We must remember God's faithfulness when we attempted to give in to sin Look at verses six through thirteen. See, this example, as Paul is saying, are given for us so that we we for those that have experienced God's blessings, not to become Displeasing to God, not to be lasting after evil things as Israelites did, that they were given to us, so to speak, to drive sense into us That's really the language here. Paul is saying, these things are written for us so that they may drive sense into us, so that we may not think that we're called to live in sin. That God's plan for dealing this way with Israel was to keep us from setting our hearts. On sin. See here, Paul is listening for us. But notice how Paul does not say these things were written for you, Corinthians, so that you may not set your hearts. On sinful things. Paul is actually including himself on that. He's saying, These things were written so that we Because Paul knows, 1 John 1, we cannot claim that we are not without sin. We cannot claim that we don't go through struggle, he knows that he has to include himself that we all experience through the same thing. And and then he goes ahead and lists four deadly sins. He says, one, idolatry versus seven, fornication verses eight, testing Christ verses nine and ten, grumbling. And I'm going to look at this uh just for a little bit. We've already talked about idolatry, but take you back to Exodus chapter 32. Remember uh w w when God's people are complaining and they ask Aaron to make a a golden calf and and they were eating the sacrificial meal in dedication to the calf and they all got up to play, which basically means they got up to party and they were having the ceremonial celebration as the pagan gods do The Corinthians are doing the same thing as we saw in chapters eight of First Corinthians, right? They're participating in pagan temple worship and they're uh they're also exposing themselves to situations where they could sin because The temple worship in Corinth would actually those parties would always end up in some uh nasty, horrible thing that would happen afterwards. Paul warns them. Secondly, he's warning them against fornication. Chapter 7 in 1 Corinthians we dealt with it. But just remind you, remember in in the book of Numbers, chapter 25, verses 1 through 9, we're told a story there where the the the Moabites invited the Israelites to to participate in some idol worship and Israelites were actually having some gross sexual uh relations with Moabite women and were told 24,000 of them were killed. Of course, Paul tells us 23. Don't ask me what the discrepancy. We can talk about it after sermon. But we're told in numbers it was twenty-four thousand people. We don't know whether Paul is basically quoting from memory and so he's not you know quoting quite exact the exact number, but it's it's there, twenty-four, twenty-three, same difference. Then the warning against testing Christ, which we haven't dealt with yet. And then he makes a reference to Numbers chapter 21, verses 4 and 9, what happened there. Remember the incident of the snakes? Remember when after God's people would defeat the king of Arad, the Israelites were unwilling to go around the Edomites, and so they got impatient They blasphemed God. They denounced Moses. Go away. Leave us. They loathed the manner that God was giving them. They clamored for water And then what does God do? In response, God sends these poisonous snakes into the camp and they're biting people. And so Moses would pray for the people and he would say, If you get bit All you gotta do is look up on the bronze snake that that Moses put on the pole. You look at it and you'll heal. You don't, you perish. See, the idea of testing God is this. It is always tempting God to see how far we can get. Even though we know so well that we're going to fail. But it is us testing and tempting God to see, let me see how far you're gonna let me get away with it. See the people might have thought, can you imagine looking at a A dead snake on a pole, that that's gonna heal me. They might have thought that was a silly thing to be doing, looking up on a snake But we must be warned not to follow our own inclinations because we're impatient. God's ways work not because they're just God's way, but they work because He Himself has established them Listen to how John, quoting this passage, says in John chapter 3, verses 14 and 15. And Moses, and as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whoever believes in him may have eternal life. That is God's choice. And finally, he talks about grumbling. Now, how many of us really think about putting the sin of grumbling together with idolatry and fornication and tempting Christ? We most likely don't. But it is put right there by Paul. It's part of the sin that we have. And I wonder why Paul puts it there. See, the sin of grumbling is what plants the seed of jealousy. It plants the seed of enmity and strife, disputes, dissensions, factions. And all kinds of anger. And that's not a truth of God's people that are that are supposed to do everything without grumbling or disputing. Paul tells us in Philippians chapter 2. See, the people were complaining to God. They were saying, You have not provided for us the way we want you to provide for us. And they sinned. Listen to how Paul captures their complaints in Colossians chapter 3, verses 5. They said, Oh that we had the meat to eat, we remember the fish that we ate in Egypt that that cost nothing. The cucumbers, the melons, the leeks, the onions, the garlic. But now our strength is dried up. There's nothing at all but this manner to look at It was their greed. Greed that Paul calls idolatry. See, the problem with us is this: that we grumble when the Bible, when God's word tells us something that we don't like. When my sin is exposed by Scripture, I begin to complain. Why should I do that? Why should I be kind to others? Why should I lay my my life down for the sake of others? Why should I love my enemy? See, the Corinthians were complaining and grumbling with Paul. Why? Because Paul was actually exposing their sin I'm telling them don't abuse your rights or the right that you have in Christ. Use it for his glory. Don't think that you can just enjoy the fact that you're baptized and taking communion and yet Live and continue to live in sin and not confess and repent and turn to the Lord. Now look at verses twelve. Another bombshell. Paul addressing those that think that are so prideful, that they are so secure in themselves, they feel that they think they can stand. We have uh Abraham as our father, and so we can go ahead and do anything that we want. Listen to the warning in Hebrews chapter 3. Take care, brothers, lest there be in any of you an evil, unbelieving heart, leading you to fall away from the living God. But exhort one another every day, as long as it is called today, that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. We're called to be aware of how deceitful sin can be. See sometimes the ones who fall are the ones who think that they cannot fall because they become so vulnerable and don't put their defenses up That's what Paul is saying here. Put your defenses up. Don't be warned against self-confidence. Paul is wanting us to look to Jesus every day for help. Look to the cross so that you may not fall into sin. Paul is saying your confidence must only be in Christ Jesus, Him alone. But don't have false security. Placing your hope on your church membership. On your baptism, on your personal experience, on your participation in communion or whatever it is, your security must be on Jesus Christ. To summarize that verse 13, Paul is saying this: do not be smug in your stand in your firm stand for Christ Keep alert lest you fall. That's what Paul is saying. And then finally, Paul gives a caution, but he must give a comfort. And I love this. Look at verses 13. It seems like that verse just stands on its own. What a wonderful encouragement to all believers to know that God has set limits on temptation. What a great thing after all that difficulty, after all those hard things that Paul has said, and and warning the church not to sin and then not to follow the Israelites He knows that you are bound to wonder. You are bound to sin. And if you do, here is a great encouragement for you, brothers and sisters. Here, when you think about temptation, we always think about temptation to sin, but I actually think there's a double meaning here. It's not just temptation to sin, but also trials Suffering that we face in our own life. And Paul is saying it is part of living in this broken wall that we all go through suffering. That we all go through pain. That we all go through temptation of sin. Listen, next time you're going through a hard time, don't ever be tempted to think that God has somehow singled you out to punish you for something. We all Go through the same life. And he's saying because of God's faithfulness, he will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you can bear. What great news for you and for me this morning. See, we may feel the strength of our trial or temptation is that it is just so great for me not to succumb. But he is saying, brothers and sisters, I want you to remember that God is faithful And his sovereign, loving hand will abide in you and he will help you. He is not absent from you. He is faithful. He is there, right there with you, and he will guide you and help you to endure to the very end. See God's faithfulness is perfect, isn't it? It is not the fickleness, it is not like the fickleness of other gods. The capricious temple gods of the Corinthians were tempted to To worship. See, God never breaks his promise. He never breaks his covenant. He never will. He never did, and he never will. Unlike you and me who daily break our covenant with him every day. See how God is so perfect and faithful so that He's a great and faithful shepherd who rescues you even when you lead yourself to a place where you're tempted. Isn't that great news? That even when I foolishly lead myself to a place that I know this is dangerous, that God still follows me there. And rescues me. Even when I lead myself to death, even there he rescues me. See, Jesus withstood Satan's temptation beyond what is common to anyone His agony in Gethsemane and at Calvary, no ordinary man would ever endure. What a great thing that none of us would will ever go through what Jesus went through. So that he can sympathize with us. You know what he's telling us this morning? He's saying, look, my children, I am not a spectator in your life. I am not just standing far away watching as you go through life and temptation. I am the one who says, I will never let go. I am with you till the end of the age. Father, we bless you this morning. We we're so grateful that you are so faithful to us even when we are faithless. Thank you that you are the one who says that you will never let go and that we are completely secure. May we this morning, Lord, just rest, completely rest in Christ alone. Pray this in Christ's name. Amen.