On that day, when the evening had come, he said to them, Let us go across to the other side. And leaving the crowd they took him with them in the boat, just as he was. And other boats were with him, and a great windstorm arose, and the waves were breaking into the boat, so that the boat was already failing. But he was in the stern, asleep on the cushion, and they woke him and said to him, Teacher, do you not care what we are that we are perishing? And he awoke and rebuked the wind and said to the sea, Peace be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. He said to them, Why are you so afraid? Have you still no faith? And they were filled with great fear, and said to one another, Who then is this that even the wind and the sea obey him? Good morning. I think it's on. Is it on? Yeah, it's on. Okay. Great. Uh my name is Patrick, and I'm a pastor at Chapelgate. Presbyterian Church and um where I've been for the last almost sixteen years. Um I I just have to say just rough about I have a lot of um thankfulness and affection for this community and this congregation over the years. Just recently uh you all allowed UMBC to meet here during the pandemic and as they were getting off the ground and using your facility here uh to kind of start that ministry and launch it. I work with our presbytery to with RUF, and so I thank you for allowing that to happen. But even beyond that, over the many years that I've been in this community and this presbytery Just knowing the stories and the people. Andrew Broadwater, I think Dan and Kay's son, was a huge part of our youth finish. We would bring him in every summer and he would uh for our middle school students and he would do steel drums as a part of the worship. uh every uh summer. And that was I just thinking back to that, I was just so thankful. And um and just many other relationships over the years. I lived here in I live in the Catonsville, Ohela area and have for the last 16 years. So inevitably when you when you live in that type of a community, you get to know a lot of different people in a lot of different circles. And so I'm thankful to be able to be here this morning I'm a pastor of men, I'm a pastor of discipleship, I'm a pastor of global missions, domestic missions. I sort of am like a Swiss Army knife for the church there. At any given moment, whatever the need is, that's where I find myself Uh we live here in the Ohella Catonsville area. As I said, I have three girls, uh 14, 11, and 9. And I'm very thankful for them. This morning we're in the book of Mark, and uh it's this story uh that is in three of the four gospels of this great storm arising on the Sea of Galilee. And uh the disciples are freaking out. Uh and they ask this question at the end, which is what Mark is sort of leading us through, but who is this that even the wind and the sea obey him? And that's the question I want to invite you to consider this morning as we go to God's Word. But before we do that, would you join me in prayer? Father, thank you for this church, for your people, for your word, for the worship, for the for the readings, Lord, and And uh Lord, I pray that as we uh hear in your word, God, that you would speak to us where we are. You know our needs, you know what we come from to with this morning to church with uh and I pray that Father you would intercede for us uh with your power uh through Jesus who is here. It's in your name we pray. Amen. It was twenty fifteen, and in my previous role at Chapel Gate, I was uh I started in middle school and then I worked into the high school ministry and In twenty fifteen I was I was the high school director for the church and the pastor for the church. We uh like every summer it sort of picked up you know the pace of life and the activities and we every summer went on an amusement park trip. And this summer in twenty fifteen I got my students together, said, Where do you guys want to go? What amusement park? And they said, We want to go to the best amusement park in the country. country and I said okay so I started doing my research and I discovered that Cedar Point in Sandusky Ohio is the consistently the number one amusement park in the country And so we set off on a trip. This this amusement park has the tallest, the fastest, and the highest concentration of thrill rides of any park in the country. And it's it's so it's an interesting place. Part of what makes it unique is it sits out on this peninsula that jets out over Lake Erie. And so there's this narrow highway that gets you in and gets you out, and everything on this peninsula is the amusement park. And so you can literally go from one coaster to the other very quickly in a small space and period of time. And it also means that you have unobstructed views. When you get to the top of a roller coaster the roller coaster, all you see is Lake Erie out uh in front of you. It's beautiful. While we were there, we were having a great time. My my groups, everybody broke into different groups, and uh we were all going to our favorite thrill rides when all of a sudden a storm arose on Lake Erie. And it starts it now this is one of these like storms where you can see like a line of delineation and it starts barreling down towards us. Literally I'm on one of these coasters. And of course as the leader I'm freaking out. I'm like, where are all my groups? How are we going to get out of here? This thing's coming. You know, electricity, lightning, metal, these all these things are going through my mind. Um it's it was a logistical nightmare. So I started texting all my group leaders and said Hey, let's go. We got to get to the van. That was our plan. Let's get to the van and then we'll form a plan after that. And so we started. We started to run. I got my group off of the roller coaster. We started sprinting This thing was barreling towards us. It was almost like kind of a zombie apocalypse. And so we ran. We booked it out of the park, spreading as fast as we could. My group literally made it to our van within seconds of the skies opening up. It was a 12 passenger van, I think we had twenty-two kids in that van at that time. Right? It was biblical proportions, and it was one of those things like you just can't unthink about when you come to a passage like this. Like the the seeming, you know, ordinariness. You know, right now in the summertime we're having these, you know, heat waves and it swells and it's just like a torrential rain for a couple of moments. Every day in this life, we are reminded of just how small and little control we have in this world. This certainly is evident with the disciples in this moment, where their fear and their frustration just poured out of them. It just oozed out of them. How we respond in a world where nothing is promised and where we are always surprised speaks to what we really believe. And this morning, Mark's Gospel offers an invitation. to you and to me, to radical dependence and trust in Christ, who controls everything Seen and unseen. This morning, that's what's in view. And that's where Mark is sort of leading his readers during this portion of his word. Without just two observations. The first is Jesus is not afraid of the storm. He's not afraid of it. Why was Jesus asleep? You might be asking yourself, what why was he asleep in the middle of the boat? Well, looking back, Jesus has been teaching this this crowd of people, and the crowd is so large just before he enters the boat that they're actually pressing in on him. And he has to get into a boat in order for them to uh to be able to see all of the people there. I can imagine this crowd sort of pressure. Pressing in on him like he's sort of trapped uh in in that moment. If you're an introvert here, you know it's like your worst nightmare. He and the disciples leave uh at night, which indicates he's been teaching all day and uh he's exha he's just exhausted. You know, we believe that Jesus is fully human. And so it's reasonable to expect that he was tired. But just because he's asleep doesn't mean he's not in control. It wasn't unusual for storms to suddenly appear on the Sea of Galilee, the combo of high mountains and low peaks with cold and warm air mixing together meant that uh the in the right conditions storms would happen all the time. The disciples were fishermen, and so you would think they have some reasonable competency when it comes to dealing with these types of particular situations. Mark's details are important for us here. Jesus is asleep in the rear of the ship on a cushion. The boat is filling with water. The disciples go and wake him up in fear. The vividness of these descriptions echoes to another passage in Scripture, to Jonah chapter 1. And that's if you're familiar with the book of Jonah, Jonah was called by God to go and preach out against the Nineveh. And he was calling them uh to turn. Uh uh they were a brutal people, but he didn't want to go do that. And so he runs away, taking a ship and the Complete opposite direction, hiding in the bottom of the ship, he falls asleep. A storm arises, the crew freaks out, and they begin pleading with all of their different gods. Jonah thought that the crew, if the crew cast him into the storm, it would stop. There would be no more storms. Jonah is asleep. Jesus is asleep. The sailors are afraid. Jesus is afraid. Do you hear the parallels? These parallels are not there by accident This would have encouraged early Christians in the church to persevere at a time when all over Rome When this would have been read, when they found themselves increasingly marginalized and persecuted under the late reign of Nero, it would have reminded them that Jesus is present in their suffering. Doesn't it make a difference to know that Jesus is in the storm with you? That God hasn't left us, but He's given us His Spirit to intercede Galatians 5. 25 says, if we live by the Spirit, let us also keep in step with the Spirit. What gives you confidence to move towards difficult circumstances and people? People. Where does your strength come from to face the daily pressures and struggles and decisions that we all face in living in a fallen and broken world? In his book, Canoeing the Mountains, Todd Bollinger follows the journey of Lewis and Clark from St. Louis through the American West to find the famed Northwest Passage. Which was supposed to be a water route from the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean. This was an incredible journey, dangerous and uncharted. At the time of this journey, most contemporary scientists believed that the mountains on the west coast would mirror the mountains on the east coast. And so that sort of say that that was like a mirror image of each one of one another. And so they were confident that they could find a water passage across the continent But all that changed when Lewis and Clark encountered the Rocky Mountains. Here's what he writes. When they thought of mountains, they pictured rounded treetop bluffs like the Appalachians. Even seeing mountains rise in front of them for miles didn't compute, for no American had seen mountains like these. In the words of Corporal Sergeant John Ordway, who was with them, the mountains extend as far as our eyes can see. They extend much further than we expected. Or as another said, they were the most terrible mountains I had ever beheld, and at that moment everything they assumed about their journey changed. Isn't it when we're going through things in life? When those pressure points, when those transitions happen, that we find ourselves questioning, what is this all about? Why am I going through this? Friends, life is filled with all kinds of challenges and unexpected plans. Nobody expected a few weeks ago wildfires in Canada to impact us. Right? We don't know what tomorrow brings. The temptation when we feel uncertain is to cling to things that don't satisfy us. To find comfort in our distraction or in our our ourselves Hebrews 2. 1 says, careful attention to what you have heard, lest you drift away from it. Comfort is the enemy to spiritual growth, and yet we're obsessed with it. We pursue it. We measure it. We try to keep it, but it's like grasping at the wind. There's a tyranny in it. But the gospel is liberation. for you and for me. It's the only way that because it says the only way you're ever going to be free is to let go. Let go To the non-believer, Mark's gospel offers an invitation to the only one who can ever bring peace, Jesus. If you've been pursuing things that don't leave you satisfied, money, status, relationships, the only reasonable explanation is that you're meant to find your satisfaction in a person Other than yourself and Jesus. To the religious, the invitation is to recognize that following Jesus does not suddenly free us from trouble, trials, and suffering. They don't go away this side of eternity. But because of Jesus, they can't crush you. And so what are you carrying this morning? What burdens do you have? Jesus invites you to come. The second thing we notice in this passage is that Jesus is complete, in complete control. He's not afraid, and he's in complete control of the storm. The boat is filling up. It's being overwhelmed with water. In their fear, they go to him and they say, Teacher, do you not care? Do you not care that we are perishing? Nobody likes to be woken up to an accusation like that. It's violent. It's disorienting. Right? I have a lot of empathy for parents with young kids. Uh I know what it is to be woken from the dead of sleep by a screaming child. Uh when uh my kids were younger, my two oldest shared a room uh to make way for my number three. And my oldest consistently is like rigid, like clockwork. She's got the same schedule. She wakes up, she woke up every day at six o'clock and would go downstairs and she would get her juice And my my second born was like two or two at the time and she had no concept of what was going on and would freak out Out. Every morning she'd come into my room just bawling, screaming at the top of her lungs. It was so disorienting The phrase, do you not care? It's like something a teenager would say. It's a big statement. But at one level it's understandable, right? After all, the disciples are human beings The storm is sinking their ship. Jesus, who they barely even know, is asleep in the bow. This is how desperate and frustrated people speak. We see the phrase used in Luke's gospel. In Luke chapter 10, verses 38 through 40, with Mary and Martha, right? Mary sat at the Lord's feet while Martha is busy. cleaning and doing all these different things. And and and uh uh Martha says Lord do you not care that my sister has left me alone do you not care Do you not care about us? Can't you see, Jesus, I'm working hard, I'm doing my part? She isn't Tim Keller has said, if you have a God that's big enough to get mad at, then you must also have a God who's big enough and powerful enough to have reasons for doing things you can't understand. It's clear the disciples don't understand what's happening, or who is with them in the boat in the first place, and it's pouring out. It's Jesus who says, Out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks. Anyone who has ever tried to follow Jesus with their lives can sometimes see how life sometimes feels like things stack on top of each other. And you can feel, as been said by uh uh uh Jack Miller as an orphan. Feel like you've been abandoned. Right? Like if God loved me, how can we be going through this? I've experienced that feeling in my life. Um in our first year of marriage, my wife and I, uh we had like I think like four of the five major stressors. We um w I was born and raised in Atlanta. That's where I grew up. That's where I went to college. I lived at home for the most part until I took a job at a as an intern at a church and we got married and we lived in a house for a couple of months and before I was gonna go start seminary at Covenant Seminary. And um We got married, we moved to St. Louis, we both left our jobs and had to start new jobs. We left all of our friends, all of our relationships, everyone we had ever known, uh in a brand new city. Uh and uh Um uh we started school and we were we were poor. We had we had zero money. My wife was working at Bed Bath and Beyond. I was working like Three jobs. I mean we were we were we were dirt poor. And and in that process I was drowning in grief I remember moving to St. Louis and the mayor of the city was running on and coming from Atlanta, which was a growing, booming, beautiful place with lots of relationships to move to St. Louis, this Midwestern sort of industrial town, and the mayor was running on the phrase, we will be a great city again. I didn't know what was going on. I was grieving and I was drowning in my grief. We even just sang that, right? That our sorrow Right, entering into that space. And it was just leaking out in all of my life. Notice how Jesus responds. He doesn't push the disciples away. He doesn't dismiss their concerns. He rebukes the wind and the sea, and they obey him. They listened. There was complete calm, like flat water, like not moving at all. You see, Jesus brings order out of chaos. He is the true north, the place that we turn when everything around us is collapsing. It's also true that Jesus doesn't need to appeal to anyone or anything outside of himself to calm the storm. He simply speaks, and by the word of the power of his power, it happens. Jesus is the full embodiment of our Creator God. After Jesus calms the storm, he speaks with authority as to what's going on inside the hearts of the disciples. He's controlling all those external things, but he's actually also controlling their hearts. He says, Why are you so afraid? Do you still not have any faith? You see, faith was the issue. Jumping back to Jonah, when the storm was calm, the sailors feared the Lord exceedingly Offering a sacrifice, making vows. They started worshiping. Right? The disciples were filled with great fear. They're doing the opposite of worship in that moment. Why were they more afraid? Well maybe it's because their view of Jesus was just too small. They couldn't control the storm, and they couldn't control Jesus either. The presence of the supernatural in their midst is more frightening than any storm. You see, Jesus is showing the disciples what these parables were all about. That it isn't enough to have it all up there. It has to move into here. It has to move from here to here Psalm sixty-five said, He who stills the roaring of the seas and the roaring of their waves, the tumult of the peas peoples, it's Jesus. It's only Jesus Jesus. Right? In 2016, I got a phone call that nobody ever really wants to get. Now on the phone was my sister Monica, who was weeping. Because she had just, as a as a 33-year-old woman with two kids under four, had just gotten a diagnosis of breast cancer. She was devastated And as I sat in the room, uh the youth room here, I was, you know, eleven hour drive away, you know, two hour flight, my heart just sank within me Me began to break. I cried, I prayed, and all I wanted to do in that moment was just run by her side. Powerless, powerless to do anything but pray. I needed God to intercede. I needed Him To bring healing, to work in her heart. At that point in her life, she wasn't walking with Jesus. Thankfully, she's been cancer-free for a few few years, and God used that to draw her to Himself. Which I'm very thankful for. Friends, where do you turn in struggle, suffering, death, and pain? Friends, we have a Savior who is always interceding with us For us before the Father on our behalf. He is always there at the tip of the spear when you most personally need him. Why? Because he goes through the hard things With us. Jesus is the perfect Jonah. Instead of being cast off into the sea, Jesus descended into hell, was crucified, died, and buried, and resurrected He died the death that you and I deserved for our unbelief. And the invitation in Mark's gospel for you and for me this morning is to believe. Sometimes, like the disciples, our faith is small, like barely there, but you're still welcome. If you're unsure of who Jesus is If you're unsure of that Jesus is who he says he is, he says uh and and you can't find the answer, go to him. Go to him. His shoulders are wide enough for all the things that you're kidding. Mark's account leaves us with this question Who is it that even the winds and the sea obey him? Friends of Jesus, God's only Son, the Savior, the Lord over all creation, the one who promised us a day when He will calm all the storms and the waves. You see, in him there is a day where there is no more cancer, there is no more loss of loved ones, there are more no more tears, no more abuse, no more injustice, and no more pain. Friends, this is our hope, and this is our good news. Let's pray. Father, thank you. God, that you do intercede. Lord, because you sent your son, Jesus To live the life we could never live and die the death we could never die, all for us. Lord, we thank you for that. Thank you even now you're interceding for us. Us. We pray that as we go into this week, Lord, that you would use us to bring that message of hope to the people, the places, the situations that you've brought in our past. Lord, by your spirit. In whose name, uh in Jesus' name we pray. Amen