This morning's passage is John chapter 18, verse 1 to 11, as we continue in our sermon series on the Gospel of John, come and see. ESV translation verse 1. When Jesus had spoken these words, he went out with his disciples across the brook Kidron, where there was a garden, which he and his disciples entered. Now Judas, who betrayed him, also knew the place, for Jesus often met there with his disciples. Sir Judas, having procured a band of soldiers and some officers from the chief priests and the Pharisees, went there with lanterns and torches and weapons. Then Jesus, knowing all that would happen to him, came forward and said to them, Whom do you seek? They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus said to them, I am He. Judas who betrayed him was standing with them. When Jesus said to them, I am he, he they drew back and fell to the ground. So he asked them again, Who do you seek? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus answered, I told you that I am He. So if you seek me, let these men go. This was to fulfill the word that He had spoken. Of those whom you gave me I have lost not one Then Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it and struck the high priest's servant and cut off his right ear. Servant's name was Malcolm. So Jesus said to Peter, put your sword into its sheath. Shall I not drink the cup that the Father has given me? God's holy word. Amen. The Upper Room Discourse, Teaching of Jesus, has ended on on that Passover night, and uh Last week, Eric shared with us the Lord's Prayer, John 17, the high priestly prayer of Jesus. And they moved to the Garden of Gethsemane, the east side of Jerusalem, the holy city. And Dr. Luke in his gospel tells us of the weary disciples who couldn't even stay awake while Jesus was praying. In fact, Jesus is in such agony that he's sweating blood and he receives angelic assistance. Luke tells us that. But then the soldiers come along, and with them is a very familiar face, Judas, one of the twelve, who left the supper early, if you recall, the betrayer And we will see Jesus ask them a simple question. It's not the where question. The where question is where is this going to happen? And we know where. It's the Garden of Gethsemane, Mount of Olives. It's not the when question. It's it's late at night, it's probably the middle of the night. Uh the supper's over, the past suppers are over and families are going to sleep, and that was already decided, the where. He asked the who question. Who? Who are you seeking? And it's ironic, isn't it? Because Jesus knows who they're seeking. It's already been solved too, but he asked it anyway. Why? We'll see that in a few minutes There's a much bigger question than the who question. This is the why question. Why had they gone to such trouble securing a legal warrant Rallying the soldiers, gathering torches and lanterns and weapons in the middle of the night during Passover season. Passover season. By the way, during Passover season was it was a full moon. It was really bright outside. Even at nighttime. You know what a full moon night looks like Yet they're prepared to chase him down every nook and cranny. So they have lanterns and torches. They have troops because if necessary, they will fight. If there's followers of Jesus who want to start who want to fight, they're willing to fight All these soldiers. Why? Why are they seeking him? Because Jesus was perceived a threat to the Jewish religious leaders? Yes. Because Jesus was perceived as a threat to the Roman political officials? Yes. But more importantly, more than Not known by most people, but probably more important than those other two reasons, because his hour had come. His hour had come The Gospel of John builds towards the hour. In chapter 2, when he does the miracle of the wines in Cana, he says to Mary his mother, my hour. has not yet come. In in chapter seven, they were about to arrest him and and and and he said his hour had not yet come. tells us. That's why they couldn't they didn't arrest him back then because his hour had not come. In chapter 12, we've seen this He comes to a point before Palm Sunday. He talks about being lifted up. And he says, the hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. He's talking about the fact he's going to now enter into the passion And then the next chapter, chapter 13, before he washes their feet, John says in verse chapter 13, verse 1, Jesus knew that the hour had come to depart from the world. So the hour, Jesus' hour, it time had come. And Jesus, of course, had predicted in the Gospels that they would take him and beat him, and he would die on a cross. Because Jesus was a threat to Satan's kingdom. He was born to die. He was born for this very hour. The Son of Man came to earth on a mission. Mark, it says he came to give himself up as a ransom for many. There's still today some who seek Jesus. Some for the right reasons, some for the wrong reasons. In John 6, you might call uh Jesus fed crowds there Miraculously. And when he did that, they sought to crown him as king, right? But he slipped away They appeared to be seeking him. So were they really? Weren't they really seeking what he could do for them? Not really seeking him? Remember on Sunday morning, Plumb Sunday morning, the crowds had cried, Hosanna, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. And they were seeking a king to overthrow the Roman soldiers, but weren't they really seeking just peace rather than Jesus, the Prince of Peace? So Jesus asked us that same question, Saints. Who are you seeking? I trust you're seeking Him, seeking to know Him better each day. But let me go back to the other question for us to consider. If you're seeking him, why are you seeking him? Why are you seeking him? See, many people still cry Hosanna to the king. Blessed is he who comes to the name believers For many, Jesus is is the miracle worker, the social activist, the deliverer, the victor over Satan and over evil. Well, they ignore his most important deliverance He delivers us from sin. He builds a bridge that solves the great spiritual gap that exists between unholy people and an eternally holy God. Jesus is the Savior who by his death and resurrection has defeated sin and all of sin's consequences. We want a Jesus, you see, because he will heal all our ills, right? Because he will solve all our problems, because of all of our health issues and our on financial issues, and our relational issues, and our psychological issues, we were unfortunately told too often that just come to Jesus and all those problems will be solved And so we come. Not really, maybe seeking Jesus, but seeking what Jesus can do for us. And this sets us up for discouragement, doesn't it? God allows us to have seasons, you see, of pain and stress and anxiety, just like Job, the Old Testament, when the pains of the real world smacked him in the face The only thing he had left was God himself. That's the only thing we promised. God himself in his fellowship, in his presence. Saints, who are you seeking? Yeah, Jesus asked us the question, who are we seeking? Who are we seeking? And um God wants us to do more than appreciate Jesus for what he can do for us. The truth of the quest the passage is this. Even as we see him arrested in the garden, we're challenged uh uh with the glory of Jesus. Even in his arrest, John wants us to see that Jesus is not just a victim. He's the victor. And so we see the glory of Jesus during this very familiar passage. Jesus' glory shines through. Alright, we're going to see four movements in the passage. See Judas' plot We're going to see Jesus' glory, Jesus' command, and then Peter's aggression, okay? Now the other gospels, we see the this very famous passage, this garden of rest, and we see the kiss of Judas. John eliminates that. It's interesting to me that John doesn't even talk about that. Yet John has a particular purpose in mind as he tells this story. Some of you might remember in the old days of radio, a commentator named Paul Harvey. He's past now Barry would he would do these five minute little things. He would tell a great a story, a familiar story, uh maybe a b uh a biography of a famous person or maybe a person that that you may know something that they did. And he would give me two or three minutes about the person. And then it would be a commercial. And then he would end it for about a minute, giving you something surprising or that you didn't know about that person. And then he would always end this little five-minute thing with the famous words, and so now you know the rest of the story. Well, when I think of the Gospel of John, I think of Paul Harvey. John's the fourth gospel. The other three Gospels are out there. People are reading them and they're thinking through them and they're trying to and understand. And these stories are very familiar. But John gives us a little bit of information, adding to the known information. Everybody knows about the Judas kiss. And they're looking for that in this passage. But John doesn't go there. John has some other things he wants us to see about this very familiar event. So one of the four things. First is the plot, Judas's plot. Judas's plot, the verse, the first is one to three. Their journey, we see, is is uh is taking them to the from the upper room to the Mount of Olives Um the route was probably the southeast temple gate, across down at the gate across the the the Kidron uh river valley. Up the hill toward toward the road towards Bethlehem two two um miles from Jerusalem. Um But with between the temple and Bethany was this this hill, the Mount of Olives, where the Garden of Gethsemane existed, and it was a regular gathering spot for Jesus and the disciples In fact, Luke 21 tells us during Holy Week, during this week before he died, he spent the days in the temple and the nights he lodged, it says in the um of the mount. Now was he out was was he camping or was there someone living there? We don't know. But it says he lodged in the Mount of Olives. Luke 21 And we know that he was sweating blood as he prayed. He went there to pray that night. The disciples fell asleep. Someone says it was a lonely vigil through a long night. Something significant about this trip there. This is Passover night. Passover lambs are being slaughtered there that very night, that yearly Passover event. The Kidron Creek, the river, the creek across the Kidron Valley would have been tainted by the blood of lambs as the disciples crossed over. Think of it. It wasn't just water, it was probably bloody water They jumped, they crossed over. A few years later was someone counted the number of lambs that were slaughtered on Passover night in Jerusalem. The number of Passover lambs a couple years after this was 256,000 lambs. That's a lot of blood. This river may have been quite bloody. Might have been quite red. Don't miss the irony, saints. Jesus is our sacrifice. He is our sin bearer. He is the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. In verses 2 and 3, Judas knew the place and came there with the soldiers, who numbered probably in the hundreds. Someone says evil is coming together in conspiracy. Judas, religion, politics, Satan, all back. All fall back before the moral monarch. That's what's going to happen. They're going to fall back before the moral monarch, Jesus Christ. Judas is evil. He's an infiltrator, despite his many privileges. He's discouraged that his carnal dreams will never come to pass. Judas has conspired with the enemies of God. Satan has filled his heart, and Satan will eventually destroy Judas. The army is that Jesus is praying. The disciples are sleeping, and a small army comes with torches and weapons to arrest Jesus. Why so many? We'll talk about it already. They fear his power. Remember he cleared the temple? They remembered that Remember John chapter 11, he raised the dead? They feared his power. And secondly, they feared his popularity. Remember, in John 6, we said he was so popular that people want to they want to force him to become king. They remembered Palm Sunday, the Hosanna is Hosanna, bless is he who comes They feared his power. They feared his popularity. They had to get rid of them. So Judas was involved in this plot with the religious leaders to do in the Son of God. Verses 4 to 7 though we see Jesus glory. Jesus glory. And this is you, this section here is quite unique to John's Gospel. The other three gospel writers don't record this part right here The question, who are you sinking? In other words, what John's, what Jesus is asking, whose name is on your arrest warrant? And their answer, verse 5, Jesus of Nazareth. And Jesus replies, I am He. Twenty-four out of twenty-seven translations that I looked at in the Bible hub give say, I am He. However, if you look at the Greek, if you look at the Greek, you will see that all Jesus said was, I am. In all the translations, he is in italics or parenthesis. If you look at the Greek, if you know Greek, or look at the interlinear, Jesus didn't say I am he. Jesus said I am. Ego ami in the Greek. You know and um one translation called the the the Aramaic Bible in plain English put I am the living God Two translations that I've never heard, the International Standard Version and the New Heart English Bible, put I am And didn't put he. Why is that significant? Well, if you know your Bible, that's very significant. If you know the Gospel of John, that's very significant. And the and John shows us in the text that it's very significant Because Jesus says, I am, and they pulled back and they hit the ground. Again, the other gospels don't tell us about this. What's going on here? What is going on here? I am, of course, as you know, is the phrase that John has traced Through the gospel. One commentator says about this that when he said I am, they went down like dominoes. In the presence of deity in the Bible, when confront with deity, normally people hit the ground. Like Isaiah, like Daniel, like Ezekiel, like Saul in the New Testament Confronted by the glory of God, they hit the ground. God's glory, the manifestation of his holiness. I am the sacred name of God. Yahweh, I am. It's the verb, the verb of being in the Hebrew language. Um, you are probably familiar with the passage in Exodus chapter 3 when God revealed that name. Moses is in the wilderness in the cow pasture And he sees the bush that's burning. It's not burning up, it's just burning, continually burning, not getting any smaller. He's intrigued by it. He saw bushes all the time out there, but this one was weird. It just kept burning and wouldn't burn up He goes to it and God is in the manifestation of God to get his his to to to confront him with the glory, the holiness, the brilliance, the radiance of God And and and God speaks to him and you remember, you know, take off your shoes. You're in holy ground. Holy ground. This is cow pasture. This is This is holy ground? Wherever God is is holy ground. Take off your shoes. You're in the presence of deity, the presence of holiness. And the and and do you remember God said, I want you to go and and tell Pharaoh to let the people go to worship me in the mountain. And Moses has all these excuses He says, Well who am I going to say told me? And God and God, you know, what what is your name? And God says, I am who I am. I am who I am. And again, it's this Hebrew verb thing going on I am who I am. The I am. That is who God is. He is not just the God who was or the God who will be. He's the God who is. He's the eternal God. He's the in the eternal now. He always is. He's the creator of God. He's the essence of being. And so he's the I am The book of Isaiah, I hadn't noticed that until this week and just looking at this passage more closely. In the the last half of of um The book of Isaiah, where where the the the the the restoration passages chapters 40 to uh to sixty-six um there's an I am fiend that's going to get a couple of them you can see what what what what how is Isaiah does There's probably a couple dozen times at least where he uses the phrase I am in that section. Fear not, you worm, Joseah 41, verse 14 Fear not, you worm Jacob, you men of Israel. I am the one who helps you, declares the Lord your Redeemer, is the Holy One of Israel. I am the one who helps you. 4325. I am he who blots out your transgressions for my own sake. I will remember your sins. 4522. I am your God, and there is no other. Chapter 60. You shall know that I, the Lord, am your Savior. Again, that's just several instances of something that Isaiah, I think, clearly is trying to link. to this idea that God is the I am, our the only Savior and Redeemer. And of course, the Gospel of John, which we've been going through, walking through these many, many, many months, remember, you remember the I am statements. I am the living water, Jesus says, I am the bread of heaven. I'm the light of the world. I'm the Good Shepherd. I'm the door. I'm the true vine. I'm the resurrection and the life. I'm the way, the truth, and the life. And then don't forget John 8, where Jesus argues with those religious leaders who claim to be Abraham's children. And Jesus called them children of their father the devil. And then he said, before Abraham was I am. And hearing this supposedly blasphemous statement from a human being, they picked up stones to stone him What if Jesus again slipped away and hid? Why? Doesn't say it there, but his hour had not yet come. You know there's a clear point of application for us, and it's obvious. Jesus Christ is the glorious Son of God. He's the Lord of glory. He's the great I am. He alone is worthy of our worship. You may remember in the book of Acts, chapter 14, Paul and Barabas, the great apostles, they were in the city of Lystra. And the folk there, he did any miracle, the folks were just amazed that Paul and Barnabas could do this, and thought they were gods. the the Greek gods and they started bowing and went to worship Paul and Barnabas. And um they said, No, no. See thinking of their Old Testament Which made clear commandments that you are only to worship God. They said, we're merely humans. Don't worship us. Were Paul and Barnabas better Jews than Jesus? Either Jesus is a bad Jew, or he really is worthy of our worship And these hundreds of troops who came to arrest Jesus, God knocks them down before Jesus, his son. Jesus is worthy of worship. Philippians 2 says this. Every knee shall bow, every tongue confess. That Jesus is Lord to the glory of God the Father. That does not mean that they will be saved. This is not a joyful confession. It's a tearful confession. This is saying that before they are condemned at final judgment, They will learn the truth and know why. They are not allowed to go into God's heaven. You see, heaven is all about Jesus and the glory of Jesus and the worship of Jesus and the love of Jesus And unsaved folk will be bored there. The third thing I see in the text is verses 8 to 9. This is Jesus' command, his command. I told you that I am he. So if you seek me, let these men go. This is to fulfill the word he's spoken, of those whom you gave me, I have. So twice they say they're looking for Jesus of Nazareth. And Jesus is implying that they are not, they were not sent to arrest the other eleven, you see. Jesus is submitting to the legal authorities. He's also reminding them of their authority, and he's protecting, this is important, he's protecting his disciples from being arrested by these authorities. Okay? So John shows us the Lord of glory, who even when arrested, is in command of the situation. And here we see the recommendation of Jesus, the commands of Jesus. Let these men go. Don't arrest them. You just have, you just can't arrest me, arrest me. He reminds here, God reminds us of verse 9. In verse 9 of that Jesus had predicted predicted this to fulfill what was spoken in the Word. There's two points in John's Jos John's gospel where he mentions this in John in John 6. 39 This is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me, but raise it up for the last day. Jesus said that I mean last week in the prayer of chapter 17, he just prayed that the day that we would be guarded or protected or kept from the evil one. By being sanctified through his word and through his prayers. Jesus' promise is to protect us and he commands those troops. Don't arrest the eleven. Just, you just came from me. He protects him. See, we believe that those who truly come to Jesus will endure to the end. Why? Because of their great ability to endure? No, because Jesus protects them. Jesus protects us. Keeps us. The Apostle Paul put it like this: He who has begun the good work in you will bring it to completion in the day of Christ. Philippians chapter 1. Here's an application for us. Jesus is never too busy to protect us. Now think about Jesus right there. Jesus is about to be arrested. He's got a lot that could be on his mind. And yet he takes the time to protect him. Has he ever wondered about, you know, your needs and Maybe Jesus is too busy with more important things to care about my needs. I'm sure that thought's come to you before Jesus is too busy to take care of me. I'm not I'm not you know his eye isn't really on me he's got bigger issues in his life Jesus is the Lord of glory Jesus promises to keep us, to protect us. You look at the scriptures and the uh the heroes of faith in the scriptures, and you know, they're no different than you and I. You're no different than you. In John 17, remember, he didn't just pray for the for the disciples. He prayed for all who would believe through look. He prayed for us. He prayed for us. The promises of his word are truth for us. 1 Corinthians 10, 13, that he would make a way of escape from every temptation that we face. He's there in the midst of our lives. An example is Peter. And again, we're just like Peter. In Luke chapter 22, Luke's Last Supper scene. Jesus prayed for Peter's weak faith, that Satan would not have final victory in Peter's life. Because Jesus told Peter, you're going to deny me. You see, we're just like Peter The only reason why we keep our faith is because Jesus prays for us. He is our great high priest. This is the heart of Jesus. Even in the midst of his the crisis moment of his life, he's thinking of his shoe. Thinking of others. One commentator Milney says this: the caring heart of Jesus is our security. The caring heart of Jesus is our security. Because of it, he will not lose one of those those the Father has given. The good shepherd has committed himself to his sheep. When the wolf comes, he will remain or defend the flock he loves. Whatever the wolf may represent in our lives today Guilt, chain, past failures, the accusing voices of criticism, sudden paralyzing feelings of inadequacy as they come snapping and snarling at our heels. The good shepherd is there to meet them and to issue his word of command, let my people go. Well the fourth and last movement, I want to look at John shows us Peter's aggression. the aggression of Peter. Peter has a sword and and and he he he he heals Jesus has to heal uh Malchus's ear because Peter waxed him whacks his ear off Again, Luke 22, 51 gives us that whole paragraph gives us a lot more information, but John, only John gives us the name of the individual. John was there, he knows his name's name, Malchus. You remember the disciples are tired and weary and sleepy and probably awakened by the sound of the guards, startled from their sleep probably. Peter wakes up quickly, moves into a defensive mode. That's what happens here. And you better believe that he's not just aiming for Malchus's ear. Peter is a headhunter. You know what a headhunter is? Peter is a headhunter. Jesus' final miracle is healing the ear of the servant of the high priest. That's the final miracle in the gospel of Jesus. Jesus heals his enemies. It's very important. Don't miss it. Some people Often they were lying to Christian faith because of the evils of the crusades and forced conversions. That we see that we know we're in Christian history. And many people they look at that and say, uh, Christianity, no. No, I I just finished a church history class, a seminary And as the weeks went by, as the Sudas kept hearing about all these crazy stories of crazy bad things that Christians did in church history, it got very very troublesome Now it's interesting that in the beginning of the first few centuries the followers of Christ were a persecuted minority. And then the script got flipped And the the the the the Christendom was birthed and and the followers of Christ became a political influence in the world, the Western world. And they became the ones who started hating and killing and persecuting. Now I don't think those from other religions But even those within the Christian religion who had different beliefs over very secondary issues sometimes, it's a troublesome story, a troublesome history when it pops as the incidents pile up You know, other leaders of movements might endorse that strategy of aggression and violence to expand the faith He was even in the new in the Old Testament, wasn't it? For a time. But Jesus, no. No. Put your sword away, Peter And he's going to allude to this even later when he talks to Pilate. My kingdom is not of this world. If it were, my people would fight. My kingdom is of another world. See, that's the way the kingdoms of this world advance, but not the kingdom of Jesus. The parable of the sober of the sower shows us That this kingdom expands, advances through the word being bearing fruit in the hearts of men and women around the world. The sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, as Ephesians 6 tells us. Many have come to hate all religions because history shows us that religious people certainly are the ones that have stimulated a lot of wars and hostility among the sons of Adam. However, let me absolutely say this clearly. Conversion by sword was never, and still is never, the way of Jesus. The server on the mouth. Beatitudes. Love your neighbor. Pray for him. Give him the coat off your back. Give him another coat. Go to Yeshua Mouth. It's narrow, pull the toad out of your neighbor. Move on. Just the last the last verse, verse 11. Um talks about he's gonna take he's drinking the cup And again, the the the the it's it's the this cup represents something for Jesus. It's the wrath of God. Jeremiah chapter 25. The prophets talk about the cup of God Jeremiah 25, 15. Thus the Lord the God of Israel said to me, Take from my hand this cup of the wine of wrath, and make all the nations whom I send you. This is an illusion in your in the prophets often would talk about the cup, drinking the cup of wrath. Now in um in um the old Greek philosopher Socrates died drinking poisonous cup of hemlock. He drank the cup and died. And Jesus used the term drink the cup to explain his willful obedience to give himself up to satisfy The just, holy, wrath of God, the wrath that we deserved, so that we might go free. In a real sense, Jesus gave himself up He was not arrested. He gave himself up. He certainly wasn't tortured like P. O. W. s in a in a camp who are forced to submit. No, he gave himself up. And John tries to show us that Jesus is in control of the situation. situation. Oh how he loves you and me. He gave his life. What more could he do? Oh how he loves you Oh how he loves you. Some some applications. I want to the applications I have really are focused on each of the four individuals that I've talked about. The first individual is Judas. I want us to beware of false faith. Beware of false faith. There's a caution here. Merely being in the church doesn't make you a Christian. Someone sometimes said being in a garage doesn't make you a car Being in a church doesn't make you a Christian. Judas was around Jesus, around the ministry for years, for several, almost three years. He was there He heard the words of Jesus. He saw the love of Jesus. He was part of the act of the team that went out and proclaimed Jesus. He heard the warnings of greed and and lust for power and money. But he never believed. He never wanted Jesus. He just wanted what Jesus he thought would give him. The wear of false faith. Second Beware of fleshly solutions. Fleshly solutions. This is the this is Peter. Peter Not only is there something here about violence as a solution to expand the kingdom, there's something in general about fleshly reactions, fleshly solutions. Which never seemed to work to solve spiritual problems. Look, remember Genesis? Remember how Abraham and Sarah were given promises that they were going to bear a son a child who would be the they would be the father of J of J and and and and they were old, Sarah was old, they laughed, God said, No no no, you're gonna have a son, you can have a child, and that child will be you'll be f you will be you will the the nation will come from them Years went by, nothing happened. They decided, let's help God out. God must mean that women have a son to Besaraged Hagar. So he goes to Hagar and they have a child and Ismail's born And and and they thought that Hagar was the child of that that Ismail would be the child of promise. But no, that was not God's way. God's way was that he didn't just say Abraham had a son, Abraham and Sarah Y'all gonna have a child. You two, not too third party. Fresh and solutions are not God's way. We can say more about that. The third person, Malchus, this high priest. And this is an interesting application for us, but it applies to all of us. Beware of evil employers. Where do I get that from? Beware of evil employers. There's a caution here. Be careful what your company is doing and what your boss is doing. Because you can get caught up into it. See Malchus and the troops, they probably didn't wake up that morning knowing that they were about to do the devil's work He was probably he probably got up, cleaned himself, kissed his wife, said by the kids, headed to work that day. See, Malchus and the troops are victims of a system of evil Maybe Malchus and some of the other soldiers were totally innocent. Maybe they knew what was happening, maybe they didn't. Look, if if we if you're in a situation where you know that clear evil is going on in the workplace, you know, the idea of being a whistleblower is not uh out out of the picture Either you get away or you blow the whistle. Don't be in it. It's dangerous to be involved in a system of evil. See, evil people create evil systems. Malchus the high priest's servant was just doing his job, obeying the chain of command. In doing his job, he lost an ear for a little bit for a season. He was also privileged to experience the healing touch of Jesus But beware of evil employers. And the fourth application is quite simple and quite obvious. It's about Jesus. Believe him. Believe he is true. Worship him. He's the Lord of glory. And life is about living for his glory. God delights in showing himself strong so that he might get Well I see my time is long past. Let me end with just the lyrics of a song. Uh all glory to Jesus, begotten of God, the great I am is He. Wonder of wonder, the Lamb of Calvary. To think that the guardian of the planets in space, the shepherd of the stars, is gently leading the church that he loves with his hands, by his hands with crimson scars. The King of all kings and the Lord of all lords, he reigns in glory now, and one day he's coming, earth's kingdoms to claim, and every knee shall bow. Every knee shallow God. Whom are you seeking? Are you seeking the Lord of glory, Jesus Christ? The admonition? Simple in the Bible. Seek, and you will find. Jeremiah said this, meaning this verse. You will call upon me and come and pray to me and I will hear you You'll seek me and find me, and you seek me with all your heart. I will be found by you, declares the Lord, and I will restore your fortunes and gather you from all the nations. Who are you seeking? Let's pray. Father God, help us to appreciate what you have done for us And to because you have sent your Son to die for us, and to be raised for us, and give us life eternal, may we be people who seek your face each day, that we might know your blessing and your joy in your presence. Seal this word in our hearts in Jesus' name, amen.