If you think about the pain and the issues that are around us, um sometimes we feel those issues more than others, like just now in the prayers. Uh But thankfully God has promised uh to send uh someone to uh to help us in our broken uh condition to ultimately uh bring a uh final resolution solution to the issues of life And uh but you know as you read this text uh you begin to realize that uh the form in which God's help comes uh isn't necessarily what we expect it. Because he sends it in the form of weakness. Please stand as we read from 1 Corinthians chapter 2. Reading from the um uh complete Jewish Bible and English Standard Version uh combined and revised. Hear the word of God. And I, Paul, when I came to you, brothers and sisters, I did not come announcing to you the testimony of God with superior speech or wisdom For I decided to know nothing among you except Yeshua, the Messiah, and him crucified. I was with you in weakness And then fear and much trembling. And my delivery and my message were not in persuasive words of wisdom, but in demonstration of the spirit and of power. That your faith might not rest in the wisdom of humans, but in the power of God. May God touch our hearts and lives and open our minds. Uh to this word. Please be seated. Some of you may remember back in the mid-70s. I think it was actually 1975, before some of you were born. But some of us were actually here on earth. And there were two guys sitting around in the bar one night. They were talking. The story says that uh I wished I didn't have to get up at six o'clock in the morning and take my dog for a walk. Another would say, yeah, it says it's It's it's bad, you know, you gotta have someone's complaining about the cat litter and they're complaining about I can't go on vacation, I gotta spend hundreds of dollars because just to watch my pet and and so he comes up with an idea and He says, I got just the just just the cure for us. So he invents a pet rock. The pet rock. It was a six-month bat Uh you could get it with accessories, a toy dog house, a dog bowl, dog bowl, a little bed for it. Uh you can put little eyes and ears, cute little nose. And it became an interesting conversation piece. In fact, it made the guy a million dollars. A millionaire having to pet rock. You don't have to walk it, you don't have to feed it, nothing. Just right there on your desk. Enjoy your pet. But it was became a conversation piece, much like that a much bigger rock That uh had been uh uh unearthed down in uh I hope I'm pronouncing it right, Cabaras County, North Carolina And uh young man was out and uh he was in the uh creek and he uh saw this rock and dug it out. It was of interest to him and he thought, man, that's pretty cool. I'd like to have that. In fact, you know it might even be worth something. He takes it home and of course it's people looking at it. It's not worth a thing. And uh no one would give him any money for it. So he said, Well, I still like it. I'm gonna put it in my door. He puts it up against his door, his dad did, I believe, and and there it sat. And it was a great, interesting conversation piece. Seventeen pounds it weighed. It's quite a doorstop, innit? But it's an interesting uh thing to talk about as you walk by and with all due respect Regard to your opinions and the opinions of people around you, and with all due respect to God, there's a certain way in which we can say that The cross, a crucified Messiah, is quite a conversation piece It's been given much conversation, hasn't it? Much many books have been written with many opinions about What's going on there? What is that? Is it real? Uh is it worthwhile? Is it It's the greatest thing in the world that some people are saying. And people are forming opinions, and I suspect that your opinion now is not the same as it was a number of years back. As you continue to visit this piece of conversation, this weakness that Paul holds before us. The crucifixion was especially a point of conversation and controversy during the first century. And we read here in the first two verses, and he says, I, Paul, when I came to you, brothers and sisters, I did not come announcing to you the testimony of God with superior speech Or wisdom, for I decided to know nothing among you except Yeshua the Messiah and him crucified When Paul says here, he says, in terms of his manner, he came in weakness. He came in later on, he said he comes with fear and trembling. I suspect uh what Paul was talking about really was about he comes in humility, sensing his frailty, sensing his um uh inadequacy. But he had something to say He came as a weak vessel, but he had something to say, and it was about a Messiah who had been crucified. And apparently that was a an issue for many people to deal with that, to handle that. I think we have a more difficult an easier time to deal with it now because we've taken a cross, we've polished it up We put it around our necks and it becomes shiny, a cute little piece of jewelry or whatever. And we have a couple thousand years of understanding or time to think about that. Books are written and so forth But it was a difficult concept for many to to get their minds around a story of weakness. You know, you go go through life a little bit, and if you're like me, you drop things In the outfield playing ball growing up, I dropped a couple fly balls. You ever guilty of that? I dropped dishes in the sink. Some of my favorites. I dropped my wife's favorite centerpiece that was One of a kind. Expensive. It was a gift. Didn't cost her anything, but cost somebody a lot of time and money to make that thing, time and energy. And uh People drop things. My brother-in-law, uh sad to say, he dropped an entire birthday cake on his mother. We're celebrating grandma's birthday. It's on video and go online and read it. It's funny. You see a candle and all of a sudden he's presenting this cake cake with a candle and right into grandma's lap, you know? Boom. Droppy things. Paul, he writes something. He's writing something about a story of weakness. We've got these problems, we have these issues in life, and uh and yet God sends a solution, but he sends it in the package of weakness Even Paul's delivery was apparently not the best in the world. But this passage, I believe, is about us. It's about us getting hold of and then clinging to uh the weakness of a crucified Messiah and and making that uh Important to us that the power of God somehow uh rests in this story of God sending us someone who was brought low in a very uh familiar way to us now, but then it uh was a very difficult thing to wrap your mind around. You know, uh the world uh as it looks at uh counting on a messiah First of all, it doesn't uh it doesn't really see any need, it doesn't make any sense to even need a Messiah for the world. The world sees no need for it. Someone to come and rescue them You know, people like that. We're okay. We don't need any help from above. And uh sometimes we're like that. We think we can make it on our own And uh perhaps we've not been broken yet. And so we're working pretty good here. Uh in fact when you're young we know we're gonna die, but somehow we don't really know it, and we don't really believe it, and may not really act like it But when you get a few grays, or maybe some of that hair disappears altogether, you may realize you are going to die. And you need some help. And uh but trusting in a messiah for some doesn't make any sense. And trusting in a uh a dead messiah Someone that God's going to send and he's going to like be put down, it's like, come on. That doesn't make any sense either to many people. You know, it's interesting the uh There's a story of back in 2013. I was talking about animals up in I don't know how why I'm on animals this morning, but somehow it keeps coming out in the sermon. But there uh there's an article about a a man who had adopted an animal. He had it for nine years. It was a uh it was an eleven-year-old pitfull terrier. And it was at his side for nine years. And then uh April that year, the um the man died. In Pittsburgh. And uh the article said it was just the two of them, and now the dog was all on its own. Nobody to walk it, nobody to feed it, to care for it And the article says it's just like the endless shelters over Pittsburgh. They have these problems. They've got the dog owners are dying. Now the dog's got no one to help them. What good is the dead owner? That dog somehow gotta figure it out. He's gotta make it. In a in a in a very odd way you might say that you could say that. About God sending someone to help us, and next thing you know, He's put to death. He dies. As we know the story, if we begin to study history, that the uh uh people want a king. They want a conqueror. You're gonna send somebody gonna help me, give me a hero, right? Give me Superman, Mighty Mouse, somebody. But don't give me someone whom they're going to bring down. And uh following a crucified liberator wasn't a very attractive idea in the first century. And particularly this stigma that I didn't hear last week's sermon with Pastor Josai, but I suspect he touched on it looking at his text. But the stigma associated with the person crucified was was enormous. Uh this was a uh something that would happen to convicts If you're crucified, you you're probably you could have been a a criminal. You might have been a slave, God forbid that that should happen to them, but it only happened to criminals, slaves, convicts, enemies of the state And uh not someone who's necessarily you're going to want to follow. Hey, let's go down and follow that prisoner down there, that convict, he's a good leader. What's he doing in jail? So When you think about it, it's like saying, why don't we all Just climb inside a dumpster and pull something out. And that'll be our life. You know, my wife said that uh when she was much younger, going to school She lost her retainer. She was eating lunch at school, and the retainer somehow got wrapped up in a napkin and thrown in a dumpster. Guess what? A little while later the principal was in the dumpster digging it out. That's the kind of principle you need. He didn't care what people thought. He just knew there could be something valuable in there that meant something to somebody. And he was going to dig it out, look for it, and get it. You know, sometimes we're following, we think we we're following this message and people are looking at us and and uh they might not much see much value in what we're doing, but The principal wasn't embarrassed. He just knew it was a worthy journey. And he got inside the dumpster, dug it out. Do you ever watch American Pickers? I watch sometimes, and sometimes I'd watch it for to listen to the music in the background. See if I hear anything familiar. It's another side story. But uh Mike Wolfe and Frank Fritz traveling around the country in a van. Right? That's what they're doing. Looking to find antiques, treasures, collectibles. They go through old houses, basements, attics, barns, old stores, junkyards. Abandoned buildings even out in the woods on one episode. What are they doing out in the woods? The guys taking them out in the woods here. Pushing tree limbs out of the way and stepping through brush and there you go Stuck half halfway down in the ground is an old motorcycle. Buried half in the ground. You can only see the upper half I thought, these guys are ridiculous. Wasting their time. It's a bucket of rust and bolts. I looked at it and I thought. I'm going to put that out on Friday, junk day, and take it away. No. Mike's all excited. Wow, look what they found. Look what he found What does a believer see in a crucified emancipator One man's trash, you know how it goes, is a another person's treasure The treasure. By the way, that bike was really a valuable, rare piece. They were happy to get their hands on it. I'm sure they get some big bucks for that one. For the believer, for the person who sees this uh story of weakness that Paul uh presented them. He was to them this crucified deliverer. Uh to the believer we have a little understanding that this indeed is not just a bucket of bolts. It's something we want to get a hold of. And for some of you it took me twenty well some of you took a while. Twenty-six years before I wanted to get down that road. It was the last thing I wanted to get a hold of. Because to me it was a had a whole lot of associations with it, like hypocrisy. People who would said they had a hold of, but they certainly wasn't looking at their lifestyle, they weren't very nice people. Or they were people, uh there were ministers who were yelling. I don't like yelling. For the most part. Sometimes I need to be yelled at, but and where I grew up that seems like all the all the people did was the minister yelled at you It's like, just have a conversation here. I don't need to be yelled at. I need to think things through. I was on a journey of trying to get my mind together, ideas. Finally coming around through reading, talking, thinking, it helped me a lot before I ended up where I am in terms of my relationship to this Priest of 5. 1. To borrow an analogy from Jesus, the story of a cross is like a hidden treasure. It's buried in a field, right? Which a man stumbles upon, he finds it. Apparently the treasure too big, too much, too rich to take home. So what's he do? He goes home, sells everything he has, and buys the field And then he goes back and digs up the treasure, you see. In the meantime, he left it buried there, but he does whatever he can, and then he goes back and he gets that treasure out And that's what people are doing. For some reason, people are doing that. You know, they they're seeing a buried treasure. It's happening all over the world. I was reading recently. That uh somehow people are coming to t to treasure the uh the man who was hanged between two thieves. It's said that originally in just 300 years, Christianity grew from a small Jewish sect in Galilee to become the dominant religion of the Roman Empire. According to the World Christian Encyclopedia, approximately 2. 7 million are converting to Christianity every year. And uh Christianity has been estimated to be growing rapidly in South America, Africa, and Asia. In Africa, for example, in 1900, 100 over 100 years ago, there were only 9 million adherents To the cross. Now there are 390 million. And in the book by Dan Meyer, it's called Witness Essentials. He lists some encouraging statistics or some interesting statistics. He said in 1900 Korea had no Protestant church. Today there are over 7,000 churches in just the city of Seoul. In India, he says there are 140 million members of the untouchable caste, and 14 million, that's 10%, have become believers in Christ. He goes on to say that studies estimate significantly more people are now converting from Islam to Christianity in the 21st century than in any other point in Islamic history. That's pretty powerful. And in China, he says, it's estimated that there are now more self-avowed followers of Jesus than members of the Communist Party. Even the most conservative estimates, he says, suggest that China will soon have more Christians than any other country in the world. Somehow people are coming to see treasure in A person who's displayed weakly on the cross as he's there suffering. And they're p walking by saying, He saved others. Can he save himself? What good is it to anybody? They were thinking They see him smitten and struck down by God. By the way, uh Dan Mark is only to say that uh The irony is that except for the Middle East where Christianity was born in Europe and America, uh Uh you know, Merrick was founded by essentially Christians. He says Christianity is expanding everywhere else except here. Except here Maybe we're spoiled by the riches. It is difficult in the Bible says it's rich difficult for a rich person to enter into the kingdom. You don't have much need for everything if you got everything going for you. There's a whole lot of fruit that has come to us by our forefathers. Well Why is the crucified man Such a big deal, so to speak, or such a controversial piece, such a conversational piece. Well, to the world, it uh To the world it's like, why you why are you doing this? It makes no sense. To the world, you know, we can make it our own on our own. We don't need any Jesus. We don't need him. We don't even need God, many are saying. I'm okay, you're okay. We can use our own wisdom, we can use our own power, our own ingenuity, we can figure it out. And that's a prevailing attitude around us for the world. But for you, many of you who believe that, oh, it's a different story. You found some buried treasure, haven't you? You found something worthwhile. You found uh not uh something through your own human effort or your own power that you can do for yourself, but you can find uh find uh In the weakness of Christ, something to help us. A crucified Savior who can help us here and hereafter. Thankfully, a crucified Messiah has had a front end. You know he had a front end to his life? It wasn't just a cross. The front end was like, hey guys, are you living up to the moral expectations of God? No, but there is someone who did. That's what you need, his life record. That's the help you need. If you're going to stand before God at the final day, you need an impeccable moral life He's got it for you if you'll wear it by faith. And then of course there's the cross. What are we going to do when we stay in the judgment of God? We're all appear at the judgment seat at the end. We're going to have to give an account, aren't we? You know what? When the judgment of God comes, wouldn't it be great to be wearing that moral integrity of Christ? And it wouldn't be great to remember what happened in that moment of weakness when he was struck down, that he was wounded for my transgressions, he was crushed for my iniquities And by his stripes I can find my healing? Wouldn't that be great? To remember the meaning of his dying, he didn't no one took his life from him. He laid it down of his own accord on our behalf. And then the backside. You know, on the backside, what happened when they laid him in the grave? I know what's going to happen to you and me. We're going to lay in the grave. My dad's there. His parents and their parents. They're in the grave, folks But when they laid this one in the grave, this weak one, the third day, say it. He rose again. He rose again. And he's coming again for you who believe to lift you up. To take you to better worlds. In the meantime, He's going to help you here now if you're trusting in Him and not your own strength. What difference does trusting in a crucified Messiah make? Counting on him. The scriptures tell us, he who has the Son has life. He who does not have the Son of God, you do not have life. The scripture says, it tells us, and I may paraphrase, to those who are perishing, the cross is an aroma that brings death. But to those who are being rescued, to those who believe the cross is a sweet smelling aroma that brings us life. And then in John 3. 17, we're informed that God didn't send his son into the world to condemn the world. But rather that the world through him might be rescued. He goes on to say, whoever is dependent upon him is not condemned. But whoever is not dependent on him to stand condemned already. By the way, that huge rock The huge rock that farmer John Reed used as a doorstop, well it sat for three long years Holding that door open. People walking by, thinking about it, talking about it Finally, one day someone had the good sense to say, let's get this checked out, to get the final word. They took it to a specialist and took a closer look. As it turns out, it's the world's most expensive doorstop ever. That huge rock was seventeen pounds of pure gold. Pure gold. Let us pray Lord, we hear that story of the gold. That's something we'd want to get a hold of and hang on to. Lord Jesus, the world has much to say about you, which the world in which we live. So, Lord, in our prayer, we like to say this that You indeed are a treasure to many of us. Thank you for stepping down into our world, the world that you created. Lord, thank you for choosing to become human on our behalf. We appreciate you living up to all the moral expectations that God has placed on all of us. We want to thank you for giving us your clean, perfect record And we especially thank you for your willingness to be judged, to be condemned, Lord, in our place. Forgive us for not appreciating you more, and we would pray you'd help us to live more grateful lives, showing our daily appreciation for your sacrifice. And especially we pray that your love for us would overflow in our hearts today, this week, so that the world might see your love in us as real. That they would place Confidence in you. In your rich and precious name we pray. Amen.