Good morning. We are continuing with our study of First Corinthians and This is the continuation of chapter 8 that we saw last week and Eric preached a wonderful sermon from that text. We'll continue in chapter 9 this morning. We're looking at the first part, which is verses 1 through 18. So if you're able, would you please stand and honor the reading of God's Word this morning? Reading from 1 Corinthians chapter 9, verses 1 through 18. Am I not free? Am I not an apostle? Have I not seen Jesus or Lord? Are not you my workmanship in the Lord? If to others I am not an apostle, at least I am to you, for you are the seal of my apostleship in the Lord. This is my defense to those who would examine me. Do we not have the right to eat and drink? Do we not have the right to take along a believing wife as do other apostles and the brothers of the Lord and Cephas? Or is it only Barnabas and I who have no right to refrain from working for a living, who serves as a soldier at his own expense, who plants a vineyard without eating any of its fruit, or who tends a flock without getting some of the milk? Do I say these things on human authority? Does not the law say the same? For it is written in the law of Moses, you shall not muzzle an ox when it treads out the grain. Is it for the argent that God is concerned? Does he not speak entirely for our sake? It was written for our sake. Because the plowman should plough in hope and the thresher thresh in hope of sharing in the crop. For if we have sown spiritual things among you, is it too much if we reap material things from you? If others share this rightful claim on you, do we not even more? Nevertheless, we have not made use of this right, but we endure anything rather than put an obstacle in the way of the gospel of Christ Do you not know that those who are employed in the temple service get their food from the temple? And those who serve at the altar shame the sacrificial offerings. In the same way, the Lord commanded that those who proclaim the gospel should get their living by the gospel. But I have made no use of any of these rites, nor am I writing these things to secure such provision. For I would rather die than have anyone deprive me of my ground for boasting. For if I preach the gospel that gives me no ground for boasting. For necessity is laid upon me. Woe to me, if I do not preach the gospel. For if I do this of my own will, I have ru a reward. But if not of my own will, I am still entrusted with stewardship What then is my reward, that in my preaching I may present the gospel free of church, so as not to make fool of my use. Of my right in the gospel. The word of the Lord this morning. Father, we ask that you would give us your Holy Spirit to understand. Illumine your word, Lord, this morning, that we may believe the things that you're teaching us this morning. We pray. In Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. I know someone. He's a young pastor. He told me a story. If you're friends with me, you've probably heard this story before. The extended version, I will spare you that long version. I will tell you the short version of it He had just received a call to pastor a church. And is always the custom when a new pastor comes in, there's always people in the congregation that are welcoming and want to get to know their pastor. And so this couple invited the pastor to come into their home and share a meal and dine together. They asked the pastor not to bring anything for dinner, but he being a young pastor and uh a man who enjoys his wine He loves Scotch especially. And being a true Presbyterian, he had no problems at all exercising his freedom by by all means to have a drink with his food And so he decided that he was going to bring a nice expensive bottle of wine to his host. Now he did not know that the host family had problems with alcoholism. In fact, the the wife had just returned home from rehab. So you can only imagine the awkwardness and the shock from his host family as he presents the beautiful gift of a bottle of wine. And he says that he would like to present that to them so that they can enjoy dinner together. Now the family was really caring and so they told him, Sir, we do not use alcohol in our home But being a free man, he thought to himself, well I'm okay, I can still drink, that's my right. So he went ahead and enjoyed his meal with plenty of wine because they were not drinking Now I don't know the all the details. I don't know what questions were asked on that particular day. If that was me, I probably would have asked the question, do you not drink because of personal reasons? Spiritual reasons? Health reasons But he told me this story. He never asked those questions. And I think it would have gone a long way if there was just a little bit of sensitivity. From this pastor. Now I'm not trying to lay blame on this pastor at all. In fact, I think it was his right to drink the wine. I'm not trying to lay the blame on this family because that was the last time he actually saw the family. They left the church, never returned. I'm not trying to lay a blame on anybody, but here's the question that I want you to consider as you hear this story and as you think about your own life. The question that we're going to be considering as we look at this verses that we just read this morning. Are you willing to give up your rights? Are you willing to give up your rights that you have freedom to enjoy? Things that you have freedom to enjoy for the sake of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Are you willing to give up things that you completely have the freedom to do For the sake of advancing the gospel of Jesus Christ. I think that's what Paul is teaching us this morning. And I think Paul is telling us two things from the verses that we just read. The first thing is this Paul sees his freedom as something that is important. But he says, I want you to know that giving up your right is not a sign that you are not free. In fact Giving up your right is a sign that you are free in Jesus Christ. That is verses 1 through 12a Paul is expanding the theme of Christian liberty and applying it in his own life in the context of not just simply eating the food that was offered to idols but also in terms of his own life as as an apostle and as a Christian worker. And as I said, Eric preached a sermon last week and talked about the the importance of knowing that love is much more important and caring for your brother and sister is much more important than your own rights And Paul is saying, I have told you, I have taught you what you ought to do when it comes to your right, when it comes to eating food that has been offered to idols, and how you need to act in terms of your brothers and your sisters. And if you think that I am not capable of doing the same thing now, I'm going to show you an example from my own life, how I've been able to lay down my own rights for the sake of the gospel. Now it is so easy for us to accuse Paul of being ignorant. Maybe he doesn't know what his rights are. It is so easy for us to accuse Paul of not being aware of what his rights are as an apostle as a Christian worker. It is in fact the opposite. Paul is extremely aware of who he is in Christ and who he is as a brother to the church in Corinth. And it is yet that we see that there were some people that were doubting in fact that Paul was an apostle. Why? Because they were accusing. If you look at verses one, you can imagine the accusations that were coming from from the people saying, Well, you're not among the band of brothers. You're not Peter and Paul and James and all the other guys. You never saw the resurrection of Jesus Christ, did you? You never witnessed the resurrection Neither were you directly commissioned by God by Jesus Himself. Some mistook Paul his refusal to accept support from the church because everybody else was accepting support from the church. They're thinking if you if you're refusing to accept support from our church, then it means that you are an inferior. You are a fake apostle, because you cannot be one of them. Others said that said that you have lost your Jewishness, right? Because you're telling us not to eat or advocating for freedom when it comes to food that is offered to others. Paul says, I will not eat because I don't want for my brother to fall. And so Paul is saying, I need to defend myself. The language that is used in verses 3 is actually a court case kind of a deal here. Paul is saying I have to defend myself and explain to you. Explain to you the reasons that I'm not exercising my right, and it is this It is because I would love to further the kingdom of God, the cause of the gospel, much more than me taking on my own rights See, the doubters were looking for someone who whose conduct was peerlessly met all the expectations that he ticked all you can tick all the all the boxes that you want to tick for for someone being an apostle and being a Christian worker And Paul does not fit that that definition for them. Paul is giving an argument. Look at verses one again. What is the argument? He says, What is he doing? Paul is basically saying, for those of you who doubt that I'm an ab I'm an apostle, I want to prove to you that I actually am one. Why? Because Paul's Damascus road experience, we know that he saw Jesus. He saw the ascended Jesus Christ in a vision. We know that Paul was commissioned by Jesus himself to go and preach the gospel to the Gentiles We know that Paul was especially filled by the Holy Spirit to be an apostle of Jesus Christ. Those are the three criteria for an apostle. So if anybody says out there that I'm an apostle so-and-so, that's a lie. Because they cannot fit that description. The apostles were that was a a a an especially special office that Christ instituted for those who had seen Jesus. They were commissioned by him and they were especially filled by the power of the Holy Spirit. And in fact, he goes on to say in verses 2, he says, if anyone should doubt that I am an apostle, you, the church in Corinth, should not even be the ones who are doubting that I'm an apostle of Jesus Christ. He says, You are a seal of my apostleship. What does that mean? I have put a mark of my ownership on you. I planted you. I grew you. You are a living testament that I'm an apostle that was sent by Jesus Christ. Because you exist. So you cannot doubt it. I mean I think Paul is such a man who practices what he preaches. He's leading by example and saying, look I am able to surrender all my rights to relinquish my rights because of the gospel of Jesus Christ. So you thinking that I'm refusing to accept support, financial support, or whatever that might be And that makes me a fake apostle. That is no ground at all. You cannot accuse me of that. Because Paul says, my freedom is not licensed to do anything I wish or I want. My freedom is liberation to do what I ought to do. There's a difference. Three times he asked the question. Verses 4, 5 and 6, he asked, do we not have the rights? Do I not have the authority? Do I not have the power? The old King James asks. Says why not not have the right to to to to basic necessities to eat to food and drink Do I have do I not have the right to take on my believing wife as Peter did on a journey to do the ministry of the kingdom of God? Do I not have a right? To financial support. And to this question, they're rhetorical, but they all demand an affirmative answer, which they know. They are the rights of the apostles and the Christian workers all can exercise But Paul says, I am laying down my right, and I would rather do tent making than receive help from you. See, in the first first century world, there were these people that were called traveling philosopher teachers They received their income by talking, by speaking, by teaching. And in fact, it was an agreed thing that if they refused to be paid for their teaching engagement, they would be branded as fake people You are a fake philosopher if you refuse to accept money. And so they are branding Paul here by his refusal to accept support. You must be just like the other gurus that are traveling and teaching. You must be fake But Paul is saying my freedom in this situation is much more greater than my right. Freedom in Christ, freedom to spread the gospel of Jesus Christ. And I think Paul is demonstrating that as a servant of Jesus Christ He does have the right to be supported with drink and food and all other necessities. Look at verse 7. He's citing common experiences. He's saying, look at a soldier. Does a soldier serve for free? Or on his own expense? Think of a vineyard keeper or a farmer. Does he not eat from his crop that he's planted? Think of a shepherd. Would he be making breakfast and going to the store to buy eggs when he has eggs in his own from his own chickens? Paul is not merely here trying to use common experience as a proof that he deserves to be supported by the church. He's actually going further. Look at verses 8. He says, I need to tell you what the scripture says because you know what the what the what the scripture says The law of Moses, quoting Deuteronomy 25, verses 4, what does it say? You shall not muzzle an ox when it is treading out the grain. Why why did God put this law there? Remember, the ox were used when when you were threshing, and so the animal would trample on all the corn and and and and uh and and the grain that you were making And then the they would throw it up so that the chaff would fly away and then the hask and everything else and then the heavier grain would fall to the ground And so the law was that when you allow your cattle or whatever to tread on the grain, that you should not muzzle it. Why? Because that animal is helping support you. You should allow it to eat as much. as it can. And then he asked the question, was the law written for for the ox? Of course. He's not saying that God does not care about any other creation, the cattle or anything like that. Read Psalm 104 and Psalm 147. God cares for the sparrow and for all things that he's made. He's basically saying this. Don't you think that God cares for you even much more than the cattle? That God wants you to respect and care for those that are working in your midst and to support them. That there is a greater priority at hand. It's not for the cattle, but it is for the laborer, the laborer that actually deserves the wages for the work that has been done. To be taken care of. That the spiritual leader who is working in your midst is not sowing material things, they're sowing spiritual things. And for them, in order to live, just think of a soldier. A soldier cannot eat his bullets and live. Neither is the man who preaches the gospel going to heat to eat his words and live. The church is called to provide and to care for them. They're dispensing eternal provisions. Hence the responsibility is upon the church to provide for the Christian worker. the works in their mids. See others Paul says that exercise their right. Paul had done the same thing. Apollos had done the same thing. Look at verses 12. Paul is telling the church, you think that others have exercised their right to receive from you? I deserve even much more than they do. Why? Again I planted the church. I sowed the seed in your congregation. You are my spiritual children Paul says, but I choose not to avail him myself of this freedom so that nothing, so that nothing may hinder the spread of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Saint Paul is a man who embodied the gospel in the way he lived among his people with love and grace. He's not afraid to lay down his right for the sake of the gospel. He will say, and we will look at this next week. I'm willing to be a Gentile to the Gentiles and a Jew to the Jews. Why? For the sake of reaching out to the lost How do we have privacy in our own lives? I ask you a question. Are we willing to lay down? Are we willing to worship and interact with others who may not, or who may have different traditions that we knew than we do? Are we willing to to to to to be to fellowship with people that have different traditions than we do as Presbyterians? Are we always held captive by those things that we hold so dear? Our traditions See, Paul's refusal to use his rights completely goes against our individualistic, me-centered culture. It's all about me. It's all about what I deserve and what I want. It's all about my freedom and my rights. I have a right to do this and that Paul is saying that is not licensed for you to do what you please. That our freedom in Christ is licensed or is freedom to serve God and to serve others in the newness and power of the Spirit of God. That is our freedom. It is freedom to live out a life of Christ in a community that glorifies God. Because we are following in the example that Jesus Christ has laid for us, laying down his right, laying down his life for us. Paul's freedom is not absolute, neither is ours. It cannot be absolute. Our freedom has to be about the concern for the salvation of others. Our freedom has to be about the advancement of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is more important. It is more worthy of laying down your rights. So I can only speak for myself, and you can only speak for yourself and ask the question: what are some of the things that God is calling you to give up in order to minister to others? What is God calling you to lay down for yourself in order that you may minister to others? Is it your hobbies? Is it your traditions? D I say, is it your political opinions? Is it your social status and class? I don't need to repeat the story of Alan Tibbles that you know so well, a man who laid down his life. A man who refused to accept the right to live in a nice, beautiful, suburban life, then go to Santawn. Give his life. To a people that he thought were worthy of him laying down his rights. What is Jesus calling you to lay down For the sake of his kingdom. Secondly, Paul tells us giving up our rights is a sign of our dependence on God. Giving up our rights is a sign of our dependence on God. Look at verses 12. be when you start saying nevertheless. It is one thing for us to know that we have rights. It is another thing to insist on exercising those rights regardless of the potential outcome. Did you hear that? It's one thing for us to know that we have rights. It's another thing to always insist on exercising those rights regardless of the potential outcome. See, Paul understands the potential outcome. Here, what does he say? Paul is saying, I would rather not exercise my right to accept financial support from you because I know accepting your financial support is going to Prevent a clear road. That's what language is there. The obstacle is like digging up a trench on the highway. On a road, so that you prevent the enemy from approaching where you are. Paul is saying, I do not want to dig up a trench, so to speak. That prevents the gospel from going forth. That's what Paul is saying. Saying for me to accept financial support from you is gonna do that. Now we don't know the details, we don't know why Paul would say such heavy words. But he knows why. The church knows why. He instead chooses to be a tent worker, a tent maker, sorry A work that was actually despised in Greco-Roman world. It was dirty work. It was work that was only fit for the slaves. And I see this as such a beautiful picture of the gospel of Jesus Christ. When I think of Paul with his stained hands and scarred hands from tent, making dirty, nasty, and stinking. So that he would be able to prevent the gospel of Jesus Christ for free to his people. And I think about the salvation that Jesus gives to us, that he is given to us freely By grace, that that's what we receive from God, freely given to us, even though it doesn't come for cheap, that Jesus Christ had to die on the cross. He had to give up his life for us so that we may receive this precious gift. What a beautiful picture from Paul. And then he tells us here in continuing verses 13, giving an example from Deuteronomy chapter 18, verses 1, of the Levitical system where God Says that the Levites were not to accept any inheritance in Israel. But that God ordained and stipulated the Levites were supposed to be provided for by the gifts that people brought into the sanctuary. That's how they were supposed to be cared for, provided for by God. And I think Paul is here molding an example not for ministers to refuse pay But it's actually an example for the church, for the congregation, to use their freedom, for us to use our freedom as an opportunity to advance the gospel, not to use our rights for our own gain But to use our rights for the sake of others. He even goes further and gives an even more powerful example of Jesus Himself from Matthew 10 and 10. That our work is worthy of his work. See, when we come before God and give offering, what are we doing? We're expressing our love and gratitude to God. By giving cheerfully to the work that God has called us, to the work of the ministers that labor in our congregation, we present this gift as an act of worship before God. And expect that those funds are going to be used to honor God and to help those who labor in your midst. Now I know it's hard for me to preach this message because I'm a pastor, because I get paid by you. But here's something for us to think about. I've heard this before. I've heard people that tell pastors, Well, just trust in the Lord. Okay? God will provide for you. Why worry about your health insurance? Why worry about your retirement prospects? And I wonder if we all are willing to forego all those things in our places of work when you tell pastors to do so. God tells us. To trust him. Trust me. He does. And I'm supposed to trust him in everything I do. We all are called to trust the Lord. But God has provided the means that we ought to be provided for. Hasn't he? Now we have to be careful here as I say that. Because I know that there are some out there. We know their names. I'm not going to mention them. Who take advantage of the church and abuse the gifts of their people, where churches and congregations are suffering and they're living in poverty, and yet they ask their congregations to Pay them millions of dollars so that they can fund their Lamborghinis and other lavish things that they want to enjoy. That's not what Paul is saying here. Paul is talking about being taken care of, your basic necessities for the one who ministers in your midst to be taken care of, so that they may devote their time and their energy and their resources to preaching the gospel. And Paul gives evidence of why they need to be provided. But in spite of all of that, Paul says, I still am not going to use that right to be paid Because it is a privilege for me to preach the gospel and serve without pay. That is my privilege. Oh, how I wish I could say that. I am willing to serve without pay because that is my my privilege. The gospel gives them right, but it says it doesn't matter. It's okay to be emotional. Look at verses 15. Paul is getting extremely emotional. He says, I would rather die than have anyone deprive me of my ground for boasting. He's getting a little ticked right now. Because he's trying to prove to them that he has an obligation to preach the gospel. And he's interpreting that verse in 17, which is really difficult for us to think of. I think this is what Paul is saying. Paul is saying Whether I preach the gospel voluntarily or whether I do it while being forced or by compulsion or because of my duty That does not alter my calling. My calling remains the same as a steward of Jesus Christ. I still have a task to fulfill, and it is preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. So I do it willingly or unwillingly, it doesn't matter. I am called to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ, and that's what I'm gonna do. And that's his boast: to present the gospel of Jesus Christ free of charge. And he continues just like the prophets of old, like Jeremiah and like Amos, he says, I have an urgent thing to tell you. I have an urgent thing to do. to to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. Now, you know, Paul knew And if he accepts his support, he would be accused of being greedy. If he rejects his support, he would be accused of being aloof. So what does he do? Again, Paul is a one-minded person. He says the gospel and the spread of the message of Jesus Christ is much more important to me than any criticism that you might lay on me. The gospel is more important. See, Paul is refusing to accept support, not so that he may look good. So that he may tough his chest and say I'm all right. I can take care of myself. You don't need to take care of me. I can take care of myself. I don't think Paul is saying I'm self-sufficient. I can do my tent making and I'll be well taken care of. So I don't need you. Remember, Paul receives help from the Macedonian church without soliciting. Timothy and Silas, they bring him gifts and he accepts it. And I think this is a reminder for us to be careful. Okay? Because I think sometimes we get so friedful When the family of God wants to come alongside us when we are suffering, when we're in need, and people want to help us, not just financially but also emotionally, and we push them away because of our pride. I think we need to allow ourselves to let God, God has provided so many means so that the family of God can provide for one another. And we need to be grateful to accept assistance from one another. And to actually be joyful that God has provided those means to provide for our needs. Paul is saying the gospel comes to the church with no strings attached, no price tag on the gospel. That's the message of salvation that we receive from God. No price tag, no strings attached. Freely offered to you in Christ Jesus See, as we started, I I think it's easy for us to, or for people to accuse Paul of being hypocritical. I think it's easy to accuse Paul of being having an inferiority complex. Someone with with low self-esteem. Why why are you saying you need to lay down your rights? Someone who dances to the tunes of others. Someone who just goes with the whims and wishes of Whoever. Someone who doesn't know their rights. An accusation that we all know as believers, right? Especially when we lay down our lives and people accuse us of all things. People look down upon us because we're not willing to say something. Or because we're willing to go serve the poor. Because we're willing to not have a drink, because we know we have a brother or sister who has a problem with it. See, Paul's overriding principle is that it says the passion. Passion for Jesus. Passion for the gospel That allows him to do so. See, Jesus' fashion for you, his love for you, took him to the cross. He loved you, a sinner, broken. Deep in sin. He laid down his life for you and saved you. He saved you for himself. And now he commissions you. He sends you. And he says, the same love, I have loved you. I want you to be my witness. To spread the gospel of Jesus Christ to all. We're not just Christians who merely believe the gospel. We're Christians who believe the gospel, but also whose lives reflect gospel priorities. And in honor of the Black History Month, as Martin Luther King Jr. once said, The life's most persistent and urgent question is this, what are you doing for others? May we be driven by the passion of the Gospel of Jesus Christ that we would be willing to lay down our lives, whatever that means for us, for the sake of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Father, we thank you that you've called us, you've laid down your life for us. Would you give us a passion, not just for you and your kingdom, but a passion for those Who are with us, for those that do not know you, and for us to advance the gospel that you've given to us so freely through your Son Jesus Christ May this be true for us now and forever. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.