Of Cana in Galilee, the sons of Zebedee, and two others of his disciples were together. Simon Peter said to them, I'm going fishing, and they said to him, We'll go with you. So they went out and got into the boat. But that night they caught nothing. Just as day was breaking, Jesus stood on the shore. Yet the disciples did not know that it was Jesus. Jesus said to them, Children, do you have any fish? They answered him, No. He said to them, Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you'll find some. So they cast it, and now they were not able to haul it in because of the quantity of fish That disciple, whom Jesus loved, therefore said to Peter, It is the Lord. When Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put on his outer garment, for he was stripped for work, and threw himself into the sea. The other disciples came in the boat, dragging the net full of fish, for they were not far from the land, but about a hundred yards off. When they got out on land, they saw a charcoal fire in place, with fish laid out on it, and bread. Jesus said to them, Bring some of the fish that you have just caught. So Simon Peter went aboard and hauled the net ashore, full of large fish, a hundred and fifty-three of them. And although there were so many, the net was not torn. Jesus said to them, Come and have breakfast. Now none of the disciples dared ask him, Who are you? They knew it was the Lord. Jesus came and took the bread and gave it to them, and so with the fish. This was now the third time that Jesus was revealed to the disciples after he was raised from the dead. And again that was John twenty one, verses one to fourteen. Good morning. It's great to see each of you this morning. I'm just excited to be here and uh to share with you My thoughts on this particular scripture that Bonnie read so well. You can ask why I chose this, perhaps. Uh it's because uh this took place not long after Easter and it's not long after Easter. So we look at this passage. I preached on it many years ago, but I think I must have a different set of eyes. Like twenty years later. And so I titled the sermon. Uh, the title's in there somewhere. Why Jesus appeared to his failed disciples. And I chose that title because the they were just on a field fishing expedition. And I think it hopefully it will help us capture What this uh Apostle John is guiding us to First I want to say that I hope as you who are following Jesus Christ, I hope this morning that you know down deep, deep, deep in your soul. That Christ has a love for you that will never die. He has a pursuing love for you that will not cease And aren't we glad that he does love us this way So he appears here not long after his resurrection, according to John's counting. This is the third episode. And people have different ways of configuring his appearances. But John calls this his third episode. The first We see in the upper room, and then a week later when Thomas is there, and now we see this miraculous fishing enterprise. So I ask a question this morning. Uh did you ever want to have a smart mirror? I tell you about that. And the husband comes along this full-length mirror. He says, Honey, I've got it. We've got to have this smart mirror Because when you stand and look in it, you can just stand there looking at yourself and scroll down until you find the image that you like. That's why I like to play golf. I Art and I go out on occasion and uh sometimes you just get there barely to make your tea time. Might be 7 30 in the morning. You get out of your car, get your clubs, put on your shoes, and run straight to the T. You're not even stretched out loose. And so the first ball you hit is like in the lake. That's okay. It's a breakfast ball, right? It's a mulligan. You get a redo, and we're not going to count that one against you Do you ever feel as you think about your life that certain parts of it specially that you'd like to have a redo I got a feeling that these disciples who are in this boat, seven of them, in this boat That they had all night to fish and think through and not catching anything, they really had a lot of time on their hands That there must have been these thoughts about their own reflection and their own lives. And because it hadn't been that long Since Jesus had been crucified, and it was shortly after that he began to reappear. In fact, he'll be reappearing according to the book of Acts for about 40 days. to get this into their minds about his greatness and his love for them. Because there was a lot for them to overcome About their own relationship with Christ. It's interesting how John puts this passage. He puts it here in John 21, right after Thomas's doubts in the upper room. And a lot of people have doubts about Jesus and the kind of man and power that he carries. Even when his best friends are telling him, Hey, he's alive, he's alive. Nope. I'm not going there. And he says, I'm not going to believe. I refuse to believe until I can see for myself. Have you seen the risen Christ? None of us in this room have. None of us in my voice suspect have. Hear my voice And people want to see evidence, they want to touch and feel and know up close that this is real. And Thomas, we call him Dougie Thomas. Then we think about Peter. In the last week, particularly there at the end, as Jesus is being carried away, I'd like to think handcuffed, hand tied. And they're taking him away, and they're going to do some very harsh things. Peter's hanging around, if I remember, at a distance, not too far. But not too close because these were terrible times to be associated with Christ Peter didn't want it wasn't just that he didn't want to be embarrassed, but he didn't want to be having the same things happen to him that had happened to Christ. And so he kept the distance. Someone asked him, it says Peter, are you uh aren't you his follow aren't you one of his followers? Uh I don't know this guy Not long later they asked him again, are you sure you're not one of his disciples? I don't know the guy. Finally, the third time, he calls down curses from heaven. God, who knows what he said, strike me dead if I don't swear the truth. I do not know the man. Of course a young maiden, young lady knew better. She said, ah, but I know you've been following him because you've got that Galilean accent, just like him You're definitely one of his disciples. It's hard at times to be associated with Christ, isn't it? Because you might get some pain. You might get A look from somebody. You might get treated in a way where you're dismissed, overlooked, perhaps, job promotion. Gone to the side, you don't know. So sometimes we may distance ourselves from being identified with Jesus Christ, our Lord. Our great God, the one alone who can save us and help us in this life and in the life to come. So we see Peter's denial Must have been a disappointment to himself, and definitely as Christ thought about him Peter must have been wondering, what does Jesus think of me? Because I could have done better. I think that's maybe why we see it a little later in this text. When Peter Peter's he's stripped down their fishing and they realize it's Jesus on the shore calling to them, that he puts on his outer garment and jumps in the lake and Swims ahead, wants to be the first, perhaps to show himself. Hey, here I am, I still love you. And when when Jesus asked for more fish Get some of the fish and throw it in and add to the fish that I'm here cooking for you. Peter's the first to rush down to get the fish to pull them in, perhaps wanting to say, hey, I'd like to do-over I'd like to show you that I can do a little better the next time. And then right at the end of this passage, John places the restoration of Peter. Restoring him three times, the three times that Peter had denied him, and Jesus says, Do you love me? Yes, I you know I love you, Lord. And teach my word, feed my sheep, take care of them, and do a good job at following me well, encouraging others with what you know about me. So we see these disciples not only on a disappointing fishing expedition. But we see them a disappointment to themselves, a disappointment to Christ, there toward the end. And now Jesus shows up. They've faced how long? All night, right? It's the crack of dawn. And they hear this voice. And what do they hear Jesus calling out to them? Do they hear someone scolding them? Do we hear him yelling out to criticize them or to point out their failures? No. The first thing out of his mouth is children. He's probably a hundred yards off the shore. And they're out there on this lake's Lake of Tiberius, which is really the Lake of Galilee, which they had different w ways of calling the lake And around seven or eight o'clock on, as I would say, on the beltway, around the lake was Tiberias. So there it would be called the Lake of Tiberias. And that's where they're fishing. It was probably 100-150 feet deep, something like that. And as they're fishing They hear this voice. They don't know it's Jesus yet. He calls out, children, do you have any fish? No, we've got none. No fish. He says, try throwing the net on the starboard side, on the right side of the ship. So they throw in their net. And what he begins to s we begin to see here that Christ doesn't come to minimize them or to point out their failings in the past. But he comes to reassure his failed disciples that his love for them is greater than death itself. And so he appears in resurrected form the third time, the third time to get it into their head. I chose you, you followed me, you disappointed me, but what? I'm still here. And I'm still going to love on you and care for you, despite your history. And so for the third time We see that Christ's love for us is stronger than death. It's big enough to remove your doubts. It's big enough To forgive your denials and disassociation from him, it's big enough to turn your disappointments into joy It's big enough to overcome death as it encroaches upon us. And we've been seeing a lot of it lately, encroaching upon relatives and family members and Very real, very life-threatening, very scary, and raises a lot of doubts and questions, many of our minds, about does God really care about me In my life, in my family, my relatives. We see not only does Jesus Reassure them by appearing in his resurrection form to show them he's greater than death. Well you see he as uh pointed out he calls them children I neglected to say that this is a word for a small child, just a young child who's learning. That's what these disciples were. They had so much to learn. And that is a term that As it can be used as in a term of endearment. They were dear and continue to be dear to him, all of us who are his followers The next thing we see here about how does Christ express his love for them despite their disappointingness Christ reassures them by guiding them to a better outcome Hey guys, what have you done all night? We fished our hearts out. We've got nothing. Let me give you a little guidance. Try this And sometimes when God speaks to us, it comes in the form of suggestion. Sometimes the Spirit guides us in the forms of impressions in our minds and hearts. And sometimes it's very clear in the Word of God where we know a truth, and we just have to follow it, as hard as it may be. We might have to bite the bullet. We might have to do it without reason, so to speak, and just say, I'm going for it because this is what I know God said. And so they throw the net on the starboard side. And you know what? When you follow God's commands You're going to have a better outcome. You're going to have a better outcome. You might not be always able to weigh it Or see it or feel it, but you can be sure that in the end it will be much better for you and for those around you. And so we see Christ loving them by guiding them, yet they still don't know it's Him. It's just a voice, but it's the Lord's voice. And that makes a difference when you follow the Lord's voice. We see his love expressed in his provision Forth his followers. And you notice I'm going to tell you this. The Lord will always provide for those who look to him. I love Matthew 23. I think I've shared this maybe once or twice over the past 40 years here at the church. Matthew Henry comments on Psalm 23, verse 1, which says, The Lord is my shepherd. Finish it. I shall not want. I shall not want. The Lord's my shepherd. The Lord's your shepherd, raise your hand It's the good shepherd, by the way. I shall not want. Matthew Henry says, I shall not want means I shall have everything that I need And if I don't have everything that I need, I can conclude that It's not fit for me, or not good for me, or I shall have it in due time. Isn't that great commentary? Because it's so true that God provides for his children. You will not neglect He will not leave you as an orphan who has to make it through life on his own or her own. And provides in this case 153 fish. That's like 22 each. Minus one. 22 apiece. There's seven guys here. By the way, I didn't mention Nathaniel who's in the boat. You got Peter You got Dotting Thomas, denying Peter. You've got Peter and James. Peter, James, and John were the what some people call the inner circle. These are the sons of Zebedee. They were fishermen. They ran a fishing business. Then you got two others you got Nathaniel and what and the two others we don't know. But he provides for all of them and enough for them to take home to their families I remember when I was a kid growing up I wondered about the Lord providing for me because usually I'd be out there for an hour or two. Finally I get a bite. There it there it is. It's a sunfish. It's like Right that nibble? When your kids get excited they catch a sunfish, right? I'd rather catch like the deadliest catch. How many of those Alaskan crabs we got? 193 today. Wow. We're going home with a lot of dough in our in our bank accounts. But we see how does Christ respond to these disappointing disciples? Not only do we see him loving on them as children, we see him providing in a very powerful way for them on this occasion. And by the way, I might want to mention just in passing that uh many of the fish in the Sea of Galilee were called They just called them the Galilean fish, or the fish of St. Peter's fish, if we came to call them, because there were a lot of tilapia. Various kinds. And there's a good chance that a number of these fish could have been tilapia, which could get three and a half pounds and up to sixteen inches long. And so it was a great hall for them, not your bluegill, for your sunfish. And then we see again how does he come to them not as to scold them, to remind them of their failed history. But he comes as a servant. When you hear this verse, what do you think about? Jesus says, I've come not to be served, but to serve. And to give my life as a ransom for many. What do we normally think about when you think about Christ serving you? Don't we think about the cross particularly He serves us first of all with his perfect life. That's your substitute record. That's your hope. The commands that Christ kept, the expectations morally that Christ kept. He kept those as your record, not just his. There's how he serves us. And then he takes to judgment, the penalty that you deserve. If you don't understand that you've got to appear before the judgment seat of Christ, and you will be found guilty based upon your performance, as I would. But he takes the guilt away. By being wounded for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The punishment that belongs to us fell upon him, and by his wounds we find our healing. But now, guess what? After he paid the price, now he's back alive, and he's still serving his followers. It wasn't just like, oh, it's done now. We got the gospel, we're good to go. No He's risen from the dead. Can I get an amen? He's risen from the dead, and he's still serving. He's serving them by in pragmatic, practical ways. And now he's fixing them breakfast. You know, we got some of our grandchildren here today, and uh I got seven of the little ones aged eleven and under. Sometimes they stay the night and you know what? Some of these kids get up pretty early. Really. And they're looking for grandpa's pancakes And nine chances out of ten they're gonna get them. Seriously, and has nothing to do with how well they picked up their toys or left them laid Or if they've said thank you or pleased or forgot to do any of that. Has nothing to do with their the condition of their behavior. It's just like their family, children, grandchildren. And we're going to love on them. When they come to our house they want to come there because they know they're going to be loved. Even if it means getting up early. And Jesus was up not just the crack of dawn. He was up before that because the charcoal was going Somebody got to kindling together somehow. I don't know if you just went like that Or whether you had to get some of that blowing up blowing to get it started and fires going, cooking, and he's got some grilled fish and some nice warm bread waiting for them. Serving them. That's love, man. He's going to serve them in practical ways, which he'll continue to do for us. Who looked to him. And he says, I ha have not left you as orphans. I've given you my spirit. And his spirit Is still watching over you and Christ is guiding his spirit to care for you from on high at the right hand of God. And then lastly here we see in this I like to think of these words here in verse 12 when this Christ's love is an open invitation to them. Despite these disciples who have failed him in many ways, there's he says, Come And have breakfast. He's fixed it, it's ready to go, and now he says, come, have breakfast. And it's inclusive For all who are following him and who all who wish to come and start following him. I think We're going to see that the disciples and following him is going to be on the greatest fishing expedition. They ever were on. They were ever ever have gone on. It's a great fishing expedition as we're now following Christ and praying and hoping to to bring others on board to that open invitation. Of a God who loves us, sacrifices for us. I think of a couple other quick passages here. When you think of how Peter and Andrew were called Uh he says a similar word says, Come and follow me. Come. And I I include you to follow me and I will make you official. Or we think about the hurting crowd in Matthew 11 when Jesus spoke to them. Similar words. What are these people were hurting because the religious establishment had to put a heavy load on them They were poor and many of them being taken advantage of. But Jesus says, Come, you're hurting, you who are burdened, weak and heavy laden Come, I'll give you the rest. You need rest for your soul. You need to get away from the burden of trying to be religious and fulfill all these requirements to be accepted. I'll accept you Just as you are, I'll lift your burdens, I'll help you carry them. Just come and I will give you rest. Or then I love the one in Matthew 22 where Jesus tells the parable of the king. Who's throwing a feast, a wedding feast for his son, right? And what does he say? He says, go into the street corners and invite anyone you can. And tell them, I said, come, everything is now set and ready. Come to the feast and celebrate. Christ isn't here to condemn the world or to condemn you, but to invite you to a great feast that's going to be a lot better than all the provisions he's going to provide for you now. Somebody said life can sometimes feel like a long journey of doubts and denials and disappointments. And after you experience disappointment so many times, disappointed with yourself, disappointed with others, you can lose hope. And we've all been there. Maybe some of you are there now. We begin to lose hope. As I mentioned in passing, this is real people. We have friends right now. A relative dying of brain cancer. Fast dying. We got another relative of ours. These are closer relative, sister in law she has found out she has ALS. She's been struggling with Lou Gehrig disease for a year, didn't even know it. Now they know by her life is just basically crumbling. Another one is in shock trauma will be visiting a number of these people this week, starting tomorrow But loved ones who are suffering. And so we need hope. We don't need doubts about God's care for us. We don't need to be worried because we haven't been the kind of people we should have been because we've denied God's love and care and been wayward. Doesn't mat any that's all that stuff doesn't matter how we've disappointed God or how we've been disappointed. What matters is That we know this, that despite your history and despite your doubts and disappointments and denials, that Christ appeared to his failed disciples To reassure them that his love cannot be stopped. His love for you who name the name of Jesus Christ His love for you will not fail. It will not stop. It will not quit. He has chosen you, and he will continue to love upon you. Even in the face of death and beyond. Regarding that smart mirror, when you look at yourself your life in your mirror and you may wish to scroll down to find that better image that you'd like. Forget about it. Know this. When Christ looks at you, He sees a person That he loves. And I pray when you look at yourself that you will see a person that Christ loves, that Christ loves dearly and deeply. I pray and hope you will see a person Whom Christ loves despite your history, despite all the disappointments that come with it. You don't need a redo. You don't need a mulligan. We just need to see the love of Christ in us. And oh, His love for you is more than enough. To paraphrase Song of Solomon. Many waters cannot quench God's love, neither can floods ever drown it. Amen. Father, we thank you for your love for us in Christ. The waters cannot quench the love of Christ for us. Or floods ever drown us. We pray that your love would rest upon us this week that we may live with courage, strength, hope, optimism, and joy. Knowing that we are cared for and we will continue to be cared for each day that we open our eyes. Amen.