Good morning. We're working our way through 1 Samuel. Today we've arrived at chapter 15. You know, there are many favorite chapters in the Bible for us. Perhaps Psalm 23 might be yours. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. It's nice to know that you can go through life without having any real needs. He's going to take care of them Also, uh, 1 Corinthians chapter 13, the love chapter. I mean, without love, what do we have? Nothing. Well I suspect that 1 Samuel 15 is probably not anyone's chapter that they choose as their favorite. Here we're reminded in this chapter of King Saul losing his throne. We are seeing how God brings down judgment on an entire people group. And it's how sin can bring judgment on men, women, their children, even their infants, and their animals It's a very um startling chapter. But as we know, as Romans 15 tells us, verse 4, that whatever was written in former days, like 1 Samuel 15 Was written for our instruction. That through the endurance and through the encouragement and exhortation of Scripture, it might lead us to a renewed hope. And having said that, uh, I would suggest that you follow from the uh printed version in your bulletin since we're doing an abridged shortened version and reading a lot of the chapter but uh only portions of it. First Samuel chapter 15, please uh stand as we read God's recorded history uh uh uh for our benefit here today. The word of the Lord And the prophet Samuel said to Saul, The Lord sent me to anoint you king over his people Israel. Now, therefore, listen to the words of the Lord. Thus says the Lord of hosts. I have noted what Amalek did to Israel in opposing them on the way when they came up out of Egypt. Now go and strike Amalek, and devote to destruction all that they have. Do not spare them, but kill both man and woman, child and infant, ox and sheep, camel and donkey And Saul defeated the Amalekites from Havilah as far as Shur, which is east of Egypt. And he took Agag, the king of the Amalekites, alive. And he devoted to destruction all the people with the edge of the sword. And Saul and the people spared Agag. And the best of the sheep, and of the oxen, and of the fatted calves, and the lambs, and all that was good, and would not utterly destroy them. All that was despised and worthless, they devoted to destruction. The word of the Lord came to Samuel, the prophet. I regret that I have made Saul king, for he has turned back from following me and has not performed my commandments. And Samuel was angry. And he cried out to the Lord all night. And Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning. And it was told to Samuel, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and behold, he set up a monument for himself, and turned and passed on and went down to Gilgal. And Samuel came to Saul. And Saul said to him, Blessed be to you, blessed be you to the Lord. I have performed the commandment of the Lord. And Samuel said, What then is this bleeding of the sheep in my ears, and the lowing of the oxen that I hear? Saul said They have brought them through the Amalekites, for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen to sacrifice to the Lord your God. And the rest we have devoted to destruction. And Samuel said to Saul, stop! I will tell you what the Lord said to me this night. And Samuel said, Though you're little in your own eyes, are you not the head of the tribes of Israel? The Lord anointed you king over Israel, and the Lord sent you on a mission. And said, go, devote to destruction. That means completely wipe out. Devote to destruction the sinners. The Amalekites, and fight against them until they are consumed. Why then do you not obey the voice of the Lord? Why did you pounce on the spoil And do what was evil in the sight of the Lord. And Saul said to Samuel, I have obeyed the voice of the Lord. I've gone on the mission on which the Lord sent me. I have brought Agag the king of Amalek and I have devoted the Amalekites to destruction. But the people took of the spoil, the sheep and oxen, the best of the things devoted to destruction, to sacrifice to the Lord Your God and Gilgal. Samuel said, Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice. And to listen and to offer the fat of rams. For rebellion is as the sin of divination, and presumption is as iniquity and idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the Lord, he has also rejected you from being king And Samuel said, Bring here to me Agag, the king of the Amalekites. And Agag came to him cheerfully. Agag said, Surely the bitterness of death is past. And Samuel said, As your sword has made women childless, so shall your mother be childless among women. And Samuel hacked Agag to pieces before the Lord in Gilgal. And Samuel did not see Saul again until the day of his death. Samuel grieved over Saul, and the Lord regretted that he had made Saul king over Israel. The word of the Lord. Please be seated. Well now this scripture has given us much to ponder here in this brief time this morning. So I ask, why Must we daily seek God's mercy? Why must we daily seek the mercy of God If you study this text, you'll see that it's because judgment may fall where obedience is incomplete. Judgment may fall. Where obedience is incomplete. That's why we've got to keep adjusting our lives. Changing them. As God touches us with His mercy, to change our lives, to follow God's word completely to the end. Asking for help all along the journey. You know, I love living in the United States of America. I can take a poll now, but We we don't need to do that. We love living in America. And but I'm thinking about now and I'm thinking about when I was much younger. I used to say, I love this country And now I say, I love this country, but then I'm and I there's a little hesitation there. And when I think about it, I think it has something to do with the erosion of morality. There's an erosion of a morality that has taken place over these last decades and where we are now, and it's like a A dark cloud that's growing here below. And we've drifted. And as I think about the drift below, I can't help but thinking that maybe there's a dark cloud that's Drifting above, that's maybe hanging over our country. And I worry about whether it might rain down something terrible upon us And so we pray for the mercy of God upon us individually and as a country to do better. Enter the Amalekites. Enter the Amalekites. The Amalekites probably came from the line of Esau. That's what many people think. But they were nomads. They roamed the country between Egypt and what had become what would become Israel. And they moved from place to place. And uh apparently they were also quite immoral like the other people, the Amorites, the people groups living in uh the promised land that Israel would be taking, be given. But uh these Amalekites were merciless And we see in 1 Samuel verse 2 here, chapter 15, thus says the Lord of hosts, I have noted what Amalek, that country there, those people group, uh, what Amalek did to Israel in opposing them. On the way when they came up out of Egypt. And if you go back to Deuteronomy chapter 25, verse 17 and following, you can read a fuller account of how the Amalekites. uh responded to Israel on their journey out of Egypt to the promised land. Basically what they did uh when the people were weary and warned Uh they met them along the way and they attacked those who were lingering, lagging behind, which would typically would have been the women and the children and the little ones, the weak And you know how God feels about the weak and the poor and the needy and those who are just limping along through life. He cares about you And he cared about his own people here. Now it's a number of years later, perhaps 500 years later, and God hasn't forgotten what had happened historically Enter King Saul. Now we get King Saul coming on. Not a great king, but he had a mission And uh God raised him up as a leader. Sadly, uh he didn't act much like a leader. But But uh he did some things, but he was sent on a mission, as we see in verse 3. Uh he said he's told, Go and strike Amalek and devote to destruction all that the have And then in verse 18, he specifically said, the Lord sent you on a mission devote to destruction the sinners. The Amalekites. Fight against them till they are consumed. Now As we come to this text, there are some important things that need to be said pertaining to the passage. particularly given the time constraints and uh just the magnitude and the uh many things that are happening here that cause us to ponder. Uh well first of all let me say that uh God has the right to bring down judgment whenever and however he wishes God has the right to bring down his judgment whenever and however he wishes He doesn't need your approval, nor my. He can bring judgment on a person, on a region. On a country, on a business, on an empire, should he see fit. Entire nations have fallen Under God's judgment. Dr. Henry Morris, in his article, The Nations That Forget God, he reminds us of what we've What we know. He talks about the uh in that article, the great kingdom of Egypt was finally, quote, the basis of the kingdoms, end quote. Ezekiel 29, 15. Egypt came and went. Then there's the Assyria, the proud kingdom of Assyria, mentioned in Zechariah 10. 11, how they were quote unquote brought down. And of course Babylon was greater than Egypt and greater than Assyria. And uh it also, according to Jeremiah 51, 25, quote, God said, It I will make you a burnt mountain. End quote. It also was burned to ruins. And then the Persian Empire fell. The Greeks, uh the Greeks as great as they were, and we have much These precious remnants from Persia and Greece and the Roman Empire, it fell. I mean, Rome was magnificent. and quite expansive throughout the world. Genghis Khan, Napoleon, Hitler all prospered proudly for a time. But God in his providence, as uh Henry Morris reminds us, brought them down one by one, and that can happen to a nation. When its immorality drifts, when its morality drifts to immorality. A cloud of judgment can drift over it Over a nation, over a person, over a community The point is that God has the right to raise up a nation to greatness, and he has the right to bring it down. As Isaiah 4015 said, Behold the nations are like a drop in the bucket. It's like the world's strongest man You know, w weightlifting a fifty pound bell bar. You want to lift it up? Okay, I'll put it down. It's nothing. It's nothing. Also, we need to remember as we look at this passage that the magnificent God of the universe has many faces. Our God has many magnificent faces. That is, he is the God of eternity. That'll give you something to think about. You have a beginning. Also, he's the God of life. You're here by the mercy of God. Your life continues because he's the God of life. I trust you found life that carried you through death as well. It's available here today through the mercies of Christ. He's the God of truth. As you turn this multifaceted diamond, so to speak, as we look at God, he's the God of wisdom. You need wisdom? Ask for it. He's going to give it to you. It's a promise. He's a God of power, faithfulness. The sun's up again in the morning. It's going to be up again tomorrow and the next day. And you can be sure it's going to set night after night after night. He's the God of love, but he's also the God of judgment. The God of judgment. So we went to uh Baltimore City the other night. How many went to see the uh city of lights Friday and Saturday nights? I see one of you. A lot of lights down there, weren't there, John? And you go see some of these installations, there were some pretty cool things. You were pounding on the drums down there, and you'd go like that, the lights would come on and off and on. 'Cause somehow they figured out how to connect lights to drums and it was really cool. The whole room was like shh hmm lighting up and going dark with these People playing drums. But there was another uh display, uh installation where they had uh uh artistic silhouettes of people who had been murdered in Baltimore. Or people had lost their lives. And they would have the silhouette of the person, it was a sad and very reflective installation. And it would have us the words written by their image, their facial image, which would say, for example, justice for Jordan Taylor. Then the slide would change and justice for Tanya Brown or and they kept going through the various people who had lost their lives and uh there was this call for justice. And um I just want to say this that God is uh concerned about Men and women and children and babies. He's far more concerned than you ever could be Do you understand that? And if we look at this passage and we look at the Amalekites and their families, entire families being destroyed There's a scripture that says, Shall not the judge of the earth do what's right? He's a God of justice. He always does what's right. The problem is we don't quite know how to process some of the things that are happening around us, do we We try to process it emotionally, intellectually, theologically, and it doesn't even compute. It's like this thing out here. What why is this happening right now? I mean nobody has a clue, but somebody must. See, and eventually we get to figure it out. I think this guy has a little remote. Eventually some of this stuff gets figured out But for the most part, it's difficult. But when it comes to justice, uh don't you don't need to figure out the baseline. The God of the Bible is a God of justice. Now the people around us are making a lot of things happen aren't so just. And sometimes we ourselves aren't so just And that could create all kinds of problems for us personally who are being unjust Now, I want to say also this, as we come to this text, by the way they get that question, shall not the judge of the earth do what's right, is in Genesis 18, 25. It's understood, of course, he's going to do what's right. But uh as we think about God's judgment falling upon a community or a nation Let me just say that in the Bible there are you can put judgment in a couple big categories, big hunks of information. One is temporal judgment The second is eternal judgment. That's the one you really got to worry about. The first one is bumps and bruises. In fact, it could be a lot worse than that, you know. It's sickness, it's injury, and can even be death. It could be death to someone who believes or doesn't believe. You see, like Ananias and Savior or 1 Corinthians chapter 11, people who were disdaining the Lord's Supper. And making a mockery out of it, and some of those professing believers even were put to death. What good were they to promote such an attitude? To disrupt the community. So God could bring a temporal judgment on you to bring in illness. And many times it's hard to say why is this happening? It's difficult to figure out, but just know that God's in sovereign control and He can bring a judgment upon us. Figuring out all the secondary and tertiary causes aren't so easy to figure out And in fact, even why it's there isn't easy to figure out. Where is it taking us? And so we got temporal judgment, then you've got eternal judgment. And that's that's what I say. The that's the one we really need to worry about, you know, like the history of mankind has a beginning and then it has an ending. And uh people are in between here and somehow you're in there and In the ending, that's the one you want to worry about, you know, what's going to happen when we stand before the final judgment of God Am I going to be eternally condemned? Or am I going to be eternally blessed? I go, am I going to be in big trouble? Or am I going to be having a great party? A party. Will someone be under God's judgment forever? Or will someone be receiving God's blessing forever? Now, let me say this as we again, we're talking broadly about this passage, some things that need to be said. Let me point out two people in the Bible that might help you here, that helped me. So I think one is a thief on the cross. I have a good feeling that his mom didn't have a clue that he would be In paradise that day, celebrating eternal life. You know, given the history of his life We have a little insight there in Luke chapter 23. We're given an insight that the rest of the world didn't have a clue. Now there's a guy, you know where he's going to end up, right? But instead, today you shall be with me in paradise. And then you have on the front end of things and the beginning of life, you've got just Luke chapter 1, verse 15. Where uh John the Baptist is filled with the Holy Spirit even in his mother's womb. Wow. You see, there's a miracle. There's a miracle at a man dying who should be in a terrible place of judgment But it ends up all right. And you see a little child who doesn't have a clue still in his mother's womb, filled with the Holy Spirit, a miracle. And so I would just say when the current comes to What happens to the Amalekites? The men, the women, the children. We can't say anything about their eternal fate We can say they were in big trouble in the temporal fate, and that's meant to get our attention. That we can't be fooling around When it comes to being merciless to other people. And so I kind of want to raise the question there. What about the harshness of this judgment of God upon this people group? Doesn't it seem so harsh? Why would God, the loving God of the universe, wipe out men, women, children, infants, and even their animals? I probably should have put the animals before the infants. The men, we can kind of uh men get killed in war, you know. Well, I mean, okay, now they're starting to take up arms themselves. I can understand that. But the children And the infants don't have a clue what's going on. Why the harshness All I can tell you is what I see in the text and what I see in the Bible. The rest of it for me is just as hard to process as you. I'm just glad I'm not in charge. Bringing down that kind of judgment on anybody. But there we see it. We see it in verses 2 and 3. By the way, that's no indication of where the sermon is. We're getting closer. Or moving along. But um notice he says, I've noticed that Amalek did what he did to Israel On their way to Egypt, he says, Now go and strike verse 3, Amalek, and devote to destruction. That's a technical term. Karom. It means It means basically no prisoners, no spoils, take no prisoners, take no spoils, take nothing, spare nothing. Period. Seems a bit harsh. And all I know is what we have in the text here, in the rank's now given in this text. We're just giving a little bit here. In verse 2. What's the context? I've noted what Amalek did to Israel in opposing them on the way when they came out of Egypt. That's all we're told here. In Deuteronomy 25, we're given a little more of that. Here's what they did. On their way, on their journey, they attacked all who were lagging behind. They had no fear of God. And so God decides, I'm going to devote this group of people to total destruction. That's my judgment. And the way I see it is this. Here's the way I see it, given this limited information here, is that you mess with God's plan. To save his people, and you're in some serious trouble. You mess with God's plan to save while he's saving his people, you're in serious trouble. God's heart is all about saving people. That's what this whole story of the Israelites in Egypt about. It's a deliverance, not just uh physically and historically, which is monumental and important, but but it's a a spiritual, theological, real picture of what God's heart is about. It's about delivering us from sin and bondage. And all that Egypt represents, and taking us to a land flowing of milk and with milk and honey. A beautiful place. I hope you're on your way there. And anyone that messes with the uh God as he's endeavoring to do that And his plan how to do that, you're in trouble. And so we don't want to mess with the gospel. We don't want to mess with the God who's in the business of saving things. And as he implements his uh plan to do that in a person's life or in a nation's life like uh Israel. Uh the Amalekites got into a lot of trouble. And God has certainly uh sent us a message As he as he gave this order for total devastation. I'm not going to tolerate this. That should get our attention. Enter again King Saul. King Saul's on a mission. What's his assignment? He is to be the executioner. That's his assignment. He's to give the go-ahead, pull the switch Give the lethal injection to this group. That was his job So King Saul was to give the troops to go ahead to march, the missions on green lights, go to battle on his immoral Amalekites. Now let me say something about ISIS for a minute. Not a lot, but a little. ISIS and other terrorist groups. They had better be careful. They had better be careful. Hebrews 9. 27 says it's appointed to us once to die, and then what? The judgment. It's a pointer to us once to die, and then judgment. Romans 14:12. So then each of us will give an account to himself before God. In Hebrews 10:31, listen, it's a terrible thing. It is a terrible thing to fall into the hands of the living God. And so if someone thinks They can just go and mow down a bunch of people, take somebody's life. You better think not just twice, but a million times Before you do something like that. People made in the image of God, precious to God? Who are you to take anybody's life? Not even your own That's why we need God's mercy. To think straight, to act straight. Vengeance is mine, says the Lord. I will repay. Enter again, King Saul. King Saul was no self-appointed terrorist King Saul was no self-appointed judge. Saul was appointed by God through the prophet Samuel. In the Old Testament period, God spoke through the prophets. Saul's marching orders came from the Lord of hosts, verse 2. Came from the Lord of hosts, speaking through Samuel, God's prophet, the last the last of the judges there. Now, Saul was given a direct order by God, delivered through the prophet Samuel. The problem was what? Saul only marched two-thirds of the way into the battle. You understand he didn't he didn't get to the finish line. He didn't finish his mission. Saul obeyed, but only in part. Why was that? Why was it? He marched, but only halfway or two-thirds of the way, and left the rest of it unfinished He spared the uh King Agag, and he spared a lot of the good stuff, including the animals, the good animals. Why did King Saul spare the animals? That's what we're told there in the ninth, right? Ninth first, the best of the sheep and the oxen, the fatted calves, all that was good, he would not utterly destroy them. Well, what do we know? Why did he not destroy it? Destroy them. In verse 13, he tells Samuel, he says, I did keep the commandment of the Lord, right? I kept it. First he tried to lie about it, covered over it. Sam was response Excuse me. Bah And then I'd look up what an oxen sounded like. Sounds a lot like a a cow, only a higher pitch. Something like that. Terrible. You can try it on Go online and listen. But basically it's lowing. They got these cattle or oxen, you got sheep in the background, it doesn't mention the camels. Who knows what kind of noise they make or the donkeys And uh Samuel says, Oh uh yes, so you kept the Lord's commandment. What's all this? Glassstock. I hear it. And earlier in verse 6, he just finally says, stop, stop. Enough, enough. You know, you got the excuses, right? He's giving excuses The finally comes up with this one. He said, Oh yeah, the animals that God told us to get rid of, we saved them for him. God said get rid of them, but we saved them for him. We're going to use them in religious worship to give him honor. How much sense does that make? You believe that, you'll believe there's ocean front property in Arizona Text doesn't tell us why Saul s spared the animals. But it's likely that people just started grabbing them. I mean that's what you did after war, you took the spoils. He probably got out of hand he and he said, I'll just go ahead and probably took some for himself. Uh why waste the good stuff? I mean, do you ever have something right on ready to hand, some good stuff? And you know God doesn't says you're not supposed to have it, but who cares? You know, it's very expedient and just slide some of my way anyway. Well, God's standards are high He expects full cooperation. Do you hear it, folks? He wants total obedience. He doesn't want excuses and rationalization and think you know better what's good and what's bad. You don't have a clue apart from what he tells you. Enter King Agai. Why didn't Saul take Agai's life? Why did he spare him of all people? That's really puzzling. Although uh unauthorized, perhaps uh it was an act of kindness. Who knows? Maybe he did have a little soft part for King. Oh I Fine, I'll kill everybody else to save the king. Or maybe it was uh an act of respect from one king to another. Or perhaps it was a trophy. That's my hunch. A trophy. Look who I got. Big King Akkeg. He says in verse 12, he built a monument for himself after all. He should have been apologizing, repenting. Instead, he's like patting himself on the back. Enter Samuel. Thank God for Samuel. As we move to a close here, thank God for Samuel. Samuel steps up, he steps in, and he finishes what Saul should have done in the first place. Sam had completed what the king had left undone. Verse 33. Agig was sentenced to death. Saul was supposed to be the executioner. Samuel pulls the switch big time. Do you see what he does? It it's to graphic how it ends. The Bible doesn't hide anything. He takes the sword, calls Agag up. We're not sure if it should be translated cheerfully or reluctantly or hesitantly. It's uncertain, but he calls them up and Agag thinks it's gonna be okay, right? Everything's cool. Look at the end of that passage there and just takes the sword and hacks him to pieces Samuel packed him to pieces. You talk about your children. You and the moms and dads can talk to your children later about that if I got them upset. But that's what the text tells us. And why did he do that? Well, first of all was to finish what Saul left undone. He didn't obey. You're not going to obey God, I'll finish it for you. God wants it, I'm gonna make it happen. And perhaps it was uh you know it was partly anger like Moses striking this rock or Or perhaps it was simply to make a bigger point that God wants his ways, wants you and I to follow his ways completely. Period. Sometimes it takes a something drastic to get our attention. We start following them more seriously, right? Things are happening in the community. terrible thing that happens. Finally get your attention, then you recommit to God. Well since God wants us to follow him thoroughly all the way to the end Thank God that we have the two words enter Jesus. Enter Jesus. Aren't you glad that the minister finally brought Jesus into the story as we close it out? That's why we need Christ. That's why we need his mercy. Because we're all a little bit like King Saul. We fall short of what God expects And Galatians 3. 10 says, Cursed is everyone who does not continue to do everything written in the book. You don't do it all, you're under a curse. You do realize you're not doing it all, right? That's why you need daily the mercy of God. Because his judgment could fall wherever We're not following him fully. Thankfully, Christ said I tell you the truth, until heaven and earth disappear, not the smallest letter, not the least stroke of the pen will by any means disappear from the law until everything is accomplished Christ fulfilled every moral expectation that God has for you who believe. And you are safe in hell. And he has a lot of mercy for you as you go to him. In Hebrews four fifteen we'll end with this We do not have a high priest who's unable to sympathize with us in our weakness, but we have one who's been tempted in every way just as we are, yet Without sin, like you. Therefore, let us approach, let us approach the throne of grace with confidence, so that we may find mercy and grace to help. In our time of need. Heavenly Father, we bow before you. We admit we have not followed your ways completely. We're a lot like King Saul. And so we ask that you would grant us forgiveness and mercy based on the perfect record of Christ. And from Christ's mercy, as we receive it by faith, we pray that those Precious drops of mercy would help us to see you more clearly, to love you more dearly, to follow you more nearly. As the Psalm says, day by day. Through the mercies of Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen.