Good morning. God is good. God's very been very gracious toward us, blessed us with salvation of Jesus Christ and all the gifts that are connected to him and flow to us Because God is in a greater work involved in bringing salvation to those who trust in me uh redemptive work of Christ, his substitute death on the cross, his perfect life, and his rising again to give us hope beyond the grave. And a lot of blessings flow from God because He's in the work of Helping people find forgiveness for their sins. And so blessings come down to us. And so why does God give us His good gifts? Let's think about that together as we unfold this text from 1 Corinthians chapter 10, 23. Please stand as we read from the Word of God. Reading from the English Standard Version. St. Paul says to the Christian church and to us, all things are lawful But not all things are helpful. All things are lawful, but not all things build up. That is, not all things are constructive Let no one seek his own good but the good of his neighbor. Eat whatever is sold in the meat market without raising any question on the ground of conscience. For the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. If one of the unbelievers invites you to dinner, And you're disposed to go. Eat whatever is set before you without raising any questions, moral questions, on the ground of conscience But if someone says to you, this has been offered in sacrifice to an idol, then do not eat it. For the sake of the one who informed you and for the sake of conscience. I don't mean your conscience, but his. For why should my liberty be determined or judged by someone else's conscience? If I partake with thankfulness, why am I denounced? Because of that for which I give thanks So, whether you eat or drink or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God Give no offense to Jews or to Greeks or us Gentiles or to the church of God. Just as I try to please everyone and everything I do, not seeking my own advantage, but that of many, that they may be saved. Be imitators of me As I am of Christ. The word of the Lord, may He open our hearts and change our lives as a result of it. Please be seated. Sure, catechism asks an all-important question What is our chief end? What's our chief purpose? And the response it gives is to glorify God. And to enjoy him forever. I hope you are in your life glorifying God That you are a substantial testimony to the to the world, watching the world around you. We know you're not perfect, otherwise, we wouldn't need a savior. But more and more you're becoming more of a glorious presence in your workplace, in your home, in your community with your children. That also you are enjoying The goodness of God that He gives us every day. In today's sermon, we'll be addressing this question: why does God give us His good gifts? And I'll be moving around in the text. So don't worry. We're not going to keep you here forever. You might feel a little lost, but if you need big categories to make sure there's progression, we're going to be looking at uh The importance of glorifying God and us enjoying His goodness. So it's about glory For God and joy for us. We're going to look at the joy first. Focusing on our joy You know, last week on a short trip to New York, we went to an all-Greek restaurant and for the first time it had uh grilled octopus. Uh a bit mushy. Uh it was uh quite good though. It was a signature dish, but I must admit it was way too much for me, just for the appetizer. That could have been the whole meal Half a lifetime ago I enjoyed some delicious chocolate-covered frog legs. I must admit that the uh I think it was the chocolate, that was the delicious part. Frog legs are a bit crunchy. Didn't really taste much there. It's more frightening than anything. But I was wanted to adventure out into the goodness of God, so to speak. And then I heard that in Japan they serve uh wasp cookies, W-A-A-S-P wasp cookies. Think chocolate chip. Only instead of chocolate chips, think wasps. To be sure it is morally okay to eat them if you so wish So what was the situation in Corinth, Greece, the first century? Verse 27 he says, and we've touched on this some and with uh our intern Eric and uh Pastor Desiah and uh we may be looking at some of this again next week with Pastor Josai speaking. But uh the situation in Corinth was what? He says if an unbeliever invites you to dinner and you're disposed to go, you want to go and eat whatever is set before you. Without raising any questions. He doesn't mean you have to eat just what's put down before you. He means that it's not morally wrong to eat whatever this non-Christian places before you. That's what he's saying here In other words, food is food. It doesn't make any difference whether somebody did some hocus pocus thing or offered it up to some idol. It's food And he says in verse 23, all things are lawful. That means all things are permissible. It's okay. All things are up for grabs. Even weird things, or suspicious things, or hocus pocus things. He says in verse 26, the earth is the Lord's. And that's a critical verse here in this text You'll notice when he quotes this, if you go back and look at Psalm 24, as they do in many of the uh almost all of the English Bibles, that they often capitalize the word Lord Not all Lords, not all the words lords, but many of the words Lord are capitalized and for a specific reason. And if you will, this is uh God's quote unquote preferred name. He does prefer to be called by his names, whatever names are given in the Bible. And uh but there's one that appears so many so m much more often, like five or six thousand times And it's Yahweh. We're not totally sure how to pronounce it because we uh the uh vowels were added later in the scriptures. All we have is everything in all calves, in all consonants. But we think it's Yahweh or Yahweh. Sometimes they've merged some words together and say Jehovah So uh, but the earth belongs to the Lord, that is the God of the Bible, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the creator of the universe. There is only one God And it's the God of the scriptures. And uh he says, he created the earth and uh the earth is Lord's. And the Lord says, hey, if you've got some food available, somebody offers, invites you to eat it, go for it if you want. He says verse 26, the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. The shorter catechism asks the question: What's our chief end? To glorify God and to Enjoy him forever. We've got to enjoy some of this fresh water here. I don't know how fresh it is, but this refreshing water. Not staged, I'm just getting a bit parched here. Why does God give us good gifts to enjoy? Some things I've also enjoyed, I've enjoyed the uh the Grand Canyon. I must admit, when I saw it for the first time, I c actually was trying to track it down. Where is it? Where is it? The sides of the Grand Canyon I'd forgotten it's a hole in the ground, it's not a mountain. So you got to get next to the hole before you can actually see it. So as I got up close to it, I went, wow. It really was breathtaking, literally. The redwood forest. It really was made me dizzy as I stood at the the uh the redwood one of these redwood trees was like three hundred feet in the air and I was like stood it there and it took like six of us to get around us. I'd be looking for seminaries at the time. And the six of us we couldn't get around it. And these were big guys. That was the littlest one. Couldn't get our fingertips touching around this thing. So I stood there and looking up and thought, whoa, where's the top of this thing? Awesome, pretty awesome. A gift to be old. I hope you get to see those if you haven't. And when I turned age 50, My first snow-cone parfait. Fifty years. How in the world was I on this earth for fifty years? Before I tasted shaved ice drizzled with chocolate with crunchy shaved chocolatey ice with smooth layers of vanilla ice cream in between. The texture and the flavor is just like man. So I was like I had you know, be careful there. I was going back every day for about four days. That's the truth, and no exaggeration. And that shaved ice, by the way, is God's water. And that chocolate is God's cocoa beans. How blessed we are. 14, chapter 34, verse 8 in Psalm. Psalms tells us: Taste and see that the Lord is good. Maybe out of context there, I'm not sure, but certainly true, isn't it? Taste and see that the Lord is good. Psalm 104, 13 following. He waters the mountains from his upper chambers. The land is satisfied. By the fruit of his work. He makes grass grow for the cattle and plants for people to cultivate, bringing forth food from the earth, and wine that gladdens human hearts. Oil to make their faces shine, and bread that sustains their hearts. And Psalm 104. 24 goes on to say, O Lord, how abundant are your works. In wisdom, you have made them all. The earth is filled with God's blessings, isn't it? The earth is filled with God's blessings. And many of those blessings are coming your way. I hope you're enjoying them. These are God's gifts. And I hope you're receiving them with thankful hearts and sharing them with the people around you. The blessings of God are Overwhelming. Praise God from whom all blessings flow. Praise Him, all creatures here below. Praise Him above, ye heavenly host. Praise Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. 1 Timothy 16, in the King James it says, God has given us all things richly to enjoy. Paul says here in this context where some of the Christians were struggling in issues of should I do this activity or should I not, he said, all things are lawful. Of course, what's morally forbidden is forbidden, isn't it? But if there's no moral restriction, God says The earth is the Lord's. Whatever you find in it, you can go for it if you want. Of course, there's a whole lot I've said to give you some parameters as you navigate through the gifts that are around us. Sadly, some people would want to forbid us and prohibit us from certain things that God Himself has intended for us to enjoy, has intended uh to be for your enjoyment. First Timothy four one following says, now the Spirit, God's Spirit, expressly says in the latter times some will depart from the faith By devoting themselves to deceitful spirits and teachings of demons, who forbid marriage and require abstinence from foods that God created to be received with thanksgiving. By those who believe and know the truth. For everything God created is good, and nothing is to be rejected if it's received with thanksgiving. For it is made holy by the Word of God. God says it's holy. And prayer. Now that doesn't mean you should eat whatever as much as you want or what even if that someone offers you something that you this you should eat it and he says what If something's put down before you eat it, that's not what the text means. It means it's morally okay to eat. And you might want to say, I'm going to pass on that one And and that's why it's good and I think the church is getting better at this and we've been done okay. And uh some of you are really good at this when you host. Give alternatives for people, particularly you know If they have, you know, they're vegetarians or vegans or and for different reasons, some people for health reasons, some people for philosophical reasons. There's a whole host of things there. Health re uh health or uh maybe allergies and so forth. So it's good to offer a variety of God's foods because not all foods are intended for all people necessarily. Everybody's in a unique situation. But in the context here, we're talking about the bottom the general rule Paul says all things are permitted. Ecclesiastes 2. 24, Solomon says from his perspective, there is nothing better for a person than that he should eat and drink and find enjoyment in his toil. This also I saw is from the hand of God. However, Catechism raises the question and gives a two-part answer. What is our chief end? To glorify God and to enjoy Him forever. We did the and to enjoy Him and the gifts associated. But what about the glorifying part? Oh, that's a big one. And I would say, and you might even say that's even bigger, isn't it? The glory of God That's what's at stake. You're made in the image of God. When you came to Christ, you found his perfect life Now declares you perfect through faith, acceptable. We know they're still working and sanctifying on you, like they are me. Your spouse and your kids and your friends will all tell you about that. That's improvement you need But in God's eyes, you're you're okay. You're gloriously renewed. We are renewed in the image of God now. And so now we've got to let that glory come out of us so that God can see something bigger behind us. The glorious God Himself that's going to continue forever. God's pretty spectacular, much more spectacular than Grand than the Grand Canyon And so when we make these choices, what we're going to activities that we do, we need to be careful. We need to be, should say, not so much careful, but we need to be wise. Too many people are walking too carefully, like they're walking on eggs, and they're going, oh, I'm going to crush this egg here. God bark more freely, like the whole world's mine. And look, by the way, uh Maybe I'll think about this one though. Maybe it's not so wise to participate here because we don't live in a vacuum. It's not just you, but there are other people around your life And God says it's very important that you be sensitive to these people. That's what he says in verse 28. Having said, if an unbeliever offers you something, go ahead, eat it, don't Don't be bothering conscience about that. But if someone says to you, now he doesn't say who the someone is here, whether it's the unbeliever or whether it's a non-Christian uh in the room or whether it's a uh uh I mean another Christian who's maybe weaker in their view. But whoever it speaks to you in verse 28, someone says to you, this has been offered to a sacrifice He says, then don't eat it. For the sake of the one who informed you. For the sake of conscience. I don't mean yours, but his. So, as Paul goes down later in this text, he's going to tell us that what's at stake here, verse 33. About people being saved. He might mean believers continuing on the path of salvation, that they don't quit on Christ. He might be talking about the unbeliever who doesn't know God's mercy and forgiveness. He wants him to be saved, regardless. He wants as many people as possible around his life to make it to the end when they can say, God, I deserve condemnation. But you know what? I put my confidence in Jesus Christ. Christ. Let me share in your glory. That's what Paul's main concern is here. And he says some other things here as it speaks relationally about Making choices that will edify people, that will be constructive, that will build them up, that won't hinder them, and that won't cause them to stumble on their pat on their pathway from earth to heaven Or should say, from earth to the judgment. That's Paul's main concern. It's obstructing the glorif the glory of God. Because he wants God's glory to be displayed in the people around him and others to come and to share in the glory when all is said and done on the last day. You all to the glory of God and enjoyed the song we had during our offering to help us along with this text as well. Have you ever gone to a special event? Maybe to watch your child in a program, maybe your grandchild. Maybe you're going to a concert. And uh you sit down, take your seat, and there's plenty of empty seats around you, and uh somebody comes in late and you've been enjoying the concert here and having a great time, and guess what? They plop right down in front of you. You're saying, what? What are you doing? There's like twenty seats over here, fifteen over there, and you sit right in front of me. Maybe it's because you were on the end and they wanted to be on the end too. And now they blocked your view. Not good for you, is it? It's not good to be obstructing people's view of their grandchild. That's a glorious sight. Or of a concert, particularly if you paid a little money just to get in the general mission So the situation in Corinth. People were concerned at that unbeliever's dinner. Somebody leaned over and said, You This foo this food is spiritually tainted. That's what they said, in effect This food is spiritually unfit for Christian consumption. This activity is off limits. Why? My conscience doesn't let me partake. And besides, when I was a little child, my mother said it was wrong. And maybe you never got that thought out of your mind. Truth is, your mother may or may not, it might have been wrong at the time. And she may or may not have been speaking for God. But that's not the point. The point is your conscience has drawn a line. And now you're drawing a line for somebody else. Right? People do that. We have an I hope You have a really good conscience. I hope it's clear. I suspect if it's like most of the rest of us, your conscience isn't quite educated As much as it could be. I think that's what you get older, you get wiser, right? You really begin to learn right from wrong I think a lot of people have made a lot of rules and locked us up. And so it's hard for us to do certain things. But the truth is we need to listen to our conscience. You know, as you begin to uh study what Paul's saying here, it's not necessarily that easy To be precise in why Paul says sometimes it's good to hold back. But we do know that it has something to do with blocking the glory of God, and somehow it becomes uh an intrusion and and an upsetting situation as it touches another person's conscience, it becomes definitely very awkward for the other person When we do an activity in front of them, when we know that they really think that this is wrong. You know, I perhaps you're ever babysat for a child you didn't know that well, do some child care. And uh it's you know it's hard to think of analogies Even the commentators will say, scratch they they got all the theology that as you try to apply this eating meat of meat offered to idols in 21st century, it's not necessarily that easy. But uh imagine you're uh doing some child care and uh The parents have um told you as they're about to leave, they kind of whisper and say, by the way, you can eat in the f you can open the fridge and eat whatever you want And um problem is the parent didn't tell the child that. And uh they said, child needs to be to bed at 7 30. You can eat whenever you want. So it's Time's passed and uh next thing you know, um you're going over to seven o'clock and you're going over to the fridge and you're gonna get yourself a Coke The child sees what you're doing and says, we're not allowed to have any coke. You say, Excuse me? We're not allowed to have any Coke after dinner. And you think, well, it's seven o'clock. I'm getting thirsty. So uh you you think about that and you have to make a choice now. Is this the time for education Or accommodation. Is it time to train or refrain? After all, in thirty minutes you can have all the cook you want. True. It may be that Paul's reasoning here is that he just wants you to be respectful for another person's conscience. Isn't that what we're supposed to do? To honor people? The people and prefer them. And one of the ways we can do that is show respect for their conscience. I mean, even Taylor Swift knows that. The pop singer put it so well, she says, we don't need to share the same opinions as others, but we need to be respectful. Whoa, so important. In fact, it's interesting in 1 Peter chapter 3, where it talks about people being married, a wife being married to a husband who's not a Christian. It could be the reverse He says, you know how to win them to Christ? You don't need to say a word. They just need to see that you respect them. And their opinions, what they say, show some respect So sometimes we may just have to forfeit one of the joys of a Coke Or it could be I don't know that this is the case here, but it could be that that uh maybe he's afraid that Paul's afraid that the the person next to you'll put some peer pressure on them. And if and if you do something, you eat and partake in this activity, they'll cave in under peer pressure pressure and they'll violate their conscience and there it goes. I don't need it. But uh but thank you. They'll violate their conscience And we don't want people doing that, do we? We prefer to educate. God would prefer to educate and then enjoy. Don't just like do something that's going to force people To cave in and be, I don't know, wimpy in their values. We don't want wimp people who have values that are wimpy or wishy-washy or hypocritical We want people who do things wholeheartedly. So it may be tempting someone to uh to violate their kind. Particularly if we if we're a very influential person around them and they they might just cave in without the education. No, there is a time to accommodate and there's a time to educate. And this context of First Corinthians appears that's Paul's not really getting into the educational part, although he is educating the Corinthians as a whole Then everything's good. It's morally right. But there could be also, you're just going to be annoying and provoking them to pass judgment on you. And I think that may well be what he's saying here as you look at these verse 29 and 30, that uh when others are convinced something's wrong and you just do it right in front of them anyway, uh you can be sure they're going to judge you So avoid actions if you know that people are going to judge you, even though your activity may be thankworthy and good. Uh if you know that they're gonna play the the role of judge. You know what that people passing judges judgment on you. That God's gonna do that in the end To sum up, then, when we're there with someone with a strong conviction that uh and you're in the room with them, show respect for others, even if you don't agree with their opinions. Don't tempt others to put them in a situation where they're going to violate their conscience because you're leading the way And don't provoke people to pass judgment upon you. Sometimes we educate, sometimes we accommodate, sometimes we explain, sometimes we refrain. And uh but it certainly as Romans 15. 1 uh certainly it puts it so well, we who are strong have an obligation. We have an obligation. What is it? To bear with the failings of the weak. To put it To translate that paraphrase, we who are informed have an obligation to bear with those who appear weaker and uninformed. It has well been said, our purpose in this life is to help others. And if we can help them, at least don't hurt them. Don't hurt their vision for God. Don't hurt their journey toward God. Don't cause others to get tripped up and stumble on their path from here on earth. Up to the God of heaven. And you are God's representative. And uh hopefully they will catch more and more glimpse of the glory of God. And want to prepare themselves for that glory because of your inspiration toward them and respect toward them. Matthew 5 says, You're the light of the world. Let your light shine. before others, so that they may see your good works and glorify your God, your Father who's in heaven. First Peter 4 puts it this way as we open the service with If anyone speaks, they should do so as one who speaks the very words of God. Speak in a way that Represents God will. If anyone serves, they should do so with the strength God provides, not just out of your own strength, because you want to do something So that in all things God may be praised through Jesus Christ. To him be glory and the power forever and ever. Amen. So when is our purpose in life to cast catechism ask? Our purpose is to glorify God. And to endure him forever. Why does God give us many good gifts? For our joy, your joy. And For his glory. I think we'd do well if we bowed our heads and close with a special prayer. Dear Lord Jesus We know that you've put us here on earth to bring glory to you and also to enjoy the gifts of this good earth. God grant us joy when tasting your good gifts and restraint when tasting obscures your glory and wisdom To know the difference. This we ask through Christ, our crucified and risen Savior, our greatest gift of all. Amen.