Like that? Is that good? Okay. Okay. In the year of King Uzia there's Uzziah Hm. Died. I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up, and the train of his robe filled the temple. Above him stood the seraphim Each had six wings, with two he cover his face, and with two he covered his feet, and with two he flew. And one called to another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. the whole earth is full of his glory. And the foundations of the threshold shook at the voice of him who called, and the house was filled with smoke. And I said, Woe is me, for I am lost. For I am a man of unclean lips, and I have dwelt and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for my eyes have seen the king. the Lord of hosts. Then one of the Sarapim flew to me, having his hand in his hand a burning coal that he had taken with tongs from the altar And he touched my mouth and said, Behold, this has touched your lips, your guilt is taken away, and your sin is atoned for. And I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send, and who will go for us? Then I said, Here I am, send me. Praise God. Amen. Thank you, Andrew. Please be seated. We are talking about what it's like to be in the presence of greatness. And um as you know, I'm a huge baseball fan. And when I moved to Saint Louis That was when Mark McGuire and Sammy Sosa were having their home run race, you know, and maybe one of them is gonna beat Roger Maris's record. And everyone was trying to figure out when it would be. I may have mentioned And um and so my buddy and I, like you never know, so we bought all the tickets in September. Julie was super happy about this, right? So w almost every day my buddy and I would pack up, we bought six dollar tickets. and we would go to the game and this was my first semester of seminary and I had little kids and I had a wife and I was being very responsible and studious and everything. And that's when my love for the Cardinals really started. Later on, I had a weird um event happen where I ended up knowing one of the Cardinals baseball players. His name was JD Drew, if you ever remember him. And so during spring training, that would have been the spring of two thousand and one, I think. I got to go to spring training and stay with JD True, JD Drew and Mark Matheny, who became the coach later. And so I got to meet Mark McGuire. So what happens when you meet someone that you are crazy about? When you meet an idol in your life, right? Here's what happens. You freeze. You don't say anything. Like, you know, he's used to being asked for autographs. And I just like, hi Mark. That was it. Chicken wing stew would have been better. I hadn't quite learned how to to say I should say that yet. Okay, so what do you do? Do you wilt? Do you make a big show, make a big fuss when you run into somebody that you've always wanted to meet or always wanted to see? Last week we talked about an Isaiah about God's vision for the world, a new shalom with the mountain of God, and the and the peoples coming up like a river going up to it and so when everything is made right and how are we going to get there? We all know Things have to change. The problems in this world have to change. That's how we get there, right? And so then we think, you know, you know who's the problem? Democrats. Republicans. You know who the problem is? Homeschoolers. Ruining everything. Public schoolers. Private schoolers. Pro lifers, pro choicers, white collar. There's this guy right now in the last week who says it's rich men north of Richmond. They're the problem. Beating us down. The deadbeat dads, the freeloaders, the big box stores stores, Amazon The communists, the fundamentalists, the liberals, the politicians. Texas. I always think that's true. Texas is the problem. AI Oh no. Kids these days. Somebody has to be the problem. And the way to fix the world is to get those people fixed. That's what we need So Isaiah probably has some sort of that in him, and then he finds out a totally different thing. So we're looking at this important passage, right? This is a autobiographical. This is really the the place where we get to why we have this book. When when Isaiah encounters God himself, and it can help us to see How we can get to Isaiah 2. How we can see Isaiah 2 realize. Now I have six points for you today. Three characters and three actions. Hopefully they'll be fairly fact. Our first character is Uzziah, in the year that King Uzziah died. It's very important. You can read about Uzziah in 2 Chronicles. He dies in twenty-six. And and uh Uzziah reigned fifty-two years. He was very prosperous, successful, he sought after God, God blessed. Israel, Judah at that time. But we read in sixteen sixteen this verse. You really never want God to say this in the Bible about you. But when he was strong, he grew proud to his destruction. But when he was strong, he grew proud to his destruction. Uh-oh, that's that's a bad indicator Uzziah tried to plague God. He boldly entered into the temple where he was not supposed to go. Only priests were supposed to do that. And they tried to stop him, but Uzziah raised, he was furious, and God struck him with leprosy. And so this great king, probably the the best king since Solomon, was quarantine. He died, diseased, alone, estranged, and that right there sends the nation into crisis. With the year King Uzziah died is also code for like we are in trouble. When a great leader goes away, a great king, really a great king, a true great king, where do we put our hopes What are we going to do? We are going to turn to what works. We are vulnerable, so we're looking around for solutions, and right around the corner is Assyria. A big, bad nation. Hostile. They carry prisoners off with fish hooks in their mouths. They're looming. So think about the political angst of the people of God at this time. Think about the Cuban Missile Crisis. Think about the Cold War. Think about what's going on right now. Think about North Korea. Where do we turn in times of crisis? Who do we go to? Even if you lose a great boss. Or department head. Or or or maybe you're in charge and something changes. You're in charge of, you know, your own household, or your marriage, or your partnership, or your business. Are you trustworthy? So I'm trying to get you to feel what it's like in this in the settings, okay? So Uzziah. Important. Next we read this. In the year King Uzziah died, I So that's Isaiah. Isaiah ben Amaz. He is not poor, he is not obscure. Many of the prophets are, but he's not. Isaiah himself, it comes from nobility. He's a recognized statesman. He may be even a member of the royal family. He has access to courts, and God is using him to speak to kings. He's a big chunk. BMO Israel He has it made. He's holy. He's religious. He's a good person at the highest end of social and political power. Like you, to some degree. Because after all, right? Are you good? You are good. There are good people here. Good families, good jobs, good moralities, good friends. Um we have a room full of that. I mean, we're not in jail. So that would be different. Um we're not in a used car lot, right? So w none of us are that shady. I would loan my car to you. I'd be happy to. I trust you. So so you know, we can relate to to good people. At least we're better than others, right? We're not the bottom So I'm trying to say Isaiah is a good guy. When when King Uzziah died in the midst of political confusion and turmoil and worry. A good man, Isaiah, in high social standing, a religious man, went to the temple to worship God All good. And what did he find? Okay, this is our third person. When in the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord. sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up, and the train of his robe filled the temple. Now, you know, a lot of times we use um I saw the Lord, I met God there, I really felt God's presence. And and we we're familiar with that language. Where did you see God this week? But you don't mean it this way, do you Surprise, God showed up in his own presence He was literally there. Now I want to take his side for a minute. Julia, you you have two editors now, and so we need to talk about the word literally It should rarely be used. Most of us use it all the time, and we sort of learn this habit of using literally as a like underliner for whatever it is we're about to say that's really important. So like I I you know, you'll hear someone say, and you know what? It literally blew my mind in a million pieces. Yeah, no, you don't get to say that. I'm gonna call a foul on that right there. That is the exact wrong way to use the word literally. Or I heard this last week You know, and then I was walking down the street and I literally fell down. You fell down is fine. You don't need the word literally for you fell down. I got it. Okay, so as a church, we're just committing To try to use that word correctly. But in this case, Isaiah literally Saw the Lord. And that is not usual. And what happens when you see the Lord? You expect to die. It is not good for you To be in the exact, unmitigated presence of God. And it says here in this, you know, this verse, I saw the Lord See that? And if you look down in uh verse three, you see how Lord is capitalized. In the Bible it's really small caps, but in the first one it's not. It's the word Lord. That's because when you see it in small caps, that's his name. That's God's name. That's Yahweh. And they wouldn't say Yahweh. So they would put in Adonai, which is Lord, but they wanted to make sure you knew that's where his name is. But when you see Lord, that's you know, like a king, a Lord of a manor. So it's his position. It's it's his title but when you see it all together like in small caps that's his name. So so Isaiah is seeing God in his position. On the throne, the sovereign king of the universe in all of his majesty. And we want to know what that looked like. And Isaiah doesn't tell us. He just tells us the experience of it. Because words break down. when we see things like this. We don't have the language. It's too personal. It's too awesome. It's too all encompassing to report. All we know was there are these seraphims. The fiery ones. We don't know what they looked like. But I I I did some searching, Steve. Oh that may be one. It's another one. Ooh. One more? Yeah, we don't know. Wings and eyes. Terrifying though. This is way past Mark McGuire and the Pioneer Woman, isn't it? God Himself. Annie Dillard, she's an author, she has a a a bit where she talks about how In churches w we're so cheerful. We're almost like a brainless tourist on a package tour. Not realizing the power that we're invoking, that we're in the presence of. And instead of wearing ladies' straw hats, we should probably wear crash helmets. Because one day God may take offense. Draw us out to where we can never return. What would it be like to have this happen, to meet God Himself in church? Okay, three actions. The first one is singing. So we get these seraphim, these wings and these voices, and they're showing us really the perfect praise of God, what it should look like. The perfect response to being in God's presence. And what is it? And one called to another and said, holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. What is holiness? Holy, holy, holy. Holiness is transcendent. Righteousness, distinctiveness, uniqueness, otherness, separateness, superlativeness And only God alone is truly holy. He he gives us holy things because he separates things from us for us. He sets them apart. He makes them distinct. But only God is truly holy. And you've probably been around enough to know that when you say it three times in Hebrew, that's the underliner. That's the italics. Holy, holy, holy. Three times attribute of God. When Jesus would say things, he would say, Amen, amen. So be it. I'm emphasizing this. And this is the only attribute of God that is tripled this way. God is not love, love, love. Or mercy, mercy, mercy, or patient, patient, patient, or just, just, just. He's holy, holy, holy, completely unapproachable, unique. Majestic. And that makes things quake. And the foundations and the threshold shook at the voice of him who In other words, being in this presence of God is dangerous, but it's not boring. Not boring. Another thing about God's holiness is it really doesn't help us. A lot of God's attributes, most of them, really um do stuff for us. You know, we can experience his love. That matters to us, it helps us. We need his wisdom, his strength. Obviously, we need his mercy and forgiveness, but do we need his holiness? The seraphim also teach us that his holiness isn't just for the temple, it fills the whole earth. So what do we do when we get in the presence of greatness? I I was a fairly decent basketball player in high school. I was okay. And then, you know, I had a campus ministry job for nearly fifteen years, which meant I got to play basketball every day. Hey, as a part of my job It's pretty fun. So, you know, I I got better and better, but every once in a while, no matter where we were doing, rec, league, basketball, whatever, there would be a real basketball player like Chilla An actual like Division I athlete. I remember in uh when I was in Nebraska for this short period of time, I was playing in the rec center and Scott Frost showed up. Scott Frost won the Heisman. They won uh national championship one of those years. So he wasn't even a basketball player. And so we're playing, and my team's up let's say uh fourteen to ten and we're going to fifteen and Scott Frost hasn't really done much and I'm like, he's not a basketball player. I'm better than him. So then the next five times down, Scott Frost dunks in front of everyone, dominates the game. He could have been doing that the whole time, right? He's just being nice, letting other people play with him. And so you get in the alignment like, oh, actually that's what an actual athlete is like. Yeah Uh same same year I was playing softball on a soft I'm a pretty good softball player and Tommy Frazier who is also a Nebraska quarterback I think they won a championship with him, he comes up And crushes the ball like so far out of the parking lot you can't even believe that's how far you can hit a a softball? Oh I didn't know that. So because y you go from being a big fish in a small pond to like, oh, I'm being eaten by the sharks. It's it's one thing to be a a great singer in in Catonsville and then you go to Nashville and you're like, oh there's a thousand of me. You go to New York City and you realize, oh, this is what acting is like, or LA. Or you you d decide to go to Harvard. It's like, oh wow, these are smart people. Or you start listening to Tim Keller sermon, you're like, oh. Why preach after that? So we we We stop being relative to others when you're in the truly presence of greatness. Because now you're in the presence of that thing. And you see the gap, and it's far, especially when it's holiness. Instantly know I am out of my league. I am unclean. Wrong, distorted, twisted. So holiness, singing, but there's also cleansing. Because because you're not gonna feel cozy, homey, warm and fuzzy, special, you know, when you're in the presence of holiness. Now, I've been talking about overestimating ourselves, but we also all know what it's like to be told and to believe you're a loser. You're actually no good. Yeah, that that feeling that you have where you you can't do it, that is the true part of your essence. And you've been beaten, that's been beaten into you, right? You're no good. It's not worth it. You're too far gone. You are doomed. And Isaiah is at that spot, but for real. He knows he's in big trouble. And that's why the first thing out of his mouth is, and I said, Woe is me For I am lost, for I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people with unclean lips, for my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. Woe is me Not rapturous terror lostness His lips, he's talking about his lips, but his lips are speaking of what's coming out of his heart. His true understanding of who he is is coming out of his unclean list. And the the true essence is lost. That word really means to be silenced, to be undone, to be dead, to be buried, to be a goner. And he's pronouncing that woe on himself. Now if you get if you have your Bible out, you can look over um in chapter five He also pronounced woes on others. Look at 520 through 23. 520 says, Woe to those who call evil good and good evil, who put darkness for light and light for darkness. Woe to those who are wise in their own eyes and shrewd in their own sight. Woe to those who are heroes at drinking wine and valiant men and mixing strong drink, who acquit the guilty for a bribe and deprive the innocent of his right. Just like the prophets do, he's talking to God's people and saying, Yo, you are missing it. Whoa! When you pronounce woe, that is serious business. And he's pronouncing it on himself. Not woe are you. You are not the bad people. I am. I see it. But he's a good person. In the presence of God, there's not a sliding scale. There's not a curve. We're not comparison comparing ourselves to others. We are seeing God Himself. And you know really, no matter what rules you have in your life, y y you have some sort of rubric You also have people that you follow, you know, your prophets that you listen to. Maybe they're in the magazines, maybe it's Fox News or CNN or Rolling Stone. Maybe you believe in the scientific method. That's what you follow. You read certain authors, right? Um we all have holy places and holy people and it breaks down. And then you see God Himself. And it's amazing, too, that God hasn't said one thing to Isaiah yet. He's just around him. And in front of the presence of greatness, Isaiah falls apart, disintegrates. It's doomsday for him In our world right now, and for a long time it's been this way, m existentialism We have this feeling of meaninglessness, and that causes us to despair, and we often wonder why go on living. That's existential crisis. Isaiah has met meaning. He has met meaning. And he's in crisis. He's talking about his heart and his life through his lips, his uncleanness, his character. And so he doesn't even beg for mercy. He doesn't bow to do better. He puts his head on the block and says, just get it over with. And God nods to the seraphim, and they go to the altar, and they they put this coal on his lips. Then one of the fit seraphim flew to me And he touched my mouth and said, Behold, this is touch your lips. Your guilt is taken away. Your sin is a Atoned for. Amen. Atonement from the altar, the temple, by God's grace Propitiation, satisfaction, forgiveness, cleansing, restoration, reconciliation to a doomed sinner, just like you and me. Amen. That's good news for us today, isn't it? That that's something just like what we're about to hear in 1 John 1 9. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all our unrighteousness. When we understand, yeah, that's who I am. I am a sinner. Woe is me. Then Jesus pays the price, pays the debt, gives us his life, pays the penalty, helps us with his holiness and his righteousness. Because there is grace in this world. There isn't just judgment. There is judgment. And there's grace and mercy. Now there are many times, for sure, when you have been falsely accused of something you did not do, right? It happens lots of times. There have also been many times when you did something and no one found out. Right? We sort of forget about those times. When I'll admit I took some money from my mom's purse a few times. Never got caught as far as I know. I admit sometimes I think of it more like a speed suggestion. Or a lower limit. It's a limit, but it's a low limit. Or you've cheated on a test, or you've cheated on a diet, or You judged somebody's whatever fashion sense walking down the road or driving abilities. And so maybe if you start to think it through, it's like I I wonder if I did the math. Where would I got accused more times that I didn't do, or did I get off more times for things that I did do? And what if God shines a flashlight on all that stuff? On your thoughts. And we see ourselves for who we are. And this dignified, wealthy, prominent prophet in the ancient New York your Earth Ancient Near East. Or you're a single dad from Dundalk. You're eight or you're eighty. You're goody two shoes or you're a rebel You're notorious or you fly under the radar. No matter who you are, what it is, sin is real and it's bad. And forgiveness is real. And it's Beautiful. And we have a generous, gracious, kind, forbearing God who has a solution to our sin And sets us free by his son. Amen. And then he sends you out. So there's a commissioning to this. Our last verb. Anne Lamotte, I love Anne Lamotte Traveling Mercies Wonderful. And she says this, Grace is the light or electricity or juice or breeze that takes you from an isolated place and puts you together with others who are as startled and embarrassed and eventually grateful as you to be there. church. So we get put into this place and we respond to that. And what is his response? When he hears your guilt is taken away, your sin is atoned for, he says Well, God asked the question, whom shall I send and who will go for us? And I said, here I am send me. Amen. God says, after all this, I need a missionary. I need a messenger. I need a mouthpiece. And this is one of the reasons why I love the rooster, right? And and the when the rooster crows this way, he's called the chanticleer. He is telling everyone a new day is here. I have something I want you to know. The sun has risen today. We are not in darkness anymore. I have a message for you. Here am I. Send me. I want to go tell people. I'm not annihilated. I'm redeemed. I'm overhauled, but I'm not gone. Sort of similar to Romans twelve. I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as living sacrifices, holy and acceptable to God, which are spiritual will So we bring ourselves to God, and we are sacrifices for Him to go out and tell others of the actual sacrifice. We share the message. And the thing about Isaiah's message is if you keep reading in Isaiah, because the passage doesn't end on verse eight, he starts God starts to say, like, it's not gonna be super fun all the time, Isaiah. I know it sounds great to be a missionary. Wow. It's not personally fulfilling, it's faithful following. God calls Isaiah to do. And at the very end of that little passage where he says, you know it's going to be hard work? Where is it? Isaiah 6. There's this one little piece. Because Isaiah does need hope. Because it's going to be hard work. So at the very end, verse 13, and though a tenth remain in it, it will be burned again like a teriment or an oak, whose stump remains when it is felled. The holy seed is in the stump. So it's going to be cut down, cleared out, but there's a seed in the stump. So you can have hope. It's going to feel like things aren't going real great, but eventually the seed Will grow and it will blossom, and something new will be there. And everything bad will come untrue. From Tolkien, everything bad will become untrue. So when we really meet meet God, we shake and we quake because God is baffling, mystifying. We see our lives reordered. We have a whole new agenda, a whole new mission. When we see his holiness and then we see his forgiveness and grace, then we go out to tell others. There's a guy, he's an LA missionary, inner city, a Jesuit priest. He has a book called Tattoos on the Heart. And and so he decided eventually when he was doing ministry with uh Street people, um not great people. And uh he decided to stop really being so hard on them and then look for ways when they were doing good and and accentuate that and try to like throw them off balance because they were always used to being told how lousy they were So this one guy who had been sort of like a son to him, his name Caesar, gets out of jail and um he's rough, rough, rough looking, and he needs new clothes, so they go to J. C. Penny's. And and the person who's scared isn't everyone who's seeing the Caesar guy. It's Caesar because he doesn't want to go back to jail, so he's trying to live right. But he's like totally unsure if he can do it. And so uh Gregory Boyle is, you know, being his friend and helping him out and encouraging him. And later that night, he gets a phone call from Caesar. Three in the morning. I have to talk to you. Okay man, okay man, yeah. And so Caesar says, Hey, you know how I've always thought of you as a father, father figure, as my father? Like, yeah. He said, Well, you know, I've been in jail and I haven't been a good person. Have you thought of me as your son? It's like, yeah, I think of you as my son. Have I been a good son? He said, Man I love you. Yeah, you haven't done everything right. But yeah, I love you, and you have God in you, and you are gonna make it. I have seen it in you. You you are a different person. And he broke down. He didn't really need clothes as much. He needed to know he had a father who loved him. And so when we get undone and and shaken and realize our Despicableness, really? When we unrelativize it, you know? We also have to know not just of God's holiness, but his love for Isaiah, his love for you and me, and that changes the equation, doesn't it? Changes the equation. Tattoo that on your heart. In the midst of God's holy, holy, holiness, we are still here. Because he sent his son Jesus. Amen. Amen. Well we have a few responses