Good morning. So we already know how this chapter is gonna end after last week's uh Dan's well articulated sermon from first Corinthians chapter ten verses uh twenty-two to the end or twenty-three to the end, we know how this chapter is gonna end. Well now we need to talk about how Paul gets into the idea that we must do all things to the glory of God. How does Paul get to the idea that man's chief end is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. So we're reading from First Corinthians chapter ten, verses fourteen through twenty two. As we like to do, if you are able, would you please stand and let us honor the reading of God's holy, inspired, and infallible word. Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry. I speak as to sensible people. Judge for yourselves what I say. The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ? Because there is one bread, we who are many are one body. For we all partake of the one bread. Consider the people of Israel. Are not those who eat the sacrifices participants in the altar? What do I imply then? That food offered to idols is anything, or that an idol is anything? No I implied that what pagans sacrifice they offer to demons and not to God. I do not want you to be participants with demons You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons. Shall we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than He? The word of the Lord this morning. Father, we have just finished coming before you and singing songs of praise and confessing our sin and now Now we sit to be fed by you, by your word. And so we ask for your blessings, especially for your Holy Spirit to fall upon us this morning, we pray. That he would guide us and help us to understand and to believe and to walk in the right manner. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. James K. S. Smith, one of my favorite authors in his book, Desiring the Kingdom, writes Um about uh liturges that we experience in our life and I'm not gonna go to explaining all of that, but it's a book that I think you should pick up if you love to read and and and read it for your own but he he in the in in his book in in the introduction he he he describes one of the most common religious sites of the 21st century Now listen to this word and tell me if you can identify what this religious site is. Some of you might. All of us, I think, we should be able to Identified that the sheer popularity of the site with its colorful sea of parking around the building, that the site is throbbing with pilgrims every day of the week as thousands and thousands make their pilgrimage. He continues that the sacred building even provides a sanctuary from its incessant culture of automobility as some of the pilgrims make their way to this sanctuary, especially At a time or a day like today during the winter just to take a walk. And so when you go inside, you are greeted by a welcoming acolyte who offers to shepherd us through the experience. but also has the wisdom to allow us to explore our own on our own terms. Sometimes we enter this building with with caution, other times with curiosity, other times tentatively making our way through this labyrinth within the labyrinth, having a vague sense of the need, but unsure of how it will be fulfilled. And so we're open to surprises To that moment when the Spirit leads us to an experience we couldn't have anticipated. And so having this sense of our need, we come looking. We come looking, not sure for what, but expectant. Knowing that what we need must be here. And then we hit upon it. Coming through the racks, we find the experience and offering that will find that will provide fulfillment. And at other times our worship is intentional, it is directed, it is resolute. We have come prepared for this moment, knowing exactly why we're here, in search of exactly what we need. You know it. It's the mall. Every time we walk into the mall and have such an amazing experience, of course, James K. Smith is using such beautiful uh poetic language to describe an activity that we might just take for granted and not realize what we're really doing. And yet he calls it A religious site. Now you may not agree with James K. Smith, and you don't have to, but what is the point of me describing the mall or the university or any other religious site that James K. Smith talks about? Because it is because of this. That we have to think for ourselves that there is absolutely nothing that we do or participate in that is neutral. That there are no detached Meaningless activities for us as Christians, if you really think about it. It might be neutral, it might be meaningless for you, but it could have a meaning for someone else that is watching. Because that's what's really going on in the church in Corinth. Remember chapter seven? The people in Corinth are saying, Well, we are Christians. We are the ones that have been called by Jesus Christ. We belong to him. Therefore it's okay for us to use our freedom or whatever it is and engage in sexual immorality because that really doesn't affect us. Paul says absolutely no In chapter 8, they come and say, well, there's incest that's going on. Church discipline, who cares? We can play around with sin and it's not going to affect us, Paul says No. And in chapter 9, they say, well, we have a Christian freedom that we've been given by God. I can do anything I want to do, anytime I want. And Paul says, absolutely no. See, our participation in the world demands a careful consideration of our involvement. And the reason why it demands a careful consideration on our side is so that we may not find ourselves compromising with sin. Because it is so easy for us to compromise with things and say, well, how far am I going to go? How close can I get and not really be tainted by sin? And Paul is saying, no, I don't want you to think about how close you can go or how near you can go. I want you to think about how far can I fly, how far away can I be from sin. And Paul's point is this His encouragement to the church is one thing. Because you are united with Christ, you cannot have affections for the world. Because you are in Christ, you cannot have affections for the world and God at the same time. You cannot have your cake and eat it at the same time. You cannot have it both ways. So he begins by describing to us the Lord's table, which is how we're going to look at this passage. So from verses 14 through 17, he he tells us about this table that brings us together, a table that you that unites us. As I described in the introduction, this is really the directive from chapters 8 through 10. This is the conclusion of Paul's discussion uh answering questions about idolatry and about Christian freedom. And for Paul, he actually sees it as yet that idolatry is really at the heart of the issues that are facing the church in Corinth. And he's urging them. Remember, he told them, flee from sexual immorality. Chapter 6. Now he tells them, do the same when it comes to idolatry. Free, flee from idolatry. Meaning, there's no time for you to contemplate. Again, how close you can go and be saved from sinning. The question must be trying to see how far we can fly, how far we can flee from our sinfulness. See, he told the church in Corinth in verses 13, as we saw a week ago, that God provides help for us when we are tempted. Right? He said, God is always there to help you and provide an exit plan for you when you are tempted by sin. But Paul is not saying that that's licensed for you to needlessly dally around temptation. Paul is saying that is the way of escape that the way that of escape that God has provided for you is this: run And run as far away from sin as you can from temptation. And the language that Paul uses here is actually really telling because Paul is actually saying that the running that you're supposed to be doing is a running as if there is a threatening danger that or an enemy that is about to come and capture you It is what we get the word fugitive. He's saying if you can think of a danger that is looming, that is coming, and you need to run, that's how you need to flee from temptation. Don't even dare play around with it. The church in Corinth had prized, prided themselves in wisdom. They they spoke as the ones who said, We're the ones who are wise. And so in verses 16 here or 15, he's he's actually saying, Look. Do you claim to be sensible people? Then I want you, if you have that wisdom, then I want you to judge for yourself, to discern what you're doing so that you may not fall into sin. It is a warning against a flippant Careless attitude towards idolatry. Don't play around with it. And so he demonstrates the point. What really does happen at the table of the Lord? What really does happen when it comes to communion? Three things The blessing of the cup, the breaking of the bread, and a participation. What is this participation? It is when we participate together in love, in faith, and in commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ. Oh, how I wish that we were having communion this Sunday morning. See, in ancient times, as Paul is describing here, With the Jews, they would always offer a thanksgiving prayer to God for his provision. And the prayer would go something like this: Blessed are you, O Lord, our God, King of the universe. Who brings forth from fro brings forth food from the earth. And we also know in in during the Passover what would happen, right? They would drink in intervals, and there was about four intervals. And the third cup Which was called the cup of the blessing is actually what we we believe that's when Jesus instituted the Lord's table, the Lord's Supper As he he he was giving thanks to this cup and giving it to the to his disciples in in Luke chapter twelve twelve Matthew chapter twenty-six seventeen through thirty and instituting the Lord's Supper And he explains to us what the purpose of the Lord's Supper is in Luke chapter 22. He says it's a new covenant that I give to you. Remember the old covenant that is fulfilled in Christ. What happened Moses in Mount Sinai. He he he ratifies the covenant by sprinkling blood on the on the altar and on the book of the covenant and on the people themselves and he says, This is the blood of the covenant that the Lord has made with you in accordance with all this event. And immediately after the ratification, Israel leaders go and meet with the Lord. And what do they do after that? They actually celebrate and have a meal with him, so to speak. Exodus chapter 24. Verses 9 through 11. And then God in through his prophet in Isaiah chapter 31 says, But I will give you a new covenant that is going to be written on people's hearts And Jesus is the one who comes and fulfills our prophecy. On the night of his betrayal, he institutes a new covenant and he participates with his disciples by having a meal, by breaking the bread and giving them the cup. And so to us, communion is really a covenant renewal. That we come, we gather before the Lord at this table to renew our covenant with Him. And he continues. So the first thing is the cup of the blessing, but also the bread, the breaking of the bread. See the bread that we share, the loaf that we normally put up here. I actually wanted to call Danny last night and have him bring the bread, just so that we can demonstrate this point. A bread, a loaf that is made out of many grains. But do you see the many grains that make the bread? Can you separate them? Once the bread is made, it is made, it is one. You cannot visibly see them, but you know they're there. You know that they exist And so in the same way that we are joined to Christ and to each other, that we are one family, one body of Christ. That communion is not a private affair, it's not an individualistic thing that we do. You do it privately on your own, but we take together. It's a corporate affair where we share with one another and with the Lord Jesus Christ That the single loaf that we use, especially in our congregation, speaks to the hearts of the unity that must mark the life of the Church of Jesus Christ. We share, we participate vertically with Jesus Christ as he comes down and bestows his blessings upon us. But we share and participate with one another in horizontal way that the many members of the congregation are now found uh have this profound unity at the table of the Lord And that the call for Paul is this: that we cannot destroy that profound unity that exists between us and with the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit by going to worship any other idols, by going to any other thing than God. That when we stray and go to worship idols, we're actually destroying the unity that God has put together through the table that he prepares for his people. See, Jesus is really pointing to us a new exodus for the church of Jesus Christ today. The redemption, the redeeming of a people means or through his death and resurrection, that the bread Is his body and the cup, uh the the bread is his body and the cup is his blood, and that they both point to the atoning sacrifice that Christ has made on our behalf. His body being broken for us by the nails and the spear that is driven on his side and his blood that is poured out for many for us on the dust of Golgotha Not that these elements of the Roman Catholic wants us to believe become the body of Christ or the blood. They don't. Not in a real sense But it is it is a participation together. It is in the participation of the benefits of his death in the hearts and minds of those who partake in faith. This cup and this body. See the participation of the Lord suffers more than mere words and actions. See sometimes I think we do take it for granted. We only say, well Yeah we're just taking it because you know we say this word this body this body was broken for you taking remembrance of me this cup is a new covenant in my blood taking remembrance of me And sometimes we don't really think about what is really going on during the Lord's Sable. It is not just mere actions and mere words The idea for Paul here is that those who are actually partaking of communion are actually becoming actual partners with Jesus Christ Himself and with one another. That's the idea here. As Calvin would put it, that the soul has a truly communion in the blood as we drink wine or as Jews for us with the mouth. That those who receive the cup rightly receive Jesus Christ. There's a spiritual process that is actually taking place by faith. It is not mere words and actions. But you know what, church, that the only way the communion can make a difference in your life is this. It is only when you have tasted of the true bread of life, Jesus Christ Himself, only when you have come before Him and confessed your sins and repented and turned from your ways and come to Him It is the only way that the communion of the Lord Jesus Christ will have meaning for you. Otherwise, as Paul will say in 1 Corinthians 11, you drink it to judgment. It will have no meaning, absolutely no meaning for you, unless you have a relationship with Jesus Christ. See, all believers who come to the table are the Lord's guests. The table is not prepared by the church. It is prepared by God Himself. You are a guest of the Lord God Almighty. He prepares that table for you and for me. That those who turn to idols or are tempted to turn to idols, we actually, when we do that, we're turning to something and expecting something in return. We don't just blindly turn to them. And to trust an idol is to turn away from God Himself. But when we turn to this bread and this cup that Christ prepares for us, we do as a lover does Looking into the eyes of the one that they love and declaring that I refuse to see anything else that surrounds me. I only see your beauty, I only see Jesus Christ and Him crucified Him resurrected and him sitting on the right hand of the God the Father Almighty. You are the only God of my life. Nothing else makes any sense in my life. See, idolatry is not an option for us as church, is it? It cannot be for those who believe in Jesus Christ. Because the supper Is what symbolizes that unity that exists between us and Christ and one another. But it is more than mere symbolism, isn't it? This unity with Christ is communicated. That's what we're doing when we celebrate the supper. It is reminded, we're reminded of it. Every day we do that. We're also encouraged by it through the continual participation. It is what tightens our unity with one another. Alexander Schmeman, one of the Orthodox uh theologians writes in speaking of the communion which he calls Eucharist, which is a better language to use it because it means that give thanks says this. The Eucharist of Christ and the Christ And Christ the Eucharist is the breakthrough that brings us to the table in the kingdom, that it raises us to heaven and makes us partakers of the divine food. For communion, thanksgiving, and praise is the very form and content of the new life that God granted us when Christ, He reconciled us with Himself. The reconciliation, the forgiveness, the power of life, all this has its purpose in fulfillment in this new state of being. This New style of life, which is the communion, the only real life of creation with God and in God, the only true relationship between God and the world. End quote. Paul is reminding us, secondly, that we cannot feast the table of God that God has prepared for us and feast as well at the table that separates us. Look at verses 18 through 22. He says, consider the people of Israel, not those who eat the sacrifices. Participants in the altar. See, when Israel sacrificed at the altar and ate part of the sacrifice, they actually did become or participated in and become part of the sacrificial system and worship of God. Leviticus 7:15. So Paul is saying, you cannot, therefore, because you know what you're doing when you participate in the table that Christ has prepared for you, you cannot participate in both pagan worship And the worship of Jesus Christ. Not that Paul is saying that the uncleanliness in all of this is found in the food that is offered. He says, absolutely no. The food doesn't matter. The idols don't matter But it is in your distorted intentions of the sacrifices. It is in your heart, in what you're thinking about the sacrifices. Compare that with what with with what was going on in the ancient temples as well, because it actually related to what Israel was doing In ancient pagan temples, when meat was offered to the to the idols, they would actually take all the food and give it back to worshippers to eat and feast the God that was the guest. Again, eating such meat was you know is what made worshipers become partners with God. That they actually believed that somehow God entered the very spirits and bodies of those that were eating the meat that was Offered to the idols, forming this communion, this mystic communion with the with the God. In fact, the ancient invitations would read something like this. It was so specific Which meant that you would you really understood what you're being invited to. Listen to this. It would be an invitation like this. So Josiah would be invited to dine at the table of the Lord with the Lord's serapis or vina-sor, whatever the god or goddess. was. So specific. So what is the problem here then? What is the problem of going to these pagan temples? Look at verses 20. What does Paul say Paul says, What you sacrifice, you do not do to God. You are doing it to demons. And these idols might be absolutely nothing. They might be carved images, they might be made of gold or whatever. And they are not gods because there's only one God. But there's not there's not nothing there. But there is something In those temples, that there are demons in there that don't open your life to demons or have fellowship with them. Don't give the devil a chance to lure you into sin Because demons are always prepared to use people's readiness to worship idols. You may think it's nothing. You may think it's a carved idol. Yes, it is, and it is nothing. But there's a force that is behind it. See, some people in Corinth were thinking this way. They might have thought to themselves, well, I'm already a participant. In the table of Jesus Christ. I'm already taking communion. I already have all these blessings that God has given me. So I'm going to use them as magical charms, and they're going to protect me when I go into the temples of the gods. And somehow I'm not going to be tainted. Somehow I'm not going to go far enough. Paul says, be careful. And Paul says to us, be careful. Idols might be nothing. Satan is real. Demons are real. They have been defeated by Jesus Christ, yes, but they have influence over us. Don't run the risk of being captured by them in those temples. See, I really think that the devil wants us to believe that he doesn't exist. Of course when we watch T V and we see all these horrible polemical things about Titan, of course it's a joke and those you know that you know dressed in a red robe and You know, horns and a and a fork and of course it's a joke. But let us never be fooled that the devil does not exist And he's got his legions as well. He is real. You cannot have both ways. You cannot have it both ways, Paul says. Can't drink the cup of the Lord. In remembrance of what he's done for you and go ahead and drink from the sacrificial offerings. It's impossible for you to participate in the Holy Communion and then go to an idol feast. When you know what you're doing and and how you're doing it, the one necessarily excludes the other, and there is no room for compromise. You cannot worship the one true God and participate in any other worship of any other God. If you do so, Paul is saying you're going to stir up the Lord's jealousy. And we are not strong as he is, so we must be careful. But then we have to question: how can God be jealous? If we read Galatians 5:20, jealousy is the work of the flesh, right? So how can God be jealous? So we misunderstand sometimes because jealousy really means a zeal. It could be a zeal for something that is positive or something that is negative. Our jealousy is Bad, because it's always driven by self-preservation. But God's jealousy is driven by His love for us It is the jealousy that God wants to protect us. He knows that idolatry is bad for us. We're going to lead ourselves to a bad place and he says, no, no, no, no. You cannot worship any other God because by doing so you're going to ruin yourself. So, because of my love for you and my care for you, I want you to make sure that you don't do it Idolatry is evil because, as Dan reminded us last week, it robs us, or it robs rather God of the glory that is due to Him. When we go to anything else other than God, we're robbing him of the glory that is due him. Why do we turn to pagan sacrifices? Do you know why? But the reason that we're all tempted, the reason that the church in Corinth was tempted to turn to pagan sacrifice Was just a mere reflection of the communion that people long to commune with God Himself. When our desire is to find satisf satisfaction and trust in other things, in money and sex and power success and achievement, it is on apart from God, it is only a reflection of the communion that you and I desire. You and I were made for to have with God. To paraphrase St. Agostin who says, our hearts will remain always restless until they find their rest in God. You cannot have God or claim God as your Lord and Savior, and yet you keep on claiming or running to a self-made, empty, and satisfy unsatisfying idol of human wisdom, of success and power You cannot turn to anything else that you think is going to give you only what that which God can give you. That is idolatry. Just how far can we go? See, the church in Corinth was thinking that they could toy with sacrificial meats and pagan temple. And I think when we read these passages, we might be tempted to think that this does not apply to us in any way. But when you read the New Testament, you realize something new there. It's really not new, but it's a good interpretation of the Old Testament. That idolatry does not just have to do with bowing down to carved idols, to bronze things and all of that. That idolatry is a model of the of the heart. That idolatry is actually associated with our greed, with our gluttony, with our pride, with our self-centeredness. Philippians 3. 19, Matthew 6. 24. That every time we refuse to see God as He truly is, that is idolatry. Tim Keller in one of his really good books that he's written, The Counterfeit Gods, The Empty Promises of Money, Sex, Power, and the Only Hope That Matters, writes and defines an idol is this. Listen An idol is anything more important to you than God? Anything that absorbs your heart and imagination more than God. Anything you seek to give what only God can give you And idol is whatever you look at and say in your heart of hearts, if I have that, if I have this, then I'll feel my life has meaning, then I'll know that I have value, then I'll feel significance. In what ways are we tempted to compromise and toy with idolatry? I will tell you how we are. Church, when we set our hearts on anything, anything other than God, that's idolatry. When our philosophies and possessions matter more than God That is idolatry. When we get consumed by everything that is earthbound and nothing absolutely about God's kingdom, that is idolatry. When we sit and dine at any other table apart from the table that the Lord has prepared for us, that is idolatry. But here's the good news. Because we are tempted to find satisfaction, to trust in anything else other than God. We are tempted to find only that which God can provide in other things, and we fail. The good news is this, that the participation, the Christ, the wonder of the Christian faith is that the participation that we have with God is not based On any sacrifice that we can make to him, so that we may earn our salvation with him. See, temple worship is all about making sacrifices to those gods to appease them. But the God of the Bible tells us that our only participation is found when we accept the sacrifice that Jesus Christ has made on the cross. So that he may provide for us, so that he may give us that which we need. That he is the one who invites us to eat at the table, where he prepares the best of the best Meat cuts that you could ever enjoy. It is here that you will find eternal life. It is here that you will find peace and joy and hope. It is where that it is here that you will be able to commune and dine with your Lord and your Maker. But the pagan worship only offers empty promises and unfulfilled desires. So don't go there because there is no life there. Life is only found in Christ Jesus. And so He invites you to come. Come and buy without money, without price. Why do you waste your life eating that which is not bread? Why do you labor for that which does not satisfy? Come and feast at the table of the Lord so that you may live. We need the Lord's table right now. Because that's what it would remind us of what it means to be united in Christ Jesus. You cannot have it both ways. Father, we thank you this morning for your word, for your reminder that we need to be careful not to compromise with sin That you truly have prepared a table for us to dine at the table of Jesus Christ. Where there is life. Life eternal. Father, would you just be a blessing to us and help us to keep running to this place, to Jesus. Jesus to your feet. And may you allow us to hear your word, Lord. Praise this in Christ's name. Amen.