Sermons about the church. Not like the history of the church, but sort of values, core values, and um these are passages that I just love and adore. So you've probably heard them before and you may hear them again. One thing about repeating ourselves in church is uh we're not always here. And so you may have heard something, but Then somebody new comes in and and hasn't heard this thing. And also we experience similar doctrine or concepts or passages. In a different way. In different pe piece parts of our life. And so I think it's okay and not everything has to be original every second. But I am thinking today about these unexpected flash mobs. Those were a thing a little more oh ten years ago. But you know so these are the moments when people are at a park or they're at the mall. Um And and everyone's milling around and unbeknownst to the normal people, there are unnormal people who are looking like normal people, and they're professional singers, or they pull out instruments And so, you know, you'll be you'll watch these 'cause someone's filming it and then pretty soon everyone's filming it which is sort of my point that everyone's just being normal and then so Someone stands up and starts singing an aria at the park or at the mall. And you know everyone's like, what in the world? And then all of a sudden three more people and they break into a quartet, right? And now it swells and all of a sudden now there's fifty people, seventy-five people that they planned this This it it's not spontaneous at all, but you didn't know it was gonna happen. And so what is it that you automatically do as of about twenty ten Maybe before that. I gotta film this. Right? I have to show people what it is that I am excluding Experiencing. And my point in this is when we want to tell our friends we're in awe of something, that's connected to what we're reading about in Acts to. It's not exactly worship, but it's a part of worship. It's the part where you are just in awe of something that's happening before you It could be a concert, it could be a play, it could be anything. Even just this week I was up at seven and messing around and Uh I at like eight o'clock I went in and showed Julie a video I had seen. Like it it I felt like I had to show her You know you've done that? I can't not show her. I I might wake her up to show her. And then of course it depends on what it is I showed her as to how appreciated that was. But this one was I mean just what forty-five seconds. And it was at a nursing home where on Christmas Day they brought in dogs who needed homes And the residents said I don't think it was just in Nursing Home, different different places. They were not everybody was elderly. Um and so the dogs would come into this room and everyone would be And then choose who the dog wanted to be their forever family. Now I'm assuming there were rules about this, right? You don't get to say no, no, no. And you can see these people and they're sitting there and the dog comes out to them. It's pretty cool. Um especially because they didn't even know what dog they were gonna get, right? And one of them there's this big huge muscle bound black guy. And he's sitting there in this little chihuahua, like this big. I mean it was the showstopper. Obviously you had to save this to the end. But sometimes it's like these Big Shetland dogs coming in like jumping on people. It's so cool. That's cool. My point is I had to show her. I couldn't help It's a part of what worship is. Um it's what we follow, it's what we care about, it's what we pay attention to, it's what we direct our time Time to uh and and the basic presupposition, I've said this in recently, is that we all are created to worship Worship can happen alone, but I really think worship is meant to be shared. And that's the impulse in Acts 2. Now, of course, at the beginning we need to certainly say that as we can tell, not everyone wants to come to worship all the time Um there are reasons, sometimes these reasons are personal. Um how you were raised, the context of the church you were grew up in Or your parents or what you were taught. Either direction. Some of us have been hurt by churches, right? There are theological reasons that we may change our minds about. Or we think it's a basically way Another would be it's oppressive. Um but still In Baltimore, I can pretty much guess where a whole bunch of people are going to be doing at 8 o'clock tonight Many of us in this city have oriented our day around what's happening because we care about it. Um I when the Orioles not this season, the season before, were looking so good, right? So good. I had a friend and he was thirty five And he told me that if the Orioles go to the World Series he'd be willing to spend ten thousand dollars for one ticket So dude, I'm buying tickets then, right for sure. If that's the going price, give me some tickets. Um that's how much he cared about it. seemed a lot to me. Um we care about sports and music and hobbies and entertainment and travel. We're talking about what stirs our soul It's what directs our time and emotions and hearts, right? And so in the series about the core values of church, um not really a theological values, but sort of our heart values. These are going to be somewhat aspirational. I'm not either saying this is how we are, I'm also want to make sure that it doesn't sound like I'm mad about things. I'm not mad. I'm glad you're here. You know, I certainly wish more people could be here. When you're not here, it's okay. I'm not like taking attendance um in my head. Mostly I'm not. But but so the the the value today is we long to worship together So so it's not just we are commanded to worship, we're gonna talk about that, but so that the heart value would be like I want to go and worship. Not maybe So let's talk about these points. Worship is expected because when we go back to the beginning, God created us and shared his creation with us. We don't really know how long it was just God and Adam. We don't really know how long it was just God and Adam and Eve. And we don't really know how long that went on before the fall We also know that Adam, when he saw Eve first, it's pretty close to worship, what he says. than what he does. Not technically, because I'm trying to get around a little more than just bowing down to deities. See my concept is bigger But but God keeps on revealing Himself through time, through the Bible, right? In dreams and visions of voices or theophanies. That would be like maybe the fire and the the clouds where he shows up and shows himself. And God shows up sometimes with messengers like angels, heralding, announcing good news. We see that in spades in Bethlehem when Jesus was born. But remember we just talked about if you were here with us in Revelation, there are angels. And and John Who was with Jesus in actual the earth physical form still somehow falls down to worship angels. There's formal worship, informal worship, there's correct and incorrect worship. There's directed worship more like literature Liturgical, their spontaneous worship. Um personal worship, communal worship, easy worship, and dangerous Worship. Many parts of our world it's dangerous to gather to worship Jesus. But ultimately, as we talked about in our series before the end of the year, we're all going to end up worshiping the book of Revelation tells us for all of time. In perfect harmony at the marriage Supper of the Lamb, when everything is exactly as it should be, everything is set right, everything is is in shalom. But until then it's tricky Um one reason it's tricky is you can't see God. I know that's pretty Obvious. He has manifested himself throughout time. It's often unmistakable where it appears They didn't understand it even when they saw this. Even you know when Jesus was walking around, right? Not everyone worshipped him, not everyone saw him. There were explanations for walking on water. You know this must be a CGI trick. Um somehow someone got in the Red Sea and they have these hydraulic So there there are ways that we get around what we we what we see, even the people And also I think you know um while God is patient and forbearing, to be sure, He's also holy and just And exacting. And therefore, our sin poses a problem. In other words, we are a problem of worship Right? We bring ourselves to the table, and it's not all amazing every second. I hate to break it to you. Like Adam, we may want the gift, but not the giver Or we want the thing itself, right, without the God who has blessed us with it. Or we blame. We blame others. We blame ourselves. We blame circ circumstances. We refuse to see. But in the end, still, my point is, it's in your DNA. We're all made to worship something. It may be the Lord, it may be power, fitness, ability, nature, science. Again, I'm not necessarily talking only about bowing down to things. But sometimes that's true and think about wicked is all still in the news, you know, and so odds. His like premise is people need someone To bring their request to. In some sense, the boss them around a little bit. They need a presence in their lives, and so people are coming to him And it's an impressive presence. But of course, the thing about the movie and the play and the book is Oz is fake And so that's a lot of when we when we think about worshiping the Lord, if we're not totally there, it can be like, yeah, see it's like the man behind the curtain. That's not really true. We we've hear we hear this. And so one of the reasons why we don't worship correctly, even though it's expected is uh we We just wonder if God is good. We can trust Him. We're still called Spect it. But we're also called to worship together, right? This is the thing where I'm saying I on yesterday morning Went to the restaurant that Cal used to work at and they changed it to a French restaurant. And so even just this morning I think I told you it's like oh I'm They have croissants that are professionally made, not my crazy versions. Or you know, um we we have to go See this, we have to taste this. We have to experience this. At least see this picture. Um when when we was at uh Virgin I was Branson owns Necker Island and there's this uh reserve there with like a thousand flamingos and mere cats running around and tortoises and kangaroos and everything I don't even know what and Drew of course says you gotta see this eventually we gotta go sign me up I wanted to thanks for telling me Right? Because it's not worship like church worship, but it's something in us that wants to share and explain And so when when we sit here in in church worship, um we're together, but of course You're the only you in the room. No one else has the same all that makes you you. You are the only one who had your exact you Yesterday or your plans for today, you your body, your rest, your thoughts are yours, right? And yet as we come together, uh Craig reminds us Mara Reminded of this last week that a lot of the you's in the Bible are plural you. So you as a church, we We, as a church, we share things. And so, like when I'm up here, I can hear you sing, and you can hear each other sing. We're not singing in rooms by ourselves. Um when I'm up here, I can tell who's remembering if it's his week to pray Because we're together, right? And it's fine. We don't always remember it. We eventually all figured it out, right? I can watch people not off Which is fine. It honestly doesn't bother me. One time I watched a dog about to enter in, right? The doors were open and that dog was right there. Did it come in? It I think I wanted it to come in and then I was like, Come on, come on in here. Um can watch us take the Lord's Supper together Something about being together. I remember when I would did RUF, one of my favorite times was twice a year we would get together for staff training. So all the campus ministers who in the PCA are all men and all the interns who are men and women, we would gather together and it was a week where where we were together. We knew what each other was going through. And so we would gather At least once a week and and worship and sing. And the songs were rich, baritone voices, and it was make you just weep. Our individual stories, our collective stories were brought together, right? Our own Stories, um, hopes, opinions. Um we've witnessed tragedies Um we've witnessed wonder and beauty together. We've witnessed uh bravery, courage, um sometimes Sometimes not just in worship, but you see it when someone stands up in front of everyone to give a testimony or sing a song or serve in some way, uh maybe it's a a ballet or a performance. But we're together. Another way to put it is, um, I don't personally think it's very fun to ski by yourself. Because a part of skiing is watching everyone else Bite the dust. Or make it jump or whatever. And so you go down together and you and you rack and you have fun and you go fast or you get lost and you chose the Bible and say, What happened? We gotta talk about Talk about it. Let's go again. And so like I think I've mentioned before, Julie and I went skiing one time. I think it was our maybe fifth year anniversary. And I had been skiing a a lot and um so I was Skiing with her, but in order to stay with her I sorta had to like move more and and I started moving more and then I started skiing backwards And um it felt like I was showing off, I think. And so she didn't have very much fun. So we got to the end uh of was. And I didn't get to hear about how awesome she was and I didn't get to see her do it. Um it's sharing in it. It's sharing in it. And that's finally getting us to Acts 2. It's a long lead up to Acts 2. And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship and the breaking of bread. The prayers. And all came about every so, and many wonders and signs were being done through the apostles. And all who believed were together, and they had these things in common, right? We long to worship together. We we have an instinct to form communities and fan clubs and so Support groups. And we also meander away from those at times, or get lost, or get distracted at times Right. But but these people were gathering together instinctively, I think. Worship has been commanded for God's people for Sure, definitely. Worship commanded has been so disobeyed, certainly, right? But but they knew when they Experienced or heard about had a transformed experience of a resurrected Jesus They had to get together. It sounds pretty awesome to get together and it does sound pretty cool, but um you know, church especially maybe in the Old Testament wasn't super kid friendly To say the least. Right? And and could you imagine a pilgrimage? We're not taking the bus, we're not taking our cars, we're not driving in heated seats with our Dunkin' Donuts latte. Um they they had normal days of not Not getting dressed on time of leaving late. Somebody doesn't want to go, right? And they probably went and they said, Ah the preacher's boring. The prayers are long. But They still went. And could you imagine maybe one one week a year we should all walk to church? I looked that up this morning, it took me three and a half hours hours. I actually thought it would take longer. So if I got up at five thirty could maybe make it? Yeah I figured I was in the mi sort of medium group on that maybe. Um But they thought to themselves, we've got to get to worship. Got to be together. We need to hear the apostles' teaching. These are the guys that were worshiping With him the whole way. We've got to hear from them. These guys, these apostles, talked to and knew Mary for sure. We gotta talk to her. We gotta hear these stories. We've got to tell these stories over and over again. These are the prayers This is the breaking of the bread, right? So they had these liturgies, but they also changed their traditions. They built on the past And it was transformed and they shared together because they were together and it was participatory. It wasn't paying a ticket for a matinee sitting in the dark They saw signs and wonders. Their hearts were changed. They went from being cold toward others and God to praising God. I don't know if they were all on time. I don't know if they had fussy kids Probably, right? I don't know if they sang songs that people didn't like. They probably had to learn new songs, right? From different tribes, nations They probably worked on the songs that they sang. They probably had some people that were friendly and Some people that didn't really want to talk to anyone. They had some people that were servant hearted without it being asked and other people it was more of a struggle They probably had to meet and be in context with new people that somewhat messed them up. Like when Julian And so if we have more people and we add to our number, it will change us Amen. But they devoted themselves to each other, probably forgiving each other a ton, expecting God to be there, expecting God to show up and Transform their hearts. Amen. Amen. So worship is expected. Worship is together, but worship is about Jesus I know of course it is. But so why are they doing this? Uh the the day after Christmas Julie organized a pretty cool group outing where it was me and her and Cal and Sam and Drew and Jeannie and then we met Anna and Ben from Annapolis and we went to the spy meeting Museum, which is super cool. And then we went and she had um dinner reservation, so we all had dinner. It was awesome. Why did we do that? Because we wanted to be together She wanted us to be together and to see and experience this thing, right? And that's true. And I want us to be together here. But your experience is not the reason we're here It's important. I want you to love this church, of course, but it's not for your enjoyment to the end. There are social benefits to coming to church. I'm sure there's teamwork. We sacrifice, we make friends, we uh find new people to hang out with. Um but you know Jesus Jesus can also mess up your life by sending you a totally different direction that you didn't expect at all. And walking with Jesus might mean you sit next to unusual people Julie uh when we were going to the spy museum she she suggests we listen to this podcast About this Russian spy for the KGB named Jack Barksky. And um it's a crazy awesome story He lived in the US as a normal person, pretending to be a normal person. Got married, had kids, and um decided he didn't want to But at one point at the very end he stands up, or they talk about this, we don't hear it. Well I guess we do hear a little bit. And he gives his testimony to his church Now, we've heard testimonies, but when someone stands up in front of the church and says, I was a registered KGB spy I don't think you're expecting that. I was sitting next to a spy all this time. You didn't do normal spy stuff that I could see. Oh well that's what a spy is. So we could be surprised by who sit next to us, right? They could be weirdos. Um but in twenty twenty-six and in thirty-three Most likely A. D. , we still worship Jesus. And remember in thirty-three AD When they were gathering together, the Romans were watching. It was dangerous rebellion. Rebellious, maybe rebellious not only to the government but to your religious upbringing. So that might mean to your parents or grandparents? Or siblings, right? And that's a big cost to pay sometimes. Why? I just think It has to be true that because forty-three days before that, Jesus had died on a cross for the sins of his people. To make his people right with God, to restore his people, who of course are all sinners, who of course did not work Sometimes I'm sure God's people slightly get off course. We we went to a play Two nights ago and I came out of the thing, you know, and you c well you know how you come out of the parking garage and you didn't weren't necessarily rema Remember which I just sort of came out and I headed where I thought was south and east. And we we were talking about the play and talking eventually Cal goes, I think it's time to get out the map. The phone. And all of a sudden Julie's like, oh you're you've been going north for fifteen minutes. Okay, big one. Course correction. But it's a lot different if you get on the wrong plane to the wrong continent. That's a different outcome. He died. for those people. And it's stunning really, you know, it's stunning that Jesus died. We're we're so used to it. But you know you just we just have to keep coming back to how unexpected it was that their Messiah, that they're King, the one that was supposed to save them would die. And you know, um they needed a king. They didn't need a king need a king. They needed a prophet, priest, and king. And they thought they had it. Of course, you know, another big group of people were s they were so relieved That Jesus died? This solves a lot of problems. It took a lot of work to get him killed, but it was worth it. We dodged a bullet on that one, right? Um but then why do we have Acts two Because Jesus rose from the dead, right? That's why. They're not gathering together, just remember a great life well lived, gone to early That's not why they're together, although they've probably done it that lots of times. No they they they are together because people saw him They're together because they could go to Thomas and say, You saw him? He's like, dude, I saw the nails. Are you sure, man? I can't be more sure. And because of that, our Messiah conquered death. And hell. And Satan. And he paid the price to make atonements. Atonement for us. And he gives us promises remember in Acts one that the Holy Spirit will be with us and good we'll go to the end. Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and to the ends of the earth And we are the ends of the earth, right? But he had already gone to the ends of the earth before the Magi. This epiphany. This Apocrypha, this revealing. And so someday we will worship with the wise men and with these uh saints and acts two and we'll be able to hear these stories and they'll be able to hear our stories and they'll be completely blown away because they're know what to expect. As we receive power to bear witness, to gather together, to worship Jesus. And again, to be clear, we're not worshiping ourselves ourselves, our goodness, we're not worshiping our theology, we're not worshiping our punctuality or our serviceability. Or our personal piety. But worshiping Jesus. And so just again on my mind is Revelation seven, we could do nineteen, we could do twenty, we could do twenty-one. And on my mind is here in in Jerusalem on these days We're already seeing what's happening to come into fruition and fullness. After this I looked and behold a great multitude that no one could number From every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes, with palm branches in their hands, and crying out with a loud voice. Salvation belongs to the Lord, who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. And so they were worshiping with angels And we worship with them and angels. It's a vision for worship, for us to be together, but to invite Invite others to join us, right? To expect God to do things. We don't know when or how, how long it takes because salvation belongs to the Lord and to the land My timetable is a little different. Um thankfully it's not my job. But I can say, come with me to worship. And meet my dear friends. Who I love you. Because we love Jesus together. Where do we try? Amen. Several ways to respond to the Lord, one is uh a little bit of silence as we uh bring our thoughts Thoughts and musings perhaps to him. Let's take a few moments and do that now