Good morning. Thank you for having us again. Um when I moved to Baltimore four years ago, as Mark mentioned and studied RDF International at Johns Hopkins There were over five thousand international students and scholars. This passing academic year, 2021-2022, there were over six thousand international students. So within four years the number increased by a thousand School start tomorrow and we'll be having our Ministry kickoff event on Saturday, Labor Day weekend, and we are uh expecting more students coming to Hopkins this academy. here. Thank you for your prayers, thank you for the church prayers and support for our ministry. We are so, so grateful for you Uh Carl told me that uh um you have been learning about Psalm this this summer, so uh he asked me to pick up Psalm. So I'll pick up Psalm sixty-three, let's turn your Bible to Psalm sixty three verse one to eight Psalm chapter sixty three verse one to eight. Please stand for the reading of God's word. O God, you are my God. Earnestly I seek you. My soul thirsts for you, my flesh fends for you, as in a dry and weary land where there is no water. So I have looked upon you in the sanctuary, beholding your power and glory, because your steadfast love is better than life My lips will praise you, so I will bless you as long as I live. In your name I will lift up my hands. My soul will be satisfied as with fat and rich food Food, and my mouth will praise you with joyful lips. When I remember you upon my bed and meditate on you in the watches of the night, for you have been my help, and in the shadow of your wings I was sing for joy. My soul clings to you. Your right hand upholds me. You may be seated. Last year in early August, uh Pay, my wife and I, we took vacation and traveled to the state of Washington and we went to Mount Rainier National Park, which is And the park gets a lot of rain and and there is an area called the Paradise. No, I have never been in heaven, the paradise, but the paradise at Mount Rainier National Park is the most beautiful meadow that I have ever seen in my life Walking in the meadow with the with the glorious view of the mountain and and the beautiful wildflowers everywhere, it it makes me feel so good And we felt that we just wanted to stay there. What a paradise. So maybe it was a little taste of heaven. But as we drove out of the park just a couple of hours, we passed a wilderness area There was dry and just a little green, not many trees, just small bushes here and there, and the wilderness or or desert is it's not pleasant to see. It gives the feeling And we were traveling in early August, if you remember, this month of August, the temperature was so hot. And and as we drove, uh we stopped at a rest area just off the highway to use the restroom And when we got out of the car at the parking lot and walking to the building, we felt the scorching sun. It was really hot. It's over a hundred. Um and and I have never been in hell either, but I'm sure there is a much worse conditions than the wilderness It was good to get back inside the car with the air conditioning to cool down again. So life in this broken world is bumpy. We have our ups and downs. Sometimes life gives us so much joy, but sometimes life gives us so much trouble. It can be very difficult to some of us us. What should we do when we face a difficult situation in our lives? What should we do when we face a difficult situation in our lives? From this passage, Psalm 63, we can learn three things from David. The first one is know who God is and who we are in God's eyes. And then second, remember God's stepfast love for us. And then third, sing to God with thankfulness. So let like let us look at these three things closely. The first one, know who God is and who we are in God's eyes. Psalm 63 was written by King David. A man chosen by God to be the second king of Israel. And David wrote this psalm when he was in trouble. His life was very difficult and he was living in the wilderness instead of in his royal palace. Commentary said that this psalm was most likely written when David was running away from Absalom, his own son, who led many people of Israel, including David's top advisor to rebel against him. Absalom took David's throne and David ran away to the wilderness And Absalom wanted to send an army to destroy David and those who follow him. So think about it. David was in very much trouble. Life was becoming very difficult to him His own son took his throne and wanted him dead. What did David do in the wilderness? He prayed to God and he sang. Let's look at closely this prayer, his prayer to God. In verse 1, David began by saying, Oh God, you are my God. David did not say, Oh God, you are our God. He said, My God. It's a very personal language. And this is very important. For David, God is his personal God. You are my God. When when you say about someone in your family, he is my father, she is my mother, he's my brother, or she's my sister, she's my daughter, it means that you have a very personal relationship with the person. And that person belongs to you, and you belong to that person. So when we pray to God together, we can address God as our Heavenly Father. But when you pray alone by yourself And like David, you can address God and you can call him my God, my heavenly father. And when you call God in a very personal way, that He is your God and your Heavenly Father, it brings a very personal relationship between you and God alone. That God belongs to you as your Heavenly Father and that you belong to God as His child. In the Bible, God often says to his people, You are my covenant people. And God is sometimes called as our covenant God. What is a covenant? There is a difference between a covenant and a contract. A covenant is a binding promise. A contract is an agreement by two parties that can be broken by mutual agreement. But a covenant cannot be broken. So in a covenant the party say, I will always be faithful to you regardless of your action. I will always be faithful to you regardless of your action actions. I will always be faithful to you even though you may not be faithful to me. That is a covenant. So when we put our faith in Jesus Christ, we enter into a covenant relationship with Him And God promises us that He will always be faithful to us, even though He knows that many times we are not faithful to Him. So he put himself in the binding agreement to always be faithful to us regardless of our actions. He knows that So we have a great God, don't we? So David, in other words, was saying in his prayer, God, you are my God, and we have a confident relationship that cannot be broken. Therefore, I know that you are always with me, even now when I'm in trouble. Even though things are very difficult for me, even though I'm feeling that you are not helping me I know that you are with me because you have a you have promised me that you will always be faithful to me. So David knew who God is. That God is his personal covenant God and then God has a covenant relationship with him. That is why David's prayer to God is so intimate. His prayer is from the depth of his heart. And the Bible said that David is known as a man after God's own heart. God loved David and David loved God and he was faithful to him. And like David, we need to know well who God is and who we are in God's eyes. God is our personal covenant God, and He is always faithful to us, and we are His covenant children, and He will never leave us nor forsake us. Second, remember God's status love for us. Remember God's status love for us In verse 1, David said to God, O God, you are my God. Earnestly I seek you. My soul thirsts for you. My flesh or my body faints for you, as in a dry and weighty land where there is no water. Water. So David was saying, My God, my soul and my body, my whole being thirsts for you, faints for you. I want you. I I desire you more than anything. It's a very sweet language here. When was the last time that that you and I honestly eagerly seek God? The first the first thing I try to do in the morning before I start working is to read God's word and to pray to Him. And the last thing I try to do in the night before going to bed is again to read God's word and to pray. To him. Work can be very busy to many of us, and the evil one will give us temptation not to seek God telling us in our minds. You are too busy. You are too tired. Just keep praying and reading the Bible. It's okay. It's not that important. Just do it tomorrow. It's okay. today. And tomorrow he will give you the same temptation. And sometimes we are so I excited to do many things such as Going to hang out with some friends, playing games or watching movies, uh go shopping or or go go to see fireworks Comparing the excitement to any of this, how often do we have the same excitement and eagerness to read the Bible and to pray to God? How can we be like David earnestly and eagerly seek for God daily? In the wilderness there is not much water and we can easily get thirsty looking for water. And David wanted God more than water. David recognized God as the source of his joy and satisfaction. Not the things in this world. He knew that water could comfort his thirst, his physical body, temporally, but only God who could comfort and satisfy his body and soul completely and permanently. Only God who could comfort his whole being, that water cannot too. So we should not look at the things in this world to satisfy us, but look to God alone. Nothing in this world can completely satisfy us, can permanently satisfy us Money, career, power, romance, all things in this world cannot satisfy our souls completely Completely and permanently. Only God who can. So let us look to Him who can, the God who loves us, our covenant God. In verse 2, David says, So I have looked upon you in the sanctuary, beholding your power and glory. So here David remembered that he had experienced seeing God and his power and glory in the sanctuary, in the Temple of God in Jerusalem. So when he was in the presence of God and God's glory surrounded him, he must felt so amazing. And David remembered that and he he desired to experience that again. He wanted to look upon God again. And experience God's glory and power surrounded him. So if you have if you have ever felt God's presence with you strongly, surrounding you You will feel a great feeling of peace and security. Experiencing God's presence with us in reality, not just knowing it in our head, it gives us Much peace. That we don't need anything else, literally speaking, because we know if we have God with us, God will see that all our needs are met by Him. This is exactly what David is saying in Psalm twenty-three, the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not warn. I shall not warn means I have everything I need. I shall not want anything, I lack nothing, I have all that I need And in the wilderness, David wanted to have intimate time and communion with God and to feel God's presence more than anything else. Why is that? Here in verse 3, David said to God, Because your steadfast love is better than life. Your steadfast love is better than life. David was saying that God's steadfast love is better than life itself. What does it mean? I use this title. this verse as the title of the sermon. Uh the words happen as mean fixed, firm, unshaken, and unwavering. So God's love for us is steadfast, it's firm, it's fixed, it's unshaken, it's unwavering. And for David, God and his love is all he needs. God's love for him is better than any other things in this life. God's love is even better than life itself. So David was saying, God, because I know that you love me and that your love for me is steadfast, I am content. I'm content with situations that I have here. I don't need anything else for my life. I have your sad best love and it is enough for me. Your love is all I need. And because I have your love, I don't need anything else. I have all that I need So if we like David that we understand deeply about God's status law for us and that our lives are completely in his hands. We can have peace in our life. God will give us peace that surpasses understanding. God is our covenant God, He is our great shepherd, He takes care of us. The Lord is my shepherd. I have all that I need. And we can trust God in all circumstances. David did not ask God to give his throne back to him or to give justice to his son's rebellion David knew that God in his sovereignty will do things justly and wisely and that God was taking care of him. He knew that. He knew that God was with him, and that is enough. Knowing that God is with us, that's enough. I have all that I need. So in any kinds of troubles that we are going through in this broken wall Let us be like David, knowing that God steadfastly loves us. Let us say to God, Oh God, you are my God, my shepherd. Because you love me and you are with me. I have all that I need. There is a song that is based on the Book of Lamentations, chapter 3. The steadfast love of the Lord never ceases. His mercies never come to an end. And they are new every morning, new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness, O Lord. Great is thy faithfulness So a question that we can ask ourselves is how often do we feel that God's love is enough for our lives? There's a danger all living in in our American materialistic culture. We are often tempted wanting to have more and more stuff Better stuff. Or otherwise we are not completely happy. God's love may not be enough if we don't have certain things. That's what the devil trying to tell us. We need to be careful of his life, telling us that oh God doesn't love you enough because you don't have what you want. You don't have these things, you don't have that thing We need to remember that God always gives us what we need and not what we want. God always gives us what we need, not what we want. One time I met a person who was not a Christian. He wanted some proof that God exists and that God loves him. So he asked God to give him a better job. and a better income. And for him, if God could make his life better, financially speaking, then he would believe that God exists. God love him. So I said to him, God will always do the right thing. God will not give you more money so that you will believe in him. If God gives you more money, then you will love the money and not God. You will love the give and not the giver. For David, God's stepfast love is better than life itself. And like David, we can experience troubles in our life and feel like we are in the wilderness. And some of you may have experienced this, or perhaps are experiencing this kind of life. Right now. Do you think David could sleep well in the wilderness while his son and his son's army was looking for him and trying to kill him I would imagine that Ephred couldn't sleep well in the wilderness. And and besides all these thoughts that troubled him The wilderness itself is not is not a nice place to sleep at. However, for David, God's steadfast love was sufficient for him. And knowing that God loved him and that God was with him in the wilderness and in the midst of his trouble, his soul was satisfied. David had peace, and peace that is beyond understanding, regardless of his situation. Third one, sing to God with thankfulness. Sing to God with thankfulness. In verse 3, David said, My lips will press you, so I will bless you as long as I live. In your name I will lift up my hands. David praised God for his love, and as long as David lived, he will always praise and bless God. He will never think negatively about God. He will never give in to the devil's lie that God didn't love him. The devil said to David, See you are in so much trouble, God doesn't care about you. If he does, you won't suffer But David said to God, my God, my lips will praise you even though I'm suffering. I will bless your name. And David said in verse 7, In the shadow of your wings I will sing for joy. So only when we understand deeply the steadfast love of God for us can we never think negatively about God or even question Him when we are in trouble. We will only praise God and bless him. We will never believe in the devil's lie. Years ago, two of my Christian friends they were dating and then they broke up. And one of them got very angry with God because of the broken relationship. So in my mind I asked myself how got a Christian got angry with God who loved him so much and who has sacrificed himself on the cross. But in reality there are many Christians get angry or get disappointed with God when bad things happen to them. When we think about David, how he suffered, his his own son took his throne and sent an army to kill him. David didn't get angry with God. With his lips he praised God, and with with his mouth he sang with joy. He said in verse 5, My soul will be satisfied as with fat and rich food, and my mouth will press you with joyful lips. So David understood the depth of God's love for him and his soul was satisfied as as if he is eating delicious food right here, fat and rich food. So think about fat and rich food that you like. Maybe fried chicken, meatballs, pork chops, donuts. When we eat this delicious food, we are satisfied, right? David was saying here God, your love, satisfy my soul as if I just have a piece of pork chop, fried chicken, and some meatballs, and then a donut. So David didn't get angry with God in times of trouble. Long ago there was a a rich man in Chicago and his name was Horatio Spafford, maybe you have heard him. He had a wife, four daughters, and a son. son. He experienced three major tragedies in his life. First, his only son got sick and died. And then second there was a big fire in Chicago in eighteen seventy-one and his real estate properties were burned. He lost many many things And then third to recover from the grief, he arranged a vacation for his wife and four daughters on a trip to Europe by ship. And several days later he received a message that the ship crushed in the Atlantic Ocean and all his four daughters died. Only his wife survived. His wife stayed in London and waited for him to pick her up. And then he went to London with a boat. And with much pain and sorrow in his heart, he came to God and found peace and comfort. On the boat to London, when he passed the Atlantic Ocean, where his four daughters die, he wrote the famous hymn, Eat Is Well. my soul. Even though all his children die, as long as God loves him, it is well with his soul. For him, God's steadfast love was better than life itself. God's love was sufficient for him. And just like David, he sang to God with thankfulness. He said to God in his song, When peace like a river attended my way, when sorrows like sea below roll Whatever my Lord, thou hast taught me to say, it is well, it is well with my soul. So when you are in a difficult time, sing praises to God with thankfulness because it is the key to be filled with joy from God. Don't get upset with the situations or with God that He let trouble come to you, but sing praises to Him with joy and thankfulness. In his suffering, David sang praises to God, and God comforted him. God's love surrounded him in the wilderness, and David saw was satisfied. God stepped by love is better than life itself. You know that David wrote and sang this Psalm 63 When he was in the w wilderness. So think about that. When we were when we are in trouble, can we write psalm and sing to God like David? Or like Horatio's pefford. In verse six to eight, David said to God When I remember you upon my bed and meditate on you in the watches of the night, for you have been my help, and in the shadow of your wings, I will sing for joy My soul clings to you, your right hand upholds me. So what what should we do when we face a difficult situation in our life? First, know who God is and who we are in His eyes. Second, remember God stepped as love for us. And then third, sing to God with thankfulness God loves us so much. He sent his own son for us. And Jesus came from heaven to this world to save us. He sacrificed himself to die on the cross. cross for the punishment of all our sins as our substitute. If Jesus did not run away from our cross, from your cross If he did not abandon your cross, he will never abandon you. He has given us the Holy Spirit to dwell in us and to guide our life as God's child Children. There is nothing that can separate you from His love. His love for you is steadfast, it's permanent and is unchanging. Is your soul thirsty for God like David? David put his faith in the promised Savior who will eternally satisfy him. And when Jesus came to this world, he said, I am the living water. Whoever drinks from me will never be thirsty again. And the water that I will give you will become in you a spring of water welling up to eternal life. So come to the come to Jesus and He will give you the living water that will permanently Are you weary and tired like David And David put his faith in the promised Savior who will give him permanent peace and rest for his soul. And when Jesus came to this wall he said, Come to me all who labor and are heavy laden and I will give you rest. So come to Jesus and rest in him. Our soul will always be unrest. Until it rests in Jesus. Don't let your heart be troubled. Come to Jesus. Rest in him, and he will give you peace. Do you doubt that God loves you so much? Look at the cross of Jesus and see how much He loves you. Look at the blood that He has shed for you and see Our God, our Heavenly Father, we are so thankful that you have adopted us to be your children. Thank you for your steadfast love for us. Help us to always remember who you are and who we are. in your eyes, especially when troubles come to our life. May our faith in you be never shaken, always firm, and help us learn to sing about your love Because your steadfast love is better than life. We will bless you as long as we live. We will sing for joy. For great is your steadfast love for us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Let's stand up for a closing song.