Well, I am so thankful for the opportunity that each of you have had today to be with us, and I'm so thankful for the opportunity to get to open the Word of God to you. uh in one last session. And so if you could take your Bibles and let's all turn together to Ecclesiastes chapter 12. Ecclesiastes chapter 12. I'm going to read the first five verses and then I'm going to skip to the end of that chapter and read the last part of the book of Ecclesiastes. And if you are studying a book of the Bible, sometimes a great way for you to study that book is you read the way that it starts. Read the way that it finishes and recognize that that is going to kind of give you a sense of how all these pieces fit together and what God wanted you to hear from that particular book of the Bible. So Ecclesiastes chapter twelve, verse one says this Remember now, thy Creator, and the days of thy youth, while the evil days come not Nor the years draw nigh when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them, while the sun, or the light, or the moon, or the stars be darkened, nor the clouds return after the rain And the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble, the strong men shall bow themselves, and the grinders cease, because they are few. And those who look out of the windows be darkens, and the doors shall be shut in the streets, and the sound of the grinding is low. And he shall rise up at the voice of the bird, and all the daughters of music shall be brought low. If you skip back down to verse 12, verse 13, he says, let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. For God shall bring every work into judgment. with every secret thing, whether it be good or whether it be evil. Let's bow together and take a moment and ask the Lord to help us to really focus our attention on his word this one last time. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for its power to change us. Thank you for the wonderful truths that we will think about together in this session. Help me to present this in a way that is very helpful to everyone that's here. I pray that your spirit would move in our hearts, move in our midst, and that you would challenge us to respond humbly to your word Father, if there's someone here this afternoon who is struggling with whether or not they want to give their life over to you, to pursue the purposes that you have for them, maybe they are wrestling in their hearts and they know that. I pray that this passage of Scripture would grip their heart in a very profound way, that you would use it to really get their attention so that they will begin moving in a direction that honors you and is in obedience to these very important truths. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. This afternoon I want us to close out our sessions together with a very simple thought. You can live without empty regrets. I'm not saying that you're going to live a perfect life. I'm not suggesting that there won't be seasons in your life as you get older where you'll look back and say, I wish I would have handled that a little bit different. I wish I would have handled that a lot different. Or I wish I would have not wasted that season of life. I'm not suggesting that at all. But what I am suggesting is this. When you get to the end of your life, it is possible for you to look back and say, you know what? God, my life was a rich life in a godly sense. My life was lived for the glory and the praise of God, and I don't regret it for one moment. I'm thankful for the lessons I've learned. I'm thankful for the opportunities I've had. I'm thankful for the blessings I've enjoyed. I'm thankful for the invest And here I am at the end of my life, I look back and I say, God, thank you. for your grace and working in my life. That is the desire that I have for everybody in this room That's the desire that God has for everybody in this room. That's the desire that your worth uh your your youth leader who brought you. It could be mom, dad, it could be your pastor, your youth pastor, someone who's from your church, they brought you here. That's what we all want to see God do in your life. And if you'll listen to what this passage of scripture is saying, In fact, you can be in such a position when you get to that point in life. Now I'd like to tell you about a slide that I have up here, and there are going to be two pictures on this slide that They mean a lot to me, they may not mean a whole lot to you, but I want to tell you a story about two pictures here that I hope will be impactful as we think about this passage. On the left hand side you see a car and you see a couple of guys pushing that car and you see this one guy running away, doesn't want to do any work. You may not realize that but that That's Pastor Josh right there. Sorry, Pastor Josh is a very hard-working guy, but in that particular situation, he decided to run the other way. I have no idea why that is. But in that picture, you see There are these guys, one, two, three. That's actually me on the right hand side of that front bumper there. And we're pushing a car And we're pushing a car because that car lost control on the interstate. In fact, this was uh I believe it was my sophomore year of college. We went down to the University of Central Florida in Orlando and we wrestled at a tournament at the University of Central Florida. So either we're going or coming. I think we're coming back. And so here we are, we're coming back, and we see this car is stuck down in the mud, and we're like, hey, let's go get them out. That's a kind of weird thing to do, right? But that's what we did. So this whole group of guys, I think the wrestling team probably had like ten guys. We had a manager, so probably like eleven of us. But these guys, they're sitting in the car It was a man, these two ladies, and they're sitting in the car, and we helped push that car out of the media and then back onto the road so they could drive on their way. But there's more to this story than just that we got covered and I mean we got covered in mud. I was wearing khaki pants kind of like these because When we traveled, we were supposed to wear khaki pants and a polo shirt, okay? And so here I'm all like covered in mud and these other guys were covered in mud. But after that, those people said, hey, we really appreciate you Stopping and helping us out. Is there anything we could do for you? He said, yeah. We want to tell you about something. Like, what's that? We gave them gospel tracts, sat down on the side of the road, went to the gospel with them. One of the guys that was in that car trusted Christ as the Savior. In fact, that story, it's a true story, didn't lie, it's true, it really happened, is in this little book called The Legacy of the Mat. This is a book that was written by my college wrestling coach, Jim Hayswinkle. Now, most of you, vast majority of you have no idea who Coach Hay Hayeswinkel is, but Coach Hayeswinkle is the man that wrestled on two uh uh uh on two Olympic teams, 1968-1972, and he was on six additional world teams. He he competed on the world level. He he he meddled in several Olympic and world games. Coach Hazewinkel was an amazing athlete. But Coach Hazewinkel was a lot more than just an amazing athlete. Coach Hazewinkel is a man who loved He loved the guys that he coached. And when I was in high school, I was in college, I remember Coach Hayes sitting down with us after practice. Opening up his Bible and teaching us the Word of God. And I remember Coach Hazel saying, guys, don't just be a winner on the mat. Be a winner off the mat for the glory of God. And Coach Hayeswinkel used to challenge us. I remember I was a junior in high school, first year I ever went out for the wrestling team, and I was horrible. Really bad. I'm surprised it went out my second year. I'm really surprised I kept doing it. But Coach Hazig was persistent. But I remember my junior year coach he had these special tracks. They were green. They didn't look pretty at all. He had this guy on the front and and it was it was he used all this wrestling terminology. He said If you're timid to give it out, just hand it to the guy and say, hey, read this. But over the course of the year and into the next year and then the next year, I began to get a little bit more boldness. And start saying, you know what, I'm not just going to give a guy a track. I'm going to actually tell them about the gospel, what Christ has done for me, and what he can do for them. And what he has accomplished for them. In fact, over the years that I was on that team, Coach Hazenckle always, always, always emphasized win on and off the map for the Lord Jesus. When I see that picture, it reminds me of Coach Hayes. He wasn't just into wrestling, athletics. He was into shaping young men and to becoming guys. Who cared about the things of the Lord and were concerned about leading people to Christ. In fact, interestingly, Coach Hazingall probably has had more of an impact on me going into ministry than even my own pastor growing up. No offense to my pastor growing up. That's the honest truth. Because I spent so much time with Coach Hayes in the wrestling room. There's a second picture on there I want you to see as well, and that is a man named Ralph Sedeno. Ralph Sedeño was my first boss. when I got out of high school. I worked construction. He was a carpenter. And Ralph Sadania was a very hardworking, tough man That Ras Sadanya was about probably three or four years older than I am right now when he died I remember working for Ralph when I was in seminary. In fact, the first year I was in seminary, I worked with Ralph, worked through the summer into the school year. It was pretty miserable work in Florida sometimes in the summer being a carpenter in the heat. Ralph is a Christian. Ralph had, I think, six or seven children. And I remember when I stopped working with Ralph, I became a GA at Pensacola Christian College. In fact, I coached wrestling as a GA. Kind of interesting. A couple months after I stopped working with him, I was driving through a traffic light. He passed one way, I passed the other. That was the day before he died. He went into surgery, had complications, and he died. 46 years old. You say, why is that picture so significant to you? Here's why it's significant. You do not know how old you will be when you die. And so when I think about these two pictures, I think about a guy who is an amazing athlete, an amazing mentor, somebody I really respect and I appreciate. He's now actually a pretty old man. He's 80 years old. And I think about that picture and I think about the emphasis of that coach. When on and off the map for the Lord Jesus. I see that second picture and it reminds me, you know what, your life is a vapor. It appears for a little while and it vanishes away. And when I think about those two pictures, it reminds me of the fact that this passage of Scripture is something we need to think about, something we need to understand, and it's something we need to obey. We need to live our lives without empty regret. So the question is, how do we do that? First thing I want you to notice is this wise people live a God-centered life. When they're young. Now if you look back at this verse, here's what he says. He says, remember, what's the next word? Whoa. Let's try that again. Remember now. Let's try it again. Remember what? Now, let's do it again. Remember what? Now, remember now, thy creator. Next statement is important. In the days of thy youth. Now the question is when is that? I'd like to think it's right now for me, right? No, actually it's more like where you guys are right now. Remember now when you're a teenager When you're a young woman, when you're a young man, before you have moved into your adult years and you've made decisions that you cannot reverse that have established very difficult patterns. Remember now your creator in the days of your youth. While the while he remember now thy creator in the days of the youth, while the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh, when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them. These verses tell us that real wisdom calls us to live practically. The first thing he does is he says, you need to think ahead. That's what he means by remember now. The truth is most people when they're living their lives. When I worked with that guy, Ralph Sadeno. And it and we'd get up early in the morning and we'd go out, we'd put in 9, 10, 11 hour day working on some house, somewhere, you know, different parts of Pensacola and Milton and all those areas. I I never once thought about the fact that, hey, you know, this guy, he's gonna die next year. I would have never even dreamt of it. Would have never even crossed my mind The truth is there are a lot of situations in life that they draw our attention and we do not think about the direction we're going. We don't think about the stage in life we're in. We don't think about how easy it is for one little thing to happen and our life completely changes. It doesn't even cross our minds. And so what does the Bible say? Think ahead. Remember now I want to challenge you this afternoon. Think now. The second phrase is, while the evil days come not, the idea is prepare for trouble. Now I'm not suggesting you're supposed to live your life like in a with a bunker mentality, and some people do that, and that's not a healthy way to live life. But the fact is you need to prepare yourself because there's going to be a day that you will encounter things that you never, never, never dreamed of, anticipated that you would find I'll think about my own situation. I can think about situations. We were missionaries in Ghana, West Africa. And one night went to bed and uh sleeping, my wife sleeping, and Woke up in the middle of the night and something seemed like it wasn't quite right. I was like, what's going on? I was real quiet. Walked out into my living room and I was like, something's not right in here. And then I realized There's some things that used to be here are gone. Guess what? Somebody came into our house and robbed us. Stole all the electronics that we had while we were sleeping in a room just down the way And I just remember going, what in the world is going on? I never anticipated a thing like that Think about when I was in deputation, my wife and I, we were traveling out west and we came back. My wife is expecting. We got back to Maryland, my wife lost the baby. That was one of the darkest seasons of our life. Now when I was a sixteen year old, I never in my wildest imagination would have thought, hey, you know, someday when I get married, my wife and I were gonna be excited about a baby coming and then We're going to go through the loss of losing a child. Never, ever, ever thought of such a thing. Never in my wildest dreams did I think about what it'd be like to have somebody break into your house and rob you. Truth is there's all kinds of situations if I reflect over the course of my life, things that I would have never anticipated. Dark moments, low moments, discouraging moments, frustrating moments. Guess what? Everybody's going to face challenging times. I go and I visit people in the hospital And when I go and visit those people in the hospital, I remember when they were healthy, vibrant, strong people. And then I see them sitting in a bed with IVs. Can barely lift their head up. You ask them a question. They're not even strong enough to answer your questions. And you're looking at this person, you're like. . I knew you when you were strong, vibrant. The fact is, everybody who lives to be old one day is going to be weak One day you're going to go through heartaches that are going to completely crush you. They're going to cause you to ask questions you never thought you would ask. And the simple truth is this. You've got to have a biblical worldview to prepare you for those seasons of life because they're going to happen. They happen to everybody because it's a fallen world. You've got to be prepared for trouble. Thirdly, realize that your choices, they have real consequences. He says, when thou shalt say I have no pleasure in them. There are certain things in life that when we look back at them, we really live those moments and we say, man, if I'd have done this a little different here, and if I'd done this a little bit different here, and this a little bit different here, this wouldn't have happened. Well, guess what? You can't go back and change that. You can learn from it, hopefully. You can admit your failures and your faults, but you can't change those things. And the question is, why does that matter? It matters because you do not want to put yourself in such a place because you chose foolishly and you look back and you regret it. God's word calls us to live sober and holy lives. Proverbs 1. 7, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. But fools despise wisdom and instruction. Psalm 39, 4, Lord, make me to know the end of my day and the measure of my days what it is that I may know how frail I am. Psalm 90, verse 12, teach us to number our days, that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. James 4, 13, go to now. Ye that say today or tomorrow will go into a city and continue there year and buy and sell and get gain. Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow. What is your life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time and then vanisheth away. You ought to say, if the Lord wills, we shall do this or we shall do that. You say, what is the scripture saying here? Well, it's saying this, nobody's entitled to anything good in this life. That doesn't mean we don't experience good things. We're not entitled to it. God doesn't owe us that. Every good and perfect gift is from above. God's grace is what gives us good things. Whatever God gives us has a day that starts and ends. It's one exception. Eternal life. Has a start date, but it doesn't have an end date. But everything else in life that you experience, your marriage, your interaction with your children, the friends that you have in high school. Or maybe in college or you know what? Everything that you touch in this world, it's fading away. It's decaying, it's rotting, it's it's it's it's going toward an end. God mercifully gets her attention when we are ignoring this reality. I talked about my coach, Coach Haeswinkel, had an incredible impact on my life. But Coach Hayeswinkel was not the only thing that had a big impact on my life when I was a teenager. Because in my junior year, mentioned I like baseball a lot, my junior year I was playing third base If I'm playing third base, this guy hits a line drive down the third base line, as every kid would do in my situation. Ran, dove, and uh, I don't really remember the rest of the story because I hit my head against a brick wall on the side of the dugout In fact, when I got up, I was all disoriented, blood all over my head. And I remember telling my coach, I want to finish this game out. And I remember him looking at me like What are you talking about? And you know what happened with me that day? That day my mom fit me to the hospital. I went, I had to get stitches, they had to wrap my head, they'd do all kinds of stuff to me. But it made me think about something. Baseball has an end date. It does. And the question is, why are you living for something that has such little temporal value? Why are you living for something like that? You know, that was a huge impactful moment in my no no pun there, right? Impact, right? That's a very impactful moment in my life It really changed the course of the direction I was going to where I am today. And you know what that was? It was the merciful hand of a loving father saying, you need To change course. You say, would God do that in my life? Well, He loves you. I'd say, yeah, He will. I don't mean you're going to run into a dugout. Okay, I'm not suggesting that But there might be something in your life he's got to take away. There might be something that you're pursuing that you're going to have to re-evaluate. Don't make God have to use his forceful hand to get your attention. Our future joy and sorrow in many ways is going to be built on the way that we live our lives Second truth I want you to notice is this. Everybody loses abilities that they once had as they get older. Now, these verses are fascinating verses, and unless you read them carefully, you think about what's being said, it might not make a lot of sense to you. Listen carefully. It says this. He says, remember now Before the evil day comes, and he says this, While the sun and the light and the moon and the stars be not darkened, the clouds return after the rain, and the day when the keepers of the house Tremble the strong men shall bow themselves, the grinder cease because they are few, and those that look out the windows be darkened. The door shall be shut in the streets when the sound of the grinders is low, and he shall rise up at the sound of the bird, and the daughter of music shall be brought low. Also, when they shall be afraid of that which is high, and fear shall be in the way, and the almond trees shall flourish, and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and desire shall fail. You say, what in the world is Solomon talking about here? Well, in poetic language, he is explaining what happens to people when they get old. That's what he's saying. And somebody's louding their head going, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's true, it's true. Yeah. Okay. For instance, let me give you some examples. The sun or the light or the moon or the stars be not darkened, and the clouds return after the rain. You know what he's talking about? Your eyes get dim. Playing football with my kids out as it's starting to get a little bit darker, and I started to notice something. I used to be able to catch the ball when the light was low, and I can't anymore. Like I'm like I'm like a blind person trying to catch the ball. It's the weirdest thing. It's gonna get worse. It's gonna get worse People lose their physical strength. Verse number three says, In the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble and the strong men shall bow themselves, the grasshopper shall be a burden. How many of you know who a Muhammad Ali is? Anybody know that name? Yeah. You ever you ever seen him, some of you older folks, did you ever see him fight? That guy was one tough guy. I remember, I think it was the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta. And they light the torch. This is like one of the big events at the opening of the of the Olympic Games. And there is Muhammad Ali. And he's standing, and this is what he looks like. He's looking like this. He could barely control his hand to light that toy. Anybody remember that? Yes, yes, I remember it. You think about it, Muhammad Ali was one of the greatest boxers in boxing history. He was a very proud and arrogant man. He was a tough man Yet on that day, where was his strength? Anybody um ever seen Arnold Schwarzenegger? Now you know what he looks like now. When I was a kid, he was a different looking person, let me tell you. Guess what? Everybody gets old People who are strong, people who are vibrant, they need walkers. They need wheelchairs. People who used to bench press amazing amounts of weight. People who could run marathons, there comes a day when they can't walk to the bathroom. That's a stunning thing to think about. It's humiliating. But that's what happens to people as they get old. And verse 3 says, the grinders cease because they are few. It means your teeth fall out. Verse number four, the doors shall be shut in the streets. The idea is that people stop going out of their house. There are people in our church who are uh getting up in age, and I remember they they were at every single service. I haven't seen them In years in this building. Why? It physically can't get out. It's too difficult. The energy level is not there. The stamina is not there. Their immune system's not strong enough. They cannot come to a public place like this because their body has begun to deteriorate physically. Verse 4, when the sound of the grinding is low and the daughter of music shall be brought low. What did you say again? I can't hear you He shall rise up at the voice of the bird. Insomnia, people can't sleep at night Also, when they shall be afraid of that which is high, and fear shall be in the way. It becomes dangerous to do things that used to be relatively easy. Hey, that guy used to climb a ladder and he used to clean out his gutters. You can barely walk up the stairs. You say, Pastor, this is so depressing. Sorry to depress you. Here's the point, though. If you live to be old, what's going to happen to you? And when you get to that stage in life, the question is, what will bring you joy? You ever thought about that? When you were all about how strong you were, how good you looked, how fast you could run, how well you could play the piano, whatever your thing was, you can't do it anymore Can you still be a joyful person? Can you still look at life and say, you know what? I'm satisfied It all comes down to what do you value? It all comes down to what are you living for? And so I ask you this question because We need to be careful that we remember now that there's going to be a day that we will not be able to do the things that we do. There's going to be a day that certain seasons and opportunities they come and they're gone. And you won't get them back. And so my strongest encouragement to you is do not waste the time that is right in front of you. Don't waste the opportunities that God has given you. The third truth I find here is that now is the time to invest your life wisely. The fact is that God's given you a sharp mind. Some of you say, well, not as sharp as my neighbors. That's not it's not about comparison. You're in the prime of life right now, folks. God's giving you a strong body. He's giving you energy. You know why my kids go to bed when they do? It's because mom and dad are so tired. It's time to send them to bed. I kiss the truth you say, Well it's kinda early. Yeah, I know. We're tired, time for bed, guys. That's just the way that it goes It's not so much that we're trying to like get them to bed early, it's that they they've they've outlasted us. So we're not there anymore The fact is, God gives you strength, God gives you energy, God gives you opportunities. God has put you in a family where you have parents that love you. He's putting you in a church where you're in the Word of God. He's given you all kinds of opportunities. Those were given to you for a reason. Not to waste, not to indulge in fleshly passions, not to put them all in your own interest, but to guide them and invest them into things that really matter. Things that matter for eternity. I think about this little book. I think about my coach. I got to give him a phone call a couple months ago. And when I talked to him, I just said, thank you for investing in me and these other guys Because that investment, what he taught me, what the way he challenged me at that season in my life, it was far more important than what he taught me on a map. It really was And so I challenge you, invest your time wisely. Don't waste what's in front of you. Thank God that right now you're being reminded while you are young and while you have all of life in front of you, as far as we know. That you have this message. Don't ignore the reminders that God has. He has ways of getting our attention. Because he loves us. Start investing your life wisely and building your life wisely right now. Build good habits that are going to make your life an impact as long as possible. I know this might sound weird, but you know, eat right, learn how to get the right amount of sleep, learn how to work hard, learn how to get along with people, invest your time and your energy You say, why does that matter? It matters because God uses that investment of time. God uses those skills that you develop. You say, well, does that mean I'm going to be a pastor? Does that mean I'm going to be a missionary? I don't know. God uses all kinds of people. It's not just pastors and missionaries that God uses. There are lots of parents that invest in their children and they're never going to preach a sermon. They're never going to teach a less than in an adult Sunday school class or anything like that. They simply love the Lord. They're faithful. They invest in their children and God uses them profoundly. Minister to older people. Some of you have living grandparents who are getting older. My children actually have been able to interact with their great-grandparents. My mother's father lived to be 90 almost 95 years old. My dad's parents are both in their 90s. So my children have had the opportunity to get to interact with their great-grandparents. And the fact is that you are a blessing to older people, and you are learning from them. Whenever I go and I do senior visits, I want to be a blessing to people. You know what? I learn a lot in those visits. I learn a lot about life. I learn a lot about myself. I'm encouraged by a lot of the things that I see and I hear. Because that's when you really learn some of the most valuable lessons of life. Don't miss out on those opportunities. Learn from them as you minister. My challenge to you is very, very simple. Do not live life with empty regrets. Today is the day to say, God, whatever you want me to do, I am to the very best of my ability going to purpose day by day to walk according to your command. to invest my life in what has eternal significance. I don't want to waste what God has given me. I hope that's your heart's desire. I hope that's the purpose that you make today. We've talked about life and how life without God is empty. Willie has talked about our identity and how we find purpose in the world that we live in. And then we have this challenge. Don't live with empty regrets. Let's take this to heart and let's actually obey the Lord. Let's bow for prayer. Father, we thank you so much for the attention of these young people. We thank you for this powerful text of Scripture that challenges us to remember our Creator in the days of our youth. To give our lives fully to your purposes. Father, help us not to be wasteful. Help us not to be lazy. Help us not to be rebellious. Help us to be humble, teachable, wise, investors in what is good. Father, take the word and may it really penetrate hearts today And may it do a great work for years and years to come, we ask it all in Christ's name, Amen.