Okay, well I am really excited to get to open up the Word of God with you this morning. And my name is Pastor Porchet here at Anchor Baptist Church. And I'm excited about getting into a book of the Bible that I think is very, very, very practical and very encouraging for young people, not just young people, but especially young people, and that is the book of Ecclesiastes. How many of you have read from chapter 1 to the end of the book of Ecclesiastes at least one time in your life? Wow, they're all in the same church. All right. Well guys, listen up. Today when we look at this book of the Bible, my my prayer, my desire is that this will kind of whet your appetite for a book that is very practical and very helpful. I'm going to read through The first several verses of Ecclesiastes chapter 1, we'll pause for a moment of prayer, and then I would like to start out by talking about some things that were a huge part of my life when I was your age. And I want us to think about those things in the light of eternity and what we're going to read here in Ecclesiastes chapter 1. So here's what it says, first number verse, it says, the words of the preacher. The son of David, king in Jerusalem. Vanity, and that word vanity means emptiness. It's like the wind, it just blows. Vanity of vanity, saith the preacher. Vanity of vanities, all is vanity. What profit hath a man in all his labor which he taketh under the sun? One generation passeth away, another generation cometh, but the earth abideth forever. The sun also arises, and the sun goes down and hasteth to his place where he arose. The wind goeth towards the south and towards the north. It whirls about continually, and the wind returneth again according to his circuits. All the rivers run into the sea, yet the sea is not full. Unto the place from whence the rivers come thither they return again. All things are full of labor. Man cannot utter it. The eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing. The things that have been done, it hath been that which shall be, and that which is done is that which shall be done. There is no new thing under the sun. Is there anything whereof we maybe said, see, this is new? It has already been of old time, which was before. There is no remembrance of former things Neither shall there be any remembrance of things that are to come with those that shall come after. Let's bow for a word of prayer, and then let's talk about this text of Scripture and what we can learn from the Word of God today. Father, I'm so thankful for each of these young people here this morning. I'm thankful for their sponsors who came. Maybe it's parents, maybe it's a youth pastor, maybe it's someone from their church. I'm so thankful for each person that's here today. Father, as we open up your word, I pray that you would speak to our hearts Father, help us to have a tenderness to it. Help us to have ears that are ready to hear. Help us to have eyes that are ready to see. Help us to have a heart that is ready to embrace the truth and then live with a purpose. based on your design for our lives. Father, help me to communicate very clearly and very simply that each person in this room has tremendous value to you. How they live their life matters. It is not purposeless, but without God, it is an empty life. I ask that you would work in our hearts today in Christ's name. Amen. I want to start out with a picture up here. It's actually not a picture. It's several pictures. And you probably can't see this very well from where you are, but you can see it better than if I was holding the picture right in front of you. On the left side, you see a picture of a football stadium. Can anybody guess what football stadium that is? Oh my son knows. I'll give you a hint. It's in Michigan. Alright? It's in Michigan. Anybody want to guess now based on what football stadium that is? Yeah. Not Michigan State, Fours Field, Detroit Lions. Alright? So when I was uh in the taking this picture the Detroit Lions were horrible. They didn't win very many games. They're actually kind of good right now, but In that picture, you see a group of guys, we're there at the 50-yard line, we're there in our stance, and you know what we're doing? We're celebrating the victory that we had at a national tournament. But we wrestled at Ford's Field. That was in 2004. How many of you uh were born after 2004? That should be everybody except for the sponsors. All right. 2004. In fact, I have a piece of hardware here from that event. Kind of cool. It's a little silver medal. I didn't steal it. I earned it, believe it or not, earned this uh on that left side there. And then there's another picture there. That's uh a young guy in his senior year of high school, and that's me. I loved baseball as a high schooler. It it was like it was my consuming passion. It was my life. It was what I lived for. And then there's another picture here on the right hand side, you can barely see it, but there's a group of guys standing standing there receiving awards, and that was the Sportsman's Banquet, or excuse me, that was our that was our final banquet for the year where all of the athletes in our high school Got special awards, most valuable player or runner, coaches award, team captain's award, all these different things, the stats of the year. That was my senior year of high school Now, if you were to take me back to that period in my life, 1997, 98, 99, 2000, 2001, and you asked me, Joel. What is the most important thing in your life? Guess what I'd say? That's stuff right there And it's true it was. That was my consuming passion. I used to get up early in the morning. And I would run. I hate running now. Absolutely hate it. I despise it. Maybe a couple times a week I might I'll walk and then run one or two days, right? But I ran every day in the morning Ran at night, went to the gym every single day of the week, except for Sunday. That was a consuming passion. I used to study the stats of all these players. They're all Well, they're not playing anymore. I'll just put it that way. In fact, some of them they're bald, they're fat, they're old men. But when I was a teenager, those guys were my heroes. I remember when Barry Bonds was skinny. I remember when Mark McGuire, and you say, I don't even know who that is. Well, some of you guys know who those people are. I'm trying to make a point though. That's what I live for. And here's my question. What do you live for? What is your life consumed with? And and I I don't know. I I'm I'm very convinced that not every person in this room would say the same stuff. You know what's funny? I have these awards. I pulled them out of a drawer. Uh this one is uh starting to corrode here Uh this one's starting to create here. In fact, this one I was trying to remember what year it was. I was trying to remember the circumstances I saw that was that was my senior year of high school. This one here of 2006. I was in grad school I can't even remember where I where I was wrestling when I won this. I don't even remember. I mean, I remember the event, but I I can't even remember like what college, what university it was held at And you know what that tells you? The things that you live for, the things that are really important to you, they change over the course of your life. The things that you're really passionate about right now, 20 years from now, you may not care at all. I loved baseball as a teenager. I hate to say this. I am a New York Yankees fan. A passionate New York Yankees fan. There's like five people here in the realm is like we hate you. Well you all are gloating because we got crest in the world series. It was tragic. You know what's also interesting? I did not watch One pitch of the World Series. You know why that is? Because it doesn't mean it it doesn't mean to me what it used to. I check the stats. I might watch some of the highlights with my boys. I think it's interesting. But my life has changed. And the question we should ask is, are we living for what actually matters? Are we living for the things that God says that has real value? Or are we living for things that 10 years from now, 20 years from now, 30 years from now, you won't even remember almost any of the details of some of the most significant events in your life? I was I was looking with a friend over this picture album of some of the guys that we wrestled with when we were in college. You know what's crazy? I don't even remember the names of some of the guys on the team. That's so it's so it's so sad. It's it's embarrassing I mean I don't I'm not gonna say about all the guys some of the guys I knew them very well I still keep in contact with them I was like I that face looks familiar but I don't know his name We desperately need the Word of God to shape our values. So let's dig into this passage of Scripture, see what God's Word has to say for us today, and let's purpose to the very best of our ability. to digest and live out what God's Word says. I'm going to put it very simply. God wants you to live your life to its fullest. He doesn't want you to pursue empty, worthless substitutes that are going to lead you into an empty life that has pain and suffering and tragedy and regret. And every single person in here that is a teenager, your whole life is ahead of you. You don't know what's going to happen down the road. But the choices that you make The values you are establishing right now, the things that you say that's the most important thing, those are actually beginning to move the direction of your life. Who you are 20 years from now or 40 years from now, if you're still alive? We're all still here. We don't know when the Lord's going to return. But who you become is a result of the things that you live through and how you relate to God in the midst of those circumstances. God wants you to escape unnecessary pain and regret. He wants you to live your life to its fullest. He wants you, if you live to be an old man or an old woman, to look back over your life and say, I'm not perfect, saved by grace alone. But God thank you for that blessing and that blessing and that blessing and that blessing. And people at your funeral someday will stand up and say, That man. impacted my life for eternity through and they can say it. That woman impacted my life for eternity and they say and they're not lying. They're serious. Your life left an impact on eternity. This is why God gave us the word of God. He wants us to be ready to live life the way he intended it. And so there are two books in the Bible that are really, really important for every single teenager in this room to be reading on a regular basis. Digesting this and by the grace of God pursuing the things that God tells you to do. The first book is the book of Proverbs. Okay? And I'm gonna say a couple things about the book of Proverbs, and then the second book is the book of Ecclesiastes. In fact, when our family does family worship in the morning. We just about every single day go through a part of the book of Proverbs. So I ask my kids what day of the weekend is it? My youngest, Owen is two, he always says, it's Monday, even if it's Tuesday or Wednesday or Thursday or Friday. It's Monday. No, it's not Monday, thank goodness. And then I say, what is the day of the month? Alright, we're going to turn to Proverbs chapter 9. Proverbs chapter 10. And we take a little portion of the Word of God and we read it. We lay it out. Why is that? Because the book of Proverbs was written for young people to have wisdom. Proverbs examines life from actually a fairly optimistic outlook. You do right? God bless us. You make bad choices. The end is difficult, painful, frustrating, unnecessarily complicated. If you don't want a life like that, live for God. So listen to some of the things that the scriptures say. In Proverbs 1:4, he says that the book was written to give subtlety to the simple. And to the young man, knowledge and discretion. Another way to put that is a person who is naive, God wants him to be wise. God wants them to have good sense. God wants them to understand how to navigate life the way that He designed things to be. So you can have wisdom without having to learn everything the hard way. One of my children, he's very young, he's two. One day my wife is working in the kitchen and she pulls this big pot of water off of the stove and she's bringing it over to the sink and he's watching his mother. And she gets this look on her face like, are you going to go touch that stove top? She said, Owen, don't touch it. It's hot. You know what that little guy did? Well my my wife is holding a thing of water right here. He's like Pop! Ah! He started screaming. He had like a little blister on his hand. Hey, you know what? He didn't have to learn that way, did he? He could have said, yes, mommy, walked away. You don't have to learn everything the hard way, folks. You don't So, the book of Proverbs says that God gave us his word so that he would give to the simple, the naive, the person that doesn't have experience, wisdom. Proverbs 2 verse 10 When wisdom entereth into thine heart and knowledge is pleasant unto thy soul, discretion shall preserve thee, and understanding shall keep thee. And he talks about what it keeps us from. From decisions, relationships, things that will bring great weight and heaviness and sorrow to our lives God 's wisdom is for our good. God doesn't tell you don't do this or do this because he's a mean ogre. He does it because it's for our good. A third passage, Proverbs 4. 18, the path of the just It 's as a shining light that shineth more and more under the perfect day. The way of the wicked is as darkness, and they know not at what they stumble. Living life God's way provides so many blessings. You will have the ability to see life clearly if you walk down the path that God has for you. But if you ignore his instructions and you choose your own path, that path leads to darkness and pain and suffering. Proverbs 4. 22, incline thine ear unto my sayings, let them depart, let them not depart from thine eyes. Keep them in the midst of thy life. They are life unto those who find them and health to all their flesh. Don't you want God's blessings on your life? I can tell you, at the age that I am now, I cannot begin to tell you how thankful I am for God's mercy when I did crazy stuff. And God's blessings, when thankfully I did it. And I'm sure all these older folks here could say the same thing. God's mercy. I'm so thankful for it. His promises are true. His ways are good. I'm thankful for the times that I actually walked the way I'm supposed to. But then there's a second book, the book of Ecclesiastes. That's the one we're going to talk about today a little bit. And this book kind of lays aside the same wisdom, but from a different side. In fact, a lot of the Proverbs are written this way. You have a positive statement and you have a negative statement. Or you have a statement and then it's expanded. It's like a generalized statement and then it's expanded into all these different specific areas. That's a very helpful way to learn concepts. It's not this, it's this. When you look at them side by side, oh now I get it. That's what Ecclesiastes is. It's the other piece. It's examining wisdom on two different ways, and that is examining life from a more pessimistic outlook. Because did you know that sometimes you make good choices and things that work out the way you wanted them to? Did you know that sometimes there are things that happen in life, you don't have any control over them? You can't change anything about it. You say Which one is it? That everything's in my hands or nothing's in my hands? The answer is they're both a piece of understanding this correctly. There is a sovereign God who loves people. And despite the nonsense and despite their folly, he's gracious and he's kind and he's merciful. And there might be somebody here that's like, you know what? I've been kind of starting to drift down this way. Can I reverse the ship? Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, you sure can. Absolutely you can. There might be somebody's a little bit older saying, I wish I could reverse the ship on some things Can I still move in the right direction? Of course you can. God's grace is an amazing thing. We should never impose on God's grace, but we should marvel in it. And so listen to verses like this in Ecclesiastes 9. 11. I returned and I saw under the sun that the race is not to the swift Nor the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to men of understanding, nor yet favor to men of skill, but time and chance happened to them all. It's a pretty interesting verse, is it not? Basically, what what what Solomon is saying here is that sometimes God makes things fall in a way that nobody predicted. Like this week. Just to be very honest. Lots and lots of things in life are like that. Ecclesiastes eleven, he says, Cast thy bread on the waters, give a portion to seven, and then to eight. If the cloud is full of rain, it empties itself on the earth. If a tree falls toward the south or toward the north, the place where the tree falls, that it shall be. He that observeth the wind shall not sow. He that regardeth the cloud shall not reap. Interesting verses. What do they tell us? It tells us there's another side to wisdom. There's a side to wisdom that falls under the hand of God. And the way that he works in our life is for good. Sometimes we can't predict how things are going to fall out. But the wise person walks this way. Fear God, keep his commandments. We're going to talk about that at the end of our session tonight, or later this afternoon. But I want you to notice for just a few more minutes some of the details of what he says here in Ecclesiastes 1. Here's the first truth that I want you to notice. Without eternity, our lives are short and meaningless. Now, listen carefully. I didn't say that our lives are short and meaningless I said, without eternity, without eternity, our lives are short and meaningless. I hate to say this, but there are a lot of people living today because of what they've heard from a teacher, from a parent, from friends. That they have adopted a worldview. And they may not understand that this is a worldview, but in their worldview, this is a world that is just the result of random occurrences. People are not created by God in heaven. We are not the result of God's careful plan and design. and upheld by his hand of providence and preservation. Instead people believe we're just animals. We're stardust that has evolved over billions and billions and billions and billions of years. And so life is just all about get what you can out of it. That's all there is. And I tell you this, if that worldview is true, then life is short and meaningless. If that worldview is true, life is short and meaningless. I have good news for you. It's not true. So don't live like it's true Don't build your life as if it's true. Don't allow those who hold such a view to shape your worldview. Let the word of God shape it. And verse 4 he says, one generation passes away, another generation comes, but the earth abides forever. The idea is this. One generation comes, one generation goes, it's replaced, it's forgotten. This week I was looking through some old pictures. Obviously I had some that I pulled up here and I came across this video that my uncle put together and it was really fascinating because as I was watching this video it was home videos From the mid-80s, okay? So I'm watching these videos and uh I'm looking at this car I'm like, oh man, I forgot that's what my mother's car looked like In nineteen eighty seven. Or that's what my dad's car looked like. Or that's the house that I grew up in. And oh man, I didn't realize my dad looked so young when he was only thirty-one years old And I'm watching this, I'm like, wow, that's really crazy. As we're watching along, I was like, that's hey guys, that's your that's your great that's your great grandmother. You never met her She passed away when I was when I was in college. Hey, you remember, you remember grandpa? That's your great-grandfather. That's what he looked like when he was 60. They're like, whoa. I only knew him when he was 92. And they're watching this video. And I come to this next one, and there's this old woman sitting in a chair, and I said, that woman right there That's your great great-grandmother. She was born in 1897. Who that's pretty crazy? When she was born, women couldn't even vote in this country. Isn't that wild? Yeah, she's probably one of the first women in the entire country to vote. She was born in the 1800s. I said, that's your great-great-grandmother. But you know what? If I'd never shown them that video, they wouldn't even know what she looked like. They would know they would not know what her voice sounded like. They wouldn't know anything about her And guess what? There was a day when she was your age. I mean, it was like before the Great Depression, it was before World War I. But there was a day when she was your age. And the fact is that life is like that. We live, we grow strong, we learn things, we get to have great experiences, sometimes hard experiences, but one day we get older and older and older, and one day we die. And our lives are often forgotten. Truth number two. Without purpose, the world is filled with so much emptiness. Notice that phrase, without purpose. Now, is there purpose in this world? Yeah, there is. Where does that purpose come from? Does it come from how I feel in my heart? No. Does it feel from what my parents tell me? No. Does it come from the people that I interact with in my schooling environment? No. Where does it come from? God Notice what it says in verses 5, 6, and 7. He says, the sun also ariseth, and the sun goeth down and hasteth to his place. When he arose, the wind goeth toward the south and turneth about to the north. It whirleth about continually, and the wind returneth again according to its circuits. The river runs into the sea, yet the sea is not full. Unto the place from whence the river comes, thither they return again. Now this is kind of a mind-boggling thing, and maybe you maybe you haven't even thought about this. Just pause and think about it for a minute. Every morning you get up and you see the sun sitting there. On the eastern side. And then at the end of the day, it disappears on the west side. And the next morning does the same thing. And the next morning it does the same thing. You're like, well, where'd it come from? Where's it going? You say, well, I we have modern science, so we understand these things. Okay, good. But why is it like that? I don't know. You ever gone out to the ocean and asked the question, like, with all the rain in the world, why doesn't the ocean like flood everything? Some people say it's going to, but uh anyway, it has to, yeah, right, except for the flood in Noah's Day. There's a specific reason for that But why is it that it rains, this water flows into the ocean, and the ocean just kind of like stays the same? And it's been doing this for thousands and thousands and thousands and thousands of years. Kind of weird, isn't it? Why do the rivers keep flowing? Like where's that water coming from? Oh, it's just coming out of the ground. And why is it in the ground? Well, because it's falling out of the sky and Why is it falling from the sky? Oh, because it's evaporating out of the ocean. And you're like, wait a minute. Sounds kind of circular to me. Flows down into the water, goes up into the sky, comes down, and it does a cycle over and over and over again. That's pretty wild, isn't it? Or you're sitting there and you feel a cool breeze in the afternoon. We lived in Ghana. We were missionaries. And in the morning, I'm telling you, the heat and the humidity were absolutely oppressive. But then about two o'clock in the afternoon, you'd go sit out in your yard, under a tree, hopefully, where it's a little bit less uh sun beating down on you, and you'd sit there and you just feel this breeze blowing all around you. What is that? Where is it coming from? I grew up on the water in Florida when I was a teenager. I'd go sit out on the dock in the afternoon and the wind would be blowing in. All afternoon. All afternoon. And then at night it blew out. It's the craziest thing. You say, well, why is it like that? Well you could look at it two ways. One way you could look at it is you say, well, you know, it's it's kind of a a boring treasury. Here is the sun. It just does the same thing day after day after day after day after day, year after year after year, decade after decade. Millennia after millennia. Same thing. The earth just spins and it spins and it spins and it spins. What a boring existence. Or you could go, wow. Somebody with some incredible, incredible design and wisdom made it do that for a reason. Or the wind's blowing. Could you imagine what it would be like if you didn't have wind? Could you imagine if it what the ocean would be like if we didn't have tides? Do you know why we have tides? Do you know it'd be like if it didn't rain? Oh, like it is the last uh last month here in Maryland, right? Really hot and dry. You could look at it two ways, emptiness, drudgery, meaningless. Or you could go, consistent. Refreshing. A constant source of sustenance. The hands of the Creator holding all things by the word of his power. And you notice the difference between those two different ways of looking at it? It's not what you see. It's the perspective, the bias that you take into what you see. Because as a Christian who understands that God made the worlds and everything in it, I see my creator 's design all over the creation. I see my creator 's wisdom all over the creation. I see my creator's care and kindness and mercy and love. I see it all over the creation where someone goes, what a waste. Folks, life isn't meaningless. But if you ignore God in creation, God the Creator, and you ignore eternity, guess what? That's the conclusion a lot of young people today are coming to. And it's tragic. And it's unnecessary. Let it not be you. Listen to some of these scriptures. Psalm 8, the Lord, O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth. Who hath set thy glory above the heavens? When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon, and the stars which thou hast ordained, what is man? Thou art mindful of him and the Son of Man that thou visitest him. Or James 1. 17, every good gift and every perfect gift is from above. And cometh down from the Father of lights with whom is no variableness. He is an unchanging God. It is impossible for God to change. Because that would contradict who He is. There is no variableness in Him, neither is there any shadow of turning. This is the God who made the world. And so I asked this question, do you see God in his creation? Do you see his wisdom? Do you see his order? Do you see his care? Folks, this is not a Purposeless world. But purpose begins with God. That is so incredibly important. Purpose begins with God. You want to find purpose in this world? You need to know Him. You need to be reconciled to Him. You need to know his ways and be purposed to walk in his ways and to live according to his design. Third truth I want you to notice. Is that without eternity, nothing we do matters? Without eternity, nothing we do matters. To me, one of the most amazing things that I hear is people who say there's no God, there's no moral right and wrong. And then they say, I don't believe in God because He's evil. Oh, hold on a second. Where did that come from? Like, is there anything evil if there's not a standard? Where does that come from? Or someone says, I just I'm just so loving of everything and everybody, and then here's a view they don't like. Here come the fangs. What why is that? How do we make such judgments? Hey folks, nothing matters if there's no God. What you do doesn't matter. You know, I think I think about this stuff right here. I mean This is pretty cool, all right. I mean there might be some some high school kids here that, you know, if you got to go to a national tournament and you actually got to stand on the platform, that'd be a pretty cool thing, right? At Ford 's Field nonetheless or Southeast Conference regional championships. Guess what? This thing didn't do anything for me now. In fact a lot of people might even believe it's really true, right? That's true. That stuff has no eternal value Now, it's all about what I did with it, and I'm going to talk about that a little bit later in our in our last session. I want to talk to you about my coach. As a man that loves the Lord, I want to talk to you about how he really shaped us as out. Not all the guys that I uh was was on team with took took took what he was saying to heart That really made an impact on me. I want to talk about that. But notice what he says in verses 8, 9, and 10. All things are full of labor, man cannot utter it, the eye is not satisfied with seeing. The ear is filled with nor the ear filled with hearing. The thing that has been is that which shall be, that which is done is that which shall be done. There is no new thing under the sun. Is there anything whereof it may be said, see, this is new. It hath been already of old time, which was before us. There is no remembrance of former things Neither shall there be any remembrance of things that are to come with those that shall come after. He gives a couple of examples of the kinds of things that people do in the world. Our work. Without God in eternity, guess what? Our work is full of labor, but productivity comes at a cost. And guess what? Those medals were the result of hours a day, month after month after month after month, a lot of misery A lot of days of one to quit. All that went into just getting a piece of metal and wasn't even first place in a lot of those cases. And that's how our work is. Or what about our senses, the things that we can see and the things that we can hear and the things that we can indulge ourselves in? He says the eye's not satisfied. The ear is not filled with hearing. The more you see, the more you want. It doesn't bring satisfaction Or he talks about the history. People can make bad decisions, and guess what? They gotta live with those decisions. People can live a life where they make bad decisions, they don't learn from it All the problems that we see in the world today, they're not new. Now they look different, right? Because the names are different. What's going on has some uniqueness to it on the surface, but at the heart it's all the same. We forget the past, and the future forgets us. And so the question is, what can we learn from this? What can you learn here this morning as we think about what we talked about? Give you a couple of simple thoughts to close out with. The first is this. Life without God and eternity is a tragic life. So don't live. Don't live like there's no eternity and there's no God Life without God is pointless. But there is a God. And he created us in his image. And he created us to know him and to enjoy him forever. So don't live like life is pointless. Life without God is boring. Some people say, well Not exactly all the time. Okay. A momentary moment of pleasure. Fine. But what's the cost of that pleasure? What's the end result of that? I've caught a lot of fish that thought it was going to be good to go after that worm. I ate them for dinner the next night. Kind of interesting how that works, huh? A lot of people live their lives and what they don't realize is there's a hook in that worm. Guess what? You don't have to live life that way. Even Christians can live inconsistent with what they say they believe. If you were to ask me when I was 14, 15, 16, 17 years old, hey, what are you living for? Guess what? What I would have told you, I wouldn't have thought this at the time, but it was inconsistent with the worldview that I said I believed. It's true. Because in my mind it was make money, be be famous, play for the Yankees. Didn't work out, right? Play for the Orioles? Maybe I could have backed. No, I couldn't have back then. I could have like three years ago, right? Four years ago, right? Sorry. I love going to A's games, by the way. But what's the point? The point is a lot of Christians, they live according to a worldview that they say they don't believe. And so I'm challenging you this morning not to be that teenager or not to be that sponsor who brought your child or someone else's child this morning. Let's live consistent with a biblical worldview. We desperately need godly wisdom and a godly view of the world that we live in. He is a very good God. He created everything with a purpose. And so your desire should be what is God's design? What is God's purpose? What was he thinking when he made it this way? And you know how you get that answer? You read what he says. If he wants you to know the answer, he's gonna tell you. Two He's preserving everything for a purpose. When a person looks back over their life If they are honest before God, they will see bad decision, bad decision, bad decision, God's mercy. Bad decision, bad decision, good decision, good decision, bad decision. God's mercy. And they see this over and over and over again. And you know what God does? He works in their lives for good. And so let's remember that we have a God that He loves us. He's personally involved in our lives. He is actively at work. Third, we have value because he made us in his image. You say, well, does that mean I look like God? No. What it means is you're created in a way that reflects his very nature. Why is a person able to have real relationship? Because he's an image bearer. Why does a person have a conscience where they feel guilty about stuff? And there's great satisfaction when they know they're doing what is right, even if it costs them something. Why is that? We're made in the image of God. Why is it that people create so many idols? Because when they reject the one true God, they've got to fill that emptiness with something. We have value because God made us in his image. What we do actually matters. Sin has messed things up, but God is still working for good despite all of that. The gospel's our only hope. The purpose of this uh this this this Saturday is not so that you will hear the gospel and get saved. I'm assuming as a pastor that most of you have come here, understanding the gospel. And having bl uh placed your faith in the finished word of Christ. But I don't want to assume that it's not possible that someone is here this morning or somebody has joined us in the live stream. That you know what if you were to be, if you were to stand before God today And he says, on what basis should you be accepted into my kingdom? You'd have no answer. Or you'd have an answer, but it'd be wrong. And I just want to put this in your head, this question. Have you had your sins forgiven? Are you cleansed? Are you God's child? Has there been a time in your life when you understood I'm a sinner? I'm separated from a holy righteous God, and there's nothing that I can give to God to remove my sin debt. There's nothing that I can do for God that He's going to say, Hey, good job. You can now be my child. Not going to happen. By the deeds of the law, no flesh will be justified in his sight. When I come in contact with the law of God, what does it do? It says you're guilty, you got no hope. It's only Christ. Have you come to that understanding? Where your heart is broken before God, you realize I'm a sinner separated from God, and if he left me here, if he had not come to me, if his grace had not come and done something for me and something in me that I could not have done for myself, I'd be lost for eternity. And then you understood that he became sin for us, though he knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. He died in our place. His death provided satisfaction. God can forgive sin because it's paid for And God can call you righteous because Christ's righteousness is imputed to you. Forgiven. Justified. Do you know for certain when you die you're going to heaven? That your faith has been placed in the finished work of Christ, his death, his resurrection, his righteousness. All of God's grace. Entirely a free gift, faith alone in Christ. This, you will not live a purposeful life. In light of eternity, if you miss the foundation of a life, live for God. You cannot live a Christian life outside of being in Christ. It's impossible. May God help us to have a heart that says, God, I do not want to live in emptiness. I want to live for your glory. Why don't we bow our heads together and ask the Lord to do that? And then after that, we're going to break into a discussion session. What that is is our uh sponsors who have brought you um want you to spend a little time talking to your uh your teens about what they've learned. Answer questions they may have. Ask them some specific questions about how to how to practically apply What they have heard this morning in our first session. Let's bow for prayer. Father, we thank you for the word. Thank you for this text. Thank you for the things that we have heard. Help us to take them to heart. Father, help us to be deeply burdened, that we would not waste our lives in empty pursuits, that we would live in a way that is consistent with your design for us, that we would love you, delight in you. And that we would live a truly purpose-filled life. Father, help each of these young people. If there's a struggle going on in their heart, I pray that you would take That struggle, and you and your spirit's work would break down those barriers and you would humble them and help them to understand the significance of the truths we've heard this morning. We ask that you'll bless this time of discussion in the various groups. It may be very profitable and encouraging. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.