So it's uh it's vital for us guys to understand what God intends for us, okay? It's vital for us to understand who we are in this life because it gives us the stability and that only comes this truth only comes from God's word. Okay? So really let that govern, let us let that sink in, let that let us think really clearly about what God has for us in that. Let's pray. Ask God to help us these next few minutes that we're uh that we're together. Father, thank you again for the truth of your word. Lord, I pray that you would uh captivate our hearts by these truths. Help us to think clearly. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Alright, so we're talking about uh why we are talking about uh um identity, understanding who we are, vital for us to to to grasp that, to have that contemplation. Okay? And before we actually understand who we are, it's important for us to understand what the wor what the world says There are things that the world says that we are that we need to just hear clearly and then see what the issue is with that and how to counteract that. So that's kind of what we were talking about. The world says, again, with this and with other things Not just these things we're going to be talking about. The world has a lot to say. But the world says that we are our feelings. Guys, we can't be governed by our feelings. Our feelings will betray us. Uh they we are we're we are we have a we have a a heart that is desperately wicked. We'll talk about that, okay? Um and for uh James chapter one talks about uh the fact that we are drawn away of our own lusts and enticed and that's what betrays us. So we are not we can't be governed by our feelings. Nature creates us. That's what the bi that's what the world says that it says that uh creates our identity. No, that's not that's not the case, okay? Um because if we are if we betray, as the world says, our inner feelings, then we have to adjust ourselves to make sure that we fill fit in because the world we need to make sure the world the world values us. No, we don't. We don't have to. Even if the world never loves us, it doesn't matter. The God who created this world does. And that's the way we we have to look at that based on what the world says. One of the things the world says uh that we are, we're talking about the world says this. One other thing is is the world says to find our identity we have to follow what makes us happy. Okay? And then therein you can find your identity because it makes you happy and you can go there. They get this from great philosophers like Cinderella. When he says she says, follow your heart. What are so okay listen? Time out. Disney is really, really good at animations. They stink at philosophy. Okay? And I mean that. God tell okay, you you don't believe me? Tell me. What are some of the things that the that that you hear from Disney, whether in the movies or the songs? Follow your heart, okay? No? We'll talk about that. If it makes you happy, do it. Okay? Well no, they say that. It doesn't matter. Okay, you can get married, you don't want to do that. Yeah. What's that? Hakuna matata That's good, yeah. Say it then. Your life is up to you. Anything else? You are what you want to be. Or you can be anything you want to be. That's stupid. Okay, and I'm like, okay, what if I want to be a bird? And I go up on top of buildings like I really want to be a bird. They said I could be a bird. I'm going to tell you, you're going to find out you can't be a bird in about three seconds. Guys, and herein lies the issue, okay? I wish we could talk more about that because that could be kind of fun. But listen The world has so much garbage that it's spitting out. And just because it comes in a catchy little song, we buy into it, or a cute little mouse tells us. Guys, that can't be listen. There's way more to life. There's way more to it The world says you have to find your identity, you have to follow what makes you happy. Follow your heart. No, you can't follow your heart. Why? Because Jeremiah tells us the heart is not just wicked, it's desperately wicked. My heart, unless it's governed by the Word of God, will lead me astray. If I follow the passions of my heart, if those passions aren't governed by the truth of the Word of God, I will go down paths that the only way it'll lead me is despair. That's it. That's it. A heart is desperately wicked. We can't just follow our heart because we can't just follow the passage or what we think is going to satisfy, because everything in life has the potential to disappoint, except for God. God will not disappoint. We have passages in Scripture, Psalm chapter 1, Matthew chapter 5. That counteract this thought. The truth is this. This is the truth. Only God satisfies True happiness comes from following the words of God. Psalm chapter one says, Blessed is the man that doesn't do these things, that walks not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of the scornful. The happy guy, that word blessed means happy. The happy guy is not going to do these things. But the happy guy does this, but his delight is in what? What? The law of the Lord? Okay, a happy person will find their delight in God's word. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he what? Meditate. Think over, chew over. How often? Day and night. And what are you going to be like when you meditate day and night? A tree? What kind of a tree? One that's planted by rivers of water. What happens when a tree is planted by rivers of water? It brings forth its fruit in its season, its leaves shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. Guys, that is the path to prosperity. That right there. And it only comes from being centered in the Word of God. Again, all I can do is share these truths with you. You have to understand these for yourself. So that's what the world says that we are. I'm going to actually give an opportunity here at the end in just a few minutes for some questions. Okay? So I want you to be thinking. I want you to be thinking about this. That's what the world says. Now, we need to really level out who does God say that we are? Who does God say that we are? There's a couple things that we need to understand. When I say that they, I'm talking about us, all of us. Who does God say that we are? We have to understand a couple things. God has a right to name us because He created us. You might be sitting here and be like, Well, who gives him the right to tell me, to give me my identity? Well He created you. He created you. And the truth is you can only be identified by the one who creates you. Nobody else can give you your name. Nobody. And if you try to rename yourself, that can be a very dangerous thing Okay. So let me say that again. God named you, and we're going to talk about who God says we are in just a second. This world is attempting to counteract what God, the identity that God has given us, saying you can call yourself whatever you want. Not according to the Bible. I mean you can call yourself whatever you want. It doesn't make it true. It doesn't make it accurate. You can only be identified by the one who created you. And I'm telling you, if you call yourself something different than what the name you are, then it could be a very bad thing. We have a pet at our house that we love dearly. Our pet's name is Tess. And I have a picture. Usually when I if I'm speaking this at camp, I'll actually bring this pet in and introduce this pet to the campers. And uh I'll have a picture of her. This is our this is this is our pet. I think. There she is. I am so thankful to introduce you to Tess, this is our family's pet fish. Now, okay, there's always one. How many of you would say, yep, she's a fish? You think she's a fish? You think she's a fish? Come here. Oh you said it, come here. All right, what's your name? Jackson. Okay, Jackson, you see our fish? Yes. Okay. Alright, you think she's a fish? You just like, yeah, she's a fish. All right, Jackson, tell me why she's a fish. I said she okay, alright, I'm another human. Alright. Why else is she a fish? She has some things that fish might have? Yeah. What? A tail. A tail. Do fish have tails Okay, does it does uh our pet have a tail? Yeah, okay, alright, got something going for you. What else? That's it. Nothing else. Eyes, okay, the fish have eyes? Does our pet have eyes? Alright, you got that going for you, Jackson. Anything else? A mouth. A mouth, okay. Fish have mouths? Yeah. Alright. I can promise you this. Jackson is gonna never gonna dog sit our dog. You know why? Because I'm scared to death he's gonna treat her like a fish. You can have a seat. Thank you, Jason. Now, obviously Jackson, I hope, was joking. Okay? Jackson, what is she? A dog. A dog. Okay, listen. Listen I can call our dog a fish all I want. But if I take her out and drop her off in the middle of the ocean, she's going to die. Because she's not a fish God gave Adam the authority to name these things. He named her a dog. And if I treat that dog like a fish, She's gonna die. Guys, there are ramifications to attempting to rename ourselves. Guys, according to what the Bible says We do not have 900 different types of names. The Bible is very clear. Very clear about our identity. And that's what I want to mention. That's what I want to walk you through. Again, I'm not going to tell I'm not just telling you this. I want you to see it from the scripture. Okay? So, God created us with the perfect identity. Okay? God created us with the perfect identity. Okay? And we've got to understand that. So in the very conception of time, God created us with the perfect identity. Now what is that identity? Here it is. Number one. Every single person that walks on this planet is an image-bearer of God. If you're born in, whether you want to admit it or not, okay? Doesn't really matter. According to what the Bible says, every single person is an image bearer of God That's who we are. Where do we see that? Genesis 1. 27 says this. So God created man in his own image. Very clear. I mean uber clear. Got it? God created man in his own image. So, what is our identity? Every single person that's on this planet is an image-bearer of God. Secondly, okay, now we're all image bearers of God. Now that identity is broken into two. What is those two? Male, female. Where do we see that? Same exact verse. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God created he him. Male and female created he them. Every single person, listen, you can you can believe whatever you want, but you can be wrong. The Bible says, every single person, image-bearer of God. Then it's broken down into two categories, not 900. Male and female created he them. He is uber clear in regards to this, God is in his word. It's almost like he knew we were going to battle this for some reason this day and age. Which doesn't make a bit of sense to me. And I'm not trying to be ugly, but God is very clear about this. Image bears of God, male or female. That's the perfect identity that God created initially. But something happened. What happened? The perfect identity becomes marred. God created us, and then the fall of man happens when man chose to sin. So therein, now we start to try to think we are whoever we want to be. And man just goes all sorts of directions. Well, God says, you know what, I'm not going to leave it there. Man chose to sin, and he says, I'm not going to leave it there. I'm going to offer a way to get back to the perfect identity. The perfect identity becomes marred, and God offers redemption to restore us back to the perfect identity. Okay? I'll walk back through this again. Where do we see this? 2 Corinthians 5:17. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, He is a new creature. Old things are passed away. All things are become new. Okay? So God offers a way to restore us back. Now we're in the process of being restored back when we get saved. When we get saved, we are in that process of being restored back to that perfect identity. Never going to be perfect until we get to heaven when we are glorified. Then perfect identity becomes realized again. Okay? Image bearer of God, male, and female. So God created us as an image bear of God. I'm walking back to this again, every single person on this planet. Then either male or female. Sin comes into the picture, alters that, God offers redemption, and now there's another aspect of our identity. What is the aspect? Now it breaks down again into either saved or unsaved. Okay? And there's some aspects that are true of us if we're saved. There are aspects that are true of people who are unsaved. Make sense again? Everybody, image bearer of God, breaks into two categories, male or female. Sin comes into the world, mars it. God offers restoration. And redemption and restoration, now we become either saved or unsaved. Because you have to buy back into that redemption. You have to come to know Christ as personal savior. And when you do that, you are saved. If you don't do that, you are unsaved. So therein lies the identity. So now we are saved or unsaved. If I am saved, this is my identity. Okay? We don't have time to deal with this heavily. But just remember these truths. If you are unsaved, you are a sinner. It's like, wait a second, I'm saved and I still sin. Okay? But what we're talking about in this aspect is you are, that is your identity. I'm going to mention this in just a minute. If you're saved, your identity is not sinner anymore. It's something else. We'll talk about that. If you're unsaved, your identity is sinner. Not only that, enemy of God. You are a slave to sin. You are spiritually dead. That's the identity if you're unsaved. If you're saved You are forgiven. That's your identity. You are forgiven. You stand forgiven of everything you've done, everything you do, everything you will do. You are forgiven. You are a child of God, you are forgiven. That leads us to our next, I am dead to sin. Why? Because I am alive to God. Again, there's a lot more we could talk about with this. I am a child of God. That's who I am. Child of God. I am a slave to righteousness. Because I am a new creature. That's my identity. Okay, does that make sense? Let's have one more aspect of this that we need to talk about. What is our identity? Image bearer of God, either male or female, either saved or unsaved Saved or unsaved male or female image bearer of God. That's our identity. That is every person that walks on this planet. That is who we are. That's who God says we are. And God has the right to name us because God created us. Does that make sense? Okay. Now, hold on. I want to I got one more aspect. of what we of this message that we need to talk about. And I really want you to get this because we get confused sometimes here. Okay? You are who God says you are. That's your identity. And that's what we've just talked about. Now There's one more aspect that sometimes people think is what's creating our identity or what tells us our identity. But these things are not our identity. Okay, and follow along. Get this. I want you to get this. This is fairly deep. Get it. Okay. You can get this. If you are redeemed, if you are a Christian, he is now Molding and identity is not a right word. He is molding you into who he wants you to be. Okay? God uses different circumstances in our lives to mold us into who he wants us to be. We already have our identity. Okay? We know who we are, image bearer of God, male or female, saved or unsaved. And so often we think That the circumstances I go to are go I'm going through are creating my identity. That's not the case That's not the case. God allows circumstances into our existence to create us into who He wants us to be, not identity. And to better understanding what it means to please Him with our choices. These circumstances come into our lives in many different forms. Okay? What are some of those forms? You see them on the on the screen. Trials. The culture I am born into. The family I have, the job I have, the accomplishments God allows me to have. These are things that mold us and help us grow. These are not our identity. And I'll explain it in just a second. I grew up in Alabama. That doesn't make me a redneck. Some of you are like, you do it. No, it doesn't. Okay. It might be true that I am a redneck, but it doesn't make me a redneck just because I grew up in Alabama. We have to understand this. None of these things give us our identity. These are circumstances that we go through that mold us. better into who God w how we obey God and we give glory to God. You are not defined by these things. You are not defined by your accomplishments You might be the MVP of your sports team. That's wonderful. That is not your identity. You might be first chair of whatever instrument you play. Great. That's not your identity. You might be able to sing. Wonderful. That's not your identity. Why is that important for us to understand? Think You might be the MVP of your sports team. Why is that important? That's great. That's not your identity. Why is that important for us to understand? Because we build our lives around our lives around something like the competition, that's not good enough for me to do Okay? Exactly. But what's the detriment? What happens if we do build our lives around something like that? What? It crumbles. What happens if we lose that? This is uh suppose I told you this story back in high school. I was a linebacker for our sports for uh for our football team. Last game of our senior year, home game. Um MVP of the league. Had scouts in the stadium. I was running around the end. I had a free rent free line to the quarterback, and when I did, somebody came out. I mean D one scouts in the in the sands come out, took me out at the knee, blew out my knee, gone. No, it's not a true story. But if it were somebody like, are you kidding me? No, okay, not a true story. But if it were Okay, so what what if that was a true story and what if I got D one scouts in the stand, they're like looking at me for giving me a a D one scholarship. My goal is to play D one uh play there for three years and then go into the NFL and Ba house. Okay, so that's That suppose that's my goal. One move, take out the gone. If my identity is bound up in that What happens if I lose it? You gotta be like trying to fill it with something else that wasn't the word gone. Okay, there's potential for that. Right? Depression. What's that? Depression. Depression. Depression, yes. I'm sorry. I thought you said I thought you said knee pressure. I was like, well maybe, but depression. Okay. So this is it. If I have built my identity around that, and it's gone, then my identity's gone But if my identity is found in who God says I am, then it doesn't, I'm not saying it doesn't matter. There's still hard things that come and it hurts. But we don't crumble. We don't fall apart. We don't go into depression. We might lean that way, we might struggle for a little bit, but we fall, we find ourselves back out, and we say, okay, God, yep. I know who I am in you, and you allowed this in my life. It's not my identity. You allowed this in my life for whatever reason. It's yours. I'm gonna trust you. When that is who we are, we are fine. And the reason this world is falling apart right now Is because they find their identity in things that will not satisfy. There's so much of this world is falling apart because of this election. Because now their world is over. But if they can draw themselves back out and say, Okay, God, this is all in your plan, then they could be perfectly fine. Does that make sense? Guys, it's important for us to understand our accomplishments do not give us our identity, but guys, neither does our sin. That is liberating. Because there are so many times I talk to so many teenagers that just think, you know what, this is just who I am. This is the battle with sin that I have. I'm an angry person. That's just who I am. I'm an angry person. No, not if you're a Christian. You're a Christian who is battling anger tendencies. And God has a way out. These things we've been told. I grew up in a broken home. That means I'm probably going to be broken too. That's just who I am. No. God allowed you to grow up in the home you grew up in for some reason, but it's not your identity. My parents sold drugs. That's all I'm ever going to be. A kid of a drug dealer. Maybe I'll probably go up and sell drugs too. No. Not if you're a child of God. You are a child of God. That's who you are That's who you are. I've been abused. That just means I'm damaged freight. Nobody's ever going to want me. Nope, that's not the case. You're a child of God, and He values you. I'm an addict. That's all I'm ever going to be. No, not if you're a Christian. You're a Christian who is struggling with addiction addictive behaviors, and there is a way out. We have to follow it by God's plan, but he will absolutely give you grace to overcome. Because where sin abounds, grace blows it away I used my dog earlier. God created her as a dog. Now a dog can be part of a certain breed. It can be small, it can be black, it can be brown, it can be cute, it can be ugly, it can be abused, it can be loved, it can be intelligent. It can be obedient, it can be useful, it can be playful. These are all descriptors of something that is in essence dog. My dog is never going to be a cat, it's never going to be an elephant, it's never going to be a snake, it's never going to be a fish. Sorry, Jackson. She is fundamentally a dog. And guys, look at me. You are fundamentally who God created you to be. And who is that? An image bearer of him, either male or female, either saved or unsaved. Wait a second. Don't these experiences create my identity? No. These experiences help mold you into who he wants you to be. Make sense? And guys, the Word of God tells us all of this, and this is true North, and it will give us stability in our identity. And then it'll help us understand purpose. Make sense? Okay. Questions Yeah, real loud. Um, are we a rule of change? Well keep going, what do you mean by that? He said, Are we capable of s of changing someone's reference point? Try to convince somebody that what they think is wrong should be first in this thing that will be Okay. So he's basically asking, can we change somebody's mind? The truth is, and this is actually liberating, the truth is no. Like the answer is no. I can't I said this a couple times. I can't make you believe these things. But you know who can? Somebody way more powerful than me. God molds the hands of kings. He can change somebody else's mind. Now, what do we need to do? We, our role in this is to point to truth. So, in essence, we can help the process, but listen, this is where we have problems sometimes because we think just by giving them our thoughts, we can help somebody think right. Guys, the only thing that helps somebody think right, ultimately, is God 's word. Because the Holy Spirit uses God's word to change a heart. So when you're talking about somebody, I wouldn't argue with anybody about identity. What I would do is say this. I can't make you believe anything else. Let me tell you what I believe. And then what I do, I go straight to Genesis 1. 27. And so this is what the Bible says, this is who the Bible says we are. They're going to want to argue. Don't argue. Let them talk. You don't argue. If they give you an opportunity to clearly lay out that passage of scripture and say the Bible says we are image bearers of God, we are either male or female. Let God do God's work. Take them to truth We are called to be peacemakers, are we not? We are not called to be pacifiers The only way, get this, this is deep. The only way to to to bring to get true peace is to bring true two warring factions to truth And when they both believe truth, there is peace. I can stop people from fighting by keeping them away from each other, but if I want true peace, it has to come to truth And then peace can happen. Does that make sense? So when you you're don't argue with people. Don't argue. Just give him truth and then step away and watch what God can do. It's a great question. What else? Listen, they're not need and you're like, I've heard of there's not stupid questions. Okay? Seriously, if you got a question on your mind, ask it. Yeah, what's your question? like bottle like bridge and definitely kind of bottle compliments or another bible. Yeah. Yeah, but the word of God is truth. And that bridge is solid. It's good. What else? Questions? Yeah. Say about like regret. Regret? Okay, can you keep going? She's uh she's asking what can some what can you say about regret? Uh a little more specifics if you can. The uneasy feeling of just regret and generally like how to not uh Okay, so regret and in regards to Sin? Okay. Alright. So she's asking what what would be something you could say to somebody? And you guys might have friends in this that regret. Listen. How many of you sin? Uh huh. You know what God has said? First John one nine. If we what Confess our sin. My buddy is faithful and just to forgive me. Is that what it says? My mom and dad are faithful and just to forgive me. Is that what it says? Who does it say? He is faithful and just to forgive and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Now, I don't understand this. One of the consequences to sin, I understand this part. One of the consequences to sin is guilt, which is regret. Okay? But when I wallow around in my guilt, or I wallow around in my regret, I am not taking God at his word. What did God say? Did he forgive me? Did he forgive? Absolutely. So do I have to wallow around in my regret until I feel like God will accept me anymore? No. Not according to what the Bible says. God's accepted me. He wants me to get up and get moving and live for Him. And to not live in regret. And you might be like, well, Willie, won't that just breed somebody wanting to just allowing themselves to sin more? Not as they get closer to God. Because the more I see what God has done, the less I want my sin. That's a natural progression. Do I still sin? Yep. I have a daughter back there, she'll tell you. I have a son back there, so he'll tell you. I still sin. I sin a lot. I had to ask my son to forgive me this morning for something. I still sin. But I can tell you this, I'm not going to wallow around as as much as I think rightly. I'm not going to wallow around and be like, man, I blew it again and I'm just And I'm not saying whoever is your friends or whatever just look I'm just, you know, I'm just awful No, you know what I need to do? I need to get up. God, you forgave me. Thank you for forgiveness. God give me grace to just go out and do what's right. We don't need to wallow around in our guilt because when we do, we're not taking God at His word and saying He forgives. I don't know why. He has chosen to forgive. I don't know why he has chosen to give to give me those things, but he has And I just say, thank you, Lord. Give me grace to live for you. And when I blow it again, God, thank you for being there. God knows you're not perfect. You know you're not perfect. Just live according to what he wants. When we do fail, we get on our knees, we repent, and we get up, and we get moving. Did that make sense? That answer the regret? Great question. Like that's one that's asked quite often. Because that that goes into assurance of salvation. Man, I sin so much. God can't, I mean, God can't, you know, love me. He must not have, you know, I just sinned so much. I can't be a Christian. Yeah, you can. Man, you don't know what I've done, Willie. Have you ever murdered other Christians? Paul did. I'm sorry. Saul did. God converted him. I don't see Paul, I don't see it, I'm not saying he didn't, but I don't see Paul ever living in his regret. You know what he lived in? The knowledge that God forgave them. And he wrote most of the New Testament. Other questions? Good. Can circumstances affect our identity? Can circumstances affect our identity? No. You know why? Because your ident identity is a set thing. And that's what we're talking about. Circumstances come into our life to help mold us into who God wants us to be as far as A person trusting him. But it doesn't affect our identity. Our identity is a settled thing. We are image bearers of God, either male or female, either saved or unsaved. Well they do all the time. You know, what if God if God is, you know, would allow me to go through this and he must not love me That's just not believing the truth. And God has to bring them back. So it does affect it. It doesn't give a reason. Yeah, yeah. And again, that's in God's hands. So it is a good question. Because m people have probably gone through stuff like that. If that makes sense. Anything else? All right. You've got your sponsors, you've got your parents, pastors, youth pastors. Guys, don't live in silence. Talk about these things. Talk about these things. It's not bad to talk amongst each other, but you guys are all You're going to be kind of talking about the same things. You need to make sure you under you have the truth that's playing into all of these things. Make sense? Okay. All right, I'm going to pray and then what do I do next? Do I turn it over to you? Gaines. Oh yeah. We're going to goof off more. Good. Okay, let's pray. Father, thank you again for the truth of your word. I pray that you would help us. And Lord, I pray that you would continue to govern our thoughts in these cases, Lord. We need your grace to understand. I pray that you would help the ones out here to really kind of think through and settle in their hearts the things that we talked about today and you're going to be continuing to talk about. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.