Whether we realize it or not, we walk on this planet for one ultimate reason, and that ultimate reason is to bring glory to God. And so being like him is what we're progressing in. For those of us who know Christ as personal savior, that's the direction of our lives. Now, everybody look at me. You will not be perfect. Okay? God knows that, you know that. But what is the trajectory of your life? What is your plan? Where are you heading? What is your desire? And I hope, I mean, especially and I would imagine that most of you being willing to give up a full Saturday to do something like this, there is a trajectory of your life that says, you know what, yeah, I want to please God. And so being like Jesus is the way that that happens. I mean that's the intent. That's how that's where we head. Okay? And so contemplating what we're contemplating today is vital for that. Guys, we have to be purposeful. We have to have purpose in this life. Now, this is not just a psychological aspect of trying to make sure you have purpose. Life's going to be better for you. No. There's only one way life will be what life needs to be. And that is to make sure your purpose matches up with God's purpose. Because everything in the trajectory and and we're hearing it from a Pastor Joel, okay, from Ecclesiastes, everything in this life has a potential to disappoint. Okay? God never will. So you find yourself living for God. You're going to find yourself, that's where joy comes from. That's where stability comes from. Okay? Um now I think we all understand this. We all um okay we all I'm talking about every single person that walks on this planet um It is it has has a hasn't has the same type of a goal. And this is it. Our desire is to, as people on this planet, our desire is to be drawn out of sorrow and sufferings. We need to understand something. Okay? Our default position, every single person, not just us in here, not just Christians, every single person on this planet, default position is sorrow. You're like, eh, that doesn't sound like a whole lot of fun. No, it doesn't. Okay. But that's that's what we're talking about. We're we live in a in a sin-cursed broken world That's where we are. So every single person, default position, you know what me what I mean by that, right? Default position, what everything goes back to. Our default position, every single person is suffering. Is sorrow. That being said, every single person on this planet, the same desire is to be drawn out of suffering. Now, there's a couple ways you can attempt to go at this. For those people who don't know Christ, they're doing the same thing. They're wanting to be drawn out of sorrow, but their only solution To being drawn out of sorrow is pleasure. Well, herein lies the problem. Pleasures don't satisfy. Pleasures break apart. So the people who don't know Christ are desiring to be drawn out of suffering and sorrow, and they're putting all their hope and trust in in in pleasure or in people. And what happens inevitably Because it always does. Those things crumble. And guess what? They find themselves back in that same pit of sorrow and despair. And so this world is attempting to draw itself out of sorrow, and when that when that pleasure breaks apart, then guess what? They try to go to the next sorrow. What's going to happen? It will break apart. It'll break apart. And every single thing will break apart, will fall away. Those of us who know Christ, we have a solid rock. And guys, when you find your dependence, even though we live in a sorrowful world, there will be sorrows that come, there will be trials that come, there will be things that affect us in life. But when we find our solution in Jesus, He is a solid rock. He pulls our he pulls us out and he sets us upon a rock. If you were at camp last summer, my Christmas life seminar, I dealt with Habakkuk. And at the very end, Habakkuk had the exact same issues. He's like, what's going on? I don't understand what why why things are happening in this life. Why is why is this that? Why am I experiencing certain things? And then he took a step back and he says, wait a second All right, God, I know you're this and I know you're this and I know you're this. Those truths stabilized him. At the end of that book, he comes around, although I lose everything Yet I will trust in you. And it wasn't just he was saying, I'm going to try to trust in you. He gave us the reason why he could trust in him, and it's this, because you will make my feet like hindsfeet, like a deer that's very sure-footed, and you will set me upon a rock. That is the solution in life. So guys, listen, we can't make this decision for you. This is honestly it's your decision. What are you going to choose to find your purpose in this life? Are you gonna look at pleasures? I'm not being mean by this, but go for it You're going to find they are going to sadly disappoint. It doesn't mean we can't enjoy things in life. God has given us things in life to enjoy, but not to the detriment of our fellowship with Him. And if we look to those things for our satisfaction, those things will crumble away, and you will be sadly disappointed. However, if you look at Jesus and you find your satisfaction in him, that he will bring you out, he'll set you on a rock, and even in the midst of storms , You can be fine. You can be fine. And honestly, guys, therein lies the pathway to purpose. To a life of what the Bible says is perfect peace, or peace, peace, perfectly peace, perfect, perfect peace that you can have, even in the midst of turmoil. God alone does this. So finding purpose in life is vital. So how do we find purpose in life? We're getting a lot of instruction about that today. And one of those things I want to highlight is finding purpose in life. is knowing who you are. You can't find purpose in life if you don't know who you are. And as I had the opportunity to work with young people, uh a lot of them, throughout the course of the year. I'm seeing a lot of this. They don't know who they are. And when they think they know who they are, they're looking at it from a wrong angle, and they're finding their their satisfaction life breaking apart because they're they're not grounded in the right thing. It's vital for us. I think the most important question that you could ask yourself is who is God? I think that's a question we need to constantly be reminding ourselves of, constantly be asking ourselves, and constantly be finding out. The only way you find that out is by being in God's Word. Okay? You're never going to know God if you don't look where He's revealed Himself. And guys, if you're not in God's word, you're going to struggle. We've got to be in God's Word, not to check it off the list, because that's what Christians do. No, to we we go to God's Word because we know that's where we get to know our God. And the better we know our God, the less we want our sin. That's a vital truth that we need to understand as well. So, the most important question I think we can ask ourselves is: who is God? I think another very important question that we could ask ourselves. And I I had that clicker and I left it someplace. Talk amongst yourselves while I find it. Thank you. See, it's not always the sound guy's fault. That was completely on me. All right. Um is the second most important one of the questions that follows along in that is you we ask ourselves who we are. Who am I? And this is a vital port uh vital question that we need to ask ourselves is who is who we are. And these questions that we're talking about, we're talking about who am I? Okay. There's a lot of uh smaller questions that make up this bigger question of who am I. I like to converse when I have the opportunity to speak. So I'm gonna throw things back out to you. I want to hear what you have to say. Okay, I think it's important. I it 's good for me and I think it's good for your your the the other teens in this room to hear what other teenagers have to say. Okay? So I'm gonna throw this back this question back out to you. We're thinking about the when we're thinking about the question of who am I What are some of the that's a big question. There's a lot of smaller things that can make that. There's a lot of these. What are some of the questions that make that make up the bigger question of who am I? Yeah, real loud. Okay, what do I like? What else? What is my purpose? Oh, that's what we're talking about today. Okay? Huge. What else? J. Evans or A Evans. I'm assuming you're Jay Evans. Okay. I'm just gonna say what makes up this guy over here. Okay, this is Jay Evans. He's saying what makes up Jay Evans? Okay? Okay, relationship with God, vital. What crowd do I fit in? Anything else? There's a lot of these guys. You're not gonna go wrong, yeah. How do I treat others? How do I treat others? Do I long to fit in? Do I what? Do I long to fit in? Is that what you're saying? Okay That right there we're going to talk about. Because if that's a question that comes up and we answer that wrongly, it's detrimental It's a very it could be a very bad thing for us. What other anything else come up? Yeah. Okay, where do I belong? In different places. Where did I come from? Important questions. Anything over here? Yeah. What do I want? What's the trajectory of my life? Yeah. Where am I going? Where am I going? Okay, all of these are qu and many more, okay? And some of them you might have seen in your head, you're like, I'm not going to say anything, that's fine. But I want you I wanted to get that ball rolling because I want you to understand there are a lot of littler questions That make up this bigger question of who am I? Questions like, where do I fit in? I think somebody mentioned that one. How do I measure up with somebody else? Okay? We see that a lot within social media. I mean that's one of the bad things, bad parts of social media. Some like, ah, I don't get I didn't get 15 likes today. They don't like me. Okay So so how do I measure up with somebody else? What feelings about myself are okay? The Bible has the answers to all of these. Many young people, it's not just young people, but just for the sake of what we're talking about today. And talk who we're talking about today. Many many teens are searching desperately for the answer of who am I? And really what we're seeing when we're what when we're trying we're seeking that answer of who am I. There's a lot of aimless walking. There's a lot of searching, but no landing anywhere. They don't know who they are. They don't know their identity. They have no bearings in life. Um using that illustration, if a ship loses its bearings, uh it's a very unsettling feeling for the people on that ship, correct? I don't care who you are. Oh, it's a very unsettling feeling. The bearings for a ship, okay, is true north That's where a ship, if a ship knows where true north is, they can find their place in the ocean and they can go that direction. Even though there might be difficulties and struggles all around If they know true north, they know their bearings. And if a ship loses its bearings, again a bearing is an angle between true north and the direction of that object. If they've lost your north, they have no idea where to go. And I find many young people in that same boat. We're talking about true north. And if we understand true north, then we can find our bearings in this life. Guys, look at me. All I can do is tell you this. You have to understand this for yourself. This, and I'm not just saying this because it makes good preaching. This is true north. Guys, this the Bible tells us in Peter within this book we have everything we need for life and everything we need for godliness. You need nothing else. This book has answers for everything you will ever face in this life. And you might be out there, wait a second, Willie. Doesn't talk about video games. No, it doesn't. Willie, it doesn't talk about TV. Doesn't talk about movies I should watch. Not in particular. You know why? Because they didn't have movies and TVs and video games back then. Had they had 'em, there would be specific information. But guys, what it does have. Our principles and precepts in it to guide us to making choices about the things that affect us. That's exactly what the Bible has for us. And you might be flourning, like, I don't know what to do. The Bible has the answers. And guys, listen, God has given us the church to help us within this. So what do we do? We try to make life work without without the Bible, without church? If you do, you're not going to be stable. And a lot of this is the groundwork that we need to have in place before we can understand the topic that we're going to be talking about. Again, we're talking about purpose this weekend, today. And to no purpose, we have to know who we are. That's a starting point of what we're talking about. We're talking about identity. Okay? Now we're thinking about identity. This is the definition that I want to work work with, okay? What is identity? Identity now we're going to get pretty deep here, okay? That's okay. I hate it when most of the time adults say you gotta dumb it down so teenagers can understand. I don't buy that. I work with too many teenagers. You can get deep things Now, you have to think and you have to listen and you have to focus. If you don't do those, you're not gonna get deep things. But if you do that, you will get deep things. We're gonna talk about deep things. Focus, and you'll walk away with understanding. I promise you this. So that's that's uh that needs to happen. So what are we talking about? We're talking about some deep things. Identity, what is identity? It is about our orientation in the world, okay? And you're talking about orientation, you're talking about Placing where you where you are. Okay? In the world, as a place in which we in the these are the things we do in this world. Act, we evaluate, we make choices. In this world is where we take stands. Okay? How do we get that orientation? How do we know where we are and who we are? We achieve orientation by locating ourselves. Well, the question to ask is this: what are we using as a point of reference? Now, if you use the world as a point of reference, guess what? Oh, it has a lot to say. We'll talk about some of those things it has to say here in just a minute. It has a lot to say. It has a lot of direction it wants to push you. But guys, the world is ignorant. You know why? Because the world doesn't use this. And there are times when it kind of makes a nod to this. But unless we're diving in and understanding the Word of God and who God is. And therein lies the key, knowing who God is, knowing how he interacts with his people. Knowing how he interacts with the world, knowing how he thinks about the world. I'm going to throw that back out real quick. How does he think? How does God think about the world? Not a sure question. Yeah. Okay. He loves the world. He hates sin. And every sinful deed. But he loves the sinner. He loves the world. How do we know this? What's that? Say it rule out. What does it say? Okay, say it with me. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. God loves us. God loves us. First John 4, herein is love. Not that we loved God. Nope. But that he loved us so much so. He sent Jesus to be what the first John 4 7 says 10 says, to be the propitiation. For our sins, the appeasement of wrath for our sins. That's God's disposition towards this world. Now he's also a just a just God. Wrath has to come, but he loves so much that he paid a way where we would never have to we should never have to experience. the wrath of God. And those of us who know Christ as personal Savior, we will never experience God's wrath. Why? Because He loves us. I don't understand that. Because I sin, I sin a lot. God still loves me. And he loves you. That's his disposition towards us. So guys, we have to understand How God looks at this, looks at us. We have to understand we have to be in God's Word. That's the point of reference we're talking about. You cannot know who you are if you're looking for guidance from something other than the Word of God. Does that make sense? Again, all I can do is tell you this. You have to understand this for yourself. In this session, these two sessions that I have the opportunity to talk about, we're going to basically take this topic for two sessions. In this session, we will not answer every question that we have about identity. It's impossible. And to be honest, some questions cannot be answered. Some of them are still being written. My goal in this session is to help us find true north. When we find true north, we point our ship in that direction. And even though there are going to be rough seas, and there will be, that's what I was talking about at the very beginning of the session, there is unstable things that happen in this life. But stability is found through Jesus. And even though there will be rough seas, you can know that you are heading in the right direction A teenager who is lost and has no idea where he or she is heading is unstable. True north for a person is the word of God, and it will give you stability in your identity, in who you are. Because there are fake identities out there. And this world is trying to promote this. So, what I want to take for the next few minutes, okay? And I want to talk about identity. The groundwork for purpose. Okay? That's where we are. So when we're talking about this, we're going to talk about identity, but I think it's important for us as we and this is supposed to be we're going to basically talk about this and we'll talk about the flip side of it in this next session, okay? Alright, so it's important for us when we think about identity. We need to know what the world says. Okay? Because we need to know where the world is airing. Now, this is not exhaustive. There's a lot that the world has to say. We're just going to hit a couple of them here. But we need to understand these things because where as we understand what the world says. We can better understand how to counteract it from what the Bible says. We can see the difference. The other side of it from the what the what the Bible says, which is vital for us So who does the world say that I am? Well, one of the things the world says that I am, the world tells us that we are that we are our feelings. We are our feelings. This comes from something called expressive individualism, which means it is the notion that I am most truly myself when I am able to express outwardly uh what that voice of nature says to me inwardly. So when I can when I can when I can express inside what really I truly am, I have my feelings And I can express that outwardly, then that's what I need to do. Now, there's a problem to this. The problem with this is the fact that we have sinful nature. So I can't go by my feelings because my feelings will betray me. They are not always accurate. Where do we see this? James chapter 1, verses 14 to 15 says, But every man is tempted. When he is drawn away of his own lusts and enticed. Then when lust hath conceived, it brings forth sin. Sin finished, death. The only path to this is death, separation from God. Our feelings will betray us. The world says, no, you are your feelings. You are what's inside. The nature inside tells you to be. Guys, listen. We cannot listen to ourselves. That's exactly why God has given us the Holy Spirit to guide us. Because the Holy Spirit guides us with truth from Scripture. And the truth of Scripture must govern my feelings. Does that mean we don't have feelings? No. We all emote. Okay? We all have emotions that come out, but our emotions can't govern us. Our emotions come after truth has already laid this foundation. Okay? That's so important for us to understand. Our emotions cannot govern us. The Holy Spirit has to govern us from the Word of God. Emotions follow. John 16, 13 says this about the Holy Spirit. Says, howbeit when he, who is he? He's the Holy Spirit, the Spirit of truth. Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, what does he do? He will guide you into all truth. For he shall not speak of himself, but whatsoever he shall hear from God's word, that shall he speak, and he will show you things to common. A Christian cannot be governed by their feelings because the feelings betray us. A Christian believes if the Bible says it's wrong, then it's wrong. It doesn't matter how I feel. And some of you about you here, wait a second, Willie, if I don't, you know, if I don't go with my feelings, then I then I'm just a hypocrite. No. It might mean that you are speaking the truth to yourself and doing what's right in spite of not feeling like it. Um , sake of illustration. How many of you are like, ooh, I cannot wait to get up in the morning? I love to get up early in the morning. That is just me. There's always a couple, okay? Alright, there are a few of you out there. It's like, I can't wait to get out of bed. Alright? I love getting out of bed when I know that coffee pot has just gone off. Um so okay, so if there are some of you out here, how many of you would say that ain't me? I'm staying I want to stay in bed. I mean how many of you okay, all right, most of you. All right. That's natural. Okay. How many of you are snooze snooze alarm people? You love the snooze bar. Alright. Okay. Alright, just all right, somebody raise your hand. Tell me how long how many minutes is your snooze alarm? Exactly. It's nine minutes. Why? What's the perfect why nine minutes? Why couldn't it be ten? I just don't, that's just like a side thought. I have no idea. All right, so All right, how many of you are like are like, okay, uh my alarm goes off in the morning, uh, I'm hitting the snooze? Okay, all right. How many of you hit the snooze more than once? Okay? Alright. Okay. Alright, Michael. You're a snooze bar guy, right? How many how many minutes is your snooze bar? About eight or nine minutes, okay, which doesn't make a bit of sense. But anyway. Alright, so alright, Michael. All right. Um what time do you s set your alarm? Okay, I I was at a mindset when I was especially I mean your age and older. I liked I like to get up slowly, so I planned three snooze bars. Anybody else like that? All right. I love that man. I would play in three soon parts. I knew I had 21 minutes to get myself, my drag my lazy carcass out of bed. I can't do it now because I'm married. But um And then she can get up. But um all right, Michael, you're a sooth bar guy. All right? Okay? Now be honest with me. Alright? Disney honest. You're being frank. Alright, so your alarm goes off in the morning. What do you do? You hit the snooze, okay? Alright. Eight minutes, eight or nine minutes later, alarm goes off again. What do you do? You hit the snooze again. Alright? Eight or nine minutes later, snoo alarm goes off again. What do you do? You hit the snooze again, alright? You're a three at least a three snoo. Alright, eight or nine minutes later, what happens? Maybe you'll get up, okay? Alright, you're thinking about it, you're contemplating it. You hit the snooze again or are you like? Okay, four times. Alright. We're going for a record here. Okay. Alright. Eight or nine minutes later, what do you think? Alright, sounds about right. Alright, and what do you do? Alright, get out of bed, you hypocrite. Hypocrite. Now, so many of you are like, Willie, that's mean Is Michael being a hypocrite? No. No, I'll tell you why. He's doing what's right in spite of not feeling like it. That's not hypocritical. He's actually, he's getting up out of bed. He's like, you know what? I need to get up out of bed because I know I can't stay in bed. He's doing what's right in spite of not feeling like it. Guys, listen, you are not always gonna feel like doing what is right. Does that mean you shouldn't do it? No. It means you're command-oriented, you obey the Bible, and you do what's right, in spite of not feeling like it. Guys, we can't just be governed by our feelings, and you're not a hypocrite if you do. If you do what's right in spite of not feeling like it. We have to follow God's plan, follow God's order, and do what's right in spite of not feeling like it. So the world says, oh, your are your feelings. Oh, the world also says, going along the same nine line, nature creates you. Okay? Nature creates you. That's who you are. This belief says that when you don't fit into nature, you are not truly yourself. Guys, this is a this is very dangerous. This is a very dangerous aspect of living, okay? So follow along. So this belief says when you don't fit into nature, you are not truly yourself. This brings us to a thought called alienation, which is that feeling that leaves us at odds with our surroundings when we don't fit in. This idea comes from guys like Nietzsche and Karl Marx. These guys were materialists. They believed there wasn't a spiritual realm. So if it was if it wasn't physical and material, they believed it didn't really exist. Nietzsche wrote a book called God is Dead. Marx Said this quote, the Christian God does not exist. Marx found out on March 4th, 1883, that he does exist. Nietzsche realized that same fact on August 24th, 1900. They tried to find everything in nature. That was their goal. And what's the problem with this? The problem with this is when they don't find that they are valued, when we don't find that we are valued in our surroundings, then we are depressed or we change to fit in. And that's the problem. So stay with me here, okay? When I don't find that I am valued in my surroundings, when I am depressed, I change to fit in. Nobody likes not fitting in. Everybody wants to fit in. We want to fit in so badly that we're able, we desire to go ahead and flip something. So we do fit in. And that's the problem, this alienation. And guys, it leads down wrong paths. The truth is, when we don't feel like we are valued by surroundings because we are valued by God, we've got to understand these things, okay? We don't have to be valued by our surroundings. Do you know understand why? Because you are valued by God The God that created this world, He values you. Follow this along. This alienation thought There's so many young people out there that they feel like, okay, I have to to find my place in this life, I have to be valued by those around me. I have to be valued by my experiences, and if I don't, if I feel like I'm not valued, there is an aspect of something called alienation. I am I am separated. So what do I do? Either I change who I am to fit in, and I find that those, or I find those people who will accept me As I am, even though it might be contrary to what the Bible says , that's a problem. That's a problem. Because now we are looking for our identity in what people tell us we are, or me being accepted by people. And that can't be. So the solution to this is we have to understand that we are valued. We don't have to worry about being valued by our surroundings because we are valued by the God who loves us. It's like I just don't know that. Guys, the Bible tells us all over the place. I love Matthew chapter 6. Remember Matthew chapter 6? It's the passage where Christ is talking to the group, he's talking to his disciples, but to a lot of people listening. And uh the uh basically these people with in this gr group, thousands of people, okay , were very concerned, very concerned. about where their next meal is coming from and what was going to happen when their clothes wore out. They were not We might be like get to the house and be like, yeah, there's nothing to eat and you open the cupboard and it's like, yeah there is You just don't like that. Okay? I'm not saying that's the case for everybody on this planet. There are people who struggle with that. But generally that's not the case. We're not really worried about our where our next meal is coming from. We're not really worried about What's going to happen when our shoes wear out? Why? Because technically we have another three or four pairs of shoes in our closet. Okay? I'm not saying there aren't those who worry about that, concerned, just for sake of what we're talking about. Because I need you to understand, these people were really concerned about this. And their concern had turned habitual, which means they were worrying about these things. And Christ was counteracting that because he wanted them to know how valued they were by God. And you could tell, you could, in this, in this, in this uh discourse that Christ is talking, he says, don't worry about what you shall eat or what you shall drink or what you shall put on. And it was almost like these people weren't getting it, so he's going to use an illustration. And I love when Christ does this. I can just imagine sitting there and these birds flew over. And he says, okay guys, look at the birds. And they all look at the birds. They watch them fly over. Then he asks this question, I'm paraphrasing. He says, do those birds, do they sow? I mean, do they put out the seeds that they're going to eat? After they put out the seeds, do they reap? Do they ever go around and reap what they've sown? Do these birds gather into barns? The answer is no. Do those birds look worried? How many of you have ever seen a worried bird? I've never seen a worried bird. Okay? Maybe you have. I haven't. You have to share that story with me. Okay? A couple of a number of years ago I was at the um we were at our family was at the beach and um we were I was fishing. Fishing. Which means putting some bait on, throwing it out, and about ten minutes later putting more bait on and throwing out again. Um, because I don't ever catch anything. So I had a bunch of shrimp sitting there and I was I was fishing. I was enjoying my time. And all of a sudden this mangy little bird hops right down the beach and and parks right beside you, three or four feet away. And like Hey we had this little conversation and I was like hey you want some food? Want some shrimp? These fish aren't eating it you want some? And he's like, oh I'm making some of this up. But anyway, so I took a piece of shrimp off and I threw it at the bird and it hopped over and it it grabbed that shrimp and picked up, flew away. And I watched it go 'cause I had nothing else to do. And uh so I think okay that was fun. About uh just I don't know three or four minutes later, that same bird. I know it was the same bird, I could tell it was the same bird, it had it was just as mangy. Okay? I can see the feathers that it was missing. It was the same bird. And it comes and it hops down and does it again. It's like, okay, so I'll throw it again. I am not kidding. I am not exaggerating. It did it no less than twenty times. Now, I am assuming that that bird was taking it back and feeding its babies. I I guess it could have been selling on the block, like, hey, you want to buy some shrimp? I guess I guess it could have been doing that. But it but I'm assuming it was taking it back to its nest. I don't think that bird got up that morning and be like, oh man, what are my kids gonna eat? Boy, I'm so scared. What are my kids gonna eat? I hope there's some guy out on the beach that really doesn't know what he's doing with fishing. Give me his bait. It doesn't do that. Look at me. Yet your heavenly father feedeth them. How much better are you than they? How many birds are on this planet? I can't count. You can't count. A lot. Guys, God feeds them. And you're way more important than they are He goes into another illustration. He talks about flowers. Because they're worried about their clothing. He's like, all right, look at that flower over there. He says, can you just let's just look at that thing. Solomon in all of his glory wasn't arrayed like one of those. And then he goes on, he says, they don't toil, they don't spend, they don't wake up in the morning like, what am I going to wear? But God clothed them. He's going to clothe you. Are you not much better than they? Guys, listen. You are valued by the God who created this world. And he didn't work like with his hands for uh billions of years to create this. This is how strong he is. He created we have four major waterfalls on our property. Many of you have been to Fourth Falls, right? Many of you have been there? Okay. Pretty impressive, right? It's beautiful. How many of you could build a waterfall? I've tried. I did a luau at camp one time up at the lake for our staff. And I was like one of the things that would set this thing off and be really look like a Hawaiian Lou Alf. I built a waterfall on top I don't know why I did it, we had waterfalls, but um built a waterfall on top of the lifeguard tower, so I bought it took me two days I went up there boulders and rocks. I had this submersible pump down the lake and I had these pipes going up and I was so proud of it and then I plugged it in and it was like I worked for two days to build that. God created fourth falls And hundreds of thousands just like it, by the word of his power. He spoke and created it. That same God that created this world is the exact same God that loves you. That you are valued by. Guys, why are we so concerned about being valued by our surroundings? Couple passages. I'm just going to tell you to write them down. I'm not going to read through them, but Psalm 139, verses 13 through 16, talks about God valuing you. The same passages I just mentioned, Matthew chapter 6, verses 25 through 34, talking about this how much God values you. You are valued by the God that created you. So the world says that you are your feelings. Feelings betray us. We can't live by our feelings. The world says nature creates you. And when you don't fit into that nature, you better do something to make sure you fit in. You better create whatever identity you can to make sure you fit in. That's what the world says, because that's the most important. And the Bible says, nope, you don't need to fit into your surroundings because you fit in with the God that created you. You fit in there. When you are a child of God, you fit in. You absolutely fit in. I don't care how I don't care anything else about you, you fit. And God loves you. You don't have to fit into your surroundings. You don't have to be valued by your surroundings because you are valued by the God who created you. Make sense? Got one more aspect of what the world says before we turn and look at what who God says we are. That's the transition of what we're gonna be talking about. Okay? We're still talking about this identity in the next session. But we're gonna take a short break here