Well, good evening. I'd like to welcome you to our 2025 Christmas Eve service and very excited about the opportunity to gather together tonight. And just focus our attention on the Lord Jesus Christ, the miracle of the incarnation, and just to listen to beautiful music, to participate as the congregation singing. and these wonderful Christmas hymns, and then to just kind of see how it all weaves together as we look at the Christmas story from the book of Luke. So I'd like to ask you to bow together with me for a word of prayer, and then we will open up our service with our first scripture reading in just a moment. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, we're so very grateful that 2,000 years ago the Lord Jesus Christ, the eternal word, took on flesh. Dwelt among us. We thank you so much for the miracle of the incarnation. The Lord Jesus came 2,000 years ago in Bethlehem ultimately to go to the cross. To die for our sins and to rise triumphant from the dead. I pray that this evening as we reflect on that first Christmas when Christ was born, We think about all these wonderful truths. I pray that our hearts would be stirred. I pray that we would be encouraged, that we would worship you as a body, and I pray that this would be a very Christ-centered, encouraging service. service and we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Our first scripture will come from the Gospel of Luke. Luke chapter one. will read verses 26 through 33, Luke Chapter 1, 26 through 33. And in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God unto a city of Galilee, named Nazareth, to a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David, and the virgin's name was Mary. And the Lord came in unto her and said, Hail, thou that art highly favored. The Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among women. And when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying, and cast in her mind, what manner of salutation this should be. And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary. For thou hast found favor with God. And behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb and bring forth a son, and shalt call his name Jesus. He shall be great, and he shall be called the Son of the Highest, and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David. And he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there shall be no end. All praise to thee , sir. You have to flash a blood , the take a legal rose on woes Come is in the dark nights to make us children of the light, to make us in our balance divine. Like thine own angels proudly shine. We make up all the world on the lad we may of all the way. We'd like to welcome you all to Anchor Baptist Church for our Christmas Eve service. Please stand with me and open your hymn books to hymn number 194. Joy to the world. Hymn number 194. We'll sing all four verses. Sing out before the Lord this evening. Joy to the word of the Lord. What is come wherever we take away, whatever they come , we never come and dangerously. The water on the core of the world of God be able to make God meet the life, free we 've all like free. And one thing will be law and all the other Our next scripture reading is from Luke 1 forty six. And Mary said, My soul doth magnify the Lord, and my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Savior. For he hath regarded the low estate of his handmaiden. For behold, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed. For he that is mighty has done to me great things, and holy is his name, and his mercy is on them that fear him from generation to generation. He hath showed strength with his arm. He hath scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts. He hath put down the mighty from their seats and exalted them of low degree He hath filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he hath sent empty away. He hath hope in his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy, as he spake to our fathers to Abraham. And to his seed forever. Всем с Our next song will be number two hundred twenty-eight. What child is this? Two hundred twenty-eight. We'll sing. All three verses. What if it 's you 'll have to make Madame, we're closing. And we'll turn back just a few pages to hymn number 199. Hark the Herald Angels sing. We'll sing all three verses. 199. Great scene. Our next scripture reading is from Luke two, one through seven. And it came to pass in those days that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be taxed, and that taxing was first made when Cyrenius was governor of Syria, and all went to be taxed, every one into his own city. And Joseph also went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth into Judea, unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and lineage of David. And so it was that while they were there, the days were accomplished that she should be delivered, and she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger. Because there was no room for them in the inn Okay , I'm saying that. And talking about it. Two hundred and one. I'm proud of my boy. Two hundred and one. Oh come all you feel Oh God , you may come to work for my broken. Controllio Luke two, eight through twelve And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not, for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign unto you, ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. Six exposed Let's stand, stretch our legs. Singing Angels We Have Heard On High. We'll sing all four verses 196. Angels we have heard. And the mountain replied that on that glorious grace. Shepherd my Say tell me why your joy is straight from all Say what may an hiding beyond Come to my wife. Come on, the tea, right now for the forty. May we just want an age when I think our thing of her É mentre minimis béjátom. And let's turn over to 225. 225 away in a manger. We'll sing all three verses. Oh wait, another grandpour Come little teeth, fountain, sweet man And stay my wife for me. Cost why you 're not me I pray for all the tears and I 'm gonna Great singing, please be seated. The final scripture reading will be from Luke chapter two verses thirteen through twenty. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God, and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace Goodwill towards men. And it came to pass as the angels were gone away from them into heaven, the shepherds said one to another, Let us now go even unto Bethlehem. And see this thing which is come to pass, which the Lord hath made known unto us. And they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph, and the babe lying in a manger. And when they had seen it, they made known abroad the saying which was told them concerning this child. And all they that heard it wondered at those things which were told them by the shepherds. But Mary kept all these things, and pondered them in her heart, and the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen, as it was told unto them. Well I'd like to just take a couple of minutes this evening to kind of pull everything together that we have heard This evening. We've been able to listen to some beautiful music. We've been able to sing some beautiful hymns. And the most important thing though that we've done is we have listened to the scriptures be read. And the reason I say that's the most important thing is because that is what draws us to the facts that we are celebrating this evening and then tomorrow. And that is the fact that there was a baby that was born in Jerusalem to Bethlehem 2,000 years ago. And that baby is the Lord Jesus Christ. And so I'd like us to kind of take a few moments this evening to reflect on the significance of that moment in history. First thing I want to mention about that is that this is a real event that took place The reason I say that is because in Luke chapter 1 it says, It seemed good to me, having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write unto the most excellent Theophilus. That thou mightest know, here's the important statement, the certainty of those things which you have been instructed. Now, what does he mean the certainty? What he's basically saying is this, everything that you're going to read about in the book of Luke, about the Lord Jesus Christ. All the miracles that he performed, all the things that he taught, all the things that were said about him, all of the events that took place, these are things that you need to believe actually took place. I'm writing to you as someone who has carefully cataloged these things and is presenting them to you so that you will be convinced That in fact has happened, and this is true. The second fact I want to mention about the Christmas story is this. These events are all about one singular topic. You know what that topic is? It's salvation. That whole story is about God moving in history to save, to redeem people who are estranged from him because of our sin. And there are many, many passages here in Luke 1 and 2, and then if we go back into Matthew that talk about Jesus being the Savior. For instance, in Matthew 1. 21, it says this. Thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. That word Jesus means Jehovah saves. Every time people were to say his name, they would be speaking about the salvation of the Lord. Luke chapter 1, verses 69 and following, it says, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, who has visited and redeemed, very important word, his people. He has raised up a horn of salvation for us to give knowledge of salvation unto his people by the remission of their sins. Through the tender mercies of our God to give light to those who sit in darkness in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace. Notice those words very carefully. It's to give knowledge of salvation. He has redeemed his people. He's doing this through the remission of their sins. That's what this story is all about. It's not just about us feeling warm and fuzzy and thinking about the beautiful flowers that we have in this room and the the darkness and the candlelight and all those things. And I love those things, don't get me wrong. I love those things about this season. But it's about forgiveness of sin. It's about God removing our guilt through the sacrifice of the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. And then in Luke chapter two, verse twelve, he says, Unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour who is Christ the Lord. So the first thing we mentioned is that this is a real event in history. Second thing we saw is that this is all about salvation from sin. The third fact I want to mention is that this salvation is for everybody. It doesn't matter who you are. It doesn't matter the things that you have done over the course of your life. What's amazing to me about about our nature is this. We tend to fall on one of two sides that are the wrong side of this issue. The Bible says salvation is available to whoever will turn to Christ and place their faith And it's finished work. But some people say, I don't need that salvation. I'm okay. They fall on this error. Or others fall on the other side and they say, I need it, but I'm too bad. I've gone too far. I've said things that I I can never be forgiven of. I've done things that I can never be forgiven of. I've thought things that I can never be forg Given of and so what happens is we fall on either one side or the other side of the ditch And the truth lies right here in the middle. Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. And he came to save whoever will turn to him And place their faith in Christ. Listen to what it says in Luke 179. It says that this is to give light to those who sit in darkness. in the shadow of death, and to guide our feet into the way of peace. People who don't understand their true condition They're blinded in the darkness. The light has come in. And that light points them to the Lord Jesus Christ and how they can be saved. Luke chapter 2, verse 10, it says, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. You know, one of the greatest stories in all of the Bible is the story of the conversion of the Apostle Paul. The Apostle Paul was a man who hated Christianity. In fact, the Apostle Paul was someone who was passionate, he was zealous. about stamping out this new teaching, this new doctrine about a man who they claimed, though he was crucified, rose from the dead. And though he was crucified, and though they claim he rose from the dead, they also add to this that through his sacrifice His death and his resurrection, whoever will turn to him and place their faith in him can be saved from their sins. Their sins can be washed away once and for all. The sacrificial system is no longer necessary because that sacrificial system was pointing to the Lord Jesus Christ, this person, and that person Christ, fulfilled everything that the law demanded. You know what the Apostle Paul did? He said, I hate this religion. I want to destroy this religion. I want to stamp it out because it's replacing the truth. But one day, that man who was a blasphemous persecutor of the church, who even had the blood of innocent people on his own hands, that man met the Lord Jesus Christ. And when that man met the Lord Jesus Christ, his life was radically changed. Why? Because he repented And he believed on Christ. And the man who used to be a blasphemous persecutor of the church became the greatest evangelist that the church has ever known. Why? Because the gospel is true. Or there's another man who is a condemned criminal hanging on a cross. And as he hung on that cross, there was another man beside him, and then there was another man to the side of him. And this man and the other man began to rail against this man in the middle. That man in the middle was Christ. And as they railed against the Lord Jesus Christ, they saw and they heard some things that they could not make sense of. The sky became totally black. And this man, Jesus of Nazareth, who is being mocked. And derided. He was peaceful and quiet as he hung on that cross. And in that darkness, he said, Father, forgive them. They do not know what they are doing. doing. He said, it is finished. Into your hands I commit my spirit. He hung his head and he died. But before that man died, the Lord Jesus Christ, that thief beside him realized he was mocking someone who is a perfect, innocent, righteous man As he hung on that cross, he realized I'm mocking the Savior. And you know what he did? He told the other man to be quiet. The man who he had been mocking Christ with, he told him, stop. We deserve to be here. He doesn't And he said, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. You know what Jesus told him? This day you'll be with me in paradise. You know what it tells me? If God can save Paul and God can save a thief on the cross, he can save anybody And that's really what Christmas is all about. He is the Savior. So I ask you a very simple question. What does Christmas mean to you? Is Christmas a myth? Is it a legend? Is it a bunch of fun cultural traditions that are being lost in the Western world? Or is it the miraculous fulfillment of God's promises to redeem sinners to himself? Do you realize that this is something that could not have , salvation could have come no other way, but the way that it did The Bible says that the cross is the wisdom and the power of God. You know why it's called that? Because that's the only way we can be saved. We are sinners who are separated from a holy God because of our sin. We have no hope to reverse our lost condition in anything that we do for God. Keeping the law, going to church, paying tithes, promising you'll never do that thing again, that doesn't remove our guilt. Only one thing removes our guilt, and that is what Jesus did on that cross 2,000 years ago. As he was nailed to that cross, our sins were placed on him. And he died for our sins. And whosoever believeth in him, the Bible says, will not perish, but have everlasting life. Have you ever placed your faith in Christ? Have you ever turned to him just like Paul did on the road to Damascus, just like the thief did on the cross And just like people did who listened to him preach the gospel as he preached his ministry on the earth, have you ever turned to the Lord Jesus Christ and place your faith in him? His finished work alone. He invites you. And so as we close out this service in just a few moments and we sing Silent Night, I hope you won't forget what the real reason of the season is. It's not about gifts. It's not about Santa Claus. It's not about all the Christmas traditions that we enjoy. It's about the Savior. Emmanuel, God with us. Jesus, Jehovah saves, the one who went to the cross to remove our guilt. If you've never placed your faith in Christ, as I bow in prayer, Close this service, you can call on the Lord and ask him to save you. You can confess to him that you are a sinner, like the Bible says. That you believe that Jesus died for your sins and he rose from the dead and you want him to save you. You want him To bring you to himself and give you eternal life. And if you'll call on the Lord in childlike faith, believe on what he has done for you, guess what? He'll save you. It's not about some special prayer that you pray or some word that you say. It's not a formula. With a heart, we believe we're justified. Let's bow together for prayer, and then we will close by singing Silent Night. Our Father, you know every heart in this room. You know, the those that may be conflicted in their souls, those who are so warmed and comforted by The wonderful message of Christ Emmanuel, God with us. As we think about these things, I pray that we would not forget them quickly. But that these would take root in our hearts. If there's someone here tonight who's never placed their faith in Christ, I pray that tonight would be the day that they turn to Christ and they place their faith in what He has done for them. For them. And for all those who have placed their faith in Christ, I pray that this season would be all about Christ. We would delight in our Savior. We would glory in him. We would praise him. We would thank you for this great gift that is available to us through him. And I pray that as we sing this final hymn and close out this time together, our hearts would be encouraged and we would have truly worshiped you in spirit and in truth this evening. We ask this all All in Christ's name. Amen. I'd like to invite you to turn with me to hymn 219. We're going to stand and sing silent nights. We'll sing each of the verses, and then on the last verse, I'm going to ask Deanna to bow out, and we will sing at a cappella. Silent night. Holy night. Let's sing it out. Cool. Oh , So we have Peace Well, it's been a delight to be able to spend time together this evening focusing on the Lord Jesus Christ