I'd like to ask you to turn with me in your Bibles to the book of 1 John. 1 John chapter 2. 1 John chapter 2. And as you're turning there, I'd like to ask our children, ages 4 to 7. You can be dismissed to junior church. Children ages four to seven. You can be dismissed to junior church. I'll read the text. And then we will go to the Lord in prayer. First John chapter 2, verses 1 and 2. My little children, these things write I unto you that ye sin not. If any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. And he is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. And as we go to the Lord in prayer, I want to mention two individuals in the church who have have asked uh that we keep them in prayer. One person is um in the hospital. They had a uh surgery yesterday. It was kind of a sudden thing, but if you think about it, pray for uh Bob Mushaw. He is in the hospital. If you need any of the information, you can check with me after the service and I can give you that if you want to be an encouragement to him. Also, Eileen Hester mentioned that she has a procedure tomorrow and asked for us to Uh pray that that will go well without complication and no side effects from the medication. I know there are a lot of other issues that are going on in people's lives, and so um we will Let's go to the Lord in prayer and remember not just these individuals, but really all those in our church who are carrying heavy loads and need the Lord's strength each day, as we just sang about. Let's bow together in prayer. Father, we live in a fallen world and we're reminded of that every day. We continue to lift up to you those who were affected by the events this week in Annapolis. We also think of those in our church who are carrying heavy loads. We think of Eileen Hester as she has a procedure this week. I ask that you will help that to go very well without complications as they Give her the medication afterwards to pray she'd not have any side effects that would cause her trouble. Pray for Bob Mushaw as he's in the hospital and recovering from surgery Pray that you will strengthen his body and help in the recovery. Father, help us to remember one another in prayer and to pray for these individuals. We know there are many others who are carrying heavy loads. Some are sick and cannot be here today. Uh some have traveled and they need your protection as they're on the roads and as they're out and about. Uh we think of the wilds that's coming up and the young people that will be going. I pray you'll give safety to us as we get in the vans and Head down to North Carolina. We pray you'd really bless that week. May our teens find it to be a very impactful week in their lives. A week that was perhaps a turning point for them in areas where they are struggling. I pray that you will move and work in the hearts of our young people in that week And we pray that it would be something that we reflect on with great joy as a testimony to your work. Thank you for a wonderful week of vacation Bible School. And the young people who trusted Christ this week, I pray that uh you would be at work in their lives, and I pray that uh families who are not attending Good gospel preaching churches will through this week of Vacation Bible School find their way to visit us and we would be able to reach into their lives and open up our Bibles and show them the way of salvation through Christ alone. We pray for those who are caring for family members and the many weights that they are dealing with. Pray for those in our congregation who are dealing with heavy uh physical issues, a lot of sickness, a lot of hospital visits, a lot of back and forth. I just pray you'd give tremendous strength to them and help them to draw that grace from you each day. We ask that you would bless this preaching time. May the Word of God be expounded with clarity this morning. As I open up the Bible and as I preach it and teach it, I pray that you would guide my thoughts. And that what is said would be consistent with your word. I ask that the Spirit of God would move in our midst, would bring conviction of sin, righteousness, and judgment to those who have not yet repented and believed on Christ. And to those who are your children who need this encouragement, may you strengthen us through it. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to begin with this illustration. How many of you have ever been interviewed by a newspaper or a magazine? Anybody like that news? Okay, a lot of people. Now I'm not going to ask you to raise your hands, but when you receive that interview, or gave that interview, I guess would be the way to put it. And then saw it published. Did you feel that what they said you said was consistent with what you intended to say? Well, you know, maybe some of you say that editor did a great job condensing what I said and communicating exactly what I intended. There may be some others who say That guy used my interview to pretty much promote an agenda that he wanted to promote in his paper or magazine Well, there are times that we take things that people say and we misrepresent them. We abuse them. We take them and we run with those things. to places that we never intended for them to go. Perhaps your children have done that to you, parents. You make a statement, you meant something by it, and then your child is doing something, you're like, what are you doing? Well daddy, you said, and you're like Yeah, but that's not what I meant. Well, when we come to this text, I think there is a little bit of that in what John is saying. Now he's not saying or he's not assuming that they have misrepresented and abused what he said and he's angry. That's not the sense in which John will say what he says. But John wants to clear something up. What I just said to you can be abused if you're not careful. Notice what he says in verse 1, my little children these things write I unto you that ye sin not. Now when we look at 1 John chapter 1, we see verses like, if we say that we have not sinned, we deceive ourselves The truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. We read that verse and we say, hey, this is great. I have the license to do anything that I want now because there's this formula, if you will. I sin, I confess it, he's faithful and just to forgive and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Well, while it is true that the Christian can be forgiven and there can be a cleansing and there can be a restoration of fellowship. That passage is not there to be used as license. And John understands that, and so he wants to make it clear I wrote these things to you so that you don't sin, not so that you sin, and now just kind of put your little ticket down and say, there you go. A great illustration of this is what happened during the time of the Reformation. There's an inf uh a guy who was going around, his name was Johannes Tetzel, and he was selling something called indulgences. And so that little indulgence basically gave people the liberty to help get their family members who had died out of purgatory. So obviously this is not a biblical concept, but I'm explaining what was happening. People would buy an indulgence and say, My grandmother who I love very much is in purgatory. I don't want her to stay there. And so I'm going to buy this indulgence, buy her some time, and then she can get out sooner. Well there were others that said I'm gonna go anyway. I might as well buy my indulgences now, do what I'm gonna do, have my fun, and say, look what I got. I'm okay, I can do this What an abuse. Obviously it wasn't a biblical concept, but the truth is that sometimes people approach a text like 1 John 1 In that kind of a way. And so John wants to clear that up. The reason that John writes this section is because he wants to demonstrate in a very tender and affectionate way to these Christians. That they need to strike the correct balance in their view of their Christian walk. They need to strike the correct balance in their view of the Christian walk. And they need to do that because God wants them to one, turn from their past sins. And two, to have a continu to rest, or could I say, to find refreshment and to glory and to have joy in the continued work that Christ has on their behalf. So this is why he writes it, and that's what God wants us to do. So the question is, how in the world can you and I have a biblical view, a correct balance, if you will, in our view of the Christian life? Let's observe some of the details of this text, because as we do that, I think we will be able to see exactly how God would have us view this issue of sin and our relationship to our Heavenly Father as Christians. The first truth that I want to see is this. We must be moved by John 's affection in the text. We must be moved by John's affection in the text. Let's not overlook the way that John writes to these people. He says, My little children. My little children. Do you not get the sense that John has an affection for these people? And by the way, John's not a young guy. He's an older man. He's been their pastor. He knows them well. He knows their tendencies. He loves them deeply. He says, My little children, these things write I unto you. John connects this section to the last with that little statement of affection and love for the people. He does not expound doctrine with a coldness. He expounds doctrine with a warmth, if you will. He expounds the doctrine with a warmth and affection because that is a reflection of God Himself towards those people. The reason that John loves them as he does is because John walks with God. And because John walks with God, God's heartbeat towards these people is something that John has felt. He has sensed, it has changed how he looks at them, it has moved his affections toward those people. If you will, the warmth that John has for them is a direct and consistent reflection of how the Savior views those people. And so he's calling them to walk and enjoy that Savior with him. I want you to see a couple of wonderful texts that remind us of God's attitude towards his children. Psalm 103. 2 says this: Bless the Lord, O my soul, forget not all his benefits. who forgiveth all thy iniquities, who healeth all thy diseases, who redeemeth thy life from destruction, who crowneth thee with loving kindness and tender mercies, who satisfies thy mouth with good things. So thy youth is renewed like the eagles. The Lord executes righteousness and judgment for all that are oppressed. Do you not get the sense that God loves his people? In Psalm 145 it says, The Lord is gracious and full of compassion, slow to anger and of great mercy. The Lord is good to all, and his tender mercies are over all his works. All thy works shall praise thee, O Lord, and thy saints shall bless thee. And the text continues, but for sake of time, I will move on. It's a wonderful, wonderful text. Go to Psalm 145 and read that Psalm. And recognize the fact that when God looks at his children, he feels this affection and this warmth and this love for his people. When he says, I write these things to you so that you don't sin, he's not saying, I'm trying to keep you out of the candy store, guys. He's saying I want you not to sin because I love you. Because sin is damaging to you. It is damaging to others. In fact, we will see a little later in this text that God hates sin. It grieves God at his core, and he hates sin because its nature is loathsome. What sin does to you and what it does to me is something that should grieve anyone. But when we think about God's attitude towards his children, we see warmth and affection. And John tries to communicate that in that little phrase, my children, these things write I unto you. We come to a second truth, and this one is very important. We must be informed by the precision and the balance of what John will state in this text. We need to be informed by the precision and the balance of what John says in this text. He says, I've written these things to you so that ye sin not. And then later he says, and if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father. Now I want you to think about it. He's saying, don't sin, but then in the same verse he says, but when you do, here's what God has available for you. Why in the world would John do that? Because he understands that there is a theological tension in play when we're talking about the Christian experience. God's love and God's wrath and his justice, his tenderness, these aspects of the character of God are all in perfect tension and balance and proportion. And if we're going to think correctly about God and we're going to think correctly about our relationship to Him and if we think correctly about our Christian walk, we have to keep these concepts In perfect proportion and in perfect balance. When we overemphasize one, we de-emphasize the other, and we begin to get out of balance in our perspective and understanding of these truths. John is rejecting what we call antinomianism. People who say, Oh, I'm a Christian now, I'm under grace now, I can do anything that I want because, hey, I am not going to be condemned anymore. He knows that there are some who may try to abuse the concept of grace. He understands that what he's just stated If understood, could potentially be twisted to give a false impression. By the way, this is exactly what Paul understood when he was writing to the Romans. And he takes the entire first five chapters of the book to expound the gospel that we are saved by the grace of God alone, through faith alone in Christ, that we are justified in the righteousness of Christ. and not by works that we have done. And so Paul, understanding as he expounds those truths, says, wait a minute, I don't want what I just said to be abused, so I'm going to make this caveat statement, if you will. Romans 6, 1. What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? There are people that said, well, if God's grace is the glory of the gospel. Well, the more I sin, the more God's grace is magnified, is it not? So sin and sin and sin and God's grace is magnified. He says, no, that's wrong. That's an abuse of grace. He says, Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid. How shall we that are dead to sin live any longer therein? And Paul understands something. Grace is not abused by new creatures. Because there's something inside of that new creature that compels him in the presence of grace to glory in Christ. and to walk and strive to desire to walk in holiness. And so he says it makes no sense that we would say, let me sin to expand and demonstrate the grace of God. He said, what an abuse of God's Grace. And Romans chapter, or he goes on to say this: God does not want us to sin. 1 John 2:1, these things I write that ye sin not. John is basically saying the exact same thing that Paul is saying. And what we see is that there needs to be a perfect balance and proportion when we think of the concept of grace. And the fact that we need to walk in holiness. There's a perfect balance between our position and our practice, law and grace, if you will. And we need to strive in our minds to think correctly about that. In Romans 6. 6, he says this knowing this that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, henceforth we should not serve sin. He says, Reckon you also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Neither yield your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin, but yield yourselves to God. Grace, when properly understood by a child of God, is not something that we want to abuse. We see it as the freedom and now the enabling to walk in a way that pleases the Lord. John rejects antinomanism. On the other side, John rejects the concept of sinless perfection Because really, these are the two extremes that we tend to drift to when we move out of balance. He knows that we will sin. God comforts the conscientious saint with this statement, if any man sin, then we have an advocate with the Father. Do you see how he's trying to align these truths in balance with one another? Why is grace not abused by the Christian? I'm not saying that there aren't some Christians that abuse grace. But as a general statement, why is it that God's people are compelled to walk in holiness when they are no more under condemnation? Romans 8 gives us the answer in verse 5. They that are in the flesh do mind the things of the flesh. But they that are in the spirit, the things of the spirit. The carnal mind is at enmity against God, it's not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be, so that those who are in the flesh cannot please God, but ye are not in the flesh, but in the spirit If so be that the Spirit of God dwells in you. When a man or a woman, when a child trusts Christ , His position changes, but it's more than his position. His nature changes too. If anyone is in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things pass away, all things have become new. And that person who is a new creature has the Holy Spirit come and indwell them. And when that Christian is beginning to, we could say, press against grace and abuse it, God's Spirit comes gently alongside of him and says, What are you doing? And if the gentle doesn't work, a little bit more pressure and then a little bit. It's called chastening or discipline. God comes alongside of us, He convicts us. He strengthens us. He compels us. The reason that Christians are compelled not to abuse grace. It's because of the presence of a new nature and in the Holy Spirit inside of them. John draws that perfect balance that we do sin as Christians. Yet at the same time, we feel compelled and pressed in our hearts to walk in holiness. We see a third truth, and that's this. I must be strengthened by the comfort That John gives to these people. Look down in verses 1 and 2. He says, if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father. Jesus Christ the righteous, and he is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only, but for the sins of the whole world. Now let me tell you, that passage or that little statement is a very rich statement. There are several words I don't want us to just glance at, I want us to think about with a little bit of depth. The first word is this, we have an advocate, an advocate with the Father. What does the word advocate mean? You know what's interesting? That word advocate is the word that John uses when he talks about the Holy Spirit. In John 14, when he says, I must go away, and if I go away, I will send you another comforter. That word comforter is the exact same word that he uses here translated advocate with the Father That word paraclete is the idea of somebody who comes alongside of an individual and they strengthen them. They encourage them. Their presence is something that enables them to face and deal with the things that they are facing. So Jesus is going to leave in the John passage, John 14. He knows he's going to die. He knows that the disciples are not going to fully understand what's going on. They're going to need comfort. And he says I'm going away and I've been your comfort, but when I go away, I'm going to send the Spirit and He's going to come alongside of you and He's going to strengthen you. He's going to walk alongside of you. He's going to give you what you need to go through this set of circumstances. But that phrase, another comforter, is what catches my attention. Because Jesus does view himself as a comforter. But the question is this, how is Christ's presence a comforter or an advocate to me? One of the things that we have to keep in our minds is that God is not happy with our sin. God hates our sin. Our sin is loathsome to him. Our sin is an offense to him. And when we sin, especially as believers, we feel the sense of the weight of those things. When I sin as a Christian, I know very well that that is something that displeases God. It's something that convicts my heart. It's something that makes me feel dirty and guilty and could we say unable to continue sometimes And so what does Christ do for us in that situation? He comes alongside of us and he says, I am your advocate. I stand beside you and I stand beside you as the one who says, you have forgiven him because of me. Do you get what I'm saying? You have called him righteous, not because he actually is in his practice, but because he has taken me as his savior, and I stand In his behalf. Do you understand how comforting that is? Christ stands beside us And he is our advocate. He is our comforter. And it doesn't just say that he's our advocate, it says he's Jesus Christ the righteous. That's important because only he can truly stand beside you and plead on this behalf. You know, your mom and dad can't do that for you. Your pastor can't do that for you. The godliest Christian that you know can't do that for you. Your husband or your wife can't do that for you. Your grandparent can't do that for you. Your deacon can't do that for you. Only Christ can't Can stand do that alongside of you and strengthen and encourage you as your advocate, saying, I am righteous, you are accepted because of my presence, not because of who you are. Very, very important concept. We then come to a second word that's very, very important. He is the propitiation for our sins. The word propitiation is a very deep and rich concept. It does not simply mean the removing of guilt Though that is part of the concept. But it goes deeper than that. It actually has the idea of the satisfaction of wrath that is against an individual. I love this illustration in the Ghanaian culture where I've lived for many, many years. If a young person offends an elderly person , If they have done something that is very serious, they do not have the ability to go to that person and ask for forgiveness. They do not have that ability. Their culture forbids it. It does not allow it. If a young person tries to go to that older person's house , and sit down with them and plead for forgiveness, the person will not even speak to them. They will turn away and go inside. They do not have the ability to go and talk to an older person. It can be their mom, it can be their dad, it can be their uncle, their grandfather, a teacher. If that person is in a position where they have been offended and they're old enough, that child, that young person cannot go to them. So this is what they do. That young person who has done wrong goes to a person who they have not offended, who is in good terms with the one that they've offended. They go to that person, they humble themselves, they plead with them, can you go to them for me? Okay. Can you go to them for me? And then that person will go, and they will stand in the place of the other one. In some situations, the offense That has happened is so severe that they have to give something with that person that will settle the anger of that older person against that younger person. Depends on the cultural situation and what it actually is. But when they bring that offering, if you will, the situation is essentially diffused. The anger is gone. It's been appeased. And now the relationship can be restored and things can be right That's the idea of a propitiation. Christ was the offering that satisfied the wrath of God against sin. Some might say, well, I feel a little uncomfortable using the term the wrath of God. Well, there are people that feel uncomfortable with that, but it's thoroughly biblical, and it's really at the heart of the gospel. In Romans 5. 9, it says, being justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. When we were the enemies of God, we were reconciled to Him by the death of His Son, by whom we have now received the atonement. Ephesians 2. 3 says, before our conversion, we were by nature the children of wrath. In John 3, 36, it says He that believeth on the Son has everlasting life. He that believeth not the Son will not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. Romans 2, 5 says, After thy hardness and impenitent heart, you are treasuring up for yourself wrath against the day of wrath and the revelation of the righteous judgment of God. When we sin, it's not a, could we say, a neutral thing that we've done. It's extremely offensive to God, and that is because of the nature of sin itself It's evil. It's loathsome. It's offensive. But in Isaiah 53 it says this: it pleased the Lord to bruise him. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He will see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. He will bear their iniquities. The reason that I emphasize this tonight or this morning is because one, it is biblical, and two, it gives us the weight and the magnitude of the gospel If you want to understand why the gospel is such great news, then understand what the gospel dealt with: God 's wrath against sin. The gospel is not cheap. It cost Christ his life It says in Romans 8 :31, He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up also for all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? Who shall lay any charge against God's elect? It is God that justified. Who is he that condemns? It is Christ that died, yea, rather that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who maketh intercession for us, who shall separate us from the love of Christ. The reason that that text has any weight and value is because of what it accomplished. John is basically saying: when you sin and you feel the weight of your sin, and you understand God's justice and God's holiness, and how he cannot look upon your sin, remember something. Christ is your advocate. And Christ is the propitiation for your sins. God is not angry with you anymore. There is no condemnation to those that are in Christ Jesus. When God looks at you, he looks at you with love and tenderness. Not in wrath, because Christ received the guilt and the weight of God's wrath against sin. But he doesn't stop there. Because he then goes on to say this: And not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. When Christ went to that cross, his sacrifice was not only sufficient to take care of my sins and yours, but for the whole world. When I go to a person who is lost, I can tell them Christ died for your sins. He wants you to be saved. He was punished in your place. And he can't look at me and say, well, you know, you're a Christian, so he died for your sins, but not mine. This text says, not for ours only, but the sins of the whole world. Do you not understand how great a statement that is? When we were the enemies of God, we were reconciled to him by the death of his son. God didn't love us when we were his children. He loved us when we were his enemies. Christ didn't go to the cross. To save his child already. He went before you would be born. What a blessing. When we stand and we feel the weight of our sin, we need to remember we have an advocate with the Father. He stands beside us to strengthen us and say, You are righteous in me. He is the propitiation for our sins. He bore the wrath and the guilt and the weight of our sins. And he says, my father is no more angry at you. He has poured it out on me, and it is finished. And he says, just in case you wonder, he's died for a whole lot of other people too, who have not yet trusted in my finished work. And his sacrifice. It's for all. What a blessing to consider these truths. I ask you this morning When you come to think about your position in Christ, when you think about practice and how you live as a Christian. How do you fall in this category, if you will? Do you tend to fall more on the antinomian side? Where you say, Hey, may I continue in sin that grace me abounds? And Paul says, God forbid. I wrote these things to you that you do not sin. That might be what he's saying to you Perhaps you fall on the other side where you feel I have to be perfect. If I sin, I'm a piece of nothing. I'm worthless. And the text says, we have an advocate with the Father. Jesus Christ the righteous, he's the propitiation for our sins, not ours only, the sins of the whole world. I ask you, do you potentially fall or drift towards one of these extremes? God wants us to turn from our past sins, and He wants us to rest in the continuing work that Christ has on our behalf. I want to encourage you this morning. May we glory in the cross today. May the love that God has demonstrated to us and His Son stir up those feeble affections in our own hearts. May we pursue a life of holiness in Christ. May we think scripturally about our condition and our position and our practice. That is the encouragement of the text. God wants us to turn from sin and to walk and rest in the position that we have. May God help us to draw the right balance. As we reflect on these things. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. Our Father, we think about this text, and it is a glorious, magnificent text. It's meant to encourage us. It's meant to draw the perfect balance. It's meant to remind us that you deeply love your children. Like a father pities his children, so you pity us. Father, help us to have correct thinking where we would draw correct proportion and balance in our view of the Christian walk. I pray that you would minister to the souls of every person in this room. If there's one who's never turned in faith to Christ, I pray that today they would recognize their need to do that. I pray for those who are feeling a bit liberated and think their sin is of no significance. I pray that you would convict them that that is an abuse of grace. And I pray for those who in their consciences are so badgered by guilt and overwhelmed. By the weight of sin. May they find great comfort in the fact that Christ is our advocate. He comes alongside us to comfort and strengthen us. He stands on our behalf in the presence of the Father. He is the propitiation for our sins. There's no condemnation to those in Christ Jesus. Father, would you minister to every soul here exactly as you see fit? We ask it in Christ's name.