The reason I draw our attention to this is for a simple reason that the people that John is writing to had the balance. They had the young Christians. They had those who were maturing, but not necessarily stable, older Christians. And then they had those who were like John. They knew Christ from the beginning. They had that whole spectrum in that congregation, and that they have very healthy and vibrant balance in the church. Let me ask a question. What is our condition? What kind of a church are we? Are we a church with no baby Christians? Or no older matured Christians or only middle? What are we? I ask you to think about that. Because the reality is how we'd answer that question really tells us where we need to provide more balance by how we focus our attention on the people we're interacting with. We come to a second truth, and this truth is also very, very important. Our expectation for others And for ourselves should be proportioned to our season of growth. Our expectations for ourselves And for others should be proportionate to our current season of growth. I remember hearing an illustration many, many years ago by one of my teachers And he talked about when he had his child, his first child, his first child was a son. And he was so excited about his son. This guy, unfortunately, was a Chicago Cubs fan, so. If you're a Chicago Cubs fan, I'm sorry. You have something in common with this man. You didn't see your team go to the World Series many times, and certainly didn't win many World Series over many, many years. And so when he had a son, he said, I want my son to be a baseball player. I don't know. Any any men in this congregation um have some like dreams and aspirations for your kids. I'm not saying you wanted them to play for the Cubs. Probably nobody here wanted their kids to play for the Cubs. I don't know. But you had this dream in your mind about what that child could become. Well, I want to ask you a question. When that little child comes home from the little nursery there at the hospital , How much ability does that child have? Can the child lift its head? Can it? Can the child even roll over? Can the child say any words Does the child understand any words? Can the child crawl? Can the child stand? Can the child sit up? Can the child feed itself? That child is completely dependent upon you. And he said, How evil would it be if your expectations were not reasonable for that child? You know what I'm talking about? You're upset at this child because it can't crawl. Well, no child can crawl at that age. None at all. Well, then the child gets a little bit older, and the child becomes a toddler, if you will. So he's just starting to hobble around and he's climbing up on things. How wrong would it be for you to expect the toddler to be able to go into the first grade? Well we all know that that's ridiculous. The truth is that when we talk about a child being strong, we're not saying that the child is as strong as his dad. We're simply saying he's strong in proportion to the kids around him. That's what we're basically saying. Like when he grips your finger, he can squeeze really hard. We don't mean he can pick up a dumbbell. You see, our expectations with our children are consistent with what we know is the normal development of someone at that age. But you know what is interesting? When we walk into the church, all of a sudden we begin to be parents who expect a toddler to be in first grade. We expect the first grader to be in the high school. You know what's amazing about John, a very old and seasoned and balanced and godly man? He recognized that that's not true He recognized that there were a group of people in the church that he could call little children. They were like babies. They were like toddlers. He knew that they were saved. And he knew that they had learned something. He knew that they had spiritual life. He knew that they were growing in Christ-likeness. But the degree to which they had grown was very small because they were just little kids in the faith. He had another group of people who when he looked at them he said, these people are mature, not fully, but they're like young men. If you will, they're like guys who are playing high school baseball, guys who are going into college. You look at them and they have energy and they have strength. They have vitality, but there's a little bit of discernment and maturity lacking sometimes. They can do a lot. But you've got to hold them back a little bit. You know what I mean? You just do. And then you have folks in the congregation who've lived their lives and they have valuable lessons that they have learned. And John recognizes all of those groups are in that congregation. He addresses them individually, and he knows that the church needs them all. And I'm concerned that many times in churches, we tend to emphasize the value of one group as opposed to others. We tend to think that only the older matured are the true valuable ones in the church, or only the middle ones are the true valuable ones in the church. Only the young Christians are the ones that are valuable in the church, and God wants all of them in that congregation. congregation, because they all have value and they all bring something to the table that God wants to do in that congregation. There are many expectations that we have of people in the church. Let me just mention a couple of them. A pastor in 1 Timothy chapter 3, there's a whole list of qualifications, if you will. You could say the maturity level of those individuals has to be very clear. And one of the things that he says in verse 6 is a pastor cannot be a novice, a brand new Christian. Because if he is, then he's going to be lifted up with pride because of the position that he's given. When he talks about deacons in verse 10 he says a deacon has to be proved. That means he has to be a matured individual. You don't take a baby Christian and make them a pastor. You don't make a baby Christian a deacon because They need to have a level of maturity. They need to have demonstrated that they have stability. And he lists a whole list of ways that you can see that in those individuals. He mentions fathers in the church. In Ephesians 6. 4, he says that fathers are to bring up their children in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. You might say, I'm a young Christian and I'm a dad. You have expectations. God wants you to grow to a point of maturity where you can teach and mentor and disciple your children. that you can give them the gospel and explain to them how to grow into Christ's likeness. He mentions expectation for husbands. First Corinthians 14, 35. He says, If a wife will learn something in the church, she should ask her husband so that he can teach her. Now this is not something that Ape is mentioned a lot in the churches, but the truth is that in First Corinthians chapter fourteen they had a problem in the church Rather than the ladies going home and discussing the issue with their husband so he could explain to them what the Bible was saying, they were just blurting out in the service their own opinions. And he says, no. Go home, discuss it with your husband, and let him lead you and help you in that area. It wasn't a demeaning thing, but he's explaining that there's an order that is expected there. Well, if you're having a responsibility as a husband to teach your wife, you've got to grow, right? You gotta be able to do that. We think about teachers in Titus chapter 2. He talks about the older women, if you will, the mature women in the church. The older men, if you will, the more mature men in the church. are to teach the younger women, are to teach the younger men. And he lists the kinds of things that they are to teach. If you will, there's expectations. That's the point that I'm trying to make is that those expectations are proportioned to the position you are in life, if you will. They're in proportion to the level of maturity that God expects you to be at in your walk with Him. And so there are people here that Don't have the spiritual maturity to be a deacon or a pastor or a teacher, but you do have the spiritual maturity to teach your kids. And maybe there'll be a day that you will have that ability or you will have that maturity. And when that day comes, God will give you that responsibility. You see, there are different expectations depending upon where you are and your growth. We even go to Ephesians chapter 5. And one of the, or excuse me, Hebrews chapter 5, and you can turn there, Hebrews 5. 11. One of the things that the writer of Hebrews points out is that we can be at a point where we should be mature. But we aren't. Do you get what I'm saying? We should be here, but we're not. Even maybe we have grown to a point and then we've kind of backslidden. We've kind of begun to slide back from where we should be. We've allowed the things of this world to crowd out our thinking. So what does he say in Ephesians 5. 11? He says, you are dull of hearing. And the idea is that you've become this way. Not that you were always this way, but you used to hear, and now you're not hearing like you used to hear. He says, when for the time you ought to be teachers, you have need that one teach you again the first principles. It is possible for people within a congregation to become complacent and to draw back from where they could or should be. He says, you have become such as need milk and not strong meat. You have become unskillful in the word of righteousness, and the list goes on. My point is simply to draw our attention to this verse to say this. It's possible for you to be a Christian for 20 years and not be spiritually mature. Because obviously these people should have had the maturity to be able to teach. They should have had the maturity to be able To skillfully use the word of God and to have discernment between what is right and what is wrong. But they had lost that ability. They had lost their ability to hear the word distinctly and to act upon it. So not only are there different expectations depending on where we are, but it is possible for us to get to a place where we slide back from where we should be. You know, there's even place in the church for those who are spiritually immature, and their conscience is not yet developed biblically. In Romans 14, he says this, Him that is weak in the faith, receive, but not to doubtful disputation. One believes that he may eat all things, another who is weak eateth only herbs. Let not him that eateth despise him that eateth not, and let not him that eateth not judge him that eateth. God has received him. I would encourage you this afternoon to go to Romans 14 and read that passage Because what Romans 14 does is it explains to us how people who are mature in the faith, who have a biblical conscience, are to relate to those who are not yet matured in the faith, and their conscience has not yet become grounded in the Word of God He says, if you understand what is right and wrong, and you have a brother who hasn't grown to the place where he understands the freedoms that he has Or where some of the limitations are. Don't hate that individual. Don't scorn that individual. Don't mock that individual. Don't be demeaning to that individual. Let them grow and work with them where they are. That's basically what he's saying. And he gives a very specific situation that was going on in the church, probably not one that we deal with here because we don't have a Jewish congregation, okay? But there they had this problem. You know, they no longer had to follow the Jewish law as New Testament Christians. They could eat food that was unclean under the old covenant system. The Jews could as New Testament Christians. But some of them had not grown to the place where their conscience would allow them to do that. There were people in the church who were Gentile Christians, and they'd never had a problem eating unclean foods. So obviously their conscience wasn't bothered at all. And Paul says, don't condemn the person whose conscience is bothered. By forcing them to enjoy a liberty that they really have. I'd really encourage you to think about that. As Christians, we have to recognize in this congregation there are different levels of growth. And we have to have realistic expectations toward ourselves and towards one another. So let me ask you this question. Would you view yourself as a mature Christian? It's kind of a weird question, isn't it? And it may be one that you don't really feel comfortable answering. You go, uh I'm going to be proud if I say I'm a mature Christian? And you start analyzing deeply that question. I'm not asking it because I'm trying to make you feel uncomfortable or because I'm trying to get you to go home and kind of beat yourself over the head about where you are in the growth. But I want to ask you a question. Do you have the ability to rightly divide God's word? When you pick up your Bible and you read it, can you understand what it's saying? Not, oh, this is the thought that came to my mind today, but you know what it's saying. There's a difference. Has your trust in the Lord been able to persevere through those difficulties? Or have you been crushed by difficulty and you doubt God? Do you have stability in your heart? Do you have assurance that you have trusted Christ and you are in Christ? Are you patient and humble and loving towards other people? Do you put others ahead of yourselves and your dealings within the church and within your family at work? Do you have biblical and eternal values? Do you have discernment when you can tell when something is right and something is wrong? Are you gracious toward other people in areas of Christian liberty? Is your conscience trained biblically? Are you motivated by the glory of God, or is self-promotion why you do what you do? Do you understand the fundamentals of the Christian faith? Are you committed to Christ being Lord and not just isolated areas of your life, but all areas of your life? I'm asking the question because if you're a matured Christian, these areas you will have a biblical answer in. And if you do not have maturity, there are people around you who God has placed next to you who do, and they can come alongside of you, and they can help strengthen you and build you up so that you do grow to those places If you're a brand new Christian and you go, man, all those things I struggle. I'm not there. I say that's okay. I don't mean like that's okay. Twenty years from now, I hope you're the same way. I don't mean that. But what I'm saying is, it's okay. You recognize you need to grow. And God will come alongside of you. And through people and his word, he'll build you up and grow you. How does John make the distinction? Listen to what he says. Little children, your sins are forgiven, and you've known the Father. That's all he says about them. God forgive your sins, and you know God a little bit Enough to be saved. You know that he loves you, you know that he's holy, you know that Christ died for your sins and he rose from the dead, that God cannot accept you in your fallen condition. You had to repent and trust in the finished work of Christ. You know God to that level, and he has forgiven you, but that's all he says about them. There might be people like that here. When he talks about the young man, he says, You have overcome the wicked one, you are strong The point that he's making is that you've gotten to a point of maturity where you can actually really be used by God. That doesn't mean you've arrived. That doesn't mean that you're an older, matured individual in the church, but you have grown and you've become strong and God can really use you. Maybe some people in here like that. You haven't arrived, but God's working through you, Christian. He's maturing you and growing you, and one day you'll be at a point of true maturity. When somebody's dealing with a really deep and difficult situation, you'll be able to come alongside of them and not just say, I love you, and pray and I'll pray with you, but you'll be able to actually give them something that will help them. And so John communicates that. And then he mentions fathers. He says, You have known him that is from the beginning. You have known him that is from the beginning. What is he emphasizing? You know God. There are people in our church, they're not baby Christians anymore. They have gone through that stage of young man, if you will, and they know God. They can't do what they used to do physically. But if you sat down with them in a real deep, difficult situation, they can give you something that'll help you. When they speak, you listen because they know. And I want to ask you, are you that kind of a person? How would you view yourself in your growth as a Christian? John recognized that in that congregation There was, if we could say, some diversity in this area. And not only does he recognize it, but he addresses that very issue. So that moves me to a final question that I want to ask, and that question is this: how do I mature? Well, first of all, you have to be a Christian. You can't grow as a Christian if you don't have new life in Christ. If you haven't placed your faith in the finished work of Christ, if you've not been born again, born from above, if you're not a new creature in Christ, You don't have the capacity, you don't have the ability to mature and to grow in the Christian life. You could be a member of a gospel preaching church for 50 years. But if you're not a genuine Christian, you'll never grow. You have to, through dependence on the Lord, develop spiritual disciplines. You can be a believer for 50 years, but if you don't come faithfully to the preaching of the word, you don't come to church. You don't fellowship and interact with other Christians. You disregard the means that God uses to build you up and grow you in the faith. You will not grow like you ought. And you'll be like those believers in Hebrews who he says, you have become in need of milk. You've become dull of hearing. You should be a teacher, but you need somebody to teach you again. the basic principles of the oracles of God. It takes time in God's providence. You can't make yourself become mature. One of the ways that we mature is we go through hardship. God actually enables us and strengthens us through hardship to become strong. To become mature. There's a reason that an older godly saint can sit down with you and give you godly advice. It's because they've probably experienced a lot of the same things that you have. They walked through it. Somebody came alongside of them. They got in their Bibles. God taught them. They were able to reflect years later on what they went through. And they were able to look at it with a clear mind. And when you sit down next to them with a clear mind from what they learned about God and themselves, they can tell you something. You can't make yourself mature. God does that. So, truth three, while our season of growth does not affect our position, it affects our Christian experience. In Colossians 2. 10, it says, you're complete in Him. All three of these people were described in this way. Your sins are forgiven. You've overcome the wicked one. You know him. All three of them knew God to some level. Their sins were forgiven, and they were called overcomers. All three of them. And that's positional truth. But what about practical experience? The fathers knew God on a different level than the children. The young men had strength That the baby Christians didn't have. And even the matured Christians. The young men had discipline. He says to the fathers, you've known him. To the young men, he says, you're strong. To the young men, he says, the word abides in you. Christian, if you want to enjoy your position in Christ, you have to give attention to your growth. You have to let God mature you and strengthen you and build you up. 1 John 2, whoever keeps his word in him, the love of God is perfected. You've got to be in the word so that God perfects his love in you Ephesians 2. 10, you're his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God has before ordained that we should walk in them. You've got to let God God shape you and mold you and change you as you walk through your circumstances of life. Hebrews twelve ten God disciplines us that we might be partakers of his holiness. And afterwards it yields us the peaceable fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ. You've got to let God discipline you. When I mean discipline, I mean he lets you go through trouble and then he teaches you and he matures you and he he he brings that qualm to you. He speaks to your soul in those times. You have to let God do that. Are you doing that, Christian? Are you allowing God to mature you and develop you and build you up? I want to mention some simple implications of this text, and then we'll close. For those of you who are prone to comparison and despair, and maybe some of you are in this place. I don't know. You look at other Christians, you say, I'll never be as mature as this person. You look at somebody who you feel like we're kind of at the same stage of growth and I don't measure up to them, please don't do that. Don't compare yourself to other people. That's a very unwise thing. What you think you see or what you see is not what's really there many times. We all have our loads we bear. We all have areas where we are maturing and not arriving. So for those who are prone to comparison and despair, no one grows overnight. Keep that in your mind. When you plant a seed, you come out the next morning, you won't see a tomato plant there. Three, four nights later, you still won't. It takes time. And once the plant's there, it takes a couple months. I mean you pick up that seed and it says, oh, produces fruit in 75 days. Huh. Well guess what? That takes time. And maybe you're frustrated because you feel like you should be here, but you haven't gone through enough time to get there yet. Trust God to bring you to maturity in His time. Your maturity is not only dependent on how you respond in circumstances. God works in you to will and do of his good pleasure. There is a side of your Christian growth that you have no control over. God does that work in you. Trust him to do it. He hasn't abandoned you. He hasn't forsaken you. He loves you. He's going to work in your life. Don't get discouraged when you stumble. Everybody in this room is a sinner saved by grace. All of us. And we're still very much prone to temptation and sin and stumbling. The godliest person in this congregation sins on a regular basis. It's true. Every person in here has the potential to do tremendously terrible things. And the fact is that when you and I stumble in the Christian life, We gotta get back up. We gotta realize that God is going to take even your stumbling He's going to use it to continue to mature you and perfect you as you respond correctly in those things. For those who are prone to pride Don't have unrealistic expectations of young Christians. I know I was very guilty of this when especially when I was in college. I remember I was a floor leader. And I had all these guys on my floor. And I look at these guys and I'm like, man, what is the deal with this guy? What does the deal with him? And you know in my mind I just have all these attitudes. I had no idea those people's background. Had none at all. I had no idea why they were where they were at that point in their lives. And the truth is that we all can do that. Rather than realizing where people are, where God is taking them and how He takes them in pride, we look down on them. Don't have unrealistic expectations for the young Christian. Don't frustrate the immature Christian. Be cautious. You know what's interesting in the Ephesians passage when he talks about fathers, he says, don't provoke your children to wrath. You know what he's talking about? Don't frustrate your kids. Have realistic expectations for them. Them. Part of being a good dad or a good mom is having the right expectations for where people are. Trust God to grow those people up in the faith. If they're truly saved. Then there are things God's doing in them that you have no ability to do. Just pray for them. Get on your knees. You know, maybe you have a child who's grown up and you're really, you know, concerned about them. You don't have the ability to change them. You have none whatsoever. If you beat them over the head constantly, you'll never get their attention. You'll just make them bitter and angry at you. Get on your knees and go to God and ask God to work out. And he can do that. None of us have When you arrive, it's going to be because you died and God gave you a new glorified body. It's that simple, guys. I know it's blunt and simple, but it's true. We're not going to arrive on this side. For those of you who want to grow, and I hope that's everybody here, you can't do it unless you're saved. Realize it takes time Take up the means that God uses to mature you. Don't misunderstand his methods. Let God work in you. Remember what the text says: it's God who works in you. To will and to do of his good pleasure. We are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good works. May God help us as Christians to have biblically balanced expectations for where we are in our Christian growth and where everybody else around us is as well. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. Father, this is such an interesting text, and as I reflected on it, it it really convicted me in a lot of areas. And I pray that you'd convict folks here. People who are very discouraged, I pray you'd minister their souls and help them to realize that they're young in the faith and they need to grow and you're going to mature them in your own way and in your own time. Help them to trust you to do that. Help them to get on their knees when they need to get on their knees, open up their Bible when they need to open up their Bible, and be Amongst your people, when it's time to be amongst your people. Work in folks who are struggling in their growth as young Christians. And I pray for those who have allowed pride to slip into their hearts. Father, rebuke them sharply. Help them to see how wicked and how unreasonable that kind of a thinking is. Father, rebuke all of us when we in pride think we've arrived and we fail to recognize where people are in their growth. Father, help us to be a healthy, thriving congregation, a church where we have matured saints who walk with you and have stability and can really pour and invest their lives. And years of wisdom into younger Christians. Help us to be a church that has young, maturing Christians who are doing the work of ministry and are really being used mightily of you. And I pray that you would continue to bring young Christians into our midst, people who we can pour our time and our energies and our love into People who can grow up in the faith, people who can become those young men and down the road, those fathers, those matured ones. I pray that this congregation will be well balanced and thriving and growing in the Lord until you return. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.