Amen. What a beautiful song. I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles and turn to Psalm thirty-seven. Psalm thirty seven We're actually going to be looking at the 37th Psalm in two parts. This morning we're going to look at verses 1 to 7. And then tonight we're going to continue on and we're going to look at a second section, verses 23 to 31. So this morning we're looking at verses 1 to 7, and tonight we will look at verses 23 to 31. You know, I love the changing of the seasons. It's something that when I lived overseas didn't really get to enjoy so much. We had pretty much two seasons. The first season was hot Really hot , dry, and it never rained. The other season was hot Humid, always overcast, and it rained a lot. And so that was pretty much the way that the seasons went. You went from hot and dry, no rain, always saw the sun. To the next season, basically you never saw the sun and it rained from time to time and it was always really humid. And the high temperature was like a five-degree difference between the two seasons, maybe seven degrees difference. But the truth is that you didn't get the sense of seasons. Well what's great about seasonal change is you get to transition from having enjoyed the summer and the warmth of the summer Once it gets too hot, you get to move into the fall and you see the leaves change and the air gets crisp. This year it was kind of like hot, cold. There was almost like no transition. But you get to enjoy that. Then we come to the winter and well eventually we're going to see some snow. And then well after everything's looked dead for a while, we get to see these beautiful flowers and we get to enjoy the air getting a little bit warmer and all the excitement of Seems like everything coming back to life. We love the change of seasons. I think that's something that God gives us because we need that. It's good for our it's good for our mental well being to be able to see that seasonal change and having something different and new. Well when we come to the change of year, we kind of have that same effect. There's not really a whole lot that changes between the last day in December and the first day in January, except for the fact that everyone will be totally worn out on the first day of January. Because they tried to stay up till the changing of the year. There's nothing really physically that changes. But it's a time of the year where we stop We reflect, we ask, what did I do well? What didn't I do well? And we try to make a purposeful change in the coming year. Psalm 37 is a passage that I think really helps us to have good biblical guidance for the kinds of changes that we should desire to have in the coming year. So with that in mind, I'm going to read verses 1 to 7, and then we're going to look at what's a very, very practical portion of Scripture. Psalm 37, 1. Fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity. For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and wither as the green herb. Trust in the Lord, and do good. So shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and He shall give thee the desires of thine heart. Commit thy way unto the Lord. Trust also in Him, and He shall bring it to pass. And he shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday. Rest in the Lord and wait patiently for him Fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass. If I could summarize what the psalmist wants to communicate in this chapter or this particular psalm, is that he wants to communicate the importance of having a humble, God-centered worldview. All of our lives need to be focused on the Lord. And so the decisions that we make, the steps that we make, the directions that we choose How we approach situations that we're dealing with, how we approach advancing of other people, how we approach things like injustice. All those things need to be God -centered in their worldview. And so that's really what the psalmist is trying to communicate. And so he's doing that because that's what God wants of us. He wants us to have a humble, God-centered worldview in the coming year. And so with that in mind, we're going to ask the question, what are the key components? to this kind of a worldview. This morning we'll look at a couple of them. Tonight we'll look at the rest of them from the 37th Psalm. I want to begin with this first word. And so if you're taking notes, you're trying to remember words or phrases, remember the word perspective. Perspective. Don't allow temporary injustices that you will see in the new year discourage you. Perspective. How you look at the situations that you're dealing with. Let me tell you, perspective doesn't change your circumstance at all. Perspective is how you interpret your situation. Perspective is how you relate to the situations that you're dealing with. And in the new year, I can't tell you when and how you're going to see and you're going to experience things that you believe are unjust. You may think that it's God who's dealt you that injustice. You might think that it's a person in your family who's dealt you that injustice. You may think that it's an employer or somebody that works for you or someone in your community. But you will inevitably in face Some kind of injustice in the new year. I'm going to face it, you're going to face it. How are we going to deal with that perceived injustice? Listen to what the psalmist says in verses 1 and 2. He says, fret not thyself because of evildoers. Neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity. For they shall soon be cut down like the grass and wither as the green herb. Basically the psalmist gives us two improper ways that we tend to respond to injustice. And he says, don't respond in those two ways. After he gives those two responses, he gives us the reason why. So notice the first one. The first command is fret not. Now if we say that someone is fretting, what do we mean by that? Maybe you see your your kids when they're really little and there's a situation coming on and they seem really disturbed in their heart. You can see it on their face, you can see it in their body language, you can Hear it in the things that they say. You can hear it in their tone. They're really nervous. They're really frustrated. They're really discouraged. And you say, hey, quit fretting. You ever said something like that? Quit fretting. What do we mean by that? Quit fretting. Well what we mean is that deep down in our hearts, there is this sense of frustration. It's almost like there's something boiling under the surface of our heart. When we see something that we say that's wrong and it doesn't seem to get dealt with, That's one of the first responses we have. Deep down in our heart, we begin to fret. We begin to have this boiling sense of uneasiness that becomes more than uneasiness, it becomes discontentment. And from discontentment it becomes anger. And we could even call it bitterness if it goes on long enough. Basically, what he says is don't be like that. You're going to deal with situations this year. I'm not going to predict who and when and how. I'll let that happen when it happens. But it's gonna happen. How are you gonna deal with that? Don't let that sense of uneasiness become discontented, become anger, become this seething, boiling sense of frustration. And I'm going to ask you, who do you generally get that way towards? Well, the very first person will be the one who you think has treated you wrong. And you know who is the most common individual that we think treats us wrong? God. Because we say, God, aren't you in control? That situation, it was well within your power to stop. The way that person treated me, the thing that they said to me, the thing that I'm dealing with, you could have stopped it. Why not? The very first person that we tend to fret against is God. Sometimes it goes from being God to a combination of God and that person or those people that we think have treated us unjustly. And they become the center of our fretting spirit. We talk constantly about them in our souls. We may even verbalize it. Somebody's watching us and they're like, why are you mumbling? What are you talking about? It's that fretting going on in the soul. It's something that's so a part of us that we don't even realize that we're doing it You know, a lot of times when we're dealing with that in our heart, we begin to do some mean and hurtful things to the people around us. We get real edgy. The people that are the closest to us, our wife or our husband, our kids, our co-workers, the people around us, we lash out at them in just a moment because we're fretting in our soul. We've seen something, we say, that's unjust, that's wrong, and we're upset at God, we're upset at the people that are the cause of that in our lives, and then we have the casualties of war, the people around us that we go after. Folks, don't fret in your heart when you see things this year that you perceive as unjust. The second thing he says is don't be envious. Don't be envious of evildoers. You might say, I'd never be envious of an evildoer. Well, let me tell you something. When you watch a person who seems to have absolutely no restraint, they do whatever they want to do, they don't seem to ever get get get beaten down for it. They seem to get away with everything. They advance and they do it by stepping on everybody else and crushing them and destroying them. And they just seem to move on and nothing seems to stop them. Isn't there something in your heart sometimes that goes, why can't it be that way for me? Not that you want to crush people to get what you want, but you look at the unjust. You look at people who have no restraint. Seems like they can live without conscience. And you go, why do they seem to advance and I don't There's a lot of different ways that this can unfold in our hearts. But there's a reason the psalmist says, don't be envious against evildoers. Because in our soul there's a tendency to do that. We want to enjoy the freedom that they appear to have that we don't. It makes us envious. The question then is this: why is it that we shouldn't fret and we shouldn't be envious when we see the wicked prospering? Here's the reason. He says, for they shall soon be cut down like the grass. Now, maybe some of you don't cut your lawn every single week, so that might not seem like very soon. in your situation. But the point that he's making is this. You know, in their culture, they had a hot, dry season and they had a heavy, wet season. And so as soon as there was any moisture in the soil, stuff grew immediately. Well, you know what happens when you live in that kind of a climate? As soon as there's no moisture, it's gone. Be like if you lived out west. We saw this when we lived in Ghana. You'd have your your your your rainy season, you had so much lush vegetation. But as soon as the rain stopped, The grass turned brown, everything around you turned brown, the leaves were falling off the trees. It was an unbelievable thing how dry and how parched everything could look Basically, what the psalmist is saying is this. You see people who seem like lush plants. They are blooming, they are flourishing, and they're doing it because of injustice. They're throwing off restraint. They ignore God. Maybe you've been caught in the crosshairs of that particular individual, and you say it's not fair, it's not right. Why? And he says, you know what? Just like the grass. There's gonna come a day it just withers. God's gonna deal with it. It's not God is not unjust, folks. He may take time before he deals in justice. But he deals in justice. And so he says, Don't fret. There's going to be a day when God steps in in his own way, at his own time, he's going to deal with that matter. Don't become envious because you can't see the whole picture. You see right here, right now, at this moment, you can't see six months down the road. You can't see a year down the road. You don't know what's going to happen. God is showing kindness and mercy and grace and patience, but it will not last forever. So don't fret and don't be envious. The first point is this. You need a godly perspective in this new year. Don't allow temporary injustice. To cause you to murmur and complain in your heart. We come to a second truth, and that's this. The word is trust Write it down, remember it, trust. Perspective, trust. Let God be the highest source of confidence for you in the new year Look at verses 3 to 7, and notice how many times he refers to trusting God or letting God carry our burdens and letting him be the source of our confidence. He says in verse 3, trust in the Lord. If you were to circle it, there's the first statement. Do good, so shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and He shall give you the desires of your heart. Notice that phrase, He will give. Again, there is a sense of trust. He is the one that's doing it, not us. We then go on and it says this, commit thy way unto the Lord. The idea is to roll something on God's shoulders, and I'll say something more about that. But again, the concept of trust is in that statement. Trust also in him. He mentions it again. He will bring it to pass. Obviously he is the active player here, not you and not me. He says this rest in the Lord. Again, a sense of trust. Wait patiently for him. Again, the sense of trust. He says, Do not fret yourself because of him who prospereth in the way, because of him that bringeth wicked devices to pass. I think we could make an argument that probably five, six, seven times in those short few verses, he basically tells us, trust God. We are called believers There's a reason we're called believers. Because we're people who trust God. We're people that came to a firm conviction of our sin, and we understood there was nothing we could do to earn God's forgiveness. We recognize that we were unrighteous and unholy. And apart from the work of Christ on the cross, we have no righteousness to give God. We've got to trust alone in Him and what He did for us on that cross. And so we trusted in the finished work of Christ. Our Christian life began by faith alone in Jesus Christ. But it continues as a life of faith. When it says that someone walks with God, it means that he's walking with God in humble dependence and humble trust. In the book of Romans, it talks about us coming to God by faith, and then it talks about it to faith. The just shall live by faith And the question is, is it that we're justified by faith, or that the justified live by faith? In fact, it's both. We become Christians by faith alone. We walk as Christians. By faith alone. We as Christians are people who need God to be the highest source of their confidence. Let me draw your attention to a couple of the little statements and phrases that are made in these verses. The first and most prominent statement is the statement, trust in the Lord. God needs to be our supreme source of confidence in this next year. I have no idea what you're going to deal with Maybe this year will be a great year for you. Maybe you have good health, good strength, no crazy things happen. It's a great year, and you look back, and it'll be a memorable one Maybe it's not. Maybe it's the opposite. Maybe it's a really hard year. Maybe you're going to go through things and you, if you knew today, you'd have no confidence that you could walk through those things. But by the end of it all, you'll look back and you'll see God's hand strengthening and encouraging and working in your life. How in the world do we need to live trusting in the Lord? That needs to be the general disposition of our life, a life that is walking by faith. We're trusting in God's wisdom. God knows what is best. What he says is true. We need to obey his word We're trusting in his power. We're never in a situation where God cannot step in and work as he chooses to work. We're trusting in God's providence. How he chooses to orchestrate the events in our lives, how he manages and how he works in the big picture and in the small picture. We trust God to work as he chooses. We trust in God's goodness. We recognize that God is for us. He's not against us. He cares about us. He wants to see us grow. He wants to give us good things. God is good, and so we trust in the fact that God is good. Trust in the Lord. We come to a second statement: Do good. Do good. We have this little song that we sing: trust and obey. There's no other way to be happy in Jesus but to trust and obey. That's exactly what the verse is saying. Trust God and do good and He'll take care of you. That's basically what the verse is saying. We need to obey God's commandments. We need to live in a way that is pleasing to God. God's commandments are not grievous, folks. His commandments are good. And so the psalmist says, trust God and obey him. We then come to another statement that's very interesting. He says, commit. Thy way unto the Lord. Now there's a difference between a step and a way. Away is the direction that you're moving. A step is how you move down that direction. Okay? So you take steps in a way. Basically, what he's saying is you need to roll on to God the ways that you're going to go. And this coming year, there are decisions that you are going to face. They maybe you're already in the midst of them. You have on the table decisions you have to make, big decisions, life-changing decisions, things that are going to put you here or they're going to put you there Things that are going to completely change the outlook of your personal life, your family life, so many different things. My question is this: when you are faced with those decisions, Which way will you choose? Are you going to choose the way that pleases self? The way that maybe seems the most financially expedient? The way that seems to give you the greatest advancement, or the way that pleases God. You know, there are a lot of times that we have decisions that it's not really a matter like that, but there are times that there are. Maybe you're in the midst of that now, maybe it's coming very soon. I have no idea. But what I can tell you is this. The psalmist says, take the way that you're going to go and put it on God's shoulders. Choose the way that pleases God and put it on his shoulder and let him carry the weight and the burden of that way and walk in that way as he carries that burden. That's basically what he's saying. And it takes trust. It means that his shoulders are going to carry the load, not our shoulders. Very, very important. Again, he states trust in him And then we have this next statement. He will bring it to pass. He's going to bring what to pass. He's going to accomplish what he wants to in our lives. He's going to take you where he wants to go. He's going to take care of you. He's going to work in your family the way that he wants to. God is going to accomplish his purposes. As we roll on to him, the ways that we're walking, as we trust him, as we take one step at a time, God is going to bring us where he wants us to go. Might I encourage you that this year needs to be a year of trusting God, committing your ways to Him, and letting Him bring to pass what He desires. to accomplish in your life. We then come to another statement. And the statement is rest in the Lord. Rest in the Lord. I think there are a lot of times in our life that we are forced to make a decision. And when we make that decision, we choose to do it God's way. We put it on his shoulders, and ten minutes later we say, I'm ready to take that back. A few weeks later, we we want to take it back. We want to do it in our own strength. We get restless, we get discouraged, we get frustrated, we say, God, it doesn't seem like you're doing what I thought you were going to do. And you know what? We have to be calm. We have to be settled. We have to rest. We have to let God do his work. God does not Tend to work quickly in our lives. He can. There are times that God works in amazingly quick ways. It can happen. But that's not his general mode of operation. He generally works slowly. He generally works gradually. Plant your garden, put the seeds in the ground, and see how long it takes. Takes time. And that's how God works. Day by day, moment by moment, He works slowly in our lives. He says next, wait patiently for him. Think about Abraham. When did Abraham get Isaac? He's kind of an old man. I don't know if we've even got anybody in this room that's as old as Abraham was when he fathered Isaac. I don't know. He waited a long time. Think about David. David was a shepherd boy When he was anointed to be the king of Israel. And he probably was thinking in his mind, this is going to happen when he went out and slew Goliath. When he's going out, now he's married to Saul's daughter, and now he's leading the army. David David probably thought, you know, I think God's really moving and God's working. He's going to put me in that position he said he was going to. And then things kind of changed. Saul all of a sudden doesn't like him too much. He tries to kill him. He's giving all his attention to destroying David. And David is running and David is hiding. And all of a sudden David's going, uh , doesn't seem like I remember it was going to come out. We look at the story of Joseph. He's sold as a slave in Egypt by his brothers. That story takes a long time to develop. We talked about Anna and Zacharias and Simeon People in the Christmas story. Again, these are people who God's plan unfolded very slowly in their lives. We have to be people who rest in the Lord and wait patiently for Him to do what He's going to do. You know it's very interesting what he says in verse 6. I'm going to read it. He says, He shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment As the noonday. Now you know the Psalms are full of beautiful descriptions, and this is a very interesting one. When he talks about the light at noonday, what is he saying? That's the brightest time of the day, isn't it? How long does it take to go from dark to the brightest light of the day? Well it depends on the time of year. Right now it's about six hours. In the summertime, it's probably about eight hours. You get up at five o'clock in the morning, it's just barely getting light out. The point is this: from the time that you begin to see a little bit of light. Till the peak light of the day is a long, slow, gradual process. That's his point. The day slowly heats up. The light becomes progressively stronger and stronger. And basically what the psalmist is saying is that's how God works in your life, folks. When you see injustice, when things don't seem to go the way that you want them to, when you roll things over on the Lord and you trust him and you rest and you're patient, he's gonna work, but it's like the way the sun comes up. It's slow. It's progressive. And as time goes on, eventually it comes to the noonday and the sun is full brightness. That's how God works. God 's ways are different than our ways. We then come to a third truth, and this one is so very important. The first word that we had was perspective. The second word was trust. The third word is delight. You know, as we go into the new year, there are so many things that are dragging our attention, that are pulling for our hearts. That are saying, I'm important, I'm valuable. Put all of your delight in me. Let me tell you, there's only one place that our delight should go. And that's in the Lord. He needs to be our highest delight. Look at verse number four. He says this, delight thyself also in the Lord. And he shall give thee the desires of thy heart. Now I want to take a moment, I want to kind of talk to you about what that verse is saying and what it isn't saying. Because I think it's really important. I'm going to go back to when I was a college student, and I remember when I was a college student going through some times of reflection. Frustration, difficulty, and having in my mind, I would like God to do A, B, or C in my life. Anybody ever been in place? like that, you know? You know, especially when you're younger. You have an idea, an ideal. You want this thing to happen. And as you think about it, you start saying, I need to pray about this thing. I want God to move. And you come to a verse like this and you go, aha, there it is. That's the key ingredient. If I want to get the thing that I want Then I gotta take this formula, delight yourself in the Lord, He'll give you the desires of your heart. I gotta put it into place, and once I plug in the formula, it's gonna happen just like that. Anybody ever saw it like that? I've thought like that. I promise you I've thought like that. You have something you want, and you think, I can use God to get it. Folks, that's not what the passage is teaching. The passage is not teaching us. You start with what you want. When you see you're not getting it, then you take God and use him as a tool to get the thing that you want. You start with God and you delight in him. Notice carefully what it says. Delight thyself in the Lord. He doesn't say start with something that you want and then delight in the Lord. He says delight in the Lord. That's where it starts It's almost like what Jesus said, seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added unto you Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, and mind, and your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. He says, start with God He alone needs to be the center of your delight. You love him more than anything else. You seek his kingdom more than anything else. You love God first. And you know what God does as you delight in him? As you love him, as you seek his kingdom, God begins to take your heart and he begins to shape it the way that he wants it to be shaped. Notice what it says. He will give you the desires of your heart. Now is it basically saying that what you initially wanted, he starts giving it like he's Santa Claus? You know? It's that time of year. I gotta give you your gifts. He's the genie in the bottle who you make your wishes. No, that's not how God works. God takes your heart and he shapes it And he molds it and he presses it in the direction that he wants it to go. The more you delight in the Lord, the more what you want begins to reflect his will and his ways and his values. We need to be people who in the new year delight ourselves in the Lord. And He shaves and He molds and He presses our hearts. And you know what God does? He takes a heart pressing in the right direction. And he fulfills what he's put there. It's kind of an interesting concept. As God becomes our focus, he shapes us. And he gives us the things that he wants to give us. You know, there are a lot of folks who, when they pray, God doesn't answer their prayer. You know why that is? Because they're praying for things that God never want to give them. What's the change? The change is that we need to have hearts that want the right kinds of things. If we delight in the Lord, he will give us the desires of our heart. That is the key to being a satisfied person. You're a person who what you want is what God wants. And what God wants, he gives. You're a person who cares about his kingdom first. It's amazing how God can take a person whose heart is so pressed in the wrong direction, and as they begin to grow closer to him, you know what he does? He changes them. He makes them people who desire his kingdom. He makes them people who love his will. And then bit by bit he puts in place those things and he accomplishes his purposes. You might say, Pastor, I want to be a person who has a sense of satisfaction this year. I do too. And I want you to have that sense of satisfaction You say, I'm a person who I want to see God working in my life, accomplishing his purposes. That's what I want for my life, and I know that's what God wants for yours. You say, how can that happen? Well, number one, you need to be a person who trusts in the Lord. Excuse me, you need to be a person whose perspective. is focused on the Lord. Don't let the things around you get a hold of your heart and cause you to fret, cause you to become angry, cause you to become bitter, cause you to become envious. Have a right perspective. You need to be a person who trusts. Let God be the center of your confidence. And you need to be a person who delights yourself in the Lord. May the Lord help us to be those kinds of people this year. Let's bear our hearts together in prayer. Father, I thank you so much for this extremely practical portion of your word. A portion that gives us instruction about perspective. A portion that gives us reminder that we need to trust you exclusively. A portion of Scripture that tells us you need to be the center of our delight. Help us to be people this year who take your word at face value. We submit to it and we purpose by your grace to live out what you say to do. I pray that you would bless every person that's in this room today. Pray you'd help them to put into practice these very simple truths in the coming year. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.