Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our final Anchored in the Word for the Week. And if you've been joining us this week, I hope that you have been challenged by it. And before we read the text one final time and give some final thoughts, I just want to say something about this. It's easy for us when we look at a passage like this, that's dealing with Christian ministry, that we say, you know, that's something for the pastor. uh all of our missionaries who uh we support, they need to hear this passage of scripture. Uh those are that's for people that um are involved in these kinds of spheres. But the truth is we talk about Christian ministry, Christian ministry is not just a matter of of pastors and deacons and missionaries and evangelists. The truth is every single Christian really has to look at the Christian life in the right way. And this passage, more than anything, is about our identity. It's about what gives us joy. It's what gives us satisfaction. It's about what motivates us. And the truth is that when it comes to how we raise our children, when it comes to the way that we educate them, when it comes to the kind of church that we attend, when it comes to the personal convictions that we have. In some of these areas, it's easy for us to begin to find our joy and our satisfaction and really our identity. Not in what we have in Christ, not in what he has given us, but where we stand positionally on an issue or the way that we are raising our kids, or that the the byproduct of our labor in a certain area, or how many people we've been able to witness to, or have led to Christ, or were involved in some kind of discipleship. Those kinds of areas can be the areas where this passage of scripture directly applies. And so please don't think, well, I know Pastor Joel needs to hear this, and I know our missionaries need to hear this. But nobody else does. We're all good because we're not involved in Christian ministry in the same kind of capacity. We don't have the the same, you know, prone to discouragement, and we're not prone to being contentious and and uh and and and having rivalry like somebody who maybe is in one of those other roles. That's really not true. And so let me read the passage again and then give you a couple of final thoughts to think about Here's what it says. And the seventy returned again with joy, saying, Lord, even the devils are subject unto us through thy name. And he said unto them, I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven. Behold, I give unto you power to tread on serpents and scorpions and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall by any means hurt you Notwithstanding, in this rejoice not that the spirits are subject unto you, but rather rejoice, because your names are written heaven. Now, when I've gone through this study, I want to make sure that I address what could be a misunderstanding. When we talk about this passage of Scripture, I am in no way suggesting that we don't need to have a high sense of duty Duty is something that is a sometimes a proper motivation in the Christian life. We should be motivated by duty on some level Or I'm not saying that we shouldn't be deeply motivated to stand upon what is right, because we absolutely need to be people of conviction. We know what we believe, we know why we believe it, and we stand firmly on conviction. I I'm not suggesting that we shouldn't um emphasize the need to endure hardship or to enjoy the work that God has given us. I'm not suggesting that at all. And it is possible that we could misunderstand that maybe those aren't areas that I'm saying are important. But this is what we are saying. While we should have a high sense of duty and we should be motivated to do what's right, and we should endure hardness, and we should enjoy the work that we're doing, and we should really delight in the opportunities that we're given to witness God's power. That cannot be our highest delight. That can't be what motivates us more than anything. That feeling that we get when we say, wow, look what God has done. That's not why we serve God Our highest delight and our identity cannot be in those things or in the feelings that we get or what we believe is going to be the ultimate outcome of the labors that we do. Our greatest delight, our identity, the thing that drives us and motivates us ought to be our understanding of God's grace. And the fact that we know that we stand in this position by the grace of God alone, it is through the work of Christ. It's through his death for us. It's through his righteousness imputed to us. It's by the power of his resurrection. That is where our joy lies. And so I remind you again what he says. This is where you should rejoice, that your names are written in heaven. I hope that as we go into the weekend, you'll recognize that the thing that should motivate you more than anything in life is the fact that you have experienced the grace of God and you are grateful for it. The thing that drives you to be faithful and the thing that motivates you to have a high sense of duty and the thing that causes you to endure hardship. And the thing that that enhances your delight in the opportunities that God has given you, it's not how you feel or what it does for you. It's about what you have in Christ. And so my challenge to you this week is very, very simple. My challenge is that we would be a people who allow God to help us to see how blessed we are. and how unworthy we are, so that as we understand the richness of God's grace, and how unworthy we are, yet God has been kind to us , that we will serve him with a humble, loving gratitude. You know, that's what's going to cause us to endure when we suffer That's the thing that's going to help us to stay the course when things are disappointing. That's the thing that's going to keep our pride in check. That we recognize that we are blessed and unworthy. We have a privilege to serve Him, and so we delight in what He has given us in Christ more than anything else. I pray that that will be what challenges you this week. Have a blessed weekend. I look forward to seeing many of you on Sunday if you're a part of our church family, looking forward to digging into the word of God together again and fellowshipping around the word together. And so have a great weekend and Lord willing, we'll see you all on Sunday. Bye now.