So let's look down at Philippians 119. Here's what we have. For I know that this shall turn to my salvation through your prayer and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ. According to my earnest expectation and my hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness, as always, so now also Christ shall be magnified in my body. For to me to live, or whether by life or by death, that's an important statement actually today. For to me to live is Christ And to die is gain. But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labor, yet what I shall choose I want not. For I am in a strait betwixt two, having a desire to be part and to be with Christ, which is far better. Nevertheless, to abide in the flesh is more needful for you. And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide and continue with you all for your furtherance and joy of faith, that your rejoicing may be abundant in Jesus Christ from me by my coming to you again. This is a really interesting text, and it's an interesting text because it can be very easily misunderstood. When we look at this passage, I think that we need to first of all begin by asking the question: what is the main thing that Paul is trying to communicate? And from that main point, then we ask the question: what are the details? So here's the main point of the passage. Paul wants these Christians to have a biblical view of life and death. Therefore, he communicates his attitude towards those realities to encourage and to instruct them. He's not just trying to tell them how to look at life. He's not just trying to tell them how to look at death. He's telling them how to look at both of those realities in correct proportion. And so that is really the main point of this passage. He's going to lay out several different, if you will, tensions that need to be laid side beside side by side and held in correct proportion to one another. And that's because God wants us to think correctly about these things. It's very easy for somebody who is doing very well financially, they have a beautiful house, their family is in order. They have a nice vehicle, they have a nice job, everything seems to be going well, and they say, you know, I'd never want to go to heaven because I really like the way it is here. It's possible for people to think that way You say no. On the other side, that's not how it is for most people, is it? Actually it's not the way for a lot of people, all right? Most people life is full of a lot of struggles and a lot of trials. There are difficulties with our job situations. There are pressures that we feel because of our vehicle and our house and our family and our in-laws and our outlaws and our kids. And all those various things. We face lots of pressure. Then on top of that, sometimes we have health issues and all kinds of things. And what happens? A person can get to a place where they become very discouraged, very disheartened, if you will, even depressed. And they say, what's the point of this life? How miserable and how frustrating. And they say, I just want to go to be with God. And the question is, are either of those attitudes really correct? And the answer is no. Neither of them is how we should look at our lives. or going to meet the Lord. Paul actually lays it out in the right proportion, and tonight I hope that we can get a little bit of a sense of what Paul is trying to communicate. So first of all, I want to talk about Paul's situation. What was Paul experiencing when he writes these things? Well, first of all, Paul is in prison. Not a nice place at all. It's probably cold, it's dark, it's miserable. They're animals that you would not like to have in your kitchen, you wouldn't like to have them in your house. They lived right there where Paul was. Paul is facing trial by, well, I was going to say by jury, but it didn't quite work that way in his day. And he was going to be facing trial in a very corrupt system, and he already understood that. Paul really loved the church at Philippi. And so as he's writing about them, he's feeling the pressure and the weight of what they're dealing with. And Paul wants to be with them. He wants to sit down and talk to them. He wants to help them resolve their issues. He wants to enjoy fellowship with them. And Paul is getting older. He's not a young man anymore. And so Paul's starting to think about all these things, and you can imagine that there were a lot of diverse thoughts that were running through his mind, emotions and feelings. Paul was living in a very difficult situation. But what I want you to see about Paul is that he had a balanced view of his life his situation as a prisoner and the possibility that he could actually be executed in an unjust way. Paul believed that his life had value to God and to those around him, even as he was sitting in the prison. Can you imagine that? We tend to think that our life has value because of the great things we're doing, but what is Paul doing? He's sitting in a cell. He's in prison. And he doesn't know if he's going to get out. Paul also knew that his death was a guaranteed reality, but it was something he was not afraid of. Now that's not saying that Paul was like, I can't wait to die. He wasn't thinking about how to go through that, but he wasn't afraid of it. There's a difference between those two situations. And then the third thing we see is that Paul was joyfully submitted to God's providence as it related to both his life and when he would die. He was not upset at God that he was in prison. He wasn't upset at God that God had not allowed him to go back to be with the church at Philippi. He wasn't upset at God that he could potentially be unjustly killed or executed. He was trusting God with his life. So in Paul's mind, it's I don't choose what happens, God does, but whatever God chooses, I'm okay with it. That's really the way he's looking at it. And that's how we should live our lives. We should live our lives with a sense that my life has purpose, and God is doing something in my life and through my life. But when my time comes, I'm ready to meet God, and I'm not afraid of that. That's what Paul's doing. So let's, with that being Paul's perspective, look at a couple of simple yet very important truths. About Paul's perspective about life and death. The first truth is this: your life has value to God and to those around you. Your life has value to God and those around you. You might say, well, Pastor Joel, you don't understand what I'm doing with my life is really insignificant. It's really boring. It's mundane. I don't think that it has a lot of value. Your value, Christian, has nothing to do with what you're doing right now. It doesn't. Your value is actually based on something else, actually a series of something else's. What you do gives significance sometimes But the truth is that through various seasons of life, God sometimes puts us in a hospital bed and we have to just lay there. We haven't lost value to God at all. Yet we can't do anything. We're totally dependent on doctors and on medicine and medical care and people who come and show us kindness and mercy and we feel like we have no value. But that's not true. Our value is not determined by what we're doing. It's determined by something else. So let's look at a couple of things that the Bible tells us about how we have value as people and as Christians. The first thing is this, God made you, and because he made you, you have a purpose and value to him. Now listen, I'm not even beginning with the fact that you're a Christian Or that you're a human being. Did you know that all of God's creation has value to him? Think about what Jesus said about the sparrow. He said, if even when a sparrow falls, God takes note of that, are you not of greater value than the sparrow? Just a simple little thing. God takes care of his creation. He cares about the animal creation. In fact, I think about in Genesis 1:31, God saw everything that he made, and behold, it was very good. It was pleasing to God. He delighted in it. He enjoyed it. The truth is that what God has made has value, whether it's human or not, because God made it. You ever think of it that way? He delights in it. He enjoys it. It's good. It brings pleasure to him. Beyond that, that God made us, God created us as people, as humans. different from the rest of the creation. In Genesis chapter 1, verses 26 and following it says, God said, let us make man in our image after our likeness. and let them have dominion and he mentions the dominion, if you will. So God created man in his own image, and in the image of God he created him male and female. And he blessed them and said, Be fruitful, multiply, replenish the earth. Subdue it and have dominion over it. Not only do we have value because God made us, but we have value doubly, if you will, because God made us in his image. That makes us different than all the rest of the creation. We have more value, if you will, than a plant or an animal. Though the plant and the animal has value to God. He enjoys his creation, but we as humans have a greater value because we are created in the image of God. By the way, being created in the image of God has nothing to do with what your job is, or how much money you make, or how intelligent you are, or how old you are, or how dependent, or how independent you are, or what part of the world you come from. Being created in the image of God has nothing to do with those things. Yet those are the things we tend to look at to determine in our minds, if you will, the pecking order of our society. God doesn't look at it that way God created you in his image. He gave you significant purpose and value. Was Adam an evangelist? No. Was Adam a pastor? No. Was Adam a dad? No. In fact, when Adam was first created, he wasn't even a husband. He was just a man sitting in a garden, if you will. Yet he had tremendous value to God. And he's taking care of the animals. He's taking care of the creation. He's growing in a knowledge of God. He's having fellowship and communion with God. And God is very pleased and God is very glorified in that. Please understand something. No matter how insignificant you may feel your job or what you're doing or not doing is, realize that you have value to God. Your life matters to him. You're created in his image. A third thing that I want to point out is this. In addition to the fact that God has made you, and he's made you in his image, he's redeemed you. Now, I'm not addressing just any people in the world. God loves all of us But if you're his child, there is an even, we could say, sweeter and closer love that God has for you. God loves us as his beloved children. And he's redeemed us. Galatians 3. 13 says this. Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law. by being made a curse for us. Ephesians 2, 4-7 says this. God who's rich in mercy for his great love Wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, has quickened us together with Christ, and hath raised us up together to sit in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. Let me tell you something, Christian. You have value to God, and don't ever allow the lie that Satan may plant in your head to convince you that you have lost value to God because of your station in life. Don't allow that to happen because it's a lie. It's not true. Don't embrace it, reject it. It's not biblical thinking In addition to these things, let me just make some practical observations. God's put you in a family. Your family loves you. Your family cares about you. God's put you in community, if you will. You have neighbors. You're a part of a local church. And I want to mention this one as well. God has given you certain gifts for this local body so that you can serve in this church. In 1 Corinthians 12, verses 12 to 14 it says this As the body is one and hath many members, and all the members of that one body being many are one body, so also is Christ. By one Spirit we are all baptized into Christ, that whether be Jew or Gentile, bond or free, we've all been made to drink of one Spirit, for the body is not one member but many I I hope you don't miss one of the little statements he made. He says, whether we be bond or free. Now, in our culture, we don't think in terms of what that's saying, but in those days when he made that statement, he's saying this: Some of you are slaves in the Roman Empire. You have no rights. You don't have right to a trial like a citizen does. You don't have the right to vote in any kind of local election. You don't have citizens' rights You work for somebody, they take care of you, you aren't treated the way that everybody else in society is treated. And he said the bond, meaning the slave, and the freeman. They're equally valuable to God in that church. He goes on to explain this. He says Now there are many members, yet one body. The I cannot say to the hand, I have no need of thee, nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you. I'm not going to read the whole passage, but the point is, he's saying this. God made it so that this body has different members, so that one functions like an eye, and one functions like a foot, and one functions like a hand. A hand has No ability if it's just laying on the ground by itself, right? A foot has no value if it's just laying by itself over here. It can't do anything. It has to be a part of the body. Now, if you have a whole body and you cut off the hand, what happens? You have a big problem on your hands. Well, within this congregation, we have hands and feet and eyes. We got them all guys. Alright, you're one of them. I'm one of them. We all need each other. If you aren't here, or if one of us is not here, it affects the rest of the body What's the point? The point is this: we have value. We have value. And so what God is trying to communicate to us, and what Paul is going to communicate in this text, is that His life has value to God and the people around him. And look at how he describes it in verses 20 and following. He says this Paul did not want to be ashamed at his stewardship. In verse 20 says, according to my earnest earnest expectation and my hope that in nothing I will be ashamed, but with all boldness, as always, now Christ shall be magnified in my body. How is Christ going to be magnified in Paul's body as he's rotting in a prison? You ever think about that? Apparently he believes that he can Apparently, he believes that he can. There were lives that Paul would touch even in the prison There are lessons that Paul would learn even in the prison. God didn't stop loving him. God didn't stop seeing him as valuable. And so what does Paul say? I don't want to be ashamed with my stewardship. And part of that is being in my condition. right now. A second thing that Paul mentions is that he wanted his life to display Christ. In verse 21 he says, for me to live is Christ. Wherever I'm living, whether it's in the prison, whether it's in Philippi, who knows where it's going to be. I want Christ to be magnified in my life. And so his life had value. Thirdly, Paul wanted to be the means through which God would mature other Christians. In verse 24, it says: Nevertheless, to abide in the flesh is more needful for you. Having this confidence, I know I will abide and continue with you all for your furtherance and joy of faith. Paul believed that God could use him to be the means that he would use to encourage those Christians. He was encouraging them through his letter. He hoped to encourage them through his presence, but he had no guarantee And so Paul saw his life as having value. Lastly, Paul wanted his fellowship with other Christians to be a means through which God brought them joy. Verse 26, he says, so that your rejoicing may be more abundant in Jesus Christ for me by my coming to you again. I hope you get the point. And I'm not digging into this as deeply as maybe I could if I really wanted to. But the big picture is this. When Paul says, I'm in a strait betwixt two, whether to depart or to stay, he's not saying my life has no value, so I'm done. I don't want to live anymore. That's not what he's saying. He believes that his life has value. And if God wants him to stay, then he's going to live his life for Jesus. On the other side, we see something else. And that's truth too. Your death is a guaranteed reality, not something to be feared. You know, in Ghana, funerals are a really big deal. There are always funerals and they're huge. The whole weekend they'll put up a canopy tent and everybody will just sit around and there'll be so much music and drinking that everybody doesn't even know what they're doing by the end of it. Okay. That 's true. And it's just some people go to a funeral every single week. It's like a big party to them. And one of the things that you'll see in Ghana is you'll see these billboards in a community that will tell you an announcement that someone has died and that they're going to have a funeral. If someone has lived a long time, and they'll say they lived to be 120, uh probably not, but Okay. There are people that supposedly have lived to be 120, 130. They'll say that. That doesn't mean it's what really happened. But they'll say something like, a life well lived. Or call to glory. But then if someone dies who's younger, they'll have a statement like, What a shock! Gone to sin. And there'll be other things that they'll say. But what that shows you is that in their mind, the value of your life has something to do with how long it is. Well, that's not really the case. That's not really the case. The fact is that death is a guarantee for all of us. We won't pick the day. God knows, but we're going to face it. Are we ready to meet God? Are we ready to face that reality? Well, as Paul sits in the prison, he He was ready. That didn't mean it was going to happen. In fact, it didn't happen under the in those circumstances, but he was ready. How does the Bible describe our life? Well, it uses terms that are very temporal, if you will. James 4. 14, what is your life? It is a vapor that appears for a little while and then vanishes away. And the idea is it's kind of like during certain times of the year, we get fog on the bay. So you get up in the morning and you walk outside if you're near the bay, and what do you see? You see fog. About an hour or two later, it's gone. He says that's what your life's like. It's there for a little while, and it's gone. Psalm 90, verses 9 and 10. Moses writes, All our days are passed away in thy wrath. We spend our years as a tale that is told The days of our years are three score and ten. If by reason of strength they be fourscore years, yet is their strength labor and sorrow, it is soon cut off, and we fly away Again, he's saying if you live to be 80 years old, you've lived a really long time. He said, that's not typical. He said, our life is short. In Ecclesiastes, when Solomon talks about our life, he says, Vanity of vanities, all is vanity. It's like the wind. It comes, it's gone. The Bible talks about our life as something that doesn't last long, because in reality it doesn't when you compare it to eternity. We know that we're going to stand before God someday. Hebrews 9:27, it's appointed unto man once to die, but after this the judgment. How was Paul prepared, if you will, to meet the Lord? Well, here are some things that we find. In verse 20, he says this. According to my earnest expectation and hope, in nothing I shall be ashamed. With all boldness, as always, so also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether by life or by death. Paul wanted to not be ashamed when he stood before God, not only for how he lived, but for how he faced death. Did you get that? It's not just how we live. He said, I don't want to be ashamed in how I live. He said, I don't want to be ashamed in how I die either. He wanted to face that reality in a way That was noble and honorable, and that God would be pleased with. Paul saw his death in the light of eternity. Verse 21, it says, For me to live is Christ, to die is gain. Now, again, Paul is not saying this because he wants to kill himself or he wants to just get out of the prison and end his misery. That's not what he's saying at all. He's looking at his life, and he's looking at standing before Jesus, and he says, you know what? It's better for me to be with the Lord. Yet it's set side by side with, but you need me. And God still has something for me. I don't want to be ashamed in how I live or how I die. You see how there's a tension here? There's a balance here. He saw his life and his death in the light of eternity. And in verse twenty three he saw his eternal inheritance as a better condition. Verse twenty three says, I am in a strait betwixt two, having a desire to depart and be with Christ with Which is far better. What do we see? We see a man who's not afraid to die. He doesn't see death as something that is going to be terrible for him. He's going to be with the Lord. But he sees his life as something that has value. Because it has value to God, and it has value to those that He comes in contact with. So let's come to the third truth that I think puts it all together. We must submit to the providence of God as it relates to life and death. We've got to trust God. I think of our military folks. You've gone into battle and you've had to think about these kinds of things. And that's not easy. You face that reality. Paul is sitting there, and he's saying, God , if now's my time, that's okay. And if now's not my time, that's okay. Because I don't want to be ashamed in how I live, and I don't want to be ashamed in how I die. For me to live is Christ, to die is gain. Do you see the balance? He says it's in the Lord's hands. I'm trusting God and I'm purpose to be faithful, no matter what he says is the time. He says, I'm in a straight batic too, having in a desire to part, to be with Christ, which is far better. Nevertheless. To abide in the flesh is more needful for you. And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide and continue with you all. You see how he is? He is selfless. He's not trying to escape. He's not afraid if it's his time. This is how we have to live. And that's not easy. It's easy in the theoretical world to live this way. But what about when we get news from a doctor? What about when we get our orders? What about when we're facing incredible pressures that are overwhelming us and we don't know how to deal with them? This is not theoretical. This is reality. And we have to make up our minds to think biblically, because when the time comes, we need to be ready to think biblically. Paul was submitted to God's providence. When life is good, we tend to love this world, and eternity doesn't seem to appeal to us too much. When life is harsh, we want to escape the suffering of this world and go to be with the Lord. And you know what God says? Be faithful and let me choose your time. Don't worry about it. If I give you another fifty years, if this is your final year, don't worry about that. You just focus on being faithful. That's what he's saying. Only God has the right to say your race is complete. And we need to think of our lives in these kinds of terms. Race. A match, a wrestling match, a fight, if you will. Listen to what Paul says in 2 Timothy 4, 5 to 8. This is several years after he writes this to the church at Philippi. Paul now knows his time is here. God has made that clear to him. He knows that he has completed his ministry, and he knows that he's not going to be acquitted. He's going to be charged. He's going to be executed. And everybody that knows him except for Timothy knows that that's the reality. And they've abandoned him. And this is what Timothy writes. He says to Timothy, he says, Paul writes this to Timothy, watch in all things. Endure affliction. Do the work of an evangelist. Make full proof of thy ministry. Paul is basically saying, Timothy, I love you in Christ. I've given you everything that I have, and this is my final word to you, basically. Watch, endure affliction, work hard, make full proof of your ministry. He says, I'm ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. And listen to the words he uses. I have fought a good fight. It was a war. He endured tremendous affliction. He was beaten and he was mocked and he was abandoned. He wasn't appreciated. He was humiliated. Paul says, I fought a good fight. And I finish my course. He uses the boxing analogy. You go in there for ten rings, uh ten rounds, you don't put the gloves away at eight, do you? You fight till the final bell. If you're in a wrestling match, you don't give up 30 seconds before the end. You fight till the last second You can win at any point in that match until that final buzzer. He says, I fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I know we have a couple people in here that like to run. Now I never run a marathon. I was in high school I used to run cross country. And I can remember, you know, you'd get your your splits. And then you you get in, you know, you'd hit your second mile split and you'd be like, whoa, I gotta really I gotta kick this thing in gear because I'm getting behind. And you know that's when you start really hurting. You y you don't hurt in the first smile. When you're getting close to the end you can see the finish line and and you can really kick it in gear and you can make yourself do things you couldn't. But when you finish mile two, you got a whole nother one to go. And you're hurting and you're feeling it. You don't just stop, abandon the course, you keep going. You gotta push. And so he says, I've finished my course. I ran the race in its entirety. I have kept the faith. And here's what he says, henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which the Lord the righteous judge shall give me in that day, and not to me only, but unto all them that love his appearing. You know what helps us to have a biblical perspective about life and death? It's to remember that we're going to stand before Christ. And we don't want to be ashamed in how we lived, and we don't want to be ashamed in how we die. We want to run our course in its entirety. We don't want to quit. We don't want to give up. We don't want to fight into the eighth round and then put the gloves down. We don't want to run and halfway through that second mile say I'm done. We don't want to get deep into the third period of a wrestling match and then say I'm done, I quit, I can't keep going. We want to fight, we want to push, we want to persevere so that when we stand before Christ, he will say, here is your reward. And that is what sustained Paul. It was his understanding his life had value to God. It was understanding that his life had value and significance to the people that he interacted with every day of his life. It was that reminder that he did not want to be ashamed when he stood before God because of how he lived or how he Died. It was that persistence to say, I'm going to complete my race, I'm going to finish my fight, I'm going to finish my match. I want to be found faithful so that God will say, well done. And I want to ask you, is that how you think about your Christian life? Maybe you feel like you're in the third period and you just It's a gut check. Third period, you know what I mean? I've been in a lot of third periods. Had some that didn't get to the third two. It's like you're in that that final stretch. You can't see the finish line and you're tired. And you're feeling the pain and you're dragging and you want to stop stop. You've been hit pretty hard a couple times and you're in the eighth round and you don't want to go the next two. And what does God say? Think biblically about life and death. Don't be ashamed at his coming. May God help us to learn from Paul, great man. He was a great man. May we be like him, as he was like Christ. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. Our Father, this is a very challenging text of Scripture because it lays out for us the heart of a man who was suffering. Yet was very selfless and was just fully dependent upon you. His life, his death, he put it in your hands Father, help us to live like that. Help us to live without shame. Help us to be good stewards. Help us not to be weary in well-doing. Help us not to quit. Father, when we see our friends and our brothers and sisters in Christ who are hurting, help us to come alongside of them and strengthen them in their race. And when it's our time that they'll strengthen us, help us to hear it well. And help us to be encouraged and help us to move forward patiently. Father, we need reminders like this. So I pray you'd minister to your people through your word tonight. We ask it in Christ's name, Amen