Good morning. Welcome back to another edition of We're Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And we're looking at our third part to the study that we've been doing this week in Luke chapter 10 verses 17 through 20. So if you have your Bible, I'd like to invite you to turn there. And we're going to read this passage together and then we're going to continue in our study. Here's what it says. And the seventy returned again with joy, saying, Lord, even the devils are subject unto us through thy name. And he said unto them, I beheld Satan as lightning falling from heaven. Behold, I give unto you power to tread on serpents and scorpions and over all the power of the enemy. Nothing shall by any means hurt you. Notwithstanding, in this rejoice not that the spirits are subject unto you, but rather rejoice, because your names are written in heaven Now when we read these verses, we were reminded of several things. The first study that we did, we talked about the contrast between those who are contentious and those who are discouraged. And at the root of those two issues is pride. And it's a misplaced priority. It's an identity that is not found in the right place. And then yesterday we we kind of expanded that a little bit and we began by looking at the tremendous blessings that do flow from ministry. If you have invested in eternity, you will see there is joy in that investment. There is joy in partnering with other Christians. There's joy in seeing people grow, lives transformed. joy in seeing the strength and the energy that God's gives giving you, uh channeled into things that actually matter. There's joy in experiencing God's grace and suffering. God strengthens us and uses these things for our good. But the warning that we talked about yesterday is that we cannot get to the place or we should not get to the place where our joy isn't rooted in the Lord And in the opportunity that he's given us, and we could say the faithfulness and the position that we have, but instead it's in the results. And we're going to expand that a little bit more here this morning as we work into what Jesus says. And so I want you to focus in on what he says in verses 18 and 19 and ask the question. Why did Jesus go into this direction? So here's what it says. He says, I said unto them, or he said unto them, I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven. Behold, I give unto you power to tread on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy, and on nothing shall by any means hurt you. Now, we should ask the question, why is it that when these people come with, Lord, this is something that you're doing and we're excited and we're full of joy? And they're just overwhelmed by by gratitude that all of a sudden Jesus gives them this warning, I saw Satan fall. That's what he says. Why does he do that? Well really what he's doing is he's telling them you've got to guard your heart. When ministry success happens, that is when we must be very cautious When we're experiencing that spiritual high of joy that's associated with seeing God's blessing, that is when we need to be wary that we can succumb to fleshly temptations. And so there are really three things that he states in these verses that I want to draw your attention to. The first is he reminds them of Satan's downfall, which notice. what he did, what he says. He personally witnessed this, okay? So when we talk about Jesus, we're not talking about someone who began to exist in the first century. We're talking about God in flesh, who is outside of time, who is eternal. In the beginning was the Word. The Word was with God. The Word was God. Not In the beginning the word began. And what's fascinating about what Jesus states here is he's really emphasizing the fact that in the beginning he was already there. But there was a created being that Jesus witnessed, and he witnessed how he related to the Father And he witnessed how he fell from the blessings that were available to him way back in the beginning of creation Here's what it says in verse 18. He says, I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven. He's talking about what happened to Satan when he was filled with pride and all of a sudden he said, I want to be like the Most High God. In Ezekiel it talks about this. Ezekiel 28. He says, Thou hast been in Eden, the garden of God. Every precious stone was thy covering. The workmanship of thy tablets and of thy pipes was prepared in thee in the day that thou wast created. Thou art the anointed cherub. Who is Ezekiel referring to? Well, he's referring to Satan, Lucifer, that angelic creature that was created at the beginning of the creation, that Jesus is referring to here in this text. He says, thou wast perfect in thy ways from the day thou wast created until iniquity was found in thee. So that tells us that when God originally created Lucifer, Lucifer was good. Lucifer was an angel. Lucifer was in a position of beauty and grandeur and he was in the presence of God himself. But in Isaiah 14 he says, how art thou fallen down from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning How art thou cast down to the ground, which didst weaken the nations? Thou hast said in thine heart, I will ascend into heaven. I will exalt my throne above the stars of God. I will sit also on the mount of the congregation in the sides of the north. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. I will be like the most high. Yet thou shalt be brought down to hell to the sides of the pit. Now these two passages, Ezekiel 28 and Isaiah 14, they really explain to us What Jesus is referring to in Luke chapter 10 verse 18. When he says, I saw Satan like lightning fall down from heaven, this is what happened. Lucifer was filled with pride. He wanted to be like God. He wanted to take a position and a role that was not delegated to him. But then there's a second thing that Jesus reminds them of. And this is also in verse 18. He says, Behold, I give you power to tread on serpents and scorpions and over all the power of the enemy. Now Jesus isn't saying that he told his disciples, go step on poisonous snakes and let them bite you and see what happens. That's really not what Jesus is saying here. What he's basically saying is that when I've delegated this authority to you and I've given you this responsibility to bring the gospel to all of these regions and to go in advance and prepare the way for people to meet me. then I have sent you out on a mission in which you are ultimately invincible. You have authority over Satan. And there's absolutely nothing that he can do to stop you. And so I'm reminding you that that authority is not something that is inherent in you, it's something that I've delegated to you. And so he's reminding of them of that. But then the third thing that he says is he reminds them that Satan has absolutely no ability to stop the work that they're doing. Verse 19, he says, nothing shall by any means hurt you. This sounds very similar to what Jesus says in Matthew 16, verse 18. He says Upon this rock, that was Peter's statement of Christ, on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. He's saying if I've sent you on a mission, then you're going to fulfill the mission. If I've sent you on this mission and there's resistance to you in this mission, you're going to overcome that resistance. If I've established my church and I'm going to build my church, there's nothing that can stop that. And you get to be a part of that. So the question is, well why is Jesus reminding them of Satan's downfall and their authority and their power over Satan and the fact that they're essentially invincible as they're doing the work that God's called them to do? And that Satan cannot stop what they're doing. Why does he do that? Well here's the answer. If Satan, who was created in perfection, who was able to stand in the very presence of God , A beautiful, powerful angel, if he could fall to pride, and you have been granted authority over him in your fallen state. You've been granted authority over him And you have been miraculously preserved by God from the vicious attacks that Satan would hurl against you. If all those things are true, which they are. Then don't think for a moment that you are above him in the area of pride. You and I are made of clay. Now think about what Paul says in 2 Corinthians chapter 4. He says, we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. Well the idea is that Jesus is warning his disciples that in the midst of their euphoric response and the excitement and the energy and and this this motivation they have to go out and proclaim the gospel and how excited they are. He's saying, be careful, guard your heart against pride. There's a reason for this. It's because lots of trouble flows out of pride. And we're reminded of this in James chapter 4, verse 1. He says, From whence come wars and fightings among you. James is writing to believers. He said, Why are there contentions in the church? Why is there fighting? Why is there difficulty? From whence do these things come? Even of your lusts that war in your members. Ye lust and have not, ye kill and desire to have and cannot obtain Ye fight and war, yet you have not because you ask not. And ye ask and receive not because ye ask amiss, that ye may consume it upon your own lust. So you say, well, Joel, what's the takeaway this morning? The takeaway is a very simple one. In the midst of the excitement of ministry and seeing God work, which I hope that we're all experiencing, we must be very cautious that we do not become proud. If Satan could fall, then you and I are also susceptible to this same great temptation. And so may the Lord help us to have hearts that are guarded against this issue of pride. Lord willing tomorrow we'll continue this series as we look at the next piece to what Jesus is saying and how we can have a properly Um shaped perspective on this issue of mystery ministry. Have a blessed morning and Lord willing tomorrow we'll meet again by now