Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And if you joined us yesterday, you know that we began a study looking at how we should be focused in ministry. And what is a biblical focus? What does it look like? And so the text we're dealing with is Luke chapter 10, verses 17 through 20. And I'm going to go ahead and read it, and then we'll kind of pick up where we left off yesterday. Here's what it says. And the seven he returned again with joy, saying, Lord, even the devils are subject unto us through thy name. And he said unto them, I beheld Satan as lightning falling from heaven. Behold, I give unto you power to tread on scorpions and serpents, and over the power of the enemy, and nothing shall by any means hurt you. Notwithstanding, in this rejoice not, that the spirits are subject unto you. but rather rejoice because your names are written in heaven. Now yesterday we talked about the fact that there are two great dangers that we have to guard ourselves against when we're involved in Christian service and ministry. And on the one side, there is the danger to be contentious, and on the other side there's the danger to be overly discouraged and disillusioned and We feel like we can't carry on. And what we saw yesterday is that at the root of those two extremes is actually the same thing. And that same thing is pride. It's a wrong motivation for serving the Lord. And so the tone of our study this week is going to have a lot of warning side to it. But in order for us to appreciate the warning side and why there actually is a need for there to be a warning, I want to begin with talking about the tremendous blessing that is associated with serving Christ. In fact, if if you have ever been involved on some level of Christian ministry, maybe You've led somebody to Christ. Maybe there's a young believer you've discipled, somebody that you've been working with for a time. If you've ever been involved in those kinds of things, you know for a fact that that investing your life in something of eternal significance and seeing God work in you and through you is something that is absolutely amazing to be able to be a part of that. It is an exciting thing I think about a missions conference, and we we think about a church sending uh missionaries out, supporting missionaries, partnering with them, and then they come back from the field and they share with us the things that God's doing. And it's a high point in the year for a lot of churches because they're reminded that hey the investment of resources, the time we've spent in prayer, in correspondence, we've seen God work through those means. And so we see really a side of this in the passage that we're looking at. It says in verse 17, when the 70 returned, they returned with joy. saying, Lord, even the devils are subject unto us through thy name. Basically they're saying, this is incredible what we're able to witness and what we're a part of. These men were excited, and because they were excited at the moment that they were able to participate in history and they saw what God was doing, they were expressing this to Christ. And I think that this is a great place for us to start. There are few things in life that are more amazing and more wonderful than seeing God work in the world. And seeing God work in our midst and seeing God work through us and being a part of what he's doing. Let me share with you some examples of what I'm talking about. You know, think about Psalm 126, verses 1 to 3. This is a fascinating Psalm. Here's what it says. When the Lord turned again the captivity of Zion. We were like unto them that dream. Then was our mouth filled with laughter, and our tongue with singing. Then they said amongst the heathen, The Lord hath done great things for them. The Lord hath done great things for us, whereof we are glad. That that psalm is expressing that when those who were captives in Babylon were taken back to the land of Israel. And they're able to go back to their land and they're able to build their homes and build their farms and they were able to rebuild their cities. The way that the people responded was one of shock and utter amazement and excitement and joy and gratitude. And if a person is able to witness these shocking reversals in history, how God erupts human history and he works in a mighty way, that's encouraging, that's exciting, that's something to rejoice in. Or I think about what Paul talks about in 1 Thessalonians 1. He says, we give thanks to God always for you all, making mention of you in our prayers, remembering without ceasing your work of faith. and labor of love and patience of hope in the Lord. Our gospel came not unto you in word only, but in power and in the Holy Ghost and in much assurance. You were examples to all that believed in Macedonia and Achai For from you sounded forth the word of the Lord not only in Macedonia and Achai, but also in every place your faith to God word is spread abroad. Now, that passage of scripture talks about the incredible joy of seeing that the tremendous change that takes place in the lives of people who have genuinely come to Christ, placed their faith in the finished work of Christ. They've experienced his forgiveness. They're experiencing the transformation that takes place. and the life of someone who was once spiritually dead, separated from God, wandering in the darkness, and now they are saved from wrath through him, and they are saved to walk in newness of life. And Paul expresses that in 1 Thessalonians chapter 1. Or in 3 John verse number 3 he says, I rejoiced greatly when my brethren came and I testified of the truth that is in thee. Even as thou walkest in the truth, I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth. You know, it's a sweet thing to watch people grow spiritually. It's a great thing to watch your own children grow spiritually. They place faith in Christ when they're a child. They get into their teen years and they start studying the Word of God. You start getting into these. discussions with them, they're asking you theological questions. You're seeing them serve and minister to other people. And John is expressing how sweet it is. To know that his children are walking in the truth. I even think about another example. This is a little bit different, but it's it's a very important thing for us to notice, and that is There's a great blessing of actually investing resources in something that matters. In Acts chapter 20, Paul says, these hands have ministered unto my necessity and to them which were with me. I have showed you all things how that so laboring you ought to support the weak and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus Christ, how he said, it is more blessed to give than to receive Paul is saying that when you're involved in Christian service and you're using your energy for the things of the Lord, there's an incredible blessing that comes from that. I'll mention one more that I think is important. And that is the blessing of experiencing God's grace when we are going through hardship. Back in Acts chapter 20, When Paul's talking to the Ephesian elders, he talks about the sufferings that he experienced. And one of the things that he says is he says, I do not hold my life dear unto myself. He says, none of these things move me, so that I might finish my course with joy and the ministry which I have received in the Lord Jesus. All of these examples are examples of how God's blessings flow through our service to Him. And how sweet it is to see God work around us and in us and through us and in the lives of the people that we have poured our lives into You say, well, Joe, why do you start there? Well I start there to say this. The reason that Jesus has to address the issue that's before us is that there's a tremendous blessing in serving him. And with that blessing comes the temptation to allow fleshly perspectives to begin to accumulate over time and to become shaped over time. And fleshly responses begin to develop in that fleshly perspective. And so a person who's experiencing the sweetness of ministry and the blessings of ministry may get to the place where they start feeling entitled to those blessings. And the joys that they're experiencing min in ministry, all of a sudden, instead of them becoming just the natural byproducts of God's faithful work through them, it becomes something that they experience that they have to have. They want it. It's almost like It's a fix that they've got to have. And if for some reason things are not working out the way that they used to, they become upset, disillusioned. They're trying to change everything under the surface so they can get the desired response. It's almost the same mindset of someone who's addicted to a substance. A person can be addicted to the feeling they get from ministry when God blesses. And so the warning of this passage before us is that we have to be so cautious that we do not lose our focus in the midst of the blessings that the Lord gives us. And so that's my challenge to you this morning. May we serve the Lord out of pure motive with a desire that is spirit-filled as opposed to fleshly and self-centered. If this has been an encouragement to you this morning, I hope that you'll share that. And perhaps somebody else can be benefited by it. And if so, I hope that you'll share that with them. Have a blessed morning. Lord willing tomorrow we'll continue our study. Bye now.