This is not a topic that you've probably heard a lot of sermons on, and tonight you're going to hear that. And then how is this dealt with in a New Testament context? And I want to focus on God. It says they gathered together at Mizbah and drew water and poured it out before the Lord and fasted on that day and said, We have sinned against the Lord, and Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizbah. And they say, God, our heart is heavy. We see enough examples that this is something that Paul, the other apostles did. Because they have no discipline. That's not the point. I mean that's what he's talking about. He's saying when people walk with God and they do things the right way, guess what? This is something that, well, the real spiritual people, they do this, and those who are not so much, they don't do this. So let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer, and then we will dig into a very interesting passage of Scripture, Matthew chapter 6. And what's he say? and to seek the Lord. Forty stripes save one, thrice I was beaten with rocks, once I was stoned, thrice I suffered shipwreck, a night and a day I've been in the deep, and journeying often in perils of waters, perils of robbers And we could plug in church attendance, and we can plug in how much time we spend in prayer in the morning, and we could plug in how many times we've read through the Bible over the course of our lives or how many chapters we read this morning. But thou when thou fastest, anoint thine head, wash thy face, that thou that thou appear not unto men to fast, but unto thy father which is in secret. and that we would see exactly what Christ intended for us to understand from his teaching in the Sermon on the Mount. And thank you for the safety you gave them and the way that you're working in their lives. that fall into this area of what we would say religious devotion or our worship of God. Do not let your left hand, I should probably do left hand here, know it's your right hand, do it. They were thinking a lot about what they were doing. for their much speaking. Well, God's going to be forced to answer me and do what I want him to do. By his sacrifice, we have to think gospel-oriented. And God will bless those who draw near to him with a pure heart. Sounded a lot like this, but I like the way this is put. So you can see there's a couple of different dynamics to this, and we're going to see that because we're going to go into the Bible and we're going to see different examples. And I think it's important for us to look at a lot of scripture. First of all, I want us to talk about Old Testament practices. And it's important for us to realize, remember that. The Day of Atonement pointed to Christ and it was fulfilled on the cross. It was not being done because of a command in the Mosaic Law. and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the Lord. So because the people had been presumptuous and had demanded of God certain things that were not for their good, and God has given them, we could say, clear reminders that what they had done was wrong. I'm conflating stories. Nehemiah 1 4. And what he basically says is there'll be needs to fast from time to time during that time. And the publican goes in and he falls on his face and he says, God be merciful to me a sinner. The first example that I'm going to draw your attention to is Acts 13, verses 2 to 3. We see in the early church you have these two men, Barnabas and Saul, they're going the Apostle Paul, okay? And there is fasting, and the Holy Spirit moves in that situation, saying to them, Send these two individuals. How did he do that? through people who had the gift of prophecy at that time. Now what's going on here? That's what he means when he says ordaining elders. And they put their hands on them, they commend them to the Lord, and they say, We pray God's blessing is upon you. What he's saying is that there are times in marriage where husband and wife may separate and not come together intimately for a period of time to pray and to fast I prayed and I fasted because I was so burdened for these people. But the Bible says this. Third question I want to ask, and ooh, I'm gonna have to really move here. And he has to do this. Reading scripture and focusing on the preaching of the word. My parents they think church is important, but it's really not that important because I mean think about all the ballgames we went to. I feel very overwhelmed and I need to express the brokenness of my heart, and I pour out my heart to God in those moments. There are some non-Christians that fast as part of good health practices. You look like you're having a rough day. So the warning is don't practice to establish your credentials. As we look at a topic that is not often addressed in our churches, I pray that we would have a good, thorough biblical understanding of this topic. Okay, Matthew 6 is where we are tonight, and we are looking at verses 16, 17, and 18 together. For they disfigure their faces that they may be seen unto men to fast. But unto thy father which is in secret, and thy father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. Now, I'd summarize the passage in front of us this way. rather than for our own glory. how it's uh referred to at different points in scripture, the particular warnings that are in front of us in these verses, and then how to apply that. There are many ways that we can subtly shift into a self-glorifying practice. But the reason that he's giving it is absolutely wrong. Even though what you're saying is true and it is good and God uses it, the motivation behind it is in fact not the kind of motivation we should have. To remember that when we're reading the Sermon on the Mount, we are reading a sermon that was preached under the Old Testament system, not under the New Testament system. This is before the cross, and one of the things we have to do is we have to understand why did Jesus teach it to Old Testament saints, disciples on that side of the cross. when you give your alms. communion or fellowship with him and so this is looking at another dimension of our religious devotion. Somehow we relate to other people, somehow we relate to God, somehow we relate to ourselves. They stand up in a very popular sta place where people can see. Again in prayer, he says, Enter into your closet, and when thou hast shut the door, pray to thy father which is in secret. Again, he's saying that because the religious leaders were doing the exact opposite. And even a church where the gospel really is being preached, we can find ourselves in this place. Or maybe they're weeping and mourning over their own personal sin, and maybe they're weeping and mourning over the sin of their nation The fact is that even the pagans around the Jewish people had this practice of fasting. What is fasting? of abstaining from food and probably drink as an expression of remorse for wrongdoing, an expression of mourning for a loss, or a spiritual discipline meant to help one focus on spiritual matters. of people fasting. And so people would come together communally and they would fast as a body of people because of the death of the king. some national fast or something like that. A great example would be that of giving. For instance, they gave not 10%, but 25, even 30%. And uh people took a legitimate year off from their labors every seven years. He also did this on an annual basis. But many times what you see in the Old Testament is that there is a practice that has an underlying principle, and then that principle will be laid out in the New Testament, but it may be slightly different in the way that it is done. Now what was going on during the Day of Atonement? And because we're a sinful people, God really shouldn't relate to us. And we are his people, and he can dwell in our midst. There was the death of the sacrifice and the shedding of blood, and there were several things that happened symbolically on the Day of Atonement. But they felt compelled to do it. They humble themselves, and as a group, they fast. They were not fasting like the Pharisees were. for the people of the Lord and for the house of Israel because they were fallen by the sword. But it's important for us to remember that fasting is not something we do by command. But it gives us insight into how Jesus views his issue. tempted of Satan and really to demonstrate the difference between the first Adam who fell and the second Adam who was tempted in all points like as we are yet without sin. But he fasted and he prayed. And the Pharisees fast oft, but thy disciples fast not. And Jesus says, when the bridegroom is here, that's the time to rejoice. It's the bottom line. It is assumed that this will be a part of religious expression on some level. the time we're living in today, to be very frank. and fasted, the Holy Ghost said, Separate me, Barnabas and Saul, for the work whereunto I have called them. Several missionary journeys, and they're going to take the gospel to the farthest extents of the Roman world. that Elijah and Moses and Elisha and Isaiah and Jeremiah and these people spoke. That's really kind of irrelevant for our discussion tonight. That you may give yourself to fasting and prayer and come together again, that Satan tempt you not in your incontinency. He says, in labor is more abundant, in stripes above measure, in imprisonments more frequent, in deaths often. Perils of mine own countrymen, perils by the heathen, perils in the city, perils in the wilderness, perils in the sea, perils among false brethren. Defer from eating and drinking and focus on God at that time. We need to be cautious that we don't go to the other side and say, well, some people never talk about this, so we're going to really emphasize and say, here's what you're going to get. That we're not making it hard for you. If they were in a concert, they wouldn't be sleeping five minutes into the concert. And so fasting is different. It's not even necessarily a thing that is planned. but unto thy father which is in secret. But when you fast you should. They shave, they shower, they eat their food, they they are ready for the day, they put on their stick of deodorant, they press their clothes, they go to work or wherever they're going. You might be in a situation like that now. I guess it is me. Yeah, as much as possible, try to be screwed about it. We need to consider the principles that are in front of us. Of a sad countenance, they disfigure their faces that they may appear unto men to fast. Our Lord says, Moreover, when ye fast, be not as the hypocrites of a sad countenance. But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thine head, wash thy face, that thou appear not unto men to fast. And there is no one who's immune to this. Sadly in our church probably you haven't, okay? Or the second one is religious devotion that is expressed in direct relationship to God when you pray. When I'm fasting, I am causing my body that's hungry not to eat. for a different reason, a spiritual need. that they might be seen of men. the the the uh the work of Christ. Maybe they're just very burdened and they need God to work in a situation, or they need his wisdom. And this is not just a before the time of Christ kind of a thing in Judaism or just something that the apostles did or the early church fathers did. morning rituals. Some tragedy in the nation, something like that. Having minds, and we are also spiritual in the sense that we relate to God in our spirit. It shall be a Sabbath rest unto you, and ye shall afflict your souls by a statute forever. A self-denial which was including but not necessarily limited to fasting. to remember they are a sinful people who need a redeemer. peace offering that reminds them that the only reason they can have communion with God is through the death of a sacrifice. 1 Samuel 7, verse 6, this is one that we recently covered in our story about David and Saul It was by some internal motivation. Something is troubling our souls, and because it's troubling our souls, this is the way we feel compelled to respond. One is that Jesus' disciples were different in their practice than the Pharisees. Then we move to the time of Christ. And the whole reason for this is because the Father led him, he was led of the Spirit into the wilderness to be tested But the day will come when the bridegroom shall be taken from them, and then they shall fast. Well, we see this in Luke chapter 18, verse 12, where the story of the publican and the Pharisee in the temple. Again, I'll mention this. And when they had fasted and prayed and laid their hands on them, they sent them away. Then we go to the next chapter, Acts chapter 14, verse 23. He says, in weariness and painfulness and watching often in hunger and thirst, in fastings often in cold and nakedness. Fasting was a time that people chose to personally humble themselves and express grief sometimes, brokenness sometimes. You want to critique my ministry? It was a practice that they were to do sometimes when there was tremendous need and they needed God to intervene on their behalf. And it was something that was less prevalent in the New Testament, but you see it in the New Testament. Have you ever been in a situation where you desperately need God's wisdom? Maybe that's the time you need to set yourself apart for a short season and get alone with the Word of God and get on your knees and One would be that fasting should be a part of our Christian experience. However, the Scripture never commands it to us in the New Testament. And so we need to recognize the emphasis we find in Scripture. Like pay a price and then he gives it to us. A transactional view of fasting turns a correct understanding of our relationship to God upside down. That's a discipline we have to develop. You're a pastor, you don't do that. But let's be really honest. Wednesday night, yeah, it's real busy. Question four. They have the reward. Like it's a normal day. Oh, okay. God will bless you as you practice fast and correctly. But the idea is this: when a person walks with God, there are blessings that flow out of that walk with God. You should get alone with the Lord and fast. So the final question that I have is this: How do we apply what's in front of us? Now, some of us are like, I would really like it if you would just give me my schedule so I know when I'm supposed to do this, all right? So is he going to talk to me about it? We need to resist some common misunderstandings related to fasting. Uh fish li uh fish Fridays. So it's a topic that we need to consider. And so he uses his examples because he's saying this is when people don't have a right view of God and they don't have a right view of how we're to relate to God as those who are under grace in the righteousness of Christ Not bodiless spirits who commune with God, we are people who are body, soul, soul And that was during the time of the Day of Atonement. He says, On that day shall the priest make an atonement for you to cleanse you that ye may be clean from all your sins before the Lord. And prayer is a normal part. Another interesting passage, Acts 7. Now, one of the reasons that Paul's going to say what he's saying is because Paul was a faithful minister and apostle, and the people at Corinth didn't like Paul. I think it's also important that I'll just mention this. As a tool to build yourself up in front of other people. Father, thank you for your word. Fasting is a fascinating topic, and it is often neglected in the modern Western church. In places where you do hear preaching and teaching on fasting, a lot of times the way that it is being presented or the way that's being emphasized is in fact actually not a truly biblical way of looking at this issue. What's common in all these? And they're using their religious devotion as a mechanism to establish their own righteousness. Involves specific forms of practice. cleansing them, positionally standing, excuse me, righteous before God, and being able to come to Him through Then the children of Israel and all the people went up and came unto the house of God and wept, and sat there before the Lord and fasted that day until even. Ezra 8, 23. When you fast. We have a different time today. And Paul talks about what his ministry was like, and this is a fascinating passage. He's not trying to puff himself up. And so they were kind of being critical of him, and they're saying, Well, you're not really an apostle, and your ministry is not like the other people's ministries. Like you may have a person that gets up and they say, Well let me tell you something. I mean, doesn't that sound a little bit like when when the coin in the copper cup rings the soul from purgatory flings? Or how many times I did something really nice for a person that's really mean to me or whatever. Prayer and praise. They don't have the desire to sit there and focus on what is more important than almost anything else you deal with in life. Let me tell you, I have a hard time resting. One day you're going to be on your back and you're going to give the time back. Guess what? The bottom line is there's a commitment to the local church. Second word is the word command. Verses 17 and 18 he says, When thou fastest, anoint thine head, wash thy face, that thou appear not unto men to fast. Shall reward thee openly. The point though is this. So this is the only time in the Old Testament that this was actually required. God doesn't owe us something because we've humbled ourselves in prayer and fasting. Put aside food and drink and just get alone with God. Father, thank you for another opportunity to study your word tonight. And so the question is, where do we see that? A space for this thing called prayer and fasting. The fact is that God doesn't tell us how often and when and under what circumstances, but we see the example in the New Testament of that. A transactional view of why we do things is so, so wrong. But a good healthy pattern of rest and work, some people don't know how to work. We should not view it as a way to manipulate God, to elevate our religious reputation, or formulate contraction. We need to be careful about that. I think what Paul's trying to say here is there were times that I suffered in so many different ways for the Church of God, and one of the ways was Paul says, I'm not doing this to puff myself up. And all of a sudden people are like, you know, I'd really like to do a little better in my my finances, and so I'm gonna give that a try and see what happens. Sin. Commitment and engagement in the local church. Here's all things I do. Reflecting on what's going on in your life and actually admitting to God when you've sinned, dealing with sinful passions, correct patterns of work and rest. Verse 16 he says, be not as the hypocrites. This is not a discipline in those kinds of ways. And so what fasting is, is it's saying I don't want to be distracted by my physical appetites. Did he like talk to them? God is under no obligation to follow your bargains. It's almost like they recite a prayer over and over and over and over again. What that's telling you is that that's something that is to happen in some situations. There are times that you and I should recognize this is the right response toward God. And so sometimes they're just expressing grief. It was not getting up in the morning, but morning like grief, morning kind of rituals. He did it for himself. And he's saying that's what you do when you fast. It came to pass when I heard these words, I sat down and I wept and I mourned certain days and fasted and prayed before the God of heaven. I'll just I'll call it that. But Jonathan and Saul are killed in this story, and the people are are are weeping and mourning. What is he saying? It's never commanded by Christ or the Apostles for us to fast. He's talking about giving money to the poor. That's not what he's saying. We should actually have a regular pattern of getting on our knees alone with the Lord and prayer and praise. They do not have if they were watching a football game, they wouldn't be sleeping five minutes into the football game. Well, I'm fasting. Anyway, these are the kinds of things that we come up with, you know, when we're when we're trying to establish this pattern that we don't find in the Bible. We go to the Word of God, and this is our standard. You have the apostles and their associates who have established the ordination of pastors in churches. Is that what it that's what it is? And the particular illustration that he's dealing with is the topic of fasting. This is not something where I go, okay, I'm gonna have, you know, every week I have my fast day, or every two weeks I have my fast day, or two days out of the week I have my fasting. And you guys know about it. But here's the truth. What is Christ teaching? Now originally I wrote my own definition and I thought, you know, I want to make sure that I look at some of the resources and see if my uh my definition is on track. And let's remember that, again, the time of Christ is going to be on the other side of the cross. Just like he said, when you pray, when you give your alms, what's he saying? He's saying, please, know what you're doing. They spent a lot of time taking their kids to ball games and neglecting the church. We taught them. But if we'd have lived in the time of Christ, it would have been a pretty normal thing. Now, he's not saying you don't normally wash your face in the morning and you don't normally anoint your head That would be the equivalent of someone anointing their head and washing their face. Maybe you're not, but down the road you will. No, it's not like that. So the reason they're praying is not because they love God, they want to speak to God. And and they made excuse after excuse after excuse after excuse. It sounds exactly like what he said when he talked about prayer. So if there was something that was commanded under the Old Testament system, but the practice was not also commanded as for New Testament Christians, we have to consider that. These are the leadership of the churches. There are times when you and I ought to say, you know what, I think I need to set some time aside. And so that's my encouragement to you tonight. So it's important for us to remember that. You know the truth is. That's what it is. He's saying this is the way that people who take care of themselves like it's like in the morning, you know, we get up and some of you, your practices, you get up in the morning and you drink a cup of coffee and you take a shower Thank you for this challenge So one of the resources that I was looking at, this is how they describe what fasting is. And I would have to say that fasting would fall into that same category. There's nobody you know that's done more for the cause of Christ than I have. Not true. That's what fasting is. That is what Jesus is pushing back against. The fact is that I'd say most of us probably when we get on our knees in the morning, we probably fall asleep a lot. The person who is praying or giving or fasting is very concerned about what other people think. We fasted, besought our God for this, and he was entreated of us I mean, did he just move in their heart and stir up their heart? Does it hurt your body in any way or anything like that? And I'm just giving you a piece of this, but I think it's enough information for us to get a good, solid understanding of what we see in the Bible. It's entirely possible. When he says, pray, he says, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites. It's just a normal day. The fact is the pastor can get up and teach the word of God, and everything he's saying is absolutely true. But the fact is that this text in front of us uh does bring this issue up, and so we need to address it And so he addresses those three areas because these are different ways that our belief system is expressed in religious devotion. Being here, teaching the Word of God, actually learning from what is here, talking to our kids about it. It's something that we do when we feel overwhelmed. Oh, right. God wants us to live lives that are entirely for his glory We're to do these things genuinely without any mixture of hypocrisy. We do give in the New Testament, but our giving has some differences than the way they did in the Old Testament. Many of these were national or corporate fastings and prayers. What are they doing? For instance, in Matthew chapter 4, verse 2, Jesus fasted 40 days and 40 nights, and this is the inauguration of his ministry. It's not a wellness practice. Do not use this practice that should at times be a part of your Christian life. Do not change your life pattern to give the impression that you are fasting. I didn't I didn't grow up with that, but uh I remember my my mom grew up in that kind of an environment where they always ate fish on Friday because I guess it's not meat? So some may even pose the question, is this even for the New Testament Christian? When the gospel is not the center of your religious worldview, guess what? And then in Matthew chapter 9, we see an intriguing passage. What are some cautions that we need to consider in this area? I think we also need to be cautious about conflating fasting with Christian disciplines. I'm gonna go to work and I'm gonna like my stomach's gonna be grum my stomach grumbles at work all the time. But there is one time, one time in the Jewish calendar that the Jewish people are not asked but required to fast. I'm going to read to you from Leviticus 16 so you can see that. What matters is there was prayer and fasting. And before we do that, I want to remind you that in these verses there are three practices that Christ addresses. So what you see is that Jesus, while he does not command fasting, he is assuming by his statements that this is a practice that you would see going on in the New Testament. That's a scenario. But at church, you open the Word of God, you read it, and they're just, they're gone. This is something where in my heart I am overwhelmed. What was going on in the Day of Atonement was the people were being reminded, we're sinful people. And I know some people are better at communicating than others, and so some people are harder for us to follow than other people. Six days you'll labor, seventh day your rest. Command. And when you fast, you should do it in a very discreet manner. And by the way, nobody has a pure heart save by the grace of God 5. So this is something that was very very well known to the people. Who is he talking about? I'm doing this to just state the facts. Second, is this: we need to be careful about a transactional view of fasting. And we get upset when we say, well, they don't honor the Lord. Now, I'm in no way saying that they shouldn't have done this. Let me give you examples. My my finances were really in terrible states. There are some people they sit in a pew, and I mean they're gone as soon as those the scriptures are opened and read. That's what's going to happen. Have you ever had a situation where you desperately needed God to intervene on your behalf? He's not going to like speak to you in an audible voice, but your heart's going to be overwhelmed, and you have this sense, I need to be alone with the Lord. I'm just saying that right now. Wow. It says, When they had ordained them elders in every church, and prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord on whom they believed. Now that is not a transaction like, oh, because you did this the right way. There are some that even wonder if fasting is something that we should do as New Testament believers. Don't change your life pattern to give the impression that you're fasting. It was because the people decided there was a great need at that time and they were responding to that need. 2 Samuel 1. Now, did God tell him he needed to do that? Then he says, they disfigure their faces that they may appear unto men to fast. There are blessings that are accompanied with walking with God. And so the way that they did that was on that day, the people were to be reminded of their sin. Some Christians think it shouldn't. Three words I want you to remember tonight. The Bible doesn't say here's how often you're supposed to do it. In fact is there are a lot of people that they're frustrated at what happens to their kids when they get out of the house. And we ask that you would bless our time together in prayer tonight. He's talking about himself. They speak to God in a way that everyone can hear. They are weeping and mourning over a person's death. And so when people talk about fasting, we need to be careful to recognize fasting is not a formula we plug into manipulate God in our circumstances. Not true. Help us as we dig into the word to have clear minds. Or you could be teaching a Sunday school class, or you could be putting money in the offering, or you could you could have a conversation with someone and They're expressing their grief over their sin and they're offering a sacrifice, a This is talking about our marriage relationships. Now, we are not under the Old Testament system any longer. And what does the Pharisee do? I give you these final thoughts. That's the text in front of us. So all of that is introductory to some questions I want us to pose this evening about this issue of fasting. The Pharisees fasted twice a week. But the fact is, before the scriptures were completed, you have prophets and you have apostles who spoke for God in the same way that That's possible. Know what you're saying. Probably some people in here do too. Don't do it. It's something that he actually talks about how you're supposed to handle these situations, that we know that this should be a part of the Christian experience on some level. But we're not talking about fasting for good health practices. That's something. And this is when Saul dies and Jonathan dies, and the Philistines take the Ark of the Covenant, and it is a it is a terrible not the Ark of the Covenant. So we get sick. And then the example in front of us, be not as the hypocrites of sad countenance who disfigure their faces, that they may appear unto men to fast. Verily I say unto you, they have the reward Every seven years if someone was uh owing debt to someone, they were released of those debts. And they're concerned about how these men are going to do in those positions. And they think if I say this enough and I say this with enough force and I say this in just the right way So he's saying when you give, don't give in a way that you're thinking a lot about it. 12, another example. And Jesus said unto them, Can the children of the bridechamber mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? For instance, in Matthew 6. Or, well, this is my time of the year where I fast, or this, you know. And then he says, pray in prayer, use not vain repetition as the heathen do. Second question. And some of you go, Well, I think that might be good for us today. What was the Jewish tradition at the time that Jesus is pushing back against? And then I want to kind of like summarize it so we can see what these people are doing Under no obligation. You don't change what you're doing so that people go, are you okay? So we have to be so, so cautious. That's what it's all about. It's something we do because we are motivated for some reason. Listen, you can puff these people up, but I am a true minister of Christ. And when you're in that position, guess what? You say, well, how will I know when that's the time? And I am neglecting some physical desire, and we could even use the word a need. So expressing our love for God by blessing other people. It was something that they did. Especially that, you know, this is like a transactional thing or And they were even different in their practice from John's disciples. Or it could be that they're talking about the fact that he has impressed upon their heart this is what they need to do. It really doesn't say. I didn't know people still did things like that. He's saying, My disciples don't need to fast right now, they need to enjoy my company. That's the warning. Sounds exactly like what he said when he talked about giving. And in each of these examples, we he was concerned with confronting wrong practices in his day. He says, I tithe of all I possess, I give alms to the poor, I fast twice in the week. I mean, obviously in the New Testament God's in charge, not us. And we can plug in giving And we get in our mind, if I do this, God has to do this back. You shouldn't have to have those conversations. And that's his point. But He has provided a way that our sin can be covered And your mind cannot focus on what you need to do in a situation. So I'm not overdoing it or underdoing it. So we're going to dig into this concept. And here's the part I want you to miss. But it gives you insight into why fasting was something that God required of the people at this time. They afflict themselves physically in the sense that they they refrain from eating, they refrain from drinking. Actually, it was the right thing to do. The Scripture doesn't say in these situations you have to do it this way. Well, we didn't either. Okay? I need wisdom. The first word is the word warning. I'll read it again very simply. Bless our children in the back as they are in class and please be with our teenagers as they're away at camp. We are body, soul, and spirit. That's what he's saying. I mean like, isn't that a little bit of the mindset there? Verily I say unto you, they have their reward. How many of you have heard a sermon on fasting in the last five years? And it was a public display of grief that stood in contrast to celebration. Well, what is going on here We end up in a situation where we end up having to rest our bodies. They love to pray standing in the synagogue, in the corners of the streets. And there are a couple things that we're picking up in these verses. So it is very possible that the Holy Spirit spoke I mean like God did that for you and for me. The first is a religious devotion that is expressed in how we relate to other people. In other words, this prayer should be a secret time of devotion, not about drawing attention to ourselves. He says, are they ministers of Christ? And one day their kids got to turn 18, 19, 20 years old, and they said, you know what? And now listen, believe it or not, fasting is something that some doctors tell people to do. It was a part of their concern about making the right decision. See a sort of similar situation to what's going on in Acts 13. Now, how do we summarize all this? One is we need to be careful about imbalances to two extremes. I promise you they would Think about all the times we didn't go and think about all the times that we just did other things That's what he's saying. It's because they want people to see them. You go through and you read passage after passage after passage where the word fasting is used, and what you will discover is So that leads me to: well, what do we see in the New Testament on the other side of the cross? You know, people say, I'll make this bargain with God. It's as if the Spirit is motivating us to say, you need to take some time away and focus on the Lord. They mourned and wept and fasted until even for Saul and for Jonathan, his son. However 16, the text we're looking at, it says It's a discipline. Why? And they spent a lot of time watching football games on Sunday afternoons and they said, oh, it's too late. So we are talking to God, we are having It wasn't something that was unusual or unknown. Fasting acknowledges that there's this interconnection between us being physical bodies Giving is a part of healthy, vibrant Christian experience. But before they do that, the church is burdened about something, and so there is prayer. But you see that there is grief and there is mourning. Goes both ways. We need to realize that there is a time when we need to consider fasting. It says, as they ministered to the Lord, Of the Jews, five times I received Well this one is a little bit different. It's all about themselves. These are the kinds of scenarios where people fast. What is the biblical practice regarding fasting? No. And in the church context, there is a great danger of this. And Mesopotamia fasting was a part of Now we do not practice the Day of Atonement today as New Testament Christians. And then we come to 2 Corinthians chapter 11. You say, well, when are those situations? You say, well, I'm married, so my spouse will know. They're going to go out and they're going to do And the fact is that at this time you have prophets who are active in the church When you and I experience good from God's hand, it's his grace, man. Because they don't have discipline. And then the third is promise. That's what they're doing. This was a part of their their their religious practice, and it's something they're very proud about. You know it's actually wrong for you to not take a day off? Matthew 9. He says, defraud ye not one another except it be with consent for a time. And he's funny how he says he says, I speak as a fool, but I'm gonna say it anyway, alright? I need God's intervention. It's like a person gets up in the morning Why? The Bible doesn't say here's the times where you have to do it. It was a practice that when there was a need for wisdom, they would seek God's wisdom. And we could say that this is true about so many other things. Now God's going to give you what you wanted. It says, Moreover, when ye fast, be not as the hypocrites. And It says, Then came to it to him the disciples of John saying, Why do we That's what it is. Thy father which seeth in secret You should do it. It is the practice I want to lay aside these things for a moment of time. And one day it hit me, I'm robbing God. You have to learn how to focus your attention on the Lord in those times. Oh yeah, I do. Because it's just a normal day. Fair question. Well, the application of the three examples has overlap and repetition. Why did he do it? We're talking about denying self to focus on the Lord. Well, he didn't give us a schedule. We should never use them as a form of self-promotion. Let me give you examples. This is how you give. And so the point is that there is a need for us to have in our thinking. We taught them not to do that. And he says, Hold on, I'm going to defend what I have to say here. In Christ's name. So first of all, a few introductory thoughts. And one of those things was that they were to fast And I think that this is something that is a danger in lots of areas of the Christian life. Do not practice fasting as a tool to establish your religious credentials. So Matthew chapter 6, verses 16 through 18. Not just machines, not just computers. And God had reasons for that, okay. Now, a question would be We say, well 15, he says, the day will come when the bridegroom shall be taken away. There are certain disciplines that should be a normal part of the Christian life. Now, that statement, you shall afflict your souls, has the idea of And you're expressing that to Him? When the Spirit of God's prompting you to do that No matter what, alright? I I'm a very religious person. We're going to talk about what fasting is. Here's what you need to do. Sounds a little bit like the way people thought right before the Reformation Why? So let's bow for prayer. So what do they do? Well, hold on a second. If I do this. Amen. They're trying to draw attention. I speak as a fool, I am more. Work hard and then rest. It is important for us Now every single one of those examples was not by command. For himself. I'll put it like this. That's a personal discipline, reading the word, focusing on what is preached. This is religious devotion expressed in relationship to ourselves. And the fact is that sometimes we say, I don't have time to do that. Like you put your quarter in and you get your gumball. That is so wrong. This is how you pray. So And as those who teach the word of God, we want to make sure It's kind of unusual in our time. They pray and they fast. So I guess that's nothing nor nothing unusual there, right Judges 20, verse 26. So I started giving to the church like I'm supposed to, and then God just like poured out all these blessings on me. That's kind of the whole point Why does he do that? They think they shall be heard. And thy father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. And so what that means is That is what the fasting was about. And my definition actually And he lays out all these reasons. Not just a seven-day week where you have six days of labor and a day off, but You could say it was some kind of a voluntary thing. But there's going to be a day that I'm going to be gone. So we have to be very cautious about these issues. Is that what we're supposed to give? These are things that involve commitment. We're going to talk about So No. We don't earn it. Well, because that's the way people are giving This is how you fast. Those are the kinds of times. What's he saying? So let's move to them one by one. Earlier in the sermon he says We don't have That's not what we're talking about here, okay? We don't deserve it. I don't have time to go to church tonight I mean it actually gives your body kind of a reset. We're not under the Old Testament system. So you see this. The Christian life Then shall they fast. That's what we're talking about. But listen to some of the things he says It's all about putting on airs. So many other things. I don't know We'll mention this in just a minute. We don't like For instance, in giving he says Let's ask the Lord to help us to do this. The first question is this. Here's what. He's talking about And God says