If there's not that desire, something's wrong, okay? And in fact, they are. And he's telling these stories, and John goes, oh, this is amazing. Does my left hand have a brain? I'm simply going to take note so that I can mute with you at another time. And uh, while we will miss him very dearly, we look forward to hearing what great things you're going to be doing in his life, in his uh the next ministry you've given him, Lord. And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. It's a day where we feed on the scriptures. Be in full strength. A day that encourages us as we head into the week. And so tonight's service is going to be very special. And it's been many years since we've actually sent someone out to new ministry. And Josh was with us not too long ago for a short time with family. And I really believe that the Lord would have us to reflect on this this morning and really take it and apply it because it gets to the heart of why we do what we do. Young ladies look at being a mother as like the highest and noblest thing. People have very specific roles in the church that are fairly visible. The fact is, every single one of us has the opportunity to preach the gospel to people. Taking the truths of Scripture and presenting them to people in whatever context is one of the most noble and greatest blessings that anybody could ever participate in. They get up in their pulpits and all of a sudden, as they're preaching in the same kind of way that they had preached for many, many years, people are not responding the way that they did over the last many years. And so Satan, the highest of these angels, rebels against God, and all those angels that rebel with him, these are the individuals that he's talking about. There are people like George Whitfield. Human hearts are just as cold and callous today as they were hundreds of years ago. But Paul talks about the radical transformation that took place in the lives of the Thessalonians. Then you go to another community and they say, well, that's the message that the Thessalonians have been preaching. Well, you know, look at my kid. and Annis and Kuman and have omitted the weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith. He talks about the way he thought before he was a Christian. and how he would obey the Mosaic Law and his zeal in persecuting the church because he believed that the church was contrary to the law of God. We know it is by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. you hand something he's given to me. And I pray that this would be what motivates us and drives us and what gives us a sense of purpose, that our identity and our joy would be highest in Christ alone. say thank you or welcome you into the church. You know the weather outside is so beautiful. And then Saturday evening, there is going to be a men's growl. sickness and that the Lord really speak to us through his word. As we think about the scriptures that are laid before us, I pray that we would submit our wills to what your word says. Father, as the scriptures are expounded and as we listen to the preaching of your word, I pray that you would open our hearts, that we would understand the significance and the weight of the truths laid before us Those who are dealing with physical affliction. How firm a foundation. Man, this is one of those songs that's really hard to sing out sitting down, but we'll give it a shot. Bueno, yo lo más que nada, como tenía que ir, como no me encanta, pero que no. Still be my vision, O ruler of all, still be my vision. Luke chapter 10. But the passage that we're looking at, I think, will be a great passage for us to consider this Lord's Day. And uh some of you uh may realize this, some of you may not, but tonight is uh Pastor Chris's last Sunday with us before he goes up to Rhode Island and begins uh class for his chaplain training with the United States Navy. Because I wanted to be focused primarily on encouraging him and challenging him as he will be moving into a new season of ministry. And I think that the things that are going to be said will be very encouraging to him. Saying, Lord, even the devils are subject unto us through thy name. That the spirits are subject unto you, but rejoice because your names are written in heaven. A heart that is motivated the way that the Lord Jesus Christ challenges these men to be motivated. It's going to begin to unravel and destroy the thing that God is doing both in your life and through your life. And when it comes to a head, the consequences can be very, very dangerous. And that is ultimately what Jesus is calling these 70 individuals to reflect on. when we are children that we we kind of look at through rosy eyes. And they want to snuggle the babies, and they want to talk to the babies because babies are so cute and they're so beautiful and they're so loving. And to work with that child and help that child develop into an adult someday as you work with them as a mother, you make incredible sacrifices. And all of a sudden they're like, you know what? a co-laborer or someone kind of has this master servant mindset or people are very prone to boast about what they've accomplished or maybe they kind of adjust or trim or kind of we could say Whether I see the great results or whether it's very difficult, I'm just going to stay the course and be faithful. Recognize that ministry is not just the guy who gets up and preaches the word on Sunday. But in his providence, he has planted you in a place with a sphere of influence where your job is to minister to people. Because of pride. I don't want to get the impression in a warning kind of passage that ministry is dull and it's boring and it's discouraging and it's frustrating. I believe that for our dads, I believe that for our moms, I believe it for our Sunday school teachers, I believe that for our kids who are talking to friends, those who are in Christian school teaching, any area of ministry, it is valuable, it is significant, it is important. And we get in a whole topic in our in our systematic about angels and those angels that rebelled against God Folks, when God works, that's that's a stunning thing to behold. Ye were examples to all that believed in Macedonian Achai. How's she doing? They don't care about souls. Don't wake up one day when you're old and say, I threw away 20, 40, 60 years of life. I give unto you power to tread on serpents and scorpions and over all the powers of the enemy, and nothing shall by any means hurt you. He says, Thou therefore hast been and eat in the garden of God. Till iniquity was found in thee. Here's what it says. And so in verse 18 he says, I give you power, authority to tread serpents and scorpions and over the power of the enemy. So we know that they weren't invincible forever. Here is the application. area. It's a person's personality. We should not raise our children because of what we're getting out of it. You know why you should be happy? And the simple fact is, when God is blessing, he's always blessing by his grace and in some part in spite of us. We will not be consistent. When thou doest alms, let not thy left hand, I should go this way, left hand, know what thy right hand doeth. Okay? At the top of that roadblock was how he viewed Jesus. And so because I'm a Jew, I am one of God's people. Sometimes we start adapting that mindset after we're saved. Well God does. If you want to be a faithful parent, if someone wants to be a faithful missionary, if they want to be a faithful pastor, if you want to be a faithful Sunday school teacher, if you want to be saw and light in the in the in the location where you are at work, if you want to reach people with the gospel. an email through the office. And I pray that as they see that, they would turn to Christ and trust in his finished work alone. I pray that you help us to be a faithful church who lives consistent with what has been laid before us today. off to his uh schooling. on Saturday show Hugh wants us to definitely sign up so we know who's coming. who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation God also hath highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name, that in the name of Jesus every knee should bow the things in heaven, and the things in earth and the things under the earth That the Spirit of God would take the word and drive it into our hearts that if we need to be convicted, that that's the response that we would have, if we need to be encouraged, if we need to be challenged, whatever Our great need is this morning. And he said unto them, I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven. And nothing shall by any means hurt you. Well, I am with thee and thou with me, Lord, thou my great father, and thy I knew heaven, my treasure thoughts and um to just send him out and to ask the Lord to bless him and encourage him. Okay, Luke chapter 10, verse 17. Behold, I give unto you power to tread on serpents and scorpions and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall the enemies hurt you. There are a lot of things that Jesus says in his earthly ministry that are shocking and stunning. We need to think about the timeless truths that really undergird Christ's response to these men who were just excited about seeing your hand at work. where we are today, the things that we have uh that you've called us to do, may we be faithful in these areas and may we carry The passage before us is a fascinating passage because what it teaches us is that while there are tremendous practical blessings that are associated with serving Christ, In other words, if you are motivated to be faithful simply because of what you get out of it, you will not be a faithful person If you are motivated simply by how it makes you feel, there's going to be a day that in fact you will quit. The right way, but for the wrong reason. Don't rejoice because of the way it has impacted people's lives. the grace of God. That I think every person in this room is going to encounter as it comes to this issue of ministry. That's their career. The one is the danger that ambition is what drives people to serve God. As I reflect on that concept, here's what I have observed. And here's the simple fact. is full of wonderful rich blessings. And this is what it says. They were excited to be at the forefront of one of the most amazing moments in history, and they knew it, and it moved them, and it drove them. Which was stunning when people thought of ministers. He doesn't even have a microphone. That were dying, or there were churches that were large, but they were filled with unconverted people. You don't think it would have been exciting to listen to live through that? There's absolutely no reason to believe that the Lord can't do the exact same thing today in this time that he did so many years ago. dream, then with our mouth filled with laughter, our tongue with singing, then said they among the heathen, the Lord hath done great things for them. That's talking about the Jewish people who are uprooted from the land of Israel. Their capital city, Jerusalem, was decimated. Patience of hope. Paul says, wow, that's amazing. They do not actually get to the point where they experience the sweetness of ministry because they're so self-centered. They were so excited about the things that they had seen and what they had beheld. I mean, really, that's a fair question. It's it's it's quite satisfying, I'll just say that. But then when it rained it would get soft, and so when it got soft, we would chip away at it. And I remember, you know, guys would be out there and we'd we'd be using a pickaxe and we'd be using a shovel and a lot of people weren't even wearing shoes. You want to talk about moving quick. But there's a little statement that's fascinating. Thou hast said in thine heart, here it is, I will ascend into heaven. They had a very definite kind of ministry. Paul was beheaded. The perfect kid. It's all about this thing called pride. He says, notwithstanding in this rejoice, not that the spirits are subject unto you, but rather rejoice because your names are written in heaven. And I'm not trying to diminish the value of a soul being saved in any way. And when God chooses to withdraw for a period of time for whatever reason, it may simply be to humble us, it may simply be to test us, whatever the case. We're reminded that it is not the benefit that can sustain us in the long term. Because if that is our standard gauge, we are going to be vacillating like the waves of the sea That the spirits are subject unto you. That's how we're saved. How do we consider it practically? And they're like, Hey daddy, can you put this on the fridge? Now, we love our kids and we don't demean them. It starts with going, I don't deserve any of this. That's not why we do it. If you don't have that, you don't have anything. I'm not certain that if I died today I'd go to heaven. I don't want anyone to leave here without a confidence. Then in fact their faith has not been in the finished work of Christ, but in something else. In our approach to this issue of ministry, I pray that we would take the words of Christ and allow them to settle in our hearts And took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men. It is well with my soul. I was a man being a time, but I have been great man for the door. Because a lot of times we go into things because we go into it for what it gives us. They kind of present the message in a way that's palatable. Notice what he says in verse 17. I can't imagine what it would have been like to live through the Great Awakening. And he hears word from Ephesus, and this person comes and says, John, let me tell you some stories about what's going on in Ephesus. rather than to receive. In verse 18, he's saying, I I literally personally witnessed Satan fall from heaven. Verse 19, nothing shall by any means hurt you. And here's some oregano, I picked out the ten and I picked out the one and I'm going to give it back to God. Yeah, there was a day when all of my neighbors used to go to church. Great song. and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Our theme of worship for today, let's worship Christ with a singular focus of gratitude. We recognize that the Lord's Day is such a special day. Tinha. Not be all used to meet that by your would have been rather shocking. And Father, I pray that we'd be able to take these truths, and I pray that we'd be able to see how they apply very specifically in our own lives. I think about somebody who, when they're young, they think about what they want to do as a career. And why do people do that? And people see one another as rivals rather than partners. Ambition is all about self. Rather than what he wants to accomplish through me as his tool. With oh that was that was really weak. They're singing through the Psalms. I rejoice greatly when the brethren came and testified of the truth that is in thee. People who don't do that, they don't experience the blessings that come with that. Those who serve Christ must guard their heart. Hold on a second. What does this have to do with their ministry? Thou art the anointed cherubim, a cherub, thou wast perfect in thy way from the day that thou wast created. And the scripture is so clear that is not how we're to live the Christian life. Those I realize are worthless. Or, well man, when I sit down in the morning, first thing I do with my cup of coffee is I open my Bible and I read it for 30 minutes. That that would not be the case in my family, okay? That's not how you get saved, folks. That's what the book of Galatians is all about, to be very frank. A righteousness that we didn't earn, a righteousness that doesn't come through the law, a righteousness that is gifted to us by God's grace alone. Romans chapter 3. I'm not suggesting that we should have this flippant attitude towards duties. Fulfill ye my joy, that ye be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. So the number one of I can conclude. May the Lord add his blessing for the reading of this word. No wine heretic now and always Being a mother is a sacrifice. A lot of people are willing to serve the Lord if they believe they will get paid back better than what they gave to it. They labor to maintain a reputation. People who will never be a pastor have that kind of a ministry. These 70 men come back and they say, Lord, this is incredible. Singing, not listening to music, singing as families. There are people who literally grip their pews and they're full of conviction. Because your church has taken the gospel everywhere. Invest in your life in something that really matters. You've got to guard your heart. Listen to what he says. I watched him lead that rebellion. This being, Satan, was once an angel in the presence of God. I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation in the sides of the north. You lust and have not. Don't give because it makes you feel good. Kind of weird I guess. The best we can give God is always flawed. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory. Father, as the Word of God is opened, I pray that this morning you would speak and minister to our hearts in a very special way. But it won't look like that forever. Pride is what drives people in ambition, and pride is what causes people to be disillusioned and discouraged, because it's all about what I'm getting out of it. I love this song. And the people would they would weep because they thought about Jerusalem. And God sent them back. I remember when we lived in Ghana, there was this huge mound of dirt. He said, you know what? Similar to what Jesus says in Matthew 16, he says, On this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. So the question is, well, what's the connection between Satan falling, their authority, and the fact that they have an invincible ministry in that moment of time? It's not what we've done and how we do it as much as it is his blessing. And so I'll give you a very simple example, Matthew 6. You understand? They have no ability to earn my standing with God. It's about his crucifixion, nails of the cross, paying the punishment for our sins on that cross. He's not dependent on us. And we begin to realize that what Christ is saying is that the purest motive for service is a loving gratitude. It's saying, if you want to serve me faithfully, then don't get past grace. That we shouldn't be ready to endure hardships or enjoy the work that God has given us to do. Here's my question to you this morning. You might say, well, I didn't really want to raise my hand, but I do need to talk to you. To touch hearts the way that it needs to be. Принятий кому прийти на три. Now, the vast majority of people in the room today are saying, well, I'm glad he's not talking to me because I'm not a pastor, so I don't have to worry about it. In fact, if we really thought about it, every single believer in this room has areas where you are called of God, not with an audible voice. So it'd be kind of like this. I give missions. I love what it says in Romans 8. The scriptures say, and the seventy returned again with joy, saying, Lord, even the devils are subject unto us through thy name. Jesus is not saying he's gonna fall. Now, why is Jesus telling the disciples that? And so in James 4, we're reminded, from whence come wars and fightings, even of your lusts. I can still think like, yeah, I got to I got to give somebody a car and I got to do this and that. You know how Paul became a Christian? I know that church attendance has declined massively in America. Anything that we give God really starts with him. And so I close with this very simple verse. Luke chapter 10, we'll be reading verses 17 through 20. Your blue books, number 164, see the Christ. Lief first in my heart So we're stepping outside of that realm. That's different. That's pride. Don't be like Satan. This is this is something that's very subtle. We cannot do what is right for ourselves. Or you have a person that says, well, yeah, I my brother, we grew up in the same house. Our greatest delight and our identity cannot be in what we get. If there be therefore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bowels and mercies, It was me and go ahead, there was a man who was my colour. I might be over my dear, or I mean, I think I'll be a little bit. You don't serve God because of what he gives you. A lot of what we do for others, we do it for ourselves. I'll put it like this. Say, well, well, Joe, how do you apply this? It's not what we do for him. I pray God, yeah, pray and give him. Wherever one that there are many people who live the mind of the For the cry for the boss, making that for every night. It drives them, it motivates them, and then they get into it, and guess what happens when they turn 40 years old? Yet, on the other side, there's all these things that they're just kind of like completely ignoring. I pray for those who have traveled, that you give them traveling mercies. We're looking at verses 17 through 20 together this morning. And I'm going to highlight a couple of those in a few minutes. And when Satan was an angel of light, I saw him rebel. I'd like to invite you to bow with me for a word of prayer as we commit our service to the Lord and we remember those who are not able to be with us this morning, either they've traveled or Oh, he tells a story. There's no higher ceiling to the kinds of blessings you experience than people who do that. Who gave us the ability to do that? That's what basically Jesus is dealing with. That's what he's saying. Our gospel came not unto you in word only, but in power. He's he's fourteen years old and he has all this Bible knowledge and and and and they start rattling off all of these marks of Waking or sleeping, thy presence my love Today are my gun and more, and if you're all good here. You know, who wants to scrape this to sit on my counter for, you know, six days if I go and pick it up on Monday? It's a great, great song. I'd like to remind you that tonight will be a very special service. I almost want to say fall kickoff for the teen activity. They said, Lord, even the devils are subject unto us through thy name. Here's what it says. They don't care about eternity. How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning? And my right hand have a brain? You can send me a personal email through my Pastor Porsche. They're out in there preaching in fields and people are gathering into these fields. And guess what? Therefore we include that no one is justified by the deeds of the law. And so the text in front of us is something we've all got to hear this morning. It's stunning. I walk out into my garden and I'm going to pick ten grapes and then I'm going to take one of those ten, I'm going to set them to the side. I give above and beyond. Lord, we just thank you for this uh beautiful Sunday that you've given us, a day to come and worship together in your house, Lord. We pray that the Word of God would move in our hearts and move in our midst. If I got another 20 or 25, 30 years of work, I'd rather do something different than what I'm doing right now. I like this position, but not as much as I want the one above it. It's this thing that we've been doing different. Great singing. Thou will me dwell in, and I will be one It says, till iniquity was found in thee. Peter was crucified upside down. If Satan can fall to pride and you've been granted authority over him and you have been given the mirac you have been miraculously preserved from vicious attacks, don't think for a moment you're above him in any We will not be faithful. Well, here are some things to consider. Well, they do that because they recognize that what they thought that was is not what it is. Jesus, what does Satan falling from heaven have to do with what we just said? Now, if we were going to study the person of Satan, we could we could break this down. And so please be in prayer for him. I'd be my lady, my God, listen my name. Which is I need not norm And all of these people are coming to faith in Christ. Very, very simple. And so he's reminding them: do not allow pride to drive you in ministry. That mindset that brings us to faithful and in Christ is the mindset that we must live in the light of. Four hundred sixty-four. If you could, let's all take our hymn books out. Okay, if you have your Bibles, I'd like to invite you to determine with me to Luke chapter 10, and our children who are junior church age can be dismissed to be back for your class. He talks about the fact that though his life was in danger, none of these things moved him. This is really the point of the whole passage. Hey, I remember that little boy that he became a Christian. When you see these scorpions come and I mean it's like a little lobster with this little thing on his tail, he's gonna swatch you. Because God saved you. Now there are two reasons why I'm addressing this first. And that's what he's talking about. Grateful that you have joined us for worship this morning here at Anchor Baptist Church. I'm going to read it and then we'll bow for prayer and then we'll dig into the text together. And um Grant, could you please come and close us in prayer? It'll be a special service of dedication for him. They thought of these professionals who wore robes and they stood at pulpits. We'll talk about this tonight. Jesus knew exactly what he was saying. That is really the core of self-righteousness. Our identity cannot be in what we are doing, or in the results of what we are doing. What the law could not do and that it was weak, God did. It's a day that we set apart to devote our attention to you. I pray that you would uphold and strengthen them and their bodies. Be my vision, Lord of my heart. When the Lord turned again the captivity of Zion, we were like them that We'll sing all four verses. Hi, King of Heaven, my victory one, may I reach heaven's joy for brightness. There's something natural in the heart of those little girls that wants to be a mother. Now, whether you realize it or not, that selfishness and that ambition can look like humble gratitude for a really long time. There's another side to this. It's not about what's right and wrong, it's about how are people going to perceive the choices that I make. Now, here is the sense of what's going on. That's what I'm doing. Turn one page back to 463. And if we continue to do a good thing the right way for the wrong reason, there's going to be a day that that's going to come to a head. You could be dying in that ministry because of pride. You hear people talking about the Word of God on the street, and you say, what's going on in our communities? He says, I saw, beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven. We go now, but they don't. Who gave us uh the credentials, who connected us with the people. That's not what should sustain us in what we do. Our opening scripture reading is found in Philippians 2, starting with verse 1. What does he say? They know for certain when they die they're going to heaven. Let's pray. But at that moment in history they were. Here's what he says. Let me give you some final thoughts. Anybody raise your hand and say that's me. He goes on to say this. You and I are not the 70, okay? For a pastor, when the church grows, guess what? And I do this and this and this and this. But here's what's amazing. Any of you ever had your child come home from Sunday school with a piece of paper that they were really proud of? And so we've got to start with this understanding that we are unworthy. You know, it's kinda like, so where do we get the strength to do the work that we do? We've got to do a little better. Verse number 18. So John is an old man. They do not live like a Christian in the way they think and act. But all that to say, you say, why is he talking about serpents and scorpions He might show you that he's not the perfect kid a couple years from now. Notwithstanding in this, rejoice not that the spirits are subject unto you, but rather rejoice, because your names are written in heaven. Being a mother takes really it literally sucks the life out of you in many ways because the truth is that to nurture that little child Or think about 3 John verses 3 and 4. Because that's where you find yourself today. I watched him fall. He reminds them that Satan could not stop the work that they were doing. Do you have that hope? I love it. The 70 returned again with what? 3. It's like somebody says, well man, I I just thank God this past year I've been I've been able to give 20 grand. Same way you and I do, it's through faith alone in Christ. But under that, how he viewed Jesus was how he viewed righteousness. I was circumcised on the eighth day. But here's the point: people who believe I stand before God in my own righteousness. Now, it's not that we believe you get saved through righteousness of the law. Let's bow for prayer. And it's something that we need to hear. And when things are good, we're going to get in trouble. But somehow when it comes to the way that we think and the way that we relate to people, we go right back to the old mindset. We just we put it up there and we we're happy with them. We ask all of this in the Lord Jesus Christ's name. They'll be so joyful, and it is a wonderful blessing. The temple was destroyed. Another example. We never, what we do for God is never consistently perfect. When I say preach, I don't mean get up in this pulpit. Psalm 126, he says, When the Lord turned again the captivity of Zion, we were like men that dreamed, and we were filled with laughter. Well he's speaking as as a metaphorical sense. Those who are not saved, I pray that they would be convicted That's what invision does. I would love to have lived through that. Every precious stone was thy covering. The reason that Satan fell, or could I say was cast down, is because of pride Folks, God grows the church in his time according to his purposes. I really need to talk to somebody about that. There's a sign up in the hallway there on the bulletin board. It's really all his. I'll make a comment on it in just a moment, but I want to start with his reference to Satan's downfall. In other words, don't allow pride to creep into your heart. We'll sing all four verses. If you have children, dad, mom, you are ministers to your families I go and I start talking to people like, oh, that's the message that the Thessalonians have been preaching in our communities. John was boiled in oil. Sing out heaven came down and glory filled my soul. That's why people fight. It's not what we do for others. I'm thankful. I hope that you'll be able to make it for that. Amen. They've been telling us about their conversion, how they were once idolaters, and they heard the gospel, and they heard what Jesus has done for them, and they turned to Christ. We should raise them because God has entrusted us a ministry. And we've been working our way through the book of Luke. It's the same fundamental problems. There's got to be a different motive. Now, one of the problems that we encounter is that there are a lot of Christians that don't actually get to that point. When Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount talks about giving, this is what he says. Our identity cannot be in what we do. And so it's very simple, stated positively, but rather rejoice, your names are written in heaven. What we do for God is always flawed. No problem. So I'll give you an example. He doesn't say he's falling. It'll be Pastor Chris's last service with us before he goes Those are really two fruits from the same root. But the Apostle Paul in Acts chapter 20, he talks about how blessed it is to give. In fact, it's interesting. In fact, there are lots of scriptures that talk about this. He reminds them they have authority over Satan. Straight out of the Bible, the words. Rejoice that you're a Christian and that you actually have something that you can talk about because you have personally experienced So before we look at some of these details, I want to begin with talking about two great dangers. And he said unto them, I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven. It's very simple. They have no value to God. It's still the summer, but um the first activity for the teens is this Friday from 7 to 9 They returned with what? 1 Thessalonians 1:2. You know what that does? Pastor, I don't know for certain that I'm saved. It's a day of rest. And when you chip away at it, you would take these large chunks off of the hill, and then we would try to smash it down in certain areas that were low. What things were gained to meet, those I counted lost for Christ. And it's like, my brother, he he could learn from me. And you're just like, Sure, son, I'll take that and I'll stick that on there. Luke chapter 10, verses 17 through 20. That's not the only kind of ministry that there is in the church context. It's not in those things. He says, rejoice that your names are written in heaven. When I mean hope, I mean like, oh I hope it happens. Father, I pray that today would be a very rich and Christ-centered day. From you sounded out all the word of the Lord. And you would expect Jesus to look at them and smile and say, that's what ministry is, guys. We'll use the blue hymn books, and we're going to sing number 105, For Me to Live is Christ. And that is disillusionment and discouragement, where a person is so motivated to be perfect that when they recognize they're not, guess what? And they were taken into Babylon, and there they were forced to live in Babylon, and essentially their their entire culture was ripped from them The joy that it brings to his heart. Thank you for that. And I believe that Josh Moore is probably the last person that we would have done this with. And I think it's also good for us to think about the role that we as a church have played and do play in these situations. And sometimes a person is like a roadblock to another individual rather than He says this, he says, We remember without ceasing your work of faith, labor of love. We do good because we see it as a format. These ye ought to have done and not to leave the other undone. It's on the website. I would exhort you, encourage you, don't stay there. Now, you say, well, that's how Paul thought. Let's bow for prayer. The first reason is because, well that's what's in the text. And they think in those kind of terms almost as if I'm a very detailed conscious person. That thinking that we know is wrong, and it's not how you get saved. But in lowliness of mind, let each esteem other better than themselves. I remember his whole situation. Jesus is talking to these people, and they come and they sit down with him and they say, Jesus, you cannot imagine what we've just witnessed. I've read a lot of commentaries on this particular thing, and I have to say that I don't think many of them actually grasp what Jesus is doing here. Not because of how many people profess faith in Christ. I'm unworthy. Father, we're so very grateful for the opportunity to gather as a body of believers. Our scripture reading this morning will be found in the Gospel of Luke, chapter ten. Those cannot be what ultimately motivate us to be faithful. Literally there were these small little churches They thought about the temple. And in the Holy Ghost and in much assurance. He starts thinking, It's my philosophy of ministry I am a Pharisee. It must be in what he has given us in Christ. Send me a message. And they go to college and they study that as their career. All of a sudden, these communities that were quiet at night, you walk through the streets and you know what you start hearing? Something that is deficient, something that has no power to save. And the way that this thing called ambition looks when it comes to an issue like ministry is that people are used. He was a pastor. I'm not saying we shouldn't be happy about those things, but that cannot be what sustains us, because that is no guarantee. That's not what Jesus is saying. What I think the Lord wants us to see in the text is that our service needs to flow from a healthy view of God's grace. How many of the little girls that are growing up in the elementary classes see little babies and they all want to hold the babies There was nothing that could stop them, nothing that could hurt them. It's not acceptable. And without understanding the gospel and the grace of God, they see going to church and the distinction between them and their neighbor as what gives them standing with God. And so it's a very special time when we as a church are able to come together and encourage a young man who's going into ministry. But listen carefully. How art thou cut down to the ground which did weaken the nations? So why would he be impressed with getting back what he's given to me? Ambition says, you're in my way. Ministry is not just those men who function as deacons or people who are on church staff or It is another way of Jesus saying, I'm the eternal Son of God, and at the creation of the world, when God made the world and everything in it, I was active in that. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. Blessed assurance. They'll be encouraging to our staff. And he said unto them, I beheld Satan as lightning falling from heaven. We go into it because of what we can get out of it. It drives people to not be motivated by principle, what is right, what is wrong. Don't do it. Not suggesting that at all. So please do sign up guys for that. We could talk about a lot of things. And that is what Jesus is driving at here. Behold, I give you power to tread on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy. We're going to continue our singing this morning. I mean one-on-one, you have conversation, you expound the scripture, you explain the gospel, you compel people to believe in the gospel. And all of a sudden, these pastors who had been expounding the Word of God week in and week out for many, many years Massive groups of people coming to listen to this guy preach in a field. In fact, as they were sitting beside these rivers, the people from that region they would come along and say, Hey, don't you people sing like you have some holy book that you sing? I'm not gonna call you down, I'm not gonna call you by name, not gonna ask you to come up here and talk to anybody. It'll be a special challenge. Please stand with me and open your hymn books to hymn number 464. All these demons are subject unto us. You know what? But there's a lot we can learn from them. There were lots and lots of disciples, apostles who ultimately died as martyrs. And it the question is, are you giving because you love people, or are you giving because it makes you feel good to give and talk about it? I don't want you to misunderstand what I'm saying. This was a text that was dealt with last week And I want you to see truth number two. He says, I saw him fall. It was actually in the in the winter in the dry season it was like as hard as concrete. That's really what he did. And you just go down the whole list and all of a sudden what you start realizing is this when I'm giving to God, I'm I'm technically giving back to you That's what he's saying It's a day of refreshment. We need to ask questions about why he said what he did. Every single one of us has things in our future And so the text in front of us is really going to address that very issue. And all of a sudden, people are beginning to respond to the word of God in a way that they had never done it before. This one little statement He doesn't give to the church. But here's the truth. God, whatever you want to do through me, I'm just I'm available. I pray that those who need healing would be strengthened, that they would eventually Here's what it says. You could even use this word, they were invincible in that season. And when things are bad, we're going to get in trouble. And he lists all of his religious credentials. We might live through that today. But it's not just ministers, it could be somebody who's a parent And one of them would be don't think too highly of yourself. Those who are going to church without an understanding of the gospel are going with this mindset. Well that that that comes from the food that we eat, which is bought by the work that we do, and it's kinda well who sustains our ability to work? Please don't hesitate to reach out. I think this is one of those passages. And so the passage in front of us is all about motivation. And you say, what are they singing? And he tells a story. Many, many people profess the name of Christ, and that is exactly how they think. He was the highest and the noblest and the most beautiful and the most powerful of all the angels. He's saying, don't be like this, this. That's why people bicker. Ezekiel 28. The workmanship of thy tablets and of thy pipes was prepared in thee in the day that thou wast created. Or he he he talks about it in Matthew 23. So the question is, where is the hope? Our greatest delight cannot be in those kinds of things. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself. In fact, we spent a lot of time in Luke chapter 9, and we really moved quickly through chapter 10. They go back to school so they can get a different career What's the next word? Say, well, what is that iniquity? But there was this huge roadblock for the Apostle Paul that kept him from being a Christian Before we go to the Lord in prayer, I'm going to ask a simple question. We ask it all in Christ's name. Well, there's going to be a day that you're going to be so filled with pride that in fact They don't have any concept of the tremendous sacrifice. So the first truth I want us to notice is this serving Christ With joy. Listen to what it says. I also want to mention that tonight is going to be a very special service. They're so caught up in their own little world, the things that are going on right in front of their shoes, that they don't think about what's going out beyond them. He reminds him, you have authority over Satan. It's not what we do for ourselves. That's what it says in Romans chapter 8. Send us a Facebook message to uh Anger Baptist Facebook. Father, we pray for those who are part of this congregation but are not able to be with us, who have traveled. Wherefore We're going to sing all three verses. I pray that as I communicate the word, you'd use it for your honor and glory. Don't rejoice because of the power you've experienced. He's the same God. They thought about the stories of their forefathers. And uh also guys don't forget we have our men's grill night. We'd like you guys to come out and join us and enjoy some fellowship and some meat. Amen. I mean, do you have that confidence that your name is written in heaven? And the passage that I'm going to be preaching through will be different than what we've been doing on Sunday nights. And here's this guy preaching in a field. Even as thou walkest in the truth, I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth. And so Paul said, well, I'm a Jew. It's about his resurrection from the dead. And so there's two great dangers. Now, it's important for us to recognize that the way that Jesus speaks to these seven, this is a very unique moment in history. You say, well They don't Anybody like that at all? Father, I pray that you'll take the word as it has been preached this morning and use it. I pray that this is the way that we think. And so I pray that as we're gathered this morning, our hearts would be knit together in a very special way. There is a man I had to be covered by one day I Well, the truth is this. And so things change. I will exalt my throne above the stars of God. He's like, oh, this is amazing. What is that? But to all those that say, you know what, I'm all in, I am focused on serving Christ, here's the warning. And behold And all of a sudden you you you hit this chunk of dirt and it falls off and guess what comes falling out of there? You may have to deal with some very humbling situations, but here's the simple fact. And he's basically saying this. But I'm gonna set this to the side. Who knows? Let me read to you what it says. We're 21st century people. Or I'm not one of the deacons. Serving God is an amazing thing. I'll put it the other way. On the other side, you think of the Apostle Paul, he's a great example of this. I mean, the very best that you give God has problems. We do that with God. It's a day of spiritual fellowship with one another. Let's open our hymn books to hymn number 339. Great singing this morning. And when he uses the word devils, he's talking about demons. I I'll give you an example of this. Father, I pray for believers here who have that confidence, but we are not living consistent. Jesus is mine. Sing out this morning, all three verses Move aside. That's not why you serve God. People are faithful sometimes, and nothing happens. I do this, I get it back. I give to the church. That we shouldn't enjoy our children, we shouldn't enjoy our spouse, we shouldn't enjoy the ministry opportunity. They'll be encouraging to our church family. Yeah, and I heard it. So that's my body to crowd in love, or I want to go. And he worked with these people for many, many years. And he starts telling them about people. Some of you are going, I don't get it. But here's the point. You know what I'm saying? My wife, on the other hand, she doesn't do that. I don't want you to think that we shouldn't be deeply motivated people to do what's right. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus And the 70 returned again with joy. Constantly fretting over expectations, discouraged because of a lack of success. They're singing the hymns of Isaac Watts It's not nice. It's in what he did for us 2,000 years ago. Notwithstanding, and this rejoice not. You can give a perfect being everything and they won't be satisfied with it. And he lists all these religious credentials. And so this text is really at the heart of that. And so I want to encourage you to try to join us for that tonight. This is where it starts. Paul says, when I go to those regions, I don't even need to preach That's why there are contentions. You can come and talk to me after the service. They go and they get a master's career. The joy of people getting saved. And you know what these things all tell us? It's always a good time. We recognize that what Jesus said on that day to those disciples Well, Isaiah 14 tells us. Stated negatively, it's like this in verse 20: notwithstanding in this, rejoice not. I'm going to I'm going to give it to the church. And uh also, uh Leopolys, when we close in prayer, if you guys can go to the back so people can go by and greet you. I hate to say this, but it's a it's a fact. The same tree. He talks about how we would tithe Well, there is a righteousness that comes from God through faith. And anything we have is not inherent, but it's given. Amen. It was an exciting thing. I don't just, I don't just Or you could be getting a massive head that's going to have to get popped at some point. I heard it, Scott. Great Awakening. We'll sing the last verse, a cappella. Yeah, he's not a little kid anymore. They had been given a ministry and they were going to accomplish the ministry. In other words, he's building his church, he's going to build his church, and nothing's going to stop that. We don't think that way. We'll sing all three verses. Ambition says, come here, I need to get you to help me do this I'm not on church staff, so I don't have to worry about this. When you give, don't think too much about it. That's the mindset. I will be like the most high. The third truth is this our identity in Christ has to be our highest delight. So they're going into their mint and they're like, oh well, you know, here's ten. Let's stand together, please, and let's sing each of these verses of For Me to Live is Christ. I have I have a my garden in the back, you know, and I go out there and now grapes are really, really coming in. Great singing. This co-host that you cannot see with your eyes, but are active and at work in the world. And when you crush him I'm going to be willing to serve you however you see fit. Please stand the first time. Being a mother is hard. Think about some of these examples. Let's bow for prayer. The reality is that handling the Word of God People that don't do that waste their lives. Very good. Like, are you kidding me? He says, once you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, you tithe of meant Look at my righteousness. It's not like God needs something from us. We ask all this in Jesus' name. So a lot of But there's another side to it as well. For And your child is so proud of that piece of artwork. Yeah. It's all about warning us that we can be doing a good thing The Lord hath done great things for us whereof we are glad. Is there someone here today that say, Pastor, I do not have that hope? Lord, we thank you for the ministry that uh Chris has had here. But it's not what he did. What a blessing I'm going to do what is right. You realize there was a day that it reversed like that He's like, Well, how's this guy doing? They tell us when people, when they actually invest their lives in the things that really matter, And there's thousands of people coming and listening. Yeah, right. Please be seated as we turn over to hymn number four hundred and seventy-eight. Now, many of the disciples, we know how they died. And I believe that with all my heart. He's married. And people are faithful and God is amazing things. They returned with joy. What's the point? That's really what the text is all about. It's about his righteousness imputed to us. Send us a And that root is pride. He has a family. I'm going to follow the letter of the law on these issues. And you know what he says? Where we need to go. I'm just glad I'm not one of those people out there. And we ask it in Christ's name. And he's like, really? Psalm 126. But when we use the word ministry Philippians chapter 3, verse 7. A lot of people go into ministry because of what they can get out of it. The vast majority, almost all of them did. We don't He's actually a pastor in that church now Do you know what he's saying? Oh, he's doing great. Come on. Amen. I really do. I I pick it and I'll pull out the one She doesn't do that. They trusted in him. Because that's the best you can take out of this life. They can't handle it. You're going, what? He's talking about Satan here. That's not the point. You hear people singing. The righteousness of God by faith. You know what that's talking about? And he tells them the story. Amen. Their lives have been changed. That's ministry. Great seating, please be seated. Meticulous details. Hey, sing us some of those songs. Scorpions. Here is the point.