Okay, well good evening. Good to see each of you tonight. I hope that you had a good, restful afternoon and uh looking forward to a great service tonight. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and then we will get started with our evening service. So let's bow together for prayer, please. Father, thank you so much for the Lord's Day, an opportunity to gather, to rest, to focus our attention on you. And I pray that tonight as we sit under the ministry of the scriptures, that you would again open our understanding to these wonderful truths. Help us to understand what the scripture teaches about the very important topic that will be laid before us tonight. Pray that you'll bless as we sing praise to you. Help our hearts to be uh knit together as one body and help us to rejoice and magnify your name. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Seventy five rejoiced and In the Lord, let's stand as we sing all three verses of this hymn. God never merns with a purpose or plan, when driving servants and wolf Give thanks to the Lord, though your testing seems gone, and darkness began pass on. Oh we joys in the Lord, he make no mistake. When the end of his past that I say for choice and wine I shall come for I could not see through the shadow So I looked at the cross of my Savior and said I went to the well of the master that takes. And peace came and tears fled away. Oh rejoice in the Lord, He makes no mistake You know when the end of his matter I make or will I try and do I shall come more than now I can say something comes from above God 's friend and this children and virtue and love my father knows fast and I trust in this camp There birthday or birth I will resort in the Lord He makes no mistakes, you know winning and love is far and I sex For when I am trying, have you mind, I shall come for Please have a seat as we turn over to hymn number four hundred seventy-seven. He keeps me singing. We'll sing verses one, three, and five. There's within my heart, my love me. Jesus Christ was we are We are give us we both I am remote. Keep me singing on my God Feasting on the red side of the west Resting in his children's rim wings Always looking on the shot. Every boy should be Sweet house , we are sweet thoughts, sweet and along with Very climbing back to one copy. Army I 'm I shall wing my fly to Wolf Unknown. I shall wing with them online. Just dream I love Sweet I Great singing over to Hem Number four hundred and eighty-three. Four hundred and eighty-three, like a river glorious I come everything Well back to where people are where I 'm Finding as we promise permit me and run. Bebe bene. Now can I trade us Garbori, Dharmaswe , Rabba Bla B Such as we Finding as the problem program And we do want to run it. We make trust never morning all for us never They will trust never by now later. Amen. Great singing, we have a special Not special, though. The special is coming later, not yet. Okay, well on Sunday nights who like to take an opportunity to give you out uh give you an opportunity Right. Christopher. All right, Adeline. Rejoice the Lord is King. Can I get someone to look that up for me? Hmm? Number one in the red book. All right. All right. Yes, sir, Sean. All right. Let's see how far this gets us. All right. Uh one thirty-one in the blue book. Before however we want our price system of Christ used Those story moist and I paid my price to make us an updraw Up waiting on basholym , I'm brightly for my brain It's for the sight of Cram Sankey that have a place for me And number one in the red book. Rejoice the Lord is King. Rejoice the Lord as King, your Lord and King of Doors Please always give back something and try up. Let up your heart Lift up your voice, rejoice by God, I saved. All right. 374 In the red book. Be thou my vision. Be thou my best of my heart Not me all else to me save that thou art, thou marathons, my danger by thy Waking ring thy presence my life and ninety-one in the red book. The steps of a good man. Don't talk me the night and on me the dead. Lord, make me fall in thy farm back when calm and sorrow of great be my pain Lord make me survey come sunshine or end , but snaps of a good man ordered by the Lord Has he delighted that this win? No we all he shall not We utterly cast down for the Lord, for the Lord, for the Lord of all the All right, got some time for some more to know. Twenty-six in the red book. All right. Timberley. Uh Kelly. Uh five twenty-five. Five twenty-five. And the red book? All right. Mr. Jenny. Two thirty-one in the red book. Two thirty one in the red book. Let's see where that gets us. Twenty-six in the red book. Praise to the Lord the Almighty. Praise to the Lord, the Almighty, the King of Press. Oh, my suffering for the I help and television Oh, yeah, thou Mr. Montray, join me and my strong. Alright, five twenty-five. Alright, this is one that it's been a while since we've seen this one. So is anyone familiar with this song and how it's usually sung? No? Alright, we used to sing this in my church way back when. So the way it works is technically there's a descant with it, which means two two groups sing different parts. How we did it is we would sing the first part, we'll play it through. It's a very easy melody. We would sing the first part. Then the second time through we would sing the descant. That would be the top part. I'll sing it with you. And then for the last part, we would split it, either half and half. Today we'll do ladies and gentlemen. Alright? One group would sing the bottom part, and then the other group would sing sing the top part. So this time we're gonna do it this way. We're gonna sing the regular part, walking with Jesus. We'll all sing that one together. The second time through Will sing the top part. Everyone sings, walking in the sunlight. The last part, the gentleman, will sing walking With cheese, and then the ladies will sing the top part. We'll try that through. So we're gonna sing it through three times. It's really neat when it comes together. Alright? Let's give it a shot. Let's play it through one time so people can get familiar. It's very simple. simple display. The bottom part. The bottom part, yep. Because that's the anchor part. Oh nope, we're good. Alright, ready? Let's try it. Here we go. Here we go. Walking every day, walking all the way, walking with Jesus, walking with Jesus alone Walking in the front line, walking in the silos, walking every day, walking all the way Walking in the sunlight, walking in the startups, walking with Jesus alone, men with me Walking with Jesus, walking every day, walking all the way Walking with Jesus Very good. You guys are fast, fast learners. We used to sing that We need to do more of those round songs. They're a lot of fun. Alright. 231. 231. Blessed Redeemer. Let's stand and sing the first song. Blessed Redeemer Love carries mouse and one bread for more, while Christ my Savior, where we among. Faith beforestand us death on the roads Let me save them from in the cross. Last every demon, press every demon, see how I see him what calories Who did that play? What 's that? What they like for me Oh, how I love them, Savior and France. How can I pray that right now Through years I know I'm heaven's soul, my heart's upgrade forever. Blessed Redeemer, blessed redeemer, seem now I seek them on Calvary Street. Who never played, for you for me? Great singing, please be seated. One day when heaven will still win One day which him was as black as could be, Jesus came to be born of a virgin Twelve wrong and high is a mercy living wrong me, dying he says I can define freely wherever one may come in Halloria One day we let him attack from three small times. One day we nailed him to Die on the tree, suffering anguish, despised and rejected. Very much since my greedy Okay , Tommy Horse. I am no longer one day, the stone rose away from the door. Then he rose over Jesse had conquered. Very carry my sins are away. I may be justified. We leave forever. One day coming. One day the trumpet will shine for is coming. One day the side with the glory will shine. One herbate night, beloved one singing. Lord take on this Jesus , then maybe he loves me. I mean, you save me , Mary, carry my sins my being justified, freed me forever. I days running, oh glory us. Okay. If you could, let's take our Bibles and let's turn together to the Book of Ecclesiastes. And on Sunday nights we've been working our way through the Book of Ecclesiastes. It's a very practical book. It's a book that is full of practical observations about life. And I want to ask you a question. It's an interesting question to consider. But the question is, does the Bible have anything to say? Does the Bible have anything to say about work and economics? You know, this is a really interesting topic for us to consider tonight and I want you to realize that the way that people approach this particular topic often says a lot about their worldview. How do they view human nature? How do they view the concept of doing work and being paid for the work that is done? How do they view the idea of some people working harder than others or some people having greater skill sets than others. Does the Bible teach that people should have equal outcomes in the work that they do? Well, I'd submit to you today that there are a lot of people that are presenting a narrative that says that the Bible would teach that there should be equal outcomes no matter the quality. or the amount of work that's done. What I'd like you to see tonight from the scriptures is that that is not true. In fact, the Bible has a lot to say about work. The Bible has a lot to say about why we do it. how we are paid for it. And so we're going to look at this topic from Ecclesiastes chapter 4, but we're actually going to look at quite a few passages of scripture. Dealing with this issue of work and economics. Not a typical message, but this is where we are in the text. So Ecclesiastes chapter 4, verse 4 says the following. Again, I considered all travail and every right work. Now when he talks about travail, he's talking about the fact that when people do their work, it's difficult. There's a lot of labor. It's an intensive thing He says, for this a man is envied of his neighbor. Well Solomon is saying is I've noticed that one of the things that motivates people is something called envy. They see that somebody has something that they don't have, they want it, they are not content, or the people around them are not content. with the things that they're doing. And he says that thing called envy is something that really motivates people. It drives people. And what I've seen is it causes vexation. Then he continues on. This is a this is also vanity and vexation. Of spirit. The fool foldeth his hands together and eateth his own flesh. That's a really interesting statement. In other words, the fool is a person who refuses And when the person refuses to work, the result is he deteriorates physically. Literally, his folly and his laziness rot his body. Very interesting observation He then goes on to say this better is a handful with quietness than both the handsful with travail and vexation of spirit What Solomon is basically saying is it's better to have a little and be content than to have a lot and be filled with emptiness and struggle and wait. and fear and anxiety. What Solomon is expressing is several important principles about this issue of work and compensation and how we should look at these particular concepts. So what I'd like us to do tonight is I'd like us to look at this concept of a biblical view of work. The purpose of the passage in front of us is to provide a quick reminder of some importance of some important principles regarding this issue of work and how we view it. God wants us to be a people who live in a way that honors Him with how we do our work. And so I want to ask this question, what is a biblical view of work actually look like. First thing I'd like us to do is I'd like us to look at this truth. Scripture lays out a very balanced view of work and economics. What I'm saying about that is this. The Bible presents work as a good thing. The Bible presents ingenuity as a good thing. The Bible teaches that people who work hard and do their work well and do their work honestly are people who Prosper and should be properly compensated for the work that they do. The Bible also presents this balance, this counterbalance that says, while we should work hard, while we should enjoy the work that we do, while sh we should be able to thrive and prosper because of the quality of the work that we do, we need to be very cautious that we don't become an envious people or a greedy people or a proud people. I want to start with this point. The Bible does not teach That socialism is a good form of economics. And I want you to realize that while you think, why would you even have to make a statement like that? I want you to realize there are a lot of people today that are coming to the Bible and presenting this case as if socialism is good for people and this is a biblical form of work and economics. They go to passages like Acts chapter 2. I'm going to read it and I want you to see how they take this passage. and they misuse it to apply it to the concept of work and economics. It says in Acts chapter 2, verses 43 to 47, fear came on every soul and many wonders and signs were done by the apostles. This is after Pentecost. So when Peter preaches, thousands of people embrace the gospel. Thousands of people are saved and baptized, and this is an exciting time in the church. However, it was also a difficult time in the church. It was a difficult time in the church because let's remember the gospel that people are embracing. is a gospel that represents the Lord Jesus Christ died on the cross, rose from the dead, and they were persecuting this message. Just fifty days prior, they had crucified the Lord Jesus Christ. So people who embraced the gospel message suffered for the sake of the gospel. He then goes on to say this. This all that believed were together and had all things common, sold their possessions and goods, parted them to all men as every man had needed And they continuing daily, with one accord in the temple, breaking bread from house to house, did eat their meat with gladness and singleness of heart, praising God and having favour with all the people. As should be saved. Now I have a question for you. Is this passage describing what happened, or is it teaching a precedent that should be the way that we live our lives? It's a great question to ask. Is it teaching a precedent or is it describing what took place? In other words, does God expect us all to sell everything that we have? to put it all in one large sump, to distribute it equally amongst those who have need, to quit our jobs and essentially attend church every single day where we pray and we study the scriptures And we have the Lord's table, and this is the way that we live our lives the rest of our days. Is that what the Bible teaches? Well, the answer is no. The fact is, we don't see an example of this taking place Anywhere else in the Bible. What we see is an example of what happened when people embraced the gospel, they were zealous about the gospel, some people were suffering because of the gospel, and those that had substance We're taking care of those who had desperate need. I want you to realize that this passage is not meant to be prescriptive of how we should function as a church. We should not quit our jobs and establish a commune. However, there are some people that are teaching or have taught throughout history that this is the way that we should do things They're called cults. Okay? I want you to realize that the Bible actually gives quite a few reasons why this being prescriptive or the way that we would normally see the affairs of life played out. Why these are not prescriptive in the Bible? Four reasons. First of all, the scripture teaches that everything we own belongs to God. Not to the government or to the state. It's kind of interesting. We read through the Old Testament. One of the things that really comes out over and over and over again Is that God said, the land of Canaan is my land. And I'm going to give you my land. I'm going to divide up my land. I'm going to give it to this tribe and to this tribe. He even marks out the different barriers, the boundaries of his land. He says, I'm going to drive out the inhabitants of my land because these people are living abominable before me. He goes on to state this if you follow their ways, I'm gonna drive you out of my land as well. And you're gonna be captives, and I will bring you back and establish you and plant you. you in my land. You say, well, what is the point of that? The point is this: God is the one who gives That principle is established all throughout the Bible. Private property was given by God to families, and it was an extremely important This was so important that if a person had no male child to carry on the name That there were actually practices within their culture that a child could be or that a widow, for instance, we see the example Example of Ruth here, that someone would redeem her, and when they had a child, that child would bear the name of not the father, but of the deceased man The widow's former husband. You say, why is that? It was to establish the fact that that name was given to that land and that family was supposed to You say, well, why does that matter? It matters because God gives property to people and he wants them to use property It wisely and effectively. God encouraged responsibility in both the Old and New Testament. God taught that laziness should be rewarded with lean. Leanness. Leanness. And honest industry should be rewarded with material prosperity. Read the book of Proverbs and see how many times he talks about laziness And how the reward of laziness should be leanness. And how hard work and industry and honesty should result in prosperity for the person who's working hard. It's a very interesting principle concept. The scripture never teaches, and I am very confident this, never teaches equal outcomes are to be expected in life Never. Do you realize that even when we stand before God in eternity, there will be inequality in heaven? Do you know what the purpose of the judgment seat of Christ is? To reward the faithfulness of God's people for their stewardship and life. There would be no point of the judgment seat of Christ if in heaven we'd all have the same responsibilities. the same rewards, the same privileges. Hey, we're all coming through that kingdom. We're all entering that kingdom through the blood of Christ in his right But I want you to realize that the way you live your life on this side of eternity, the way that you steward what God has entrusted to your kids It is going to be something you answer to God for at the judgment seat of Christ. It's going to matter. The Bible does not teach equal outcomes are to be expected. And the reason is because there are numerous factors that cause poverty and prosperity, and these factors are very complex, and ultimately God is sovereign God is the one who lifts up some and puts down others. God has the right to distribute as he chooses. You might say, Pastor, I didn't come here to listen to a political message. This is actually not a political message. I want us to understand that these are principles, biblical principles. Principles that should guide how we think about our work, how we think about our money, how we think about the possessions that God has given us. And as we work our way through these biblical texts, I hope that we will view these things biblically, and then again in the light of the truths of this text. In front of us. The second thing I want us to see is that the scriptures condemn, condemn greedy abuses of people and of the pursuit of material prosperity through abuse. God puts a check and balance in how we look at material possessions. Notice with me several texts of scripture. The first passage I want to mention to you are texts dealing with the concept of giving under the Old Testament law. The first passage I'm going to mention to you is Leviticus 27. Leviticus 27, verse 30, it says the following, Whosoever passeth, or whatsoever passeth under the rod, the tenth shall be holy unto the the Lord. You say, what's he talking about? Under the Old Testament system, the Jewish people were required to pay a tenth of all their possessions to God. Now when we talk about tithing, we tend to think of it in a New Testament context, but I want you to realize that the the Jewish people are not just responsible to give 10% to God. In fact, when you start doing the math, you see that they were giving upwards to thirty and thirty-five percent of their substance to God. In fact, I want to highlight some of these things. And the reason that I do is because what these things emphasize is that what you have is a gift from God, is to be stewarded under the wisdom that God instills to you. And you're not to set your heart upon those things, nor are you to set your heart upon the things that others have been given by God. In Numbers 1821, it says, I've given the children of Levi all the tenth of his Israel for an inheritance for their service of the tabernacle of the congregation. And so that tenth that was given, the top tenth, if you want to put it that way, was to be given to the Levites so that they could survive. We see a second tithe that's mentioned in Deuteronomy chapter 14, verses 22 and 23. It says, tithe all the increase of thy seed. That the field bringeth forth year by year. Thou shalt eat before the Lord thy God in the place which he shall choose to the pla to place his name there That thou mayest learn to fear the Lord thy God always. Now, this second tithe was actually different than the first tide that was to support the Levites. The second tithe was a festival tithe. There were certain Jewish festivals that they were to remember throughout the course of their year. For instance, the Passover was the beginning of the year. In the center of the year, Like when we would have our Fourth of July, they would have the Day of Atonement. They had the Feast of Booze and different other uh festivals that they would have. And the question is, where did all that food come from? Where did all the stuff come from that they would eat and that they would enjoy during these festive occasions? The answer is this festival tithe. So a tenth went to the Levites, and a tenth went into a storehouse, and on certain periods of time during During the year, they would open up the storehouse and they would enjoy from the storehouse a very festive occasion. In fact, if for some reason people were not able to go up to Jerusalem, Or to the place where they would hold these feasts, they were supposed to do it privately as a family. That's 20% at that point. Then every third year They were supposed to take up another 10%. That was to help the poor in Israel. In Deuteronomy 26, verses 12 and 13, he says, tithe, all the tithes of the increase, the third Year, which is the year of tithing, and hast given it unto the Levites, the strangers, the fatherless, the widow, that they may eat within thy gates and be filled. You say, well, at this point, we're talking about 20%, and every third year, 30%. But I want you to realize that's not the end of the way that God expected the people to be lavish in their giving. And Exodus 22, verse 25, he talks about laws regarding lending to the poor. He says, if thou lend money to any of my people that is poor, buy In other words, don't give to somebody and then profit off of what you give them. They have nothing. They are not In Leviticus nineteen, he talks about uh a practice called gleaning. He says, When ye reap the harvest in your land, thou shalt not wholly reap the corners. of thy fields. Neither shalt thou gather the gleanings of thy harvest. Thou shalt not glean thy vineyards, neither shalt thou gather every grape of thy vineyard. Thou shalt leave them for the poor and the stranger I am the Again, you're seeing that you have people who have farms, and as they bring in the produce, as they bring in the harvest, They are to on purpose leave sections of the crop so that there are people who are poor, who are needy, who are widows, who are strangers, who are fatherless, so that they don't get a free handout. out, but they have a place where they can get what they need by their labor, by their hard work. It's an amazing system. But then we see an interesting principle as well, and that is found in Deuteronomy chapter 15. He talks about the fact that every seventh year All the debts that were owned, all the debtors who were working off debts to those who they owed debts to. On the seventh year, they were freed from their debts. And they were able to go back to their properties, and they were able to farm their products. In Deuteronomy chapter 15, verse 10, he says. Beware that there be not a thought in thy wicked heart saying, The seventh year, the year of release, is at hand, and thine if thine eye be evil against thy poor brother, and thou givest him not, and he cry unto the Lord against thee, and it be sin unto thee. Thou shalt surely give him, and thine heart shall not be grieved when thou givest unto him, because that of these things the Lord thy God shall bless thee all thy works. He says, The poor shall never cease out of the land. Therefore I command thee, saying, Thou shalt open thy hand wide unto thy brother, and to thy poor, and to thy needy in thy lands. And if thy brother and Hebrew man or a Hebrew woman be sold unto thee and serve thee six years, then in the seventh year shalt thou let him go free from From thee, and when thou sendest him out, catch this free from thee. Thou shalt not let him go away empty. Thou shalt furnish him Egypt. And the Lord thy God redeemed thee, therefore I command thee this thing today. You say, Pastor, why do we talk about these things? I want you to realize something. God expected his people to be compassionate. God expected his people to be Givers. God expected his people to value human life above material wealth. God condemns greed. God condemns a spirit that crushes people in order to get what you want. I'll summarize it this way. Because God owns everything and everything we possess is a gift from Him and His good hand, He expects us to be generous to those God commanded his people to never lend money with interest and to cancel debts every seven years. When someone owed money and was forced to pay off his debt by indentured service, God commanded his people to People to send out his servant with abundance as a reward for their diligent service. People were required to give large portions of their produce back to God for provision of the Levites who had no physical inheritance. To provide for widows, fatherless, and foreigners who came to live amongst God's people. Landowners were not allowed to harvest the entirety of their crop. This is the way that God ordered his own. people in the Old Testament. The second thing I want to mention is that an economic system is only as good as the people working in that system. Your view of economics and work really will be shaped by your view of human nature. Do you believe that people are naturally good? Do you believe that people naturally work hard? Do you believe that people are naturally going to do what is right without there being some incentive, whether good or bad? Do you believe that work is noble and that work or that work is a drudgery? Do you believe that God is sovereign and has the right to have the final say in our level, our degree? Of prosperity and what he gives us or what he chooses not to give us. Why doesn't this concept of pure socialism work? It's because forced equality involves several dangerous unjust abuses. The government uses its power to unjustly redistribute In other words, taking from those who worked to give to those who have need, or to those who choose not to work. Giving free handouts that can promote laziness and remove the appropriate consequences for refusing to be industrious. But this one is very interesting. Failing to use our God-given gifts And strength that will strip people of their dignity and cap their potential to bless others through their labors. One of the things that is wonderful is when we take the mind that God has given us The body and the strength that God has given us, the skills that God has given us, and we invest those resources in labor for the good and the benefit of others. When we talk about the nobility of work, what we're saying is that when I work nobly, I'm not just working for myself to feed my family, but I'm working for your good. Let's say that you're a plumber. Does everybody in here have good plumbing skills? Some of us know we don't have good plumbing. skills. We have learned by experience that we don't. So what do we do? We call a plumber, someone who does this regularly. They they look at the product the problem, they fix it very quickly, and what do we do? Because they have benefited us, we pay them appropriately for the work that they've done. Or maybe someone is a builder, or maybe someone is a mason or Maybe someone is an electrician, or maybe someone works in another field, or maybe someone is an accountant. The idea is that as that person takes their gifts, their skills, their strength, and they invest it, they are benefiting You and you are paying them for their work. This is a noble thing. This is something that God has created. This is something that God wants us to have. Yet on the other side, I want to remind you that within a capitalistic society, many times people abuse what they have. That word greed is a very important Important word. Greed is destructive. Greed is a vice that can control people and can take a person and can strip the strength and the value of those people that are working under them. And they can use them as a tool to a selfish end. What I want you to see is that the Bible provides a balance. The Bible warns us of the vices. The Bible warns us of the danger. So the third thing I want us to see tonight is that we need to be sobered by our personal sinful inclinations. In the passage in front of us, he's going to warn of a couple of things. He's going to warn about the danger of being envious or greedy Then secondly, he's going to warn about the danger of being the fool who is lazy. The third thing he's going to emphasize is that a person who is really blessed is not the person with the most stuff. But the person who has the right view of the stuff that God has given him. For instance, what he shows us is that industry and prosperity without a biblical worldview is generally associated with Greeds. In verse 4, he says, Again, I considered all travail, every right work, that for this a man is envied of his neighbor. Notice the word envy Envy is a description of this fixation of greed on what people have and you don't. Envy is something that's extreme. Extremely destructive. It's destructive to the person who envies. It potentially is destructive to the person that you envy because of the way that you will relate to them. Wars, conflicts, unjust abuses in a society are often nothing more than the fruit of people's greeds. The scripture is full of examples of people who prospered because they were greedy and abusive. In fact, when we think about ancient cultures, how did people become prosperous many times? They pillaged cities. Why was there a Greek Empire? Why was there a Roman Empire? Why was there a Babylonian Empire? Why was there a Persian Empire? We talk about these various empires. It's because you had people that were very ambitious. very greedy and they said the way to get stuff is to crush cities, to conquer cities, to control industry in those places, and then we are the beneficiaries of those things. It doesn't just happen on a national level. It happened on the interpersonal level as well. In Proverbs chapter 1, Solomon warned his son. He said, My son, if sinners entice thee, consent thou not. If they say, Come with us, let us wait for blood. Let us lurk privily for the innocent without cause. Let us swallow them up alive as the grave and whole as those that go down into the pit. We shall find all precious substances We shall fill our houses with spoil. Cast in thy lot among us, lest let us all have one purse. In other words, we have a person who is ambitious. They are greedy. They are envious. And they say the best way for me to become prosperous is to crush people and take their stuff. This is what he said. Says, My son, walk not thou in the way with them. Their feet run to evil. And make haste to shed innocent blood. In another passage, Psalm 73, Asaph talks about the prosperity of the wicked. He says, Truly, God is good to Israel, but as for me, my feet were almost gone, my steps were well nigh slipped. For I was envious at the foolish, and I saw the prosperity of the wicked. He goes on and he talks about how these are people who are not afraid, these are people who are aggressive, these are people who are violent, these are people who will take other people's substance And he says, when I watched these people, I was terrified, I was discouraged, I was downcast until I saw their end. You say, why do you bring that up? It's because there are many times throughout the Bible and with throughout history that we see there are people that are able to prosper Not through the honest work that God intends for them, not through working to benefit your brother or to benefit your neighbor, but they become prosperous on the backs and on the soul. He said that is evil, and that is the result of envy and greed. He then provides the balance. Someone might say, well then prosperity is bad and being lean is good. And he says, well, that's not actually true either. Poverty is generally a result of laziness. Now I didn't say always. I said generally. Notice what he says in verse 5. The fool foldeth his hands together and eateth his own flesh. The person who refuses to work, refuses to be industrious refuses to take those skills that God has given him, that mind, that body, and to use it for the good of other people, he folds his hand and his body deteriorates. That's what he said. Notice some of the scriptures that talk about the connection between poverty and laziness. And I want to encourage our young people especially to keep Take note of these scriptures. When mom and dad try to teach you to work hard and try to teach you to do your work well, they are teaching you that, hopefully, from a Christian worldview because they understand that laziness brings leanness. In Proverbs 16 verse 6 he says, Go to the ant, thou sluggard, consider her ways and be wise. Which having no guide, overseer, or ruler, provideth her meat in the summer and gathereth her food food in the harvest. How long wilt thou sleep, O sluggard? When wilt thou arise out of thy sleep? Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep. Man. He says, you want to lose in life? Fold your hands. Love sleep. Don't Proverbs twenty verse thirteen says, Love not sleep lest thou come to poverty. Open thine eyes, and thou shalt be satisfied with bread. Proverbs ten, verse four, says, He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand, but the hand of the diligent maketh rich. He that gathereth in summer is a wise son, he that sleepeth in harvest is a son that causeth shame. Proverbs 23, 21, he says, The drunkard and the glutton shall come to poverty, and drowsiness shall clothe a man with rag. So a person that is an intoxicated person, they don't have control of their sensibilities. A person that's a glutton, they don't have control of their A person that loves to sleep because they're lazy, that's a person that's going to become poor. That's a person who's going to be clothed in rags. You can see the balance that the scripture provides. So I present to you one final thought. We need to be a People who have a biblical view of work and economics. Better is enhanced With quietness, then both hands full with travail and vexation of spirit. I'm sure that there are a lot of people in this congregation That really do not have trouble having a good work ethic. I know, I've been here on work days. I see how people work. This is a responsible congregation. We have individuals that are very diligent, very skillful, they do their work extremely well. And so when we talk about this issue, we need to recognize that there are people that are very industrious, but there is a hook sometimes that they have to be very cautious of. Notice carefully what he says. It's better to have a handful, one hand, with quietness, than both hands full with travail and vexation of spirit. Sometimes people have a great work ethic, they do their work exceptionally well. They are physically prosperous. Are weighed down in heart with travail and vexation of spirit? You say, what do you mean? They're fearful. They're anxious. They can't sit still. They're worried about the bottom line. And the point that he's making is this: you would be better off to have what you need Than an abundance with a heart that is overwhelmed by anxiety and edginess, fear , frustration I want to remind you that when we talk about this issue of work, it's not the bottom line that gives you the final analysis. It's why you do the work It's the way that you view what you have. This issue of vexation and travail is talking about the inner man, the motivation, how we're viewing the work that we do. And so I want to challenge you tonight. Do your work heartily as to the Lord and not unto men. Don't do your work out of greed or out of selfish ambition. Don't be lazy. Have a biblical view of the work that you do. Be responsible and industrious. And I'm not just talking to the adults here. I'm talking to the kids. When you Do your schoolwork, be hardworking and industrious. Be responsible. When mom and dad say, hey, you need to go and do your homework. Guess what? They better not catch you looking up to score the baseball game. Directed that towards my children, I'm sorry. You need to be doing your work. When you're in the classroom or when you're watching your DVD, I know a lot of our kids are homeschooling. Or when mom's teaching, or whoever your teacher is teaching, when you're in the class, when you're in that setting, be focused. Do your work heartily as to the Lord and not into men. When we begin as children to learn how to be responsible and industrious, it's going to take us a long way as we get older. The second thing I'll say is this: let's be generous. Let's be generous. Notice in this message, I'm not telling you here's the amount you need to give to your church, or this is the amount that you need to give to the local rescue mission, or this is the amount that you need to give to missions. The Bible doesn't give that information to us The Bible tells us to be generous people. The Bible teaches us that as God blesses us and as God prospers us, we should look at those in need and look for opportunity. To bless and strengthen and help those individuals. Third, don't cripple people by the way you attempt to help them Now I was a missionary for almost seven years. Where I lived and where I worked, there were people that came to my door. on a very regular basis, almost daily, most certainly weekly, and most certainly monthly. And they brought to me all kinds of situations This person is in the hospital. I can't pay my school fees. This person just lost their job. Their rent's coming due. I heard story after story after story after story. And here is the simple fact: I could not physically help all the people that came to my door. One of the most difficult things that I had to deal with was knowing what stories were true. Which ones weren't. But I'll tell you that was not the hardest part. The hardest part was learning how to help people in a way that didn't provide a Crippling effect for them in the future. By stripping them of their dignity, by giving them something for nothing, by creating an entitlement attitude. By not helping them work through the issue in a way that provided dignity to their work, that was where the true challenges lie. Would lie. And so I want to encourage you, let's not cripple people by the way that we attempt to help them. You know, think about the Old Testament example. He didn't say take all of those extra gleanings, pull them out from your workers, put them in a storehouse and tell people to just go and get it. He says, tell them it's there. Go glean. They didn't have land, they didn't have the means to raise their own crops and take care of their own livestock, but they did have the physical means to go and get the food that they needed. And so rather than stripping people of their dignity, he gave them an opportunity to work, to provide for their Families. Fourthly, don't remove people's dignity by giving them free handouts. I know I kind of already said this, but I want to encourage you, be cautious in the way that you help Fourthly, don't forget that everything that you own ultimately is from God and belongs to him. You and I individually will stand before God someday, and we will give an accounting for how we managed the resources that he gave us. When I say manage resources, I'm talking about the brain that he gave you. I'm talking about the hands and the physical strength that he gave you. I'm talking about the skill opportunities that he gave you. I'm talking about your education. I'm talking about the jobs that he gave you. The reality is that God is going to hold us responsible for the way that we manage what he entrusted to us. to our care. If you have a financial advisor who is not doing well with the books, are you going to give them more? The answer is no. You're going to look at those who have a good track record and you're going to let them manage your money. The fact is that God knows what we can and will do, and he will hold us accountable. Accountable for how we manage what he gives us. Lastly, I want to mention this. Don't abuse your financial power. When God has blessed you financially and prospered you, make sure that you use what He's given you for the good Of others. What is the summation of the law? It's this: love God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind. Love your neighbor. As you love yourself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. If we take what God has given us and we use it for his glory, with a heart that really cares about being faithful to him, we will never abuse our financial power and strength. God wants us to do our work in a way that honors Him. And so I want to remind you: we were created to create. We are created to build, to manage To do it to the glory of God, to do it as faithful servants and stewards of the resources entrusted to us. We are to do it with generosity and we are to do it with Contentment. And so my challenge to you this evening is let's have a biblical view of our work and how we are reimbursed or paid for the work. That we do. Let's bow together for prayer. Our Father in heaven, we thank you for the opportunity to think about an important topic. The way that we view money and how we use money really says a lot about what's going on within our hearts. Father, help us to be lovers of truth and lovers of you. Help us to be Good stewards, managers of the resources that you have entrusted to our care. Help us to work hard. Help us to be diligent and industrious Father, help us to be generous. Father, help us never to be greedy or envious. I pray that you'd help us to be people who have a biblically shaped View of our labors. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, if you could, let's take out our hymn books for our closing hymn and The hymn is four ninety-five. Count your blessings. Count your blessings. And this is a great song for us to sing when we think about the topic at hand. Let's stand together, please. And let's sing the first, second, and the third verses of hymn 495. Count your blessings. Unlike spirits you are can best told when you are discussed Is thinking all is lost. Count your many blessings in them one by one, and it will surprise you what the Lord has Has done. Count your blessings, save them one by one. Count your blessings, see what God has done Count your blessings, name them one by one. Count your many blessings, see what God has done. Are you ever burdened with a load of care? Does the crossing heavy you are called to bear? Count your many blessings that we doubt will fly, And you will be singing as the days go by. Count your blessings, name them one by one. Count your blessings, see what God has done. Count your blessings, name them one by one. Count your many blessings, see what God has done I'd like us to sing the last verse, A Capella, please. So amid the conflicts, whether great or small, do not be discouraged. God is Count your many blessings angels will attend. Help and comfort give you to your journeys. And count your blessings, name them one by one. Count your blessings, see what God has Count your blessings, name them one by one. Count your many blessings, see what God has Hey guys, you gotta pay attention kids. Alright, well let's bow together for a word of prayer. Brother Chad Peterson, can you close us with prayer tonight, please? Let's pray. Father, thank you for this day you've given us. Thank you for the preachments, pray that we would take it, apply it to our lives, and um think on these things. Pray that you give us safety as we travel away until we come again on the appointed time. In your name we pray. Amen.