I know they've been messaging me because my phone's buzzing. But we'll go to a couple of other passages, primarily 1 Corinthians. And you can demonstrate the need of redemption because of our sin. It's like a farm. They just died. And he's he's working in a church. He uses real people going through real problems. And uh really develop a friendship. We'll bow our hearts in prayer and then we'll look at half of those truths from Matthew 16. Congregation. That's the providence of God. Good morning. I want you to be able to see what this church has invested in. And the the pastoral ministry in that church. up his PhD is going to be one of those guys. He he loves the Lord. as my family is. is the Lord's will. We'll just lock them all in one room, why not? uh re uh establish our old friendships and uh we're excited about the opportunities so with that in mind let's turn to matthew 16 if you uh I don't remember if I mentioned it Matthew 16 And in fact, whenever we're at a season where a church is going through transition, we desperately need to put our emotions aside. and the way that we relate to one another and those outside of this community. And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom, and uh and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shalt be bound in heaven, and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. And we can be challenged and we can be encouraged. And that godly patterns will be strengthened, and that your people will be moved by the work of God through his word. And you know what Jesus says? But that's not all there is to it. And he refers to the resurrection of Christ. when he made that statement. Using a generalization, the reality is many today view the church not as an organiz an organism, but really they treat it like an organization, like a business. They look at things like the trends that are going on. The reality is when we deviate from the foundation and we begin to emphasize the wrong things, God has to remind us again of what Paul was reminding the church at Corinth. I guess I kind of already answered it a little bit in the passage before, right? and our talents and how we're positioned in this community or wherever, that becomes the emphasis. says I'm gonna do it. That's true. Of God in their lives. particular issue. And uh he got in the mix and he really began to sow tremendous discord in that church. Next to the house. fast and sure while the billows roll. And uh the Lord has uh worked out some, I think, really exciting details. in doubt. about the opportunity to serve and to be a blessing here. Um but they know because we've worked through the process over a a series of many, many weeks Communicating, discussing the scenarios, talking about what God is doing, that there is a firm conviction in the in the hearts of our people in Ghana that this Some of our shut-ins who I want to start meeting and visiting those folks. The the reality is um we've been here for about a week. uh try to set up an opportunity to meet. We're excited about that. people. Because the context is different, the culture is different. Open up our Bibles and make sure that we are fixed firmly with biblical thinking about this body, the church. He said unto them, But whom say ye that I am? And we stand justified because of his righteousness imputed to our account. I pray that the work that is begun in this service will continue throughout this week and the weeks to come, and that new patterns will be established where old have taken root There are five questions that I want us to answer today. But here are the questions, and we'll take them one by one. Question four, what is the confidence that we have from God in times of crisis and turmoil within the church? And question five, what is the sacred trust that God has given to his people? And the question that Jesus asked is this: who do men say that I am? What is the church built upon? Who is Christ is the foundation that God's church is built upon. Through the death of this righteous individual, many will be justified, for he will bear their iniquities. And that's referring to his deity. Apart from what the scripture tells us are the means through which God brings people to repentance in faith and matures them in that faith. That's what you do if you have an institution. It's an organization and that's it. I want to give you a biblical illustration of a church that kind of lost sight of this. Very, very popular statement. in the leadership and they were going into people's houses and they were like bringing whole families apart from the faith? Paul said, if anybody preaches another gospel, let him be accursed. They kind of thought it was them. I was teaching through First Corinthians in our Bible institute some time ago, and my study on First Corinthians was really a fantastic study. It was dying. And it's growing, and they're taking in members, and they're seeing baptisms, and people are professing faith in Christ, and there's a lot of excitement and things going on. He knows every opposition they will face from false believers, from those who within their mix get into these little controversies He's going to know how people are going to struggle, people are going to get sick, they're going to be persecuted, they're going to die. Through unusual means. And they chafed at the cranial aspects of Paul. Came out was that he would say, Well, you're the Pastor Micah group and you're the Pastor Joel group. Our lives. We get focused on the gospel day by day. church and that is the foundation of Christ and the gospel. And we've got a lot of interesting and exciting things planned for that. Basically what I want to do is I want to show you, those of you who have been at Anchor Baptist beyond the time that my family started here, Of what God has done. And uh it's it's a really neat thing. I I guess eight years if you include our deputation. them to our kids and um that'll that'll be a real blessing. The last two Sundays that we were in Ghana, I went to Matthew 16. You know, it's interesting in this statement that Christ makes in Matthew 16, we're going to see five very important truths. That if we will grab a hold of these truths, if these things will sink deeply into our souls, if we will live in the light of these truths, no matter where the church finds itself on the spectrum of health, We will be a strong and vibrant local church when the Lord works these things in our hearts and in our lives. Came into the coast of Caesarea, Philippi, asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I the Son of Man am? We are gathered together because of the Lord Jesus Christ, because we are redeemed by his blood and we stand reconciled to you through his work on our behalf Why does Jesus ask the question, who do men say that I am? What is it that the church is built and founded upon? Prophecies about the Redeemer in Isaiah 53. The Old Testament presentation of the gospel. The need to repent and believe on Christ. There's a time when the life begins. You get the implications of that. But you know what? people sitting down with them and expounding the word of God. In other words, my even my ability to lay this foundation, the fact that there's any believer in this church or anybody's growing in grace, it's because God did that work. We have something that is deeper than I have with some of my own relatives, many of them, to be very honest with you. Does the people that we really chafe at. Sometimes we think we've we've we've got to straighten people out, but sometimes we can't go straight to them quite yet. Now why did they do that? He was a brilliantly gifted, educated individual. And I remember after we'd been there a while, then the kind of the congregation that was there was like the people we had led to the Lord and been discipling and the ones that Micah had. Work. I think it actually lends itself to being the kind of message where you just kind of sit there and you process it and you chew on it. That. He's gonna be here for that Sunday, and none of you have met Eric. I am an American. I think it's very important that we remind ourselves of these basics. And you know, when we lose track of these basics, it's kind of scary where we can end up in our thinking and in the patterns that we begin to establish. But my Father which is in heaven. Not just a physical earthly kingdom, but an eternal kingdom where righteousness rules and reigns. It's when the church lost sight of the gospel, the articulation of the gospel, the proclaiming of the gospel, the living in light of the gospel through its power. And so he wants us to remember that while he uses means, we are the hands that he uses in the building process. Strife and division. And they had different gifts and personalities. And they all wondered if maybe I'd like push them out. You're theologically grounded. you for every person here. As we grow and live in light of it, that you will build your church. It really is. Appreciate that. Invite them. What in the world? Get deep into this text. But he was absolutely correct. But really, the term organization does not go far enough. Or like some other institution. And in those other realms, we can build an organization, but that organization cannot last. Ye are God's husbandry, ye are God's building. Like the similarities here. Yes, remind them of those things. We are the feet that he uses to go in that building process. In fact, the organization of a church ultimately is the providential working of God drawing people from all different backgrounds to the same congregation to see conversions and growth into Christ-likeness. Apollos could speak. And they had contentions with each other. It really wasn't personality and gifts, but it was what they believed made the church grow. And there was an individual in our church, I actually believe he wasn't a believer, but he could give a testimony of salvation. You know, your kids will pick more from you by how you treat them, when you're going in the car to church and when you're sitting at the dinner table with them, if you do that. If you're feeling this intense pressure to make the church go forward, pull it back. Pressure's not on you. I just thank you for that. We ask it in Christ's name. It it in fact there was only o out of all the people in that church right now, there was only one person who was actually a believer ten years ago. And um, you know, if you want to come meet me in the office on Monday tomorrow, you can do that, okay? That you might do a great work for your honor and glory. You are the Christ, the Messiah. The church is not simply an organization. Somebody gave the rumor I was going to be long-winded. But the church is different. Well, the reason he mentions the phrase laborers together with God is because apparently those people had forgotten that it was God who was really doing the work in the church. And the church at Corinth was a church that had it had deviated. Mentioned polygamy. I couldn't speak to you the way that I wanted to because you couldn't handle it. As the Lord gave to every man, I planted. I I wasn't actually thinking correctly about that issue. And that is what Missions is. This rock I will build my church. We have to live our lives as disciples through the power of the gospel. Sunday evening service. Whoa. And there's places like that. They don't have young families. And so the first thing that Jesus reminds us of in his statement is that the foundation of the church is the gospel. Will build my church. You know, think of two scenarios. It's our philosophy, man. Because immediately pride sets in. And from great division and from great turmoil. Okay. I remember sitting in the resource center with Mr. earlier. Because of our time, I'm stopping there. You know how to relate to those people. were the people that lived in our compound. And those things. The logic of the Apostle Paul. I remember when I came to Ghana, you know, I was coming into a church that I didn't start and when Micah left, like everybody I was working with, um, he led them to the Lord and baptized them and he'd been discipling them. If you're feeling discouraged and saying, man, I don't know what's gonna happen here. Now let's think about this for a moment. You want to talk about a godly example? Other foundation can no man lay than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. As I began to reflect on the culture they lived in, the city they lived in, the problems they had going on in the church, I thought about my own church there in in Ghana and some of the things that I was dealing with as a pastor, I was like, wow, this is amazing. We are labors together. Their contentions were all about personalities, giftedness, and those kinds of things. Do you get what he's saying? Very, very critical. Evangelism. Our lives have to be lived in light of the power of the gospel. I just make the simple statement. Very interesting statement. He's old enough to be my dad. And so the tensions that they felt with one another were really rooted in who they thought built the church. Father, it's a wonderful privilege to be with your people. And you know it's interesting. And we'll get into that in just a moment. We need to understand the truth. It's two parts, so you can stop wherever you want, you know. Yet they just didn't get it. As a wise master builder, I laid the foundation, and no other foundation can any man lay than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. But he doesn't say upon this rock you will build my church. Only by pride comes contention. Very interesting. Well, the reality is that people won't get sucked into that if they get their minds fixed on the fact it's really God who builds the church. It's the truth. As a church, let's remember the basics. Strengthen me through this text. We pray that in the days ahead you might grow us as individuals like never before, and that we will be in a position to reach others with the gospel. Now he's talking to Peter, and he clearly indicates that Peter is going to have a very unique role, and not just Peter, but the other disciples, the the other apostles, they're going to have a very important role in this work that's going to be done. That's the most helpful thing. That's very, very simple. It's the same principles. I'm not going to explain a lot of the details about our time in Ghana today, because a month from today we are going to have a special uh not just service but an entire Sunday. a new believer. And uh it's very inviting. You know, it's very interesting. You know, there's a reason that Paul makes these statements, because at Corinth there was tremendous division, and a lot of it had to do really with the culture that they lived in. They never passed the torch on to the next generation. But that promise also implies a means. And the passage we're going to look at this morning and this evening is, I think, a very important passage for us in a season of church life that we are in. I don't care what they think. The second question that we ask here is who ultimately builds the church? Help me to internalize this text. He's the one who's perfecting and working and maturing this group of people. Mr. Unless we allow our minds to drift to places it shouldn't be. You'd be shocked if you knew how many Ghanaians live in this community. And some of you we've never met you. The reality is that this is the antidote for a discouraged congregation or for a proud one. Those are the people we really we really saw God work in their lives. But you in your grace came to them and opened their heart to the teaching and preaching of the gospel. He's theologically sound. Imagine the New Testament church. It was tough. I also want to say we are very, very thankful for the generosity of this church. And I'm very excited about the two we say young men. There's no doubt about that, and I'm so thankful that I am. Which New Testament church do you want to be like? All y'all are gonna build that church. He had over thirty siblings and he grew up in a village that just got electricity to say that they did it. Everything that we do needs to flow out of that. But we ate it. And um and so I'm excited about that. That's a little different. What causes that? Biney needed me in his life for that season, and I needed him. The Messiah doesn't just die, Isaiah 53. But the reality is when he says you are the Messiah, he is affirming the gospel. He was involved with his stepmom. That's a very definitive statement. Mr. And I pray that at this time in our this season in our lives that we'll get back to the basics. The church has been probably without a pastor for like two years. It's uh it's a real b uh blessing to be back and this is our home church and I'm going to explain whoa They will really think that that's neat, I think. He says in verse 1, he says, I brethren cannot speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal. And so they had diverted. And there's nothing more detrimental to the church of God than Christians who don't live like it. I know it's typical to do an invitation, but I don't know that this message so much lends itself to being an invitation kind of a message. And we can go to the Old Testament and we can see that as well. Biney had five, uh, his father had five wives. Yet I can sit down across from Mr. Well, he lays it out. We have to be proclaimers of the gospel. So I just want to encourage you as we go to prayer to say, Lord, help me to really meditate on this text. And this church has given very faithfully. And so we don't take that lightly at all. Look at us. Some of the people you end up mentoring, you didn't even purposefully start out that way, but because you had a healthy walk with the Lord and through circumstances that were outside of your control, God brought you together with those people Because that church had had two very prominent Christian leaders working in their congregation at different times You can talk to anybody. We've got to be a gospel-founded church. Just think about the means that God uses and be convinced that they work and focus on them. Apollos could communicate. Amen. And you know, my children, uh, they've played with Scanian children, uh, they don't have any friends here, honestly. The church, because it's an organism, has health. Jesus is going to go back up to be with the Father after his death and resurrection. And I wanna you to be able to connect with some people that um they're part of that story. It's a social gathering. You know, Josh is in Ireland. One scenario is the church is exploding. I want you guys to get an opportunity to understand a little bit about what missions is. The reality is we know a lot of you and um we really look forward to rekindling those friendships and uh talking to you about what what God has allowed us to be a part of. And I say unto thee that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. What is the church rooted in? But I want to leave you with some thoughts here. Testimony times got a little carried away, so he fell out of the window. We're labors together with God. I needed them. We enjoyed our fellowship with them. We can look at churches today that if you went to those denominations, say 200 years ago, they preached Christ, believe it or not, but today He says, you are God's husbandry. Maybe it's when their life was a total wreck when they were in their twenties. The reality is that I've lived in a whole different culture. They seek to establish strategic relationships because if we want our business to go forward, then we've got to connect with this guy and this guy and this guy. What do you believe, Peter? We can find in the Old Testament. You want to talk about a person who time, I mean he had no problem spending time with They don't have young Christians. And a lot of you don't know Micah, and you're going to get to meet him. He's got a good family. No, I'm kidding. You know, that's okay. Father, it's a great privilege to be gathered with your people. And then all throughout the Old Testament, we see all these statements about the establishment of a kingdom. And what happens is when we begin to think we build something and we become proud, we are just a few steps removed from a great fall. And uh it's an exciting thing. Question one, what is the foundation of the church? This truth is the antidote to a dead or dying congregation. God builds the church. I thank you for their lives. Uh some people think uh they don't know how to process uh what it's like to go or come from the mission field. It is an organism. We need to live the truth. If we divert as they diverted, we can end up in the same places You know what's interesting when we deviate from the foundation, God has to remind us of something. I want to remind you of this just simple thought. Biney. You know when to go to this place and that. Christ is at anchor and the gospel is what unites us with Him. If he if he came to Anchor Baptist Church, he's a Ghanaian, so there'd be a lot of cultural differences, but I tell you, Michael can preach the word. And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. I pray that as I present these truths from your word, that your spirit might take these truths and sink them deep into our souls And so if we want to understand what is bound up in that statement, you are the Messiah, we got to look at all these messianic prophecies. And not only does it have life, but it has the ability to reproduce itself. They look at ways to try to establish relevance. There's no other foundation than that which can be laid, which is Jesus Christ. And um, you know, I'm not gonna seek you out, come to me. We've been doing this and this and this, and we've been organizing in this way, and all of a sudden the philosophy of ministry and our gifts and And so Paul was the cranial guy. Must be built on one foundation. But the truths that will be communicated are the same. But what's interesting is you find out some of the people you lead to Christ are people that God brought into your life. Apollos watered, God gave the increase. Just being honest, you know. Well no I had no problem preaching long either because this guy fell out of a window at midnight. It's very nice. You know what? Um but but the kindness you've showed our family getting settled. The church is an organization to some extent. We don't build ourselves on strategic relationships and personalities and trends and demographics. And you know, the reality is that we can all fall prey into this particular It wasn't about those guys. And they've already met. The church really should not be focused on a strategy. And you know, if we don't trust that that is how God builds the church, we're going to get into a lot of other realms. His background couldn't be more different than mine. And they didn't like Apollos too much. We need to be scoped. He says, uh, some of you say I'm of Paul, others I'm of Apollos. And there are people at Corinth that love the communication ability of Apollos. The guys that we would sit down on Saturday afternoon and eat meals with. And um the reality is that the folks in Ghana, I think that they are going to really miss us We've gotten a lot of the big things done that we need to, and and we're settling in. And the reality is that the thing that will most help us, we could say, adjust to being back in the States is fellowshipping with God's people. You can lead a person to Christ without going to Romans or Galatians or John. Listen to what he says to them in 1 Corinthians 3. According to the grace of God which is given unto me as a wise master, I've laid the foundation, and another builds thereon. Well, if we can trace it down to the time when that process began He doesn't do that. Doesn't matter their background, because you're not confined to those five little verses. The guys that I went out and I, you know, we we built a farm out in the bushes And number two, we need to be a church that recognizes we don't build ourselves. And I pray that we will have this firm conviction and the providence of God that as as we preach and teach the word Um it's gonna take me a little bit of uh time to adjust some of those things. In the UK, there's so many empty church buildings. Help me to have the discernment to recognize where my thinking actually is in violation of this text. And he'll do it. We really love the people there and uh we miss them. And and the truth is that um you guys have been very generous and we we really are are thankful. Now it's interesting. Bione and have the sweetest fellowship you could ever imagine. The gospel has to be the center of everything in the local church. You couldn't talk about a more different individual than myself. I need to get back to the foundation. The reality is that church is in excellent hands. We ask it in Christ's name. Not now, but today. But I want to pick up that first question. That is a promise. And tonight, let's see the rest of them. Please uh come and um if you have gone in, friends What exactly is the rock that Jesus is referring to? And we see that he's going to die as the substitute for the sins of the people. And you know what is sad is that many of us today, I don't mean us necessarily, but I'm just Uh there are people who have visited the church in the last several months who I want to go and visit those folks and Can you imagine the Apostle Paul spending a year and a half preaching and teaching in that church? He doesn't say that. He's saying that to some people. Father, we pray for your blessing on this congregation. The reality is that there is a church that has already met But there are congregations that are dying. We need to proclaim that gospel to those with whom we interact. It's comfortable. And there are a lot of um a lot of Ghanaians who live in this community He doesn't just zap people into conversion and maturity. They needed me. They are the tools of God in our lives. And I don't mean like a you know five-point Romans road. Um Michael, who is right now finishing up And when I mention the things to you, they're elementary, they're very simple. And so that is part of what he's saying. People like to look at demographics to determine how do we posture our organization. We need to proclaim the truth. You know, it's interesting. And they divided themselves up into the church. We have a sweet bond because of the Lord Jesus. You have prayed for not just our family, but the Colbert family. He rises from the dead. I want you to be able to see uh in a short time some history But there are a lot of things, maybe when I preach today, the sentence strikes you'll be like. It's because that really is the foundation. The church is an organism. But the answer is very obvious. I thank God for them today. Father, we are blessed people. We can see the death of Christ and his resurrection. And they didn't like Paul. I want us to see just a little statement that Jesus makes, a little phrase that answers that question. And everybody knew it. It's a very simple statement. They they they had things in their minds. And you know why? I don't know that Peter understood all the implications of that statement, you are the Messiah. He says, there's among you envying and strife and division. He's gonna be here on that Sunday. They have families. The Church of Corinth, you know, have you ever heard the statement we want to be a New Testament church? And what does the Bible say? I know we have four children, but they're little. We are God's husbandry. Right now I'm working, not right now, but I'm working on a video presentation that's going to be 10 years and 10 minutes So with that in mind, let's read Matthew 16, verses 13 to 19 You want to be like Ephesus where they had uh Jewish false teachers who were We're doing better than a lot of them are. He it's because they failed to realize that he is the one who's at taking care of this church, which is like a garden. Please come back tonight because the reality is the rest of this passage is critical. And we will just marvel in humility at what you will do in our hearts and through this congregation. Or how about this one? And there's a wonderful opportunity to to reach into the lives of some He says, you're the Christ. It is a promise. All kinds of things are going to happen. Church of Corinth again. I thank you for their conversions. They'll meet later today. It can be healthy and strong and vibrant, or it can be weak and sick and deteriorating. Everybody in the church is is elderly. And when that happens, that is so dangerous. Just two very simple truths, but they're very, very important. So we want to say thank you. He says on this rock I will build my church Apollos was an orator. We've got to be that way as a church. I absolutely believe he'll do it. The foundation upon which the church is built upon is the gospel. It was about their mentality that the men were really at the root of the growth and stability and strength of that congregation Because because they just walked with us and talked with us. This is not a come forward. Those are the five questions that I want us to analyze today. And you know, one of the things he said is, wow, this congregation is dying. And there are things that I learned as a Christian because of him. And some of the people really gravitated to Paul. Well, if we want to answer that question, we have to look at the conversation that Jesus has with Peter. And so what does he say? I don't mean blowing up, I mean people are coming to this church. The emphasis of the statement is very obvious. His youngest wife was two years older than Mr. And so he would divide people into these categories to exploit that division. They're married. They are timeless. He doesn't say on this rock all of y'all. Amen. What in the world? Question two, who is the ultimate builder of the church? So I want to encourage you to consider coming back for the second part of this text. In Psalm 16, he talks about the fact that his holy one will not see corruption. I'm used to preaching through a translator, so I hope I won't be too long-winded. You are God's building. And so, whichever group seemed to have a little more prominence, the other group got a little envious of them. But you know what the root problem really was? I'm I'm gonna I'm gonna jump right in. This is what it says. It's God. Obviously Christ knows everything that these people will encounter. And those people are those apostles. Hey We have one faith, one Lord, and one baptism. The answer to what is the rock is rooted in the question Jesus asks. He says, We are laborers together with God. Yet he doesn't say, You're going to build my church. There is nothing more powerful than Christians who live like it. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. We have an anchor that keeps our soul steadfast. And that question is, what is the foundation of the church? So turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 3. Now, before I explain what he's saying, we've got to ask the question: why does he write it? And there were people who loved They have children. And um we would really love to get to know you and And if we want to understand who the Messiah is, go to Isaiah 53. Corinth, where there was a guy in the church who was No matter what our perspective, as we sit down today, as we reflect on these truths, we can be strengthened. Remember who builds it. The strategy of the growth of the church is a simple one: make disciples through proclaiming the gospel. We are God's building. That's what you do if you have a business. And I remember one of the things and it's not like he told me, but one of the things that And I won't even realize I'm doing it. And they said, Some say thou art John the Baptist, some Elias, and others Jeremiah, or one of the prophets. Do you want to be like the churches in Galatia where The people that I think our family had the greatest impact on And I I couldn't be more excited about uh what God has done and what God is going to continue to do. Whole different culture Well, some say Elijah, some say Jeremiah, some say one of the prophets. I don't know that Peter understood all the implications. And then he says, You are the Son of the Living God. And because of his prominence in the church and society, it was like dead silent. Why is that? And the people that chafe at us, we are the tools of God. Yet, because of the bond that we have in Christ They didn't get that. They believed it was Paul, and they believed it was Apollo. And that church did not exist ten years ago. It's a really neat situation. Okay. That means that the church is something that has life We've got to be a gospel-centered, built upon the foundation of the gospel church. They came and trusted Christ. And I also want to say this. I laid the foundation according to the grace of God. Before pride or before destruction? Yet he just makes this very simple and very strong statement, I will build my church. They're some of the people I wept with when I left. And so what does Paul say? Discipleship is connected to the gospel. Uh but I don't want you to take that the wrong way either. In verse 18, Jesus says, I He said, I hope to build my church through you guys. You know the reality is God does that. And you go home and you think about it and you start saying, Man, you know, the reason I did this was Boy, I thank you. We pray for your blessing, and we pray that as we continue to worship through submitting ourselves to your word. They are above all cultures When Jesus And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjonah, for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee. Michael is uh in Northern Ireland. I'm talking about you know the gospel. Food that maybe we didn't like that much. The form and the structure of what I will present here is going to be a little different than what I presented in Ghana. But you know how difficult it is to keep that in our minds sometimes? Apparently Paul said that. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. They're they're just as much a part of the story as This is a let's focus on this for a while and just chew on it and see how it kind of manifests itself practically in And I want you to see how God has blessed the fruit of your prayer, your giving. He's the one who's laboring to build that thing up. And God will bless that in his own way, in his own time. And there is nothing in this world that can take that bond away. Um we went up in that was it part That organization won't have health. You understand the gospel. Our preaching and our teaching have to flow out of the gospel. Not just supporting us for Because those congregations died. 18 months he spent at Corn. He says, Neither is he that planteth anything, nor he that waters, but God gives the increase. And they're going to be handling the uh the preaching and the teaching. So if you have children, you know, don't hesitate to introduce If a church is dead, it means that the gospel hasn't been preached and there aren't believers in that congregation. He had gotten baptized. I'm gonna be studying for next week. So please do not hesitate uh to give us a call. All that is found in the Old Testament. We will we'll really focus on the heartbeat of the Go to 1 Corinthians chapter 3 and look a few verses ahead. And this church will will grow by your providential hand as we Biney. It can't be anything but Christ and his finished world. And and and actually discipleship is something that happens in just normal living. Maybe then they were kids in a Sunday school class that came to understand So I just want to say that. What was the source of the envying It's Christ. You can stick simply with the Old Testament. But you know a lot of times it's the basics that we need to be reminded of. He knew how to lay out an argument. You have prayed for the individuals that you will see pictures of. We will spend most of our time thinking straight out of Matthew. I can tell you it's a lot harder to leave than to go. You know what the tendency is in those scenarios? He says, I'm going to build it. And I say just I mean like like two or three years ago just got electricity. Some of the most difficult people I interacted with in Ghana. You know, we live in a busy world, but that's really where they pick up their value. Please feel free to contact us. Pride. We are actually really thankful to be here and we're very excited. Well I know he didn't understand all of them. There was only one. In fact, that organization could potentially not even have life in it. Um there are people that uh they're You ever heard that statement? It actually hits both sides. Question three, who is the owner of the church? He knows every opposition they will face from governments. We don't do that. We are here. Let's bow our together in prayer, and let's And that statement is this. Actually we don't build ourselves at all. This congregation We've got to kind of work together, right? But I'm going to build it through you. It's a promise. We don't pick those people. Everybody else in the church is We want to get to know you guys. Nobody said a word. Uh don't hesitate to He We want to That's what we're doing.