Good to see each of you, and uh let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer. We're going to forego our opening song today and we'll get right into our lesson. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, thank you for the opportunity to gather this evening in the middle of the week to focus our attention on your word. Help us as we dig into the text in front of us to understand it. um to really digest these truths, to really um feel the full weight of the implications of the passage in front of us. And I pray that your hand of blessing would really be upon this time. We pray for each person that's still coming. Please give them safety and help us to have a sweet time of fellowship. and uh prayer before you. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, 1 Timothy chapter 6 is where we are. We are looking at verses 17 through 19. Um last week I was I thought that this was going to be our last section, but then as I was looking at the final verses of First Timothy, I thought, you know. Really, I think verses 20 and 21 should sort of stand alone. So rather than uh dealing with uh verses 18 down to the end of the book I decided we'd break it into two parts, but let's go ahead and begin reading together. We'll start in verse 17. Scriptures say, charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not high-minded. Nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God who giveth us richly all things to enjoy That they do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, willing to communicate, laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come. Now we come to this passage this evening. We're looking at a discussion on money. And so let me give you a summary statement. And then I want us to think for a little bit about why Paul is going to deal with this topic at the end of his letter to Timothy as he's going to be working with people at the church at Ephesus. First of all, here's a purpose statement. The purpose of this section at the close of Paul's letter to Timothy was to shape a godly perspective of money. And so tonight we're going to be talking about money. We're not going to be talking about about it in full detail, but we're going to look at some really important implications related to how we view possessions, money, material, things. The reason that we look at this is because God wants us to use the material wealth that He blesses us with for His glory. And this is really important. God wants us to recognize that when he blesses us financially, we have a stewardship. We have a responsibility. He wants us to use That wealth for godly purposes. And so he's going to talk about that in the text before us. But you might ask, why do why does Paul spend so much time discussing this topic? The first thing I'm going to say is this. When we talk about the false teachers that were in Ephesus, one of the things that Paul really hits on is the fact that these false teachers were very greedy. Do you remember that discussion? He talked about the fact that not only were these false teachers greedy, but because they were greedy, they were preying on people who were also greedy. In other words, one of the reasons that they were presenting the messages that they were presenting that were kind of tickling people's ears, making them feel really good The reason that they were doing that is because they were trying to get an audience that ultimately would give them a good platform to get a lot of stuff, get a lot of money. In other words, you could say that these false teachers were a little bit like a parasite, and they were going to be on the host. The host was going to be the church, and they were going to be able to get all of their strength from the host. And so Paul really talks a lot about money and the dangers associated with greed. Now with that in mind, one of the things that we sometimes for uh fail to do is provide the balance and we talk about an issue that we're very negative about. Now, the fact that the Bible is negative on greed doesn't mean that the Bible is saying that money is evil, okay? What's evil is not money. What's evil is how we view money, how we use money, whether or not we love money, whether or not it controls us. That's really the problem. And so Paul's going to address that issue. He's going to say, look, it's not stuff that's the problem. It's how your heart relates to stuff. And so he's going to talk about a proper view, a godly view of material possessions, money. The first thing we're going to look at is this. Truth number one, a godly perspective starts with trusting God's fatherly care rather than the things that he allows us to possess. Now if you have uh a Bible in front of you, I want you to put a finger in Matthew 6 and 7, okay? Because we're going to be going back to the book of Matthew several times. What you're going to see is there's a lot of parallel instruction when we talk about what Jesus has to say about money, possessions, material things in the Sermon on the Mount and what Paul is going to say in this text before us. But the first thing we're going to look at is that we need to be very careful that we're not trusting in stuff. Rather, we're trusting in the God who provides the things that we need on a regular basis. Here's what it says in verse 17. He says, charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not high-minded, nor trust, that's really important, nor trust in uncertain riches. but in the living God. Now that phrase, charge them that are rich in this world, is going to kind of be at the forefront of all the things that he's going to say. So the first thing he's going to say is a person who is rich needs to make sure he's not proud, make sure that he's not trusting in money, but he's trusting in God. That's really what he's saying. Now I've got to ask this question, who is he talking about when he says, charge those who are rich? Would you consider yourself to be rich? Now I'm not asking you to raise your hand and give an answer, but I'm asking you, do you think that in Paul's mind when he says, charge those who are rich, that he's talking about you? And once you realize that in its perspective, we don't have the American system in the American dream. We have people who really, probably many of them lived at a much lower level, had a lot of fewer strengths and and opportunities than you and I have today. The truth is when we look at human history and we think about American culture We are all rich in the mind of somebody like Paul when he's writing this. The fact is we have a lot of stuff. We have a lot of material possessions. We have a lot of material strength. We have the ability to use these things. And so when he makes the statement, charge those who are rich, I want you to realize he's talking about you He's talking about me. He's not talking about somebody who's a millionaire. He's talking about somebody who's in a position just like ours So there are three things about the perspective that he is going to give to shape warning those who are rich. Here's the first statement: don't be proud. Don't be proud. And when he talks about don't be proud, one of the things that Paul is saying is that money has a tendency to make people feel overconfident. Okay, money has the potential to make you feel like you can solve all your problems with material possessions. In fact I was teaching through the book of Ecclesiastes the other day. We had our study, and in that study, one of the things that Solomon writes is it says, money meets or answers everything. Now when he's making that statement, he's not suggesting that money actually is going to be the answer for everything, but from the perspective of a person living on this earth Who doesn't think about God in eternity, who's just thinking about what he observes in life, he says, you know, I've noticed that people have money, have power. And people have money are able to do the things that they want to do. And they have a lot easier life than those who don't have money. And he says, money must must be the answer to the problems Well what does Paul say? If you're rich, don't be proud. That's a really important thing for us to keep in mind. If God blesses us materially, we have to guard against the temptation to become proud, arrogant. Self-dependent. The second thing he's going to say is this: don't misplace your confidence. Now, what is pride? Pride is being self-confident rather than God-dependent. That's what pride really is. It's thinking of ourselves more highly than we're supposed to be thinking. And so in this connection with don't be proud, he says, don't misplace your confidence. He says, do not trust in uncertain riches. Now the point that Paul's making here is that anything that you can hold in your hands is something that you can potentially lose. Just keep that in mind. Anything that you hold in your hands, you have the potential to lose it. It can deteriorate. It can go away very quickly How many people have we learned about in human history who they were very gifted people? Maybe they were wonderful musicians, they're wonderful artists. There are people that got to a position in society that was very strong and everybody knew it and they were famous, but by the end of their life they died as a pauper. Do you know of any people like that? Believe it or not, there are lots of people in history that that's how they were. The fact is, one thing that happens to you in your lifetime, just one event, can completely change your circumstances the rest of your life No predictions for anybody, okay? But I'm trying to make this point. Money is uncertain. Material strength is uncertain. And he says, don't trust in what is uncertain. But Paul understands that trust is something that needs to go somewhere. If I'm not trusting in money, then where am I going to trust? In other words, it's like a vacuum. You remove money, something that people like to trust in. Well, where are you going to go? He says, go to God's. He says, instead of trusting in uncertain riches, trust in the living God. Now won't you turn with me to Matthew chapter 6? Because in Matthew 6 Jesus is going to give parallel instruction, or maybe we could even say that really what Paul is doing is he is making a statement of application out of what Christ taught in the Sermon on the Mount. In Matthew 6, verse 19, listen to what the scriptures say. Lay not up for yourselves treasures on earth. Where moth and rust doth corrupt, where thieves break through and steal. Doesn't that sound a lot like what Paul is saying in this passage, 1 Timothy chapter 6? Don't be high-minded, don't trust in uncertain riches, but trust in the living God. Jesus says, don't lay up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust corrupt and thieves can steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt where thieves do not break through or steal, for where your treasure is there will your heart be also He then goes on to say this no man can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. And here is the key of what Jesus is saying. You cannot serve God and mammon Therefore I say to you, take no thought for your life. Now when he uses that word mammon he's saying, he's talking about money, stuff, material possessions In other words, Jesus is saying, you can't serve me and serve greed at the same time. You can't be trusting me and then trusting in your material possessions at the same time. So he says, rather than investing in what is temporary , What can be lost or what can be stolen or what can decay? He says, trust in me Invest in eternity. Keep in mind what Jesus says in that passage, because this concept and some of those concepts are going to continue to flow out through this text, 1 Timothy 6. The second truth we see is this. A godly perspective rejoices in the goodness of God. So Paul is not just going to be negative in this passage. He's not simply going to say, don't do this, don't do this, don't do this. He's going to be Positive in his presentation on this issue of money. Paul doesn't want it to be just a negative topic. So here's how he puts it. God giveth us richly all things to enjoy. That's really, really important. He says, don't be proud. Don't trust in uncertain riches. Trust in God, who, by the way, is the one who gives us richly all things to enjoy. Part of having a godly perspective is not just being sobered by the temptation to trust in money, but it's to recognize that when God does bless us It's been given to us as a gift from him, and it's something he wants us to enjoy from the vantage point of this is something God has entrusted to me and it's for my own good, and it's out of his kindness. In other words, when God blesses someone materially, it's important that they recognize it is his blessing It's him giving us something that is good and not something that we are entitled to or that we deserve Two facts about God that Paul is going to emphasize that we need to think about if we're going to have a godly perspective. The first is this. Charge those who are rich in this world to remember that God is benevolent. Now, when I say benevolent, the idea is this: He gives us richly. He gives us richly. You know, one of the reasons that people are discontented is because they have lost the perspective that appreciates what they have They're so focused on what they don't have that they don't appreciate what they do have. And what does Paul say? He says, God gives richly. In fact, we're going to look at a couple of passages in just a moment that emphasize how God is benevolent. But don't forget this. We talk about money and possessions. Realize that God is very good and benevolent. The second thing that he's going to emphasize about God is that God is good. Now, when we talk about benevolence , excuse me, the idea is that he is giving abundantly. Okay? When we talk about his goodness, the idea is this. He's giving it to us from a heart that wants us to actually enjoy our relationship to him and the things that he's given us. He says he gives them to us to enjoy. Folks, it's not sinful to use money on things that you enjoy. It's not sinful. It can become sinful, okay? But there comes a point when it become can become sinful, but it's not in and of itself a sinful thing, okay? It's not It's not a sinful thing to make sure that your house looks nice. It's not a sinful thing to take care of your car and to buy a good vehicle or to dress appropriately. It's not a sinful thing. The truth is when God blesses people, he wants them to enjoy that blessing as a perspective of it's from his good hand. Notice some of these passages that talk about God's goodness and the richness of the way that He gives. In Matthew 6, 7 and 8, listen to what Jesus says. When you pray, You have vain repetition as the heathen do, for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking. Be not ye therefore like unto them. Now, one of the things that Jesus is going to say is that when you pray, you don't use prayer as a tool to manipulate God. You say, well, why is prayer not a tool to manipulate God? Here's the answer. He says, your father knoweth what things you need before you ask. In other words, the reason that prayer is not a tool to manipulate God is because God is not someone who needs to be manipulated to give you good things. He doesn't mean need to be manipulated to take care of your needs. He's your father. He loves you. He cares about you. He wants to actually bless you. And he emphasizes this in verse 7 and 8 of chapter 6. Then go with me to chapter 7, verses 9 through 11. He continues on this theme of God's goodness and his fatherly care. He says, What man is there of you, whom if his son ask bread, will he give him a stone? Or if he asketh fish, will he give him a serpent? He says, if you're a dad who cares about your kids and they say, I'm hungry. Can I have a piece of bread? You go, oh, hold on, let me get you something. and you give 'em a a a stone off of the ground and say, why don't you chew on this for a while? Would any good dad do that? Of course not. I want some meat. Oh here. Here's a poisonous snake. Why don't you play with that? We'd never do that to our kids. And listen to what he says. If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more shall your father, which is in heaven, give good things to them that ask him? He says, listen, at your best you're a sinner. Okay? The best dad is still a sinful dad. Okay? And you know that when your kids have needs, you take care of their needs. When your kids ask you for something, you give them what's good, not what's evil. And he says, if you're a sinner and you know to do that, how much more does a perfect and holy God, who is good, who is kind, who is benevolent, how much more does he take care of you when you come to him in prayer? Going back to this topic, a godly perspective rejoices in the goodness of God. How do you view God? You know, there are times that we ask God for things And we are crushed and we are frustrated that he doesn't give us what we've asked. Anybody felt like that lately? Okay. Yeah, maybe. Listen, God's good. Just because he doesn't move at the timing that we think he should, and just because he doesn't give us exactly what we've asked for, his purposes behind what he does and doesn't do. They are good purposes. And we have to trust him. And so he tells us, if you know to give your own children good things, how much more does he give to you what you need? And then I remind you of James chapter 1, verses 17 and 18. He says, Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variables, neither shadow of turning. Of his own will begatt us with the word of truth that we should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. And what does he do? He says, if you have anything in life that is good , It's from God. And let me remind you of the greatest good thing he's ever given you. It's called your salvation. Of his own will, he begat us by the word of truth. And he is continually working in us that we should be the kinds of first fruits of his creatures. And so he says, listen, God is good. Remember, have a godly perspective that recognizes the goodness of God. Number three. A godly perspective mimics the generosity of our Heavenly Father. Now, this is really interesting. He starts with this concept that we're not to trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God. He then goes on to say, and by the way, remember that God is good. So rejoice in his goodness. Number three, he says, you need to be like him. Does that make sense? Don't trust in what's uncertain. Recognize God's goodness, and by the way, be just like him in how you deal with other people. Here's how he puts it in verse 19. That you do good, that ye be rich in good works. Ready to distribute, willing to communicate. Let me read that again. That they do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, willing to communicate. In other words, Paul is saying that if you are rich, and we're talking about rich from the vantage point of his perspective, that would be all of us in here He says, just like God is good with you, you need to be good with others. That's really important. God has blessed you from his abundance of resources. You need to be a conduit, a tool that God uses to bless other people. You need to be just like your Father in heaven. Four phrases describe how we're to mimic our Heavenly Father. The first talks about how we need to do what is good He says that they do good. Now it's kind of interesting. Look back at the verse before. It says he gives us richly all things to enjoy. We were reminded that God is benevolent. And that is good. What's the first thing that he tells you to do? You need to be good towards other people. Do good. The second thing he says is this: you need to be benevolent, that you be rich in good works. Do you kind of see that there? He says, God is benevolent, God is good, you're to be good, and you're to be benevolent as well. In fact, it's kind of interesting. The structure of the Greek text here is called a A chiasm, okay? And so basically the idea is there's a parallel of ideas. You have on the outside the fact that God's benevolent, you need to be benevolent. On the inside, we have God's good, you're to be good. In other words, he's emphasizing the fact we're supposed to imitate our Father in heaven. The third thing that we're going to see about this little section here is that we need to anticipate opportunities to be a channel of blessing to others. He says, be ready to distribute. Now, when he talks about distributing, the idea is be a giving person. Now, when he says be ready, he means be anticipating opportunity. Folks, we live in a world that's full of need. Sometimes we're the ones that are in need, and we need people to come alongside of us and help us. Sometimes it's the person sitting right next to us. But the fact is, as we live in this world, we need to live with an anticipation that there will be people that we need to come alongside and help. The second thing he says is this, we need to be willing to step in when the opportunity arises. He says, be willing to communicate. Now communicate's not just talking about let's have a conversation. Okay? That word communicate has the same idea of community like koinania. In other words, we're kind of together connected. We are a part of a Fellowship. In fact, when we talk about the church, we talk about it being a body, a family, a fellowship of believers. And so the idea is he's saying Be ready and when the opportunity arises, be willing. It's really important. I'm anticipating opportunity, and when it comes, I don't back down. I don't go, ah, I just hold off on that. Why does he tell us to do that? Because we need to be like our Father. Go back to Matthew and look at Matthew chapter 5 and listen to what Jesus says in the Sermon on the Mount about how we are to relate to people like God relates to people. And I want you to think about this statement in light of the benevolence and the goodness of God. Listen to what he says. Ye have heard that it had been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemies. But I say unto you, listen to what Jesus says. Love your enemies. Bless them that curse you. Do good to them that hate you. Now here's the reason why. Don't miss this. This is extremely important. This is at the heart and soul of the Sermon on the Mount. And it's really at the heart and soul of what Paul is writing to Timothy and the instruction he's giving to the church at Ephesus. Jesus says that you may be the children of your Father which is in heaven. For he maketh his son rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth his reign on the just and on the unjust. Now when he says you're to be like your father, he's not suggesting you become a Christian by imitating God. That's not what he's saying. He's saying you live out the Christian life As a child of God, reflecting the character and the nature and the dealings of your father. That's what he's saying. In other words, God is good, God is benevolent, you're his child, you're to be good, you're to be benevolent. It's not just that you love those who love you, but you're even to love your enemies. It's not just that you bless those who are good to you, but you also bless those who are difficult to you. And he says: here's your example. How many people have gone out into their fields and harvested their crops year after year after year, and they weren't worshiping the God of heaven, they were worshiping an idol throughout all human history? How many people like that? Did God hold back the rain from them and say, I ain't giving you any rain. You worship an idol, no rain for you this year. He didn't do that. He gave them the rain. He let their crops grow. He let them enjoy abundance. How many people does God bless? Common grace. He treats them with tremendous kindness, yet they have no appreciation for him. They don't worship him, they don't honor him, they don't care about his ways. How many people live in this nation right now? That do not acknowledge God in any way at all. Yet they've enjoyed many good things at God's hand, living just in this nation right here. How many people? Countless multitudes. In other words, what Jesus is saying is, just like God is good to those who despise him, we're to be good to those who don't necessarily love us either. He says you need to be like your father in heaven. We then move on to the fourth truth. And this one is extremely important, and this is the final truth of the section that we'll look at here. A godly perspective feels the burden of stewardship. Let me say that again. A godly perspective feels the burden of stewardship. So he's talked about the fact that we're not to trust in things that will not last. They're uncertain. We're to recognize that it's God who gives us richly all things to enjoy. We're to reflect his benevolence and his goodness and how we deal with people. Fourthly, we need to be good stewards of what he gives us. In other words, when God blesses us, he's not blessing us for our own purposes, but he's blessing us so that we manage what he gives us for good purposes. You know, I want you to think about it. If you were, I don't think we have anybody in here that's a financial advisor, but let's say that you were a financial advisor. And all these people give their money to you, okay, not to use for yourself. Okay, but to manage for them. Now, if you're using it for yourself, you go to jail, right? Isn't that how that works? Like one of these little schemes, you know, the guy's giving these people these great investments while he's just cutting off the top. You hear these stories and then okay, like these these schemes that people have. No, when you give money to a financial investor, they are not taking it for themselves. They're managing it on your behalf. In other words, every time you come to a new quarter, you go, Well, are they managing this well or not? Am I going to continue to trust this group with these assets or not? Well, we need to recognize that when God gives us good things that are to be enjoyed, He's giving them to us in part and majorly in part. So that we steward those things well. We take those resources and we use them for his purposes. Listen to what he says in verse 19. He says, laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come that they may lay hold on eternal life. Three things that he mentions that are kind of forward-thinking responses as it relates to this issue of stewardship. The first is this: we need to be investors. He says, lay it up in store. In other words, set it aside to be used at a time down the road. Two, build a good foundation. He says, a good foundation against the time to come. Now, this is really interesting. We're going to talk about this concept of a foundation in just a moment. But the third thing he says is this: invest in eternity, that they may lay hold on eternal life. In other words, the way that we live should be laying up a good foundation for the time to come. In fact, in 1 Corinthians 3, we kind of see a very good explanation of the concept that's being laid out here. Here's what Paul writes in verses 9 to 15. He says, that we are laborers together with God. You're God's husbandry, your God's building. That word building is very important. He's going to give an illustration of a foundation that's been laid, and you and I are to build on that foundation. And we're going to use certain kinds of materials to build that foundation. And in the end, God's going to examine what we've built. And either what we've built is going to last or it's going to be burned. That's what he says. He's giving an illustration of how we live our lives. And so he says, according to the grace that is given to me as a wise master builder, I've laid the foundation. Let every man take heed how he buildeth thereon. Other foundation can no man lay than that which is laid, which is Christ Jesus. If any man build on this foundation gold, silver, precious stone, wood, hay, stubble, every man's work shall be made manifest. The day shall declare it. It shall be revealed by fire. If any man's work abide, which he hath built thereon, he shall receive reward. If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss But he himself shall be saved, yet so as by fire. What's Paul saying? The way that you manage the resources God's given you in this life The way that you use what God gives you is really building a building on a foundation. And the quality of what you're building one day is going to stand before God, and either it's going to be found wanting, or it's going to be found to have true value. That's really what he's saying. And he says, if it's found wanting, you're going to suffer loss. You will be saved, says, by fire. You know, the Christian who's wasted their life is still going to be in heaven. But they're going to be in heaven with loss of reward. Okay? The Christian who's been found faithful is going to have an abundant entrance into God's everlasting kingdom. In First Peter, he talks about how we are to give all diligence to add to our faith virtue and knowledge and all those things, and he says, if those things be in you and abound, they make you that you'll neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of God. And that if you're not barren or unfruitful, there'll be this abundant entrance into God's eternal kingdom. The idea is that your life will be have will have been lived well. Not have been wasted. There'll be something of eternal value in what you did with your investment. And so Paul's basically saying, when God blesses you materially, Manage it in light of eternity. Be a good steward. Lay up in store for the time to come. Build on that foundation very, very well. Lay hold on eternal life. I go back to Matthew and the Sermon on the Mount. Listen to what Jesus says. He says, seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness All these things shall be added unto you. Take no thought for tomorrow, for the morrow shall take thought, for the things of itself sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. What Jesus is basically saying is this, live for eternity and let God take care of the rest. That's what he's saying. That's something we need to remember. We need to seek his kingdom. You know, everything that goes on here in many ways is noise. on the way to the celestial city, using the illustration of Pilgrim's progress. It's background noise. We need to seek the kingdom and his righteousness, and he'll take care of the rest. I want us to be very practical in what we've seen here. Let me give you some very practical thoughts. Some implications that I think flow from the text of Scripture here. The first is this, the more we know God, the more grateful we're going to be. When he says we're supposed to imitate our father, how do you imitate somebody you don't know? Do you understand what I'm saying? In other words, one of the reasons people trust in uncertain riches instead of the living God is because they don't really know who he is. They don't know how good he is. They don't know how wise he is. They don't know how benevolent he is. They don't know how gracious and kind he is. The more that we know God, the more grateful we'll be, and we will see that the things we enjoy are from his hand. They are good. Secondly, the more we know God, the more generous we will become. The truth is that a lot of people are difficult with others because they don't realize how good God's been to them. Why are people unforgiving? It's because they don't realize how much they've been forgiven of. Why do people lack grace? It's because they don't realize how much grace God's extended to them. Why is it that people are not very generous? It's because they don't realize how generous God's been with them. And the more we have this sense of God's goodness and God's generosity, the more we will want to be conduits of his goodness to others. Three, generosity is ultimately an expression of worship to God. You know what's really interesting in this passage, God is at the center of it all. He reminds us of God's character, reminds us of God's ways, and immediately from that he says, be like that. He reminds us of God's generosity, and then he says, because God is generous with you, be generous with others. When I say that generosity is an expression of worship, it's recognizing that God is the one who sovereignly gives us what we have. And he expects us to use it for his purposes. And he wants us to do it from the heart. Number four, generosity is a tool in God's hands. You say, well, how does God bless other people? How does he do it? How does he take care of people? How do people get saved? Does God zap the gospel into their soul? No. He uses people. He uses us. In other words, if I don't bring the gospel to you, you won't hear it. And if you don't hear it You won't receive it. It's impossible to receive a message that you're unaware of, that you've never heard of, that you don't know about. In other words, God reaches people through people. How does God take care of people? He does it through people. We are conduits. We are the channels that God works through. You know that song? Channels only, Blessed Master. Flowing through us, thou canst use us every day and every hour. That's what we are. Channels. Tools that God uses. And lastly, I mentioned this: generosity will result in eternal reward if it comes from a pure, motivated heart. That's really important. You may give Graciously, you may give lavishly, but if you're doing it for the wrong reason, you have your reward. That's really important. In this passage, he's emphasizing the fact that generosity needs to be motivated purely. And when it is, there is lasting reward. I conclude with this final thought. God wants us to use material wealth for his glory. Let's do that. Let's be good stewards of what God has given us. Let's bow together for prayer, please. Father, thank you for the opportunity to dig into this passage. There's a lot that we've said, and there's a lot that could be said I pray that you'd help us to be humbled, that you would bless us lavishly, that we would be humbled, that we must be good managers, stewards of what you've entrusted to our care. Father, help us to know you and help us to imitate you. Help us to be good and help us to be benevolent Help us to be channels that you use to extend mercy and kindness to others and to encourage and strengthen others. Help us to be instruments in your hands. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.