Please turn with me in your Bibles again to Matthew 16. Matthew 16. And uh I want us to continue in our study this morning with a passage that's really critical to our understanding of the church. And the local assembly. And it's so important during times of challenge that we refocus on what is stable and what does not change. And our emotions are not that way. Not at all. It's amazing how you can feel completely calm and stable and then a conversation just destroys you emotionally. Uh something that you read, something that you hear, and our emotions are not a good judge. In times like this. But what we need is what is stable, that is the Word of God. And we need the Word of God to inform our emotions. We need the Word of God to be the thing that is the rock upon which we stand. And so we come to Matthew 16, and I'm not going to read the entire passage because we did that this morning, but I want to focus in on the section that was the focus of our study. And that is Jesus' statement. I say unto thee that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church And the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven. And whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed In heaven. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer and let's look at the rest of this text. Father, what a blessing it has been this evening to be reminded of your kind providence in our lives. We're reminded through health situations, through circumstances, that you love us and you care about the details of our lives. In fact, every single detail for the life of the Christian is just one more piece of the puzzle that you use to shape us into the image of Christ. And so I pray that you'd help us to rest confidently in that glorious truth. And as we've had testimony tonight of your kind providence, I pray we'd be strengthened And I pray for those who have great need who have been mentioned that we would pray for those individuals. A lot of health issues. I pray you'd strengthen those folks, not just physically, but emotionally. There's a great need for us to have clear thinking as we go through challenges. And so I pray you'd minister to our hearts and the hearts of those individuals. As we continue in this text, I pray you'd really strengthen us through it. I pray you'd really feed our church and that we would move forward in a way that is pleasing and honoring to you. And that our hearts would be fixed upon the truth, not just an emotional high that we experience for some moments, but that which is bedrock truth. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. So we had five questions we were going to look at today. The first question, what is the foundation of the church? And we saw that the foundation of the church is the gospel. We saw a second question, who ultimately builds the church? And we saw that that person is Christ himself. We then move on to the third question, and that is the question, who is the one who owns the church? Who owns the church? In verse 18, Jesus makes this statement, Upon this rock I will build my church. Now, I want you to consider the implications of that statement, and I want you to think about why that is so important in light of what Jesus is saying. What if he said, I'm building your church, Peter? What happens when Peter dies? Who gets the church, right? Oh, it was Peter's and now he's gone. What if he said, I'm going to build your church? And he says that to all the apostles. What happens when they're gone? It ends. He says, I'm going to build my church because he is eternal. One generation comes, another generation goes. But the one who owns the church is the same. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. And so this is a critically important truth for us to reflect on. The church belongs to the Lord Jesus Christ. You know, it's very easy for us to get in our minds a very different mentality when it comes to how we view the church. Now, you know, as a missionary, and I've you know my illustrations are going to be in that realm for a little while because that's the context I've lived in. But the reality is as missionaries, it's really easy to become very uh attached. to the church that you are working with. In fact, you become sort of the face of that particular body. I was reading an article yesterday in one of the magazines that we get here at the church, and it talked about the issue of transition. And as I read that particular article, I thought about the emotions that I felt when I was telling the people in Ghana I'm leaving. You know, there are a lot of emotions. There was excitement because it's exciting to see them take a step like that. There was fear, like, how are they gonna do? There was also a sense in which You like being dependent on. And it's really hard to say, you know what, you don't need me anymore. But the reality is, that's what we have to recognize. Every single generation is going to one day be replaced by the one that is sitting here right now. If it's not, there will be no assembly here. And the reality is that the church isn't owned by any leader. It isn't owned necessarily by the people within the congregation. The church is owned by Christ. Now I want you to consider the implication of that beyond what I've already mentioned. The reality is there is one word that has the right to be the rule and authority of the church. You know what word that is? It's the scriptures. One of the reasons that there should be such an emphasis on expositional preaching and teaching, word scripture-centered instruction. Why that should be the heartbeat of our church ministry is because that is where the authority of the church lies. It doesn't a lie it doesn't lie in our personal opinions and our preferences. The reality is we're all very different. We come from different backgrounds. That shapes how we look at situations. We are, well, men and women. That shapes how we look at situations. We are different ages. We come from different generations. We come from different, we could say, seasons of life. And all those things shape how we look at church life. But what we have to be able to realize is that the authority in the church lies with one individual, that is Christ. The authority lies in one word, that is his word. And so as much as possible, it should be our aim and our emphasis. to emphasize what he said, not what we think or what we want or what we desire. As much as possible, we need our desires to be conformed to his instruction. This is very significant. And you know, the reality is that I think there are a lot of different ways in which we struggle in this area. But to kind of illustrate what I'm saying, look at 1 Peter chapter 5. I want you to consider the significance of this passage because this passage was written by the very individual that Jesus makes the statement to. Upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Peter is the one who heard that personally. So now Peter is an older man. Now, Peter is an apostle. Peter is a pastor-elder. And Peter is, we could say, the most influential of all the apostles when it came to the Jewish ministry. So if there's anyone that had clout, if they had weight, if they had authority amongst the apostles, we would think of Paul with the Gentiles and Peter with the Jews. But I want you to notice very carefully how Peter words his instructions to others who are shepherding individuals in a local assembly. 1 Peter 5. 1, he writes this. The elders which are among you, I exhort, who am also an elder. Now I want you to consider something Peter was not just a shepherd in a congregation. He wrote scripture. He was an eyewitness of the ministry of Christ. He saw the empty tomb, he sat at Jesus' feet. He was called personally by Christ Can you not see the significance of that statement? He says, the elders among you I exhort who am also an elder. He doesn't really emphasize his authority at all. He doesn't say, hey, I'm your boss. Listen to me. He says, I'm just one of you. It's a very significant thing, I think, when you consider the man who's speaking He then continues on. He says, I'm a witness of the sufferings of Christ and also a partaker of the glory that shall be revealed. So he's reflecting on the ministry that he has enjoyed. He saw Christ personally. But then he goes on to say this: feed the flock of God which is among you. Now, there's no question in the scriptures that pastors have authority. They are called overseers. Yet he doesn't emphasize the overseer aspect in this passage. He actually emphasizes the fact that he's one of the congregation. Again , very, very significant. He says, take the oversight thereof not by constraint, but willingly, not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind. And then I really want to key in on the next statement. He says, neither as being lords over God's heritage, but examples to the flock. Now I want you to just ponder this for a moment. You know, we have like OSHA. We have a lot of rules that dictate work environments, and we're thankful for those kinds of things. But it wasn't like that in those days. In those days, the majority of the people in a Roman city had no rights. They could not vote. They could not own property. They were servants to masters for all kinds of different reasons. They did not have the rights of a trial by jury like normal people in the society. And so you can imagine that in that kind of a society, people who had power were pretty abusive with their power. You can imagine that. Think about what Jesus says when the disciples are arguing with one another, and he says, you know how the Gentiles exercise lordship, but it will not be that way with you. Whoever is going to be the master has to be the servant of all. And so he establishes that principle. Well, the reality is what we think is domineering in our society does not hold a candle to what was extremely acceptable in the ancient world. It doesn't hold a candle to it. So think about how startling it is when he says you need to do the work of the ministry as an overseer, not as a lord over God's heritage, but as an example to the flock. He's saying the primary way that you lead people is by example. You don't push them, you lead them. Now, which of those two examples do you think is faster? Without a question, it's a lot easier to command somebody. It's a lot easier to push somebody. It's a lot easier to dominate somebody. If you can embrace that authority and they accept that authority, you can get things done. And that's the way a lot of people work, and that's the way a lot of people f Function. But my question to you is this: why is it that he emphasizes that's not how you do it in the church? I will tell you why. Because pastors are not the ones who own the church Leadership is not the one who owns the church. Christ owns the church. And so He this, I mean, go back and read this passage. And and just notice some of those little details and notice them in the light of the culture that they were living in. He calls them God's heritage. My children. Okay? My my father-in-law is here. Do you want to admit that to me? Okay. That's his heritage, you know, his children, his grandchildren. There is a familial affection there So when God talks about the church, he talks about it in a very affectionate way. You don't have the right to abuse God's people. You don't have the right to dominate and domineer and be the master. I own the church, he says He says, be an example, and when the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the crown of glory that fadeth not away. He reminds these other individuals that their authority Is going to come into question before God's judgment seat. This is a significant text, and I I appreciate the text because of the individual who's writing it. Peter is writing it, and he's writing it as one who Jesus makes some very very powerful statements to in Matthew 16. You might say, what's the significance? I'll tell you what it is. The truth, this truth is the antidote. For the kinds of contentions that often trouble congregations. Whenever there's a pull away from biblical authority Whenever we begin to move away from seeing Christ is the Lord of the church, it doesn't it can any of us can do this. Pastors can do it, church leaders can do it, teachers can do it, just the normal person in the chair in the pew. Anyone can do it. We have to be very cautious. We move on to a fourth question. And that question is: this: What is the confidence that we have from God in times of crisis? What is a confidence? You know what's kind of interesting? When you talk to an unbeliever, I have experienced this so many times. You talk to them about a crisis that they're dealing with, and this is what I have picked up on many times. They always find confidence in something that is not concrete. They find confidence in something that really is not genuine confidence. It's startling when you notice that. It's on a hope. It's on this, maybe this will happen. For the Christian, it's very different. Our confidence is rooted in the providence of God. Our confidence is rooted in the providence of God. It doesn't matter what I'm dealing with. God's providence is, we could say, the anchor to my soul. in times of challenge. And when it comes to issues of the church, I want you to see that Jesus actually talks about his providence over the church. In verse 18, he says, the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Now, this is a passage that involves some interpretive discussion, to be honest with you. But my opinion is that what he's saying is it doesn't matter what Comes against the church, even death itself cannot stop what I'm going to accomplish in the church Some say he's talking about Christ's death. And when Christ dies, he's going to rise again and he's going to conquer the grave. That may very well be what he's talking about. But notice that he doesn't say the gates of hell will not prevail against me. He doesn't say the gates of hell will not prevail against you, meaning that yes, you're going to die, but you're going to rise from the dead. He says the gates of hell will not prevail against it. And the idea is that there's going to be a continuation of God's church. It's not going to cease to exist. As long as there are people on this planet, there are going to be Christians. There are going to be local assemblies. Some of them will be hiding because of the the pressures and the persecutions that they're encountering, but nothing can stop God's kingdom work. Nothing. God 's work cannot be stopped. And you know that the work of God is always under attack. Think about our own souls. I 'm convinced that the greatest enemy that I have is me. It's the truth. When things are bad, what happens? We get discouraged. And then we just we wilt. When things are going great , we're not good to be around. Pride. It's like so if it's good, then there's a danger. If it's bad, there's a danger. If I'm going through a time of great temptation and I'm failing, what happens? I'm beat down. I go through a time of doesn't seem like I'm really under attack and I'm just like, well, I'm a super Christian. Like our flesh is so destructive. Even as God's people, even as believers, we wrestle constantly with our flesh. If there was no devil and there was no demon, the church of God would still have problems. Because we're all sinners. But beyond our own flesh, there is a devil, and there are demons, and he's very much at work in the world And who do you think he goes after? Those who are doing the Lord's work. He goes after those churches that are preaching Christ. That are trying to make disciples. And the reality is, in the history of the Christian church, we see so many examples of Satan bringing up tremendous, tremendous persecution on God's people. We can even see examples in the book of Revelation. He says, Satan has thrown many of you into prison. He says, I know where you dwell. That is Satan's seat. And what does Jesus say to Peter? Satan desires to sift you as wheat. There is a devil. He really hates us. There are demons. They really hate us. And the reality is, God's work comes under tremendous, tremendous assault. From within us, from outside of us, the reality is sometimes it's very daunting the things that we are facing. Let me make this statement. He's not suggesting that it's impossible for an individual congregation to eventually close. Think about the thing that he says in Revelation chapter 2. He mentions to the church of Ephesus, remember from where you are fallen. I think, Scott, you preached on this. I heard the message. I was listening. It's true. He says, Remember from where you are fallen, and repent and do the first works, or else I will come unto thee and remove thy candlestick. You know what's interesting? If a church stops preaching Christ and making disciples, and there's no devil, it will fold. It's true. But he doesn't say your church will just fall. He says, I will actually remove your candlestick. It's actually a divine chastening. So he's not suggesting that individual congregations can't end up in those positions. He's not suggesting that this just happens without our activity. I think of what what Paul says in Acts chapter 20, when he is meeting with those men who were shepherding the flock at Ephesus. He writes, Take heed unto yourselves and all the flock over which the Holy Ghost has made you overseers to feed the church of God. I know this that after my departure shall grievous wolves enter in among you, not stirring the flock. Also of your own selves shall men arise, speaking perverse things, to draw away disciples from them Why does he say that? Because he understands that these men have to make decisions, real decisions. They're going to have to preach truth. They're gonna have to address problems. They're gonna have to pray for people. They're gonna have to actually make decisions. So when he makes this statement, he's not saying every congregation will be preserved eternally. He's not saying that, oh, you can just sit back and it'll just happen. The reality is we have responsibilities. So what exactly is he saying? He's saying there's nothing that can stop the advance of God's kingdom. Nothing. Nothing. Generations come and go. But God's work continues. I want to use this illustration. I think it's an excellent one that I heard when I was in school. My pastor, when I was uh growing up, he tells a story about how he had a lawnmower. And when he put that lawnmower together, he left out some important parts with one of the wheels. And uh like every good A-type personality guy, he just wanted to get the job done, right? So he just went straight to cutting his grass. And he noticed that it, you know, it held him up a little bit, but he got the job done. So he You know, he put his mower away and the next time he came out to cut his grass, he cranked the mower up and he he went and did his job and he noticed that there was resistance, but He uh he continued on. Well, one day after really years, one of his neighbors was standing out in the yard and he he looked out at this guy and he's like Trying to figure out what's going on here. So I passed and he waves at his friend, you know, being neighborly, and he realizes the guy's watching him made him uncomfortable. So he stopped his mower and said, What do you want? He said, what's the deal with your mower? I don't know. He said, look at that wheel. It was all torn apart. All torn apart. And you know it's a great illustration because you know what? He mowed his lawn for years with that mower. But because that part was sticky, stubborn, if you will. It got chewed up in the process. And I think that that is a great illustration of how God works providentially in the lives of people. The reality is that if we are stubborn in God's work He's going to continue without us, and we'll get chewed up in the process. If we don't seize our responsibilities, if we're lazy, whatever the situation, the reality is God's going to continue his work with or without us. We get to be a part of it and we get the blessings of it if we are cooperative with him. But if we are not, guess what? He'll continue. He raises up others. He says, I will build my church and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. God's kingdom work will continue. The question is, will we submit to his lordship so that we get to participate in the blessings of it? That's really the question. We then come to a fifth question and the final. What is the trust that God has given to his people? I want you to really ponder this for just a moment. In verse 19 he says, I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom. Whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Now, you probably are really wondering what I'm going to have to say about this. Well, here's the first thing I'm going to say. Whatever that authority, it's serious. Why don't you think about it? If God's kingdom has a door, which obviously it does, who is that door? It's Christ. Who is it that has the key? To that door? Kind of an interesting question, isn't it? Well, according to Christ's statement, he says, I give to you the keys of the kingdom. He's obviously talking to Peter, but he's not just talking to Peter, he's talking to all those those apostles. And you ask the question, what exactly is he talking about? Well, to get a good understanding of what he's talking about, go to 2 Peter chapter 1. Paul, Christ is talking about Peter's apostolic ministry. And he's not just Peter's, but also the other apostles. In 2 Peter 1, verse 12, Peter writes, I will not be negligent to put you always in remembrance of the things though ye know them, and be established in the present truth. Yeah I think it meet as long as I am with this tabernacle to stir you up by putting you in remembrance Knowing that surely I must put off this tabernacle, even as our Lord Jesus Christ hath shown me. Moreover, I will endeavor that ye may be able after my decease to have these things always in remembrance. Do you know what Peter's talking about? So Peter's an old man, as he writes 2 Peter. Peter, if you read that book, is warning those individuals of the danger of false teaching and false teachers. And he wants to draw a contrast between the false teachers and what is their authority and what is truth. And so what does he say? I know I'm about to die. I'm an old man. God has revealed to me that it's going to happen very, very soon. And so until that day, I'm going to do two things. Number one, I'm going to sit down with you and I'm going to constantly remind you Of all the things that God has entrusted to me as an apostle to teach to the church of God. Verbally, I'm going to tell you about it. He's teaching. Can you imagine sitting under Peter's ministry? Pretty amazing. But he goes beyond that. He says, not only am I going to tell you, but I'm going to write it down. And then as we read the rest of 2 Peter chapter 1, he says, We did not follow cunningly devised fables when we made known unto you the mystery of the Lord Jesus Christ. We were eyewitnesses of his majesty. He says, we have a more sure word of prophecy where you do well to take heed, as a light that shines in darkness. That entire passage is Peter basically saying I'm an apostle. I've lived my life. I've given you all the time I can to teach you these things. And now I've written it down. It is your responsibility to hold fast to it. That is what he's saying. You gotta hold fast to the truth. What I've told you, what I've written for you, that is the standard. When I'm dead, that continues And you know what that is? It's our Bible. Okay? So Peter's ministry continues, really. And John's ministry continues. And Paul's ministry continues, because though they are dead, God in his providence has not only given us his word, but he has preserved his word, and so this is the standard. So I want you to consider the implications of what he's saying. He says, I give to you the keys of the kingdom. Whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven. Whatever you loose on earth will be loose in heaven. He's talking about their apostolic ministry. Now that they're dead, what happens to that? Well, here it is. It's the Word of God. This is the standard for God's people. Their ministry continues. This is why in 1 Timothy 3, Paul makes this statement: If I tarry long that thou mayest know how you ought to behave in the house of God, the church is the pillar and ground of the truth. The church is. 1 Timothy 6. 20 says, Timothy, keep that which is committed to thy trust. What was committed to his trust? The scriptures in that form of sound doctrine. In 2 Corinthians chapter 4, verse 1 to 7, he says, seeing we have this ministry, as we've received mercy, we faint not. having renounced the hidden things of dishonesty, not walking craftiness, but handling the work nor handling the word of God deceitfully, but by manifestation of the truth, commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the Those passages are telling us of something that these men had in their hearts. You see it in Paul's ministry to Timothy, you see it in Peter's ministry in 2 Peter. Those individuals emphasized that I have given you the word of God. Preach the word. Hold fast to the word. Teach those things that you've heard among many witnesses to faithful men who will be able to teach others also. When Jesus makes that statement. I give to you the keys of the kingdom. Here's the application for you and me. What he gave to those individuals is preserved in his word, and we are to hold fast to it. We are to know it. We are to teach it. We are to preach it. We are to live it. That is the implication of that. So I want to pull all of this together. What is he saying? If we struggle with a lack of motivation, remember the simple fact: we are stewards. Of what Christ gave to Peter and the disciples. We are the stewards. And you know what? So will our kids be someday. What kind of stewards will they be if we don't give it to them? They will turn away from this gospel that we preach if we live in this inconsistent way. You know, you can tell your kids what to do when they're little, but there comes a day when you can't do anything You can't do anything. We've got to hold fast. We've got to teach. We've got to preach. We've got to disciple. We've got to mentor. Let me tell you, this is a glorious passage. Because what this passage does is it tells us what the church is built on. It tells us who actually builds it, by whose power it grows and advances and matures, who owns it so we know where its authority lies correctly. It gives us confidence in a very uncertain world. And it gives us something to hold fast to: a trust. There's no reason for us to be defensive as Christians. Holding fast is not the only side of the coin. There's a mentoring side as well. You know, if we're all if we're all defense, it's like I used to wrestle. Don't hold that against me, okay? I used to wrestle. It's all if it's all about defense, at the end of the match you're done, man. Might have kept it close, but you don't win. You gotta have both sides. We gotta hold fast, but we gotta mentor. We gotta disciple. We gotta I want to ask you this evening, what kind of a church are we going to be? Fair question, isn't it? What kind of a church are we going to be? You know, as we as we reflect on where where we're at tonight uh we're gonna find that in some of these things maybe we we're we're on track and we're gonna find some others where we're not. Or maybe within our congregation, honestly Some of us are on track and some of us are not. I'm not God. I'm not here to tell you who is and who isn't and all that. I'm not But I'll tell you, the standard calls us all to think, to get before the Lord and to ask him those questions and to let him shape our mind. Let him shape our hearts and our thinking. I want to remind you, God is going to build his kingdom. With or without you, with and without me. Are we going to submit to him? People are going to be converted. They are. In every single culture in the world today, there are Christian communities Some that are quite vibrant. Will we be one of those? If we stumble, you know, we got to get back up It's that simple. Hey, we all make mistakes. Sometimes we do really foolish things. We really do. It's a good thing that God is a merciful God. It's a good thing He deals with us in grace. You will know God's love when you have fallen and gotten back up, unlike any other time in your life. And so I just encourage you this evening, let's embrace our responsibilities. Let's glory in the grace of God Let's rest in his providence. Let's make ourselves available to what he's going to do. And I'm excited. I'm truly excited about what God is going to do in our midst. Because I believe we will be committed to emphasizing the means through which he built people. That's what I believe. Not because we're all smart, because we got the right philosophy or because we got great talent. That's really not it's all about. We're going to emphasize what God blesses, what God uses. We're not going to take a screwdriver and try to drive a nail That's the way we do church sometimes. You know, we take a tool that's not meant for the for the job. God blesses the gospel being preached. He blesses disciple making. He blesses mentoring. He blesses that kind of stuff. And so let's rest in his providence today. And uh when God blesses, let's not forget where it came from. Let's put our hearts together in prayer tonight. Father, it's it's uh it's a wonderful privilege to be your child. To think that you love us as your own children, that you you care about every detail of our lives, to think that you You walk with us through the most challenging circumstances we encounter, and you don't leave us. To think that you you discipline us because you're a loving father. These are glorious truths. To think that it's your power, not ours, that ultimately builds your kingdom. It's such a freeing truth. You're gonna save people. They're out there. We don't know them yet, but you'll do it in your time. And you will use us if we're available, but you'll do it without us if we're not. Help us not to miss those blessings. Help us not to resist your gracious work in our lives. Father, help us to be totally honest with you in our own hearts. Help us to have the humility to accept when we have sinned and failed. Help us to have the courage to get back up. And help us never to forget where we've come from. Father, bless this preaching and teaching. May it take root in our souls and may it strengthen our hearts. In Christ's name. Amen.