Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And if you've been following with this week us this week, you know exactly where we are and where we're going. And uh so we've been in Luke chapter 10, verses 17 through 20, and we've been talking about uh the nature of biblical ministry, or uh uh nature of how we should look at ministry biblically. and where our focus should lie. And so yesterday we talked about the importance of the warning of the text. The day before we talked about really the blessing of ministry. And we began with looking at two extremes. And so this morning what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to focus in on really what is the heart of the passage, the focus of what Jesus is striving at. And that is that our identity in Christ has to be our highest delight when it comes to this issue of ministry. And so let's read the text again, and then we will dig into this concept together this morning. It says this in Luke chapter 10, verse 17. And the seventy returned again with joy, saying, Lord, even the devils are subject unto us through thy name. And he said unto them, I beheld Satan as lightning falling from heaven. Behold, I give you power to tread on serpents and scorpions. And never all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall by any means hurt you, notwithstanding. In this rejoice not. that the spirits are subject unto you, but rather rejoice, because your names are written in heaven. Now we have looked at this passage uh in several parts, but really now what we're going to get to is the heart of it. And that is what does Jesus want us to focus on when it comes to this issue of joy? in the ministry. And so we see it in verse 20. He says, in this rejoice not. In what? Well, in what they've just said. The devils are subject to us, and we are seeing God's power display. So don't put your joy in that. not in the spirits being subject unto you. Instead, rejoice in this. Your names are written in heaven. You know what Jesus is saying? You should be more excited about being a Christian than seeing how God works through you as a Christian. You should have more delight in the position you have in Christ than in the role that he has for you to play in his kingdom work. You should be more excited About the work he did for you than the work that you do for him. That's what he's saying in these verses. So Let's look at it both negatively and positively and then consider it practically together. So first of all, let's look at it negatively. Verse 20 he says, notwithstanding in this rejoice not That the spirits are subject unto you. What he's basically saying is that your identity cannot be in what you do And this is one of the great uh challenges that we that we deal with as Christians. Like as Christians, we're supposed to be living in a way that's consistent with reality, while the world is not. We're living for something that has eternal value, while the world is not. We're experiencing the joys and the benefits of walking in wisdom, which the world is not. And so in the midst of that, we can begin to contrast ourselves with the world, and rather than saying, thank God for his grace, instead we start going, well, you know, I'm just glad that I'm better than they are, and I'm wiser than they are, and I'm experiencing a happier life than they are. In other words, we tend to start focusing on what we're doing and what we're getting and what we're giving instead of what we've been given. That's where the problem lies. And so think about the Pharisees, for instance, in Matthew chapter 6, verse 3, Jesus has to tell them, when thou doest thou all thine alms Let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth. , What 's Jesus saying? Does your right hand and your left hand have a brain and they can know what the other one is doing? That's not what he's saying. He's saying don't think about what you're doing so that you're giving for your own benefit. That's what he's saying When you give, just give because you love God. Just give because it's the right thing to do. Just give because your heart is made with compassion. Don't give because you're thinking a lot about it. You're thinking, wow, yeah, I'm a very giving person. That's what Jesus is saying. Don't think about what you're doing. Or in Matthew chapter 23, verse 23. Another fascinating statement, Jesus says, Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. For ye pay tithe of mint, and anis and cumin, and have admitted the weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith. These ye odds have done, and not to leave the other undone Basically what Jesus is saying is, you know, you guys are so meticulous in the little details. Like you are so consumed with making sure that you don't cheat God, that you you tithe the right amount, that you go into your garden And you pull a tenth out of the mint, and you you pull a tenth out of these other herbs, and you you actually tithe to God out of what's growing in your garden in that kind of way. You're meticulous about this. Can you take pride in that? But you know what? You're ignoring the weightier matters. Judgment, mercy, faith. But basically what he's saying is your focus is on what you do. And you feel the sense of pride and accomplishment and self-righteousness because of what you're doing. This was fundamentally the Apostle Paul's problem before he became a Christian. In Philippians 3 verse 7, he says, the things that were gained to me, these I counted loss for Christ. Before Paul is a Christian, every everything that he did was about building up his religious credentials before God. And then when he came face to face with his unrighteousness and his sinfulness and the holiness of God and the righteousness of Christ and the perfect work of Christ on his behalf. And he understood that salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone, not through our works that we do. All of a sudden Paul had to recognize my religious credentials don't matter And so this text of scripture, more than anything, is about saying negatively, don't find your identity in what you're doing for God. Or even how you perceive your success. You know, the reason that these people were so excited is because they say, well, the spirits are subject to us. Well, what about if the spirits had not been subject to them? They were so excited that people were responding to the gospel of the kingdom. Well what about if people were not responding to the gospel of the kingdom? If somebody has an Ezekiel or a Jeremiah kind of a ministry. If they're having a ministry that's tough, if they're having an apostle Paul ministry at some of the difficult places that he went to, as opposed to some of the places where he saw triumphs. Is this person not able to have joy and satisfaction in what they're doing? The answer is, well, it depends on whether or not their joy is rooted in their position in Christ. or in the way he's working through them, or the perceived ministry success. And so on the negative side, our identity cannot be in what we do. Stated positively, it has to be rather in that our name is written in the book of life. That's what he says in these verses. In other words, it's not what we do for God, it's what he did for us. It's not in what we do for others, but it's in what he has done for us. It's not what we're doing for ourselves. Okay? Not just I'm doing this for him or I'm doing this for others. I'm doing it for myself. I'm getting a benefit out of it. And so I'm willing to give if I get back I'm willing to do this if it makes me feel better. I'm willing to do this if I get the success that I expect to have. If that's the way that we are approaching this issue, we have a problem It's not about what we do for him. It's not about what we do for ourselves. It's not about what we do for others. It's about what he did for us. It's about what we have in him. That's what Jesus is talking about. And so let me consider it very practically as we close this out. What we do for God is always going to have some degree of flaw on some level. You know, think about what Isaiah says. All of our righteousness is as filthy rags. The very best that we can do for God, the very best that we can give to God, it's flawed. We are never perfectly consistent in the way that we relate to God and the way we relate to others. And so if it was all about what we do for God and it was about the perfection of our righteousness, well then we're all done. We don't have any hope There's nothing that we can give to God that didn't ultimately come from Him first. You know, when I serve God with my hands, the question is, where do my hands come from? When I serve God with my energies, the question is where did that energy come from? When I serve God with my good health or a sharp mind, when I take the opportunities that I have and I use them effectively, well the question is well how did I get those opportunities Well, ultimately, he is the one that gave it to us. So anytime I'm giving to God, I'm ultimately giving back to him something that he's given to me. Or I'm using something that he has ultimately given me the ability to use And the fact is he doesn't really need anything from us. It's not like God is deficient in some way. And so our perspective has to be shaped by these realities. Our joy cannot be sustained if it is in anything outside of the unchanging nature of our good and gracious God. And so in order for us to think correctly about this issue of ministry It has to start with me recognizing I'm unworthy. I don't have really in any inherent ability apart from what God has given me. I've got nothing. And anything that I accomplish is only accomplished by his enabling and by his power. And it's through the grace that he's given me that I'm able to accomplish anything. And so we're reminded, considering this practically, that the reason that our focus has to be in our highest delight, in him and what he's done for us, is because anything that we do for him, it really started with him. It falls short of perfection. And so this is the point of what Jesus is saying. He's saying that the purest motive for service to Christ has to be out of loving gratitude that begins with a healthy view of his grace. And so I want to leave that with you this morning. How are you serving God? Are you serving God? And then the question is, if you are serving God, then why What is your motive? What drives you? Christ says in these verses, what should drive you, what should motivate you, and where the source of your identity ultimately should be is not in what you're doing for him. It's in what he's given you, what you have in Christ. May that be where our service to God begins, and may that be the thing that motivates us and drives us and gives us joy and satisfaction. I hope that this is an encouragement to you this morning. If it has, take a moment to share that. Maybe share it with another person so they can be benefited by it. And Lord willing tomorrow. We're to close out our week with some final thoughts as we look into the weekend. Have a blessed day. Bye now