There's a lot of pain, a lot of heartache, a lot of sorrow, a lot of difficulty that's associated with the child birthing process And when the pastor preaches the word, then God's authority is, we could say, presented through an instrument, but ultimately it's the word of God. You say, well what prayer is he talking about? The Lord gave, the Lord hath taken away. It's expensive to have kids. uh as I deal with a lot of important topics that uh you'd help me to communicate that well. To tell you how to run your house, your father-in-law, your mother-in-law. and that people will stay healthy. uh be with uh Willie as he's coming up and uh the Maronath guys as they're coming down. Peace on earth and mercy my O God and sinners wreck us out. Build in plaster God has seen. Friends with healing in his strings While he lays his war revived for that man no more may die for God sons of birth born to give and second birth but that herald angel sing Glory to the newborn king There are also a lot of things that are generalizations here. 16 churches that registered. feel free to do that. They're expecting their tenth child. And so there's a generalization. He said he needs a help meet. And there are going to be times that you're going to look and you're going to go, I don't even know what to do in this situation. what I was it. Those are the ones who are, you know, really giving a hard time to the umpires and to the rest. We just kind of like check out our brains and the the way that society moves is where we go, or we kind of go to the other extreme. They're gods. Well, I got it all right. They rise up early. And we're trying to satisfy an impulse of hunger, right? And them being strong enough and numerous enough to defend your interests. that need medical care and are on social security and are not working anymore and there's not going to be many people at the bottom who are working who are going to be supporting those people. Is that as we have become more prosperous and more affluent, we've also become less willing to do the things that are necessary to raise families. uh Saturday and uh hopefully uh we're gonna have a great uh team conference and so keep us in prayer and join us if you're interested in that. be attentive as they learn scripture and as they discuss doctrines, I pray that you would uh really uh strengthen the foundations. Joyful all ye nation tries, join the triumph of the sky, with angelic post proclaim Christ is born in Bethlehem, heart the herald angel sing Gory to the newborn king Jesus saw him and you well, hard the herald angel sing to the newborn king on the last I know for some of you you are in the midst of raising your kids. If you are interested in coming to the Lit Conference, we have our little booklets already. and have the machine fold them and staple them. And as I look through it, I'm really excited about the sessions, excited about the groups that are coming out. Our teen sponsors and parents, I want to encourage you to do that because we're going to get into a lot of really practical things. Now this is a very familiar psalm, and I think that you've probably heard it preached on, and so some of the things that I'm going to present to you tonight are not new to you, but I want us to think about how this psalm helps And the preservation of our heritage, our lineage is ultimately in God's hands. And especially in the ancient world, if you were not strong as a family and as a people, you were going to be a conquered people. Here's the magic number. the couple was expecting and the man was a friend of my dad. The wife was expecting. And that happened before the fall. We're gonna have difficulties. They may move in a very different direction than what we envision. Sorry we don't have the money. them. And we pour into them. Their doctrinal formation has to be formed. You know, there are times that we talk about the need to correct a child, and that's true. You know, a pastor doesn't rule the church. Helping them become well equipped to function in life, giving them a pattern of godliness to follow, being the primary instructors for our kids. And and obviously imperfectly I will do that, not just in what I teach you, but probably in the way that I mediate it myself You're a new family unit. kids. I'm a little stuck here. To sit up late, to eat the bread of sorrows, for so he giveth his beloved sleep. And we start thinking about our limitations as parents, and we start thinking about how we fail in areas and how we stumble in areas, it's easy for us to become very, very anxious. God's hands. Section here. They shall not be ashamed, but they shall speak with the enemies in the gate. Is that, you know, children are like arrows, and so you raise them and you shoot them out, and then they're gone. But actually what is being taught here is he's basically talking about how when a person has a family, there is strength in that family. with what is outside of our control. To persevere through the challenges of raising a family. Heart done everything shall see for me to the newborn king. Wait in time, people in caring of a burden to land. Hail the hand for Prince of Peace, hail the sun of righteousness, light and light to all he brings Christ by highest heath, Christ the everlasting Lord Some of you have you raised your children and you're watching your uh your children raise theirs. Lo children are in heritage of the Lord, and the fruit of the womb is his reward. uh session on this as well, but it it kind of depends on how things move. is that the people that are parents are very anxious. And so we're very, very excited about that. And so there was a concern in the back of the minds of so many people. Funny story. So God wants us to be responsible to our duties, but he also wants us to learn to trust him with what's outside of our control. And so this good gift of marriage comes with complications. We think about the gift of children. They need to leave your house and they need to establish their independence. Because this is the fallen world. All kinds of potential imbalances. This is a great need. You cannot hover over your children and micromanage them the rest of their lives. Instruction on correction and discipline, and all of a sudden they find a way to vent their frustration on their children. Give them opportunities. It's to teach them consequence, appropriate consequence, reasonable consequence. We need to see what the Bible says and let that determine where we stand on issues. truths that we find in Psalm 127. You say, well, Pastor, what's that saying? Or when I'm demonstrating something to them, I'm going to ultimately answer to him as to whether or not that's what I should be doing. The ultimate guide of the house, the ultimate authority of the home, it's God Himself. Now, we're going to emphasize a lot our responsibilities. The example that they see in me, there are always going to be areas where they what when they're older, they're going to say, you know, my dad really loved me, but I remember when. We had better make sure that the hard line we're drawing is one that God would actually say, that's appropriate. He's the ultimate authority. You know what I'm talking about? Or you don't need to worry about being vigilant as a parent. You don't have the ability to know the future. He's describing what happens when a person is anxious. And it's working and it's working. He says, God wants you to be able to rest. And we try to hold on more and we try to work harder. And we're trying really hard to make up where we fall short. But he's the one who blesses it. We're responsible, but he's the one who's got to do the work. Or we think somehow that God is snubbing us because we can't have more, or we can't have as many as we thought. 1 Timothy 6. This is what it says. And so he basically says, your defense has a lot to do with God blessing you with children, God preserving those children. And there's lots and lots of things that you can't control, and you expend all your time and all your energy and all these resources, and in the end, guess what? Okay, according to the U. And uh it was very tiring in many ways. We need to recognize that God will one day bless that faithfulness. That. That means when we go to the hospital, we're not gonna get the same kind of care. When a person's a doctor or a person's a nurse and they're taking care of people's physical needs, guess what? Positive way. And rest in your providence. in their life. We pray that the content that's given will be extremely helpful. It's actually not about angels, it's about Christ, but uh the angels are a part of the story. But before we get into some of the, we could say really practical things, I want us to deal with some foundational matters because I think that Making sure that we're thinking correctly on the foundational level is a very important part of being able to deal with practical issues appropriately. First thing I'm going to say is this. Children are an incredible blessing. We have to learn to protect them from certain things. They have to personally decide. And so when I tell my child, you need to do this, I'm ultimately going to answer to God for whether or not I should have told him you need to do this. And so notice what he says. It's almost like it's like eating food. In fact, some of the godliest Christians, believers we know about in Scripture, were people that longed to have children that couldn't. I mean look at Elizabeth. Because they're gifts, we should receive them with gratitude. And he's singing the terms of uh in terms of a society where your young men are the warriors who defend your home and your homeland and your city and all those things. Seventeen thousand dollars, that's what I said. Now I have no idea how they come up with these numbers, but that that is the U. Now we don't have children because we're trying to earn something from God, okay? He's simply talking about the natural byproduct of being faithful. You know, my parents weren't perfect parents. And this evening we're going to begin looking at uh topics dealing with raising children. Except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that buildeth. Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them. And so I just want to kind of highlight a couple of the things that we think about when it comes to this issue of children. You know how many people they live vicariously through their kids? Whoo, that's an interesting one. It says, Except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that buildeth. And so we need to recognize that when he talks about the building of a house or the keeping of the city, that's ultimately something that God is responsible to do. There's a heavy emphasis in this series on responsibility, teaching our kids, restraining through appropriate discipline, helping them cultivate good, solid interest. In other words, this is a limited period. It's not like mathematics. He does it through your faithfulness. So here's my challenge on this first point. And that's something that can absolutely terrify us. And so, what's the challenge? See, well, what is anxiety ultimately? What does it show us? to be a tremendous blessing to you. It was kind of kind of interesting. And so the reason that I bring that up, apart from the fact that we have the text here talking about this issue, is the fact I want to encourage you as a parent. This is one of the consequences of what we're going to see. But every life that that person will touch. His kingdom through generations for eternity. There are going to be times where you're like, wow, things are going really well, and then something like blindsides you and discourages you and it frustrates you. When we think about the good gifts of God, marriage, children, all those things, their complications. There'd be things that we did not get when we were children, like I'm gonna spoil rotten my kid, I'm gonna give them those things. Oh, when my kid gets to this age, this is what they're going to do. And release our kids' futures into his hands. I got my time, I'll have time to work with them because that's a lot of energy that's being expend uh spent on on them. Because I'm the one who ultimately determines this. No matter how smart you are as you go through the process, you're not God. Many, many times. Or maybe I would say it this way. We don't have the power to control everything. The fact that we've got to learn how to rest in God. Most of us can't, right? That's wonderful. We got some pictures with my siblings and all of their kids. And they worked very hard at what they did. And people living longer, you know what's going to end up happening? Well good evening. These are foundational issues that really should shape how we look at this issue of children and family. At some point, your children are going to leave your house. Our family can't do everything that our kids want to do. But just because we teach them doesn't mean they're going to embrace what we say. We want what's best for them, but we shouldn't impose our own preferences on them. We desperately need God's word to guide us in all these areas. In other words, my children are under my authority, yes, but I'm under Christ's authority. By the way, one of the things that's going to come out in these verses is that even though we're flawed, his grace is greater than our inability. But we are not the ultimate instructors. And by the way, if God would tell us that's appropriate and we choose not to do it, we're gonna answer him for that too, we can fall on either side. This is both humbling and liberating. Except the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh but in vain. And so we need to recognize we don't have all the answers. So that's the first point I want us to notice. Or a person sits up late. When our minds are at ease. They don't sew, they don't spin, yet they're absolutely beautiful. He says, look at the birds out there. He says, can you make yourself taller? That really should shape how we view the raising of them. All of it. It's not just to shoot out into the sky. But the question is this, what does God do with that investment? To raise and send out a generation. If he takes note of a person who gives a cup of cold water to a thirsty person, okay, if if if God actually takes note of those kinds of things, most certainly he takes note of the faithfulness of a mother who's taken care of her small children. And one of the reasons that we're getting in this place as a society is not just our country. And as more and more people take one approach as opposed to the other, eventually there's a long-term consequence to such a thing. It's true, okay? But that doesn't neglect the fact that they are a blessing. And by the way, we do. One of the great struggles that we're going to see in our society in the coming years, and people are starting to talk about it, not just Christians, in the secular world are starting to talk about this. Okay, the uh song we're going to sing is 199 Angels Hark the Herald Angels Sing. It is vain for you to rise up early and to sit up late to eat the bread of sorrows, for so he giveth his beloved sleep. You catch that? Some people are numb to their responsibilities. But there's something really sweet about being able to see the fruit of that labor, of that investment We aren't God to our kids. No matter how hard you try, no matter how much time you give, no matter how much energy you expend. We need to learn how to like turn off the engine that's going on. He says, children are an heritage of the Lord, and the fruit of the womb is his reward. So if you got a couple of kids, that starts adding up. The incredible, incredible sacrifices that are made in that season of life. Your building is now what ultimately builds the home. So how much money does it cost the average family to raise a child year by year? Help us not to feel entitled, become proud, or become discouraged when it comes to some of these issues. The challenge is we've got to be willing to put in the time and the energy and the sacrifice. They're feeding lots of families. And when people don't have their families and they don't raise their kids, well, guess what happens? Father, thank you for the text in front of us. I don't know how funny it is, but um when we were getting together with my grandparents, they went and they visited this uh this couple and um And that's why when you go to a little league football game or baseball game, it's not the kids who are the most obnoxious. His strength and his sovereignty is something we can rest in. And let's rejoice in his grace, because that is what ultimately enables us when we humbly seek it. No, they're they're gonna say, you know, I I messed up on Samaritas, but here's some things that I learned. Father, thank you for the opportunity to gather in the middle of the week. Very, very important scripture. Faithfulness is determined by what we do with what we have been given. And I pray that tonight as we look at just a biblical worldview when it as it relates to our families and our children, that you would give us great wisdom. It's expensive. When you raise a child who is responsible, hardworking, industrious, you're not only seeing the blessing in his life We're responsible to provide for them, but we've also got to teach them how to be independent. What do I do? And that's really what we need to recognize. He can use us to preserve life. Why do people rise up early? In fact, it's kind of scary when you get in that situation, it happens day after day after day, and you start realizing like whoa I gotta like figure out how to set this off because the body can't do this. Pretty amazing to think about. You know, it's not our wisdom. 80 says, Godliness with contentment is great gain. We are going to live stream all of the general sessions that we'll have, and there are four of those. You just never know what God might do in a situation. That's my family. That raising children is a long-term investment of time and energy. Sorry we can't put that into our schedule. And the reason is because this is an issue that's ultimately in the hands of God. Leave them in God's hands. There's no specific, here's the number that's complete, here's the number you should have, or the number that you shouldn't have. Marriage is a gift. We're gonna have things we've got to work through. I one of the most interesting s stories, and I know the focus of that story isn't uh about how Elizabeth wasn't able to have a child, but it actually when when Zechariah is there and and the angel says, Your prayer's been heard. Children are a gift from God. That they actually get to know, not just they got a picture when they were a baby, but they get to actually interact with their great-grandparents. And if we're not doing that, then we're going to answer to God for that. There's still two that uh they said they're coming. Eating the bread of sorrows. Uh per day. You know, we talk about the soccer mom, you know, and everybody's got all these schedules. Yeah, I remember when my dad handled this one situation that I'm sure everybody's got those kind of stories. Blessed be the name of the Lord. We pray that you bless the preaching and the teaching that will go on in the different sessions. Marriage is a gift from God. We can't just be sitting back on the side and just let our kids be exposed to anything and everything out there in the world. You have to even let them stumble a little bit in situations because that might be the way they have to learn a situation. As arrows in the hands of a mighty man, so are children of the youth. Help us to be diligent and disciplined in the areas we're responsible for. And so he creates Eve and he puts them together and he makes them the first married couple. That's really important. We got to go uh down um down to Florida this past week and it was a long time in the car. And it was like a total shock, a total surprise. God's good gifts in a fallen world are often coming with complications. Even when God gives us something that's very good, many times we don't know how to use it the way that we should. Let me give you some of what I'm thinking of. Probably something he'd prayed decades before. Help us not to be anxious and overcome with worry, but to recognize our limits humbly. I'm going to walk in the Lord's ways. I'm guessing they're going to a private school, right? Children are a gift. S. My kids were going to be able to say someday my dad wasn't a perfect dad. So if if nothing else, please keep us in prayer. The second is this. That's my children. Here's the first truth that I think we find in this text. We are attempting to control what is outside of our power, and we're recognizing that we can't do it. We've got to look honestly at the root of this kind of an anxiety. He says there's so many things in life that you cannot control. You say, well, which one is it? Anxiety is a sinful expression of a lack of trust. Bureau of Labor, how much time do you think the average person spends personally caring for their child? Marriage is a good thing. What that's saying is this. He says, accept the Lord. What did you learn when you were in this season of life? By the way, when we've we've spent our energy and we're ready to get some rest. But there were some very sweet things. You plug in these numbers in this formula and boom, you get this. They're eating all this food. For instance, he says, Happy is the man who has his quiver full of children, but it doesn't say how many that is. We are their authorities for only a limited period of time. That means your dad didn't have any right to tell you how to run your house. That's not their authority. We can fall on either side here. I mean think about this. Those children have a will. We need to see what they're being exposed to. And we can put that information before them. Because as soon as they turn over in bed and it's 3 30 or 4 o'clock in the morning, they cannot go back to sleep because immediately their brain is just going. Good to see each of you tonight and we're looking forward to uh a great study. Great. You don't have it all figured out. It's tiring to have kids. So we haven't had to do that by hand. It's like when a person is anxious, they just keep feeding themselves. Our lives matter. He does it through your instruction, and sometimes in spite of our instruction and our failures. That's kind of an interesting uh picture, is it not? They shall not be ashamed, but they shall speak with the enemies in the gate. It's his wisdom. And over many years of faithfulness, now as they're older, they're enjoying the fruit, the benefits of Why? We're going to see labor shortages, financial pressures, medical challenges, a lack of family infrastructure. And so we have to recognize that. He can use us to create life. Let's all get on our knees and remind ourselves again, our children are not ultimately our children. Now that's not to say that what you're responsible to do, you say, I just leave it in God's hands. What what do you what they're talking about is changing diapers, feeding, uh, getting them changed, getting them ready for the things they need to do, help them with their schoolwork, all kinds of different things. That's very, very important. That's really what anxiety is. That's my house. Our value or the value of the opportunities we're given are not determined by the number of children God gives us or the number of children He doesn't give us. It's to take out your enemy. And so there are a lot of important details that we're going to that we're going to kind of draw our attention to and examine this evening. The pastor is an under-shepherd. He's the one that makes it come to pass. We're not entitled to them. Because there's not as many doctors. That's not what it's saying. No, one child for one year. And that clock isn't working, so I better keep an eye on this one here. He's fifty-nine years old. But here's the truth. But that's not talking about the person who's numb to his responsibility. When we do this, we're acting as if we don't believe that God is good. You know what Job is expressing here? You've gotten a little bit along in the process. But first of all, let me give you a summary of the text here. First of all, children are a blessing, but they shouldn't be our identity Is it my house or is it his house? There's gonna be challenges. And as much as you love them and as much as you've cared for them and all those things And so when a person is anxious, it actually makes them feel good to be sorrowful. As we are doing the difficult, the frustrating, the tiring, the expensive things that we do as parents taking care of our children. Because we're sinners trying to work through things together, we're going to have struggles. But you know what? No doubt about it. I'm going to talk about the kind of teaching that we should give to our kids, and I'm going to talk about things like discipline and working through issues. That's pretty fascinating to think about. We cannot allow our children to become the little tyrants that dictate our lives. We brought nothing into this world. Now, the way that I've often heard this taught One, we got to see my grandparents. Helpful for our teens that come, helpful for parents and for team sponsors, and I pray that the fellowship would be very rich. Children are a blessing. Do they plant fields? We ask it in Christ's name. We're going to have a very top-heavy society. Be available, be willing, and leave the rest in God's hand Is our heritage going to be established and is it going to continue? Raising children is not a formula that we follow. We haven't figured it all out. Think about what Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount. That's really what he's saying. And so one of the things that we recognize is that, you know what? They've got to read the scriptures themselves. It's not their jurisdiction. It's the Lord. They cannot fall asleep because their brain's working. Nope. And instead of recognizing this is actually in God's court, not my court, and so I'm going to let him deal with what's outside of my control, we try to grab on tighter. That's everything. We've done this every single year for who knows how long, and we've actually figured out how to do it, so that's exciting. It is, alright? Doesn't seem very rewarding at times along the way, but God sees it, and God will bless it If that business is gone, guess what? Built incarnate. We'll see. And the reality of it is this our identity cannot be in our kids. And anxiety is something that kind of sucks that out of us. We shouldn't be resentful toward God if we're not able to have them, nor should we be arrogant and think we've somehow earned them because we have many of them. You see the balance. Third, children are a gift. There's absences in all these places. They're going to ask you questions. They may not be wired to do that. And I pray especially for our kids in the back that you would bless the teaching of your word, help the kids to We've printed them off. And one of the reasons that they're very anxious is because, let's be honest, it's a dangerous world out there. We need to discipline them, but it's got to be done the right way. And I don't know if we got any where everybody looks normal and happy, but we tried really hard, okay And you know the truth is that you love them and you want them to be close, but that may not be what the Lord has for you. And so we've got to learn what's reasonable, what's appropriate. Can my wife have a child? He's the one that opens the womb and closes the womb. The lives that follow us matter. And as you work with those children, they're going to exert their will all the time. Why is it? We need to think about what they're reading, what they're watching, and all those kinds of things. It's the truth. Your house is ultimately not your house. It's saying your vigilance is not the ultimate determiner of your preservation as a family. When a person starts a business, they're not just feeding their own family. He can use us to cultivate lives that will bless generations. I pray that you'd help us to have a robust and biblical view of our families. They haven't uh they haven't given us their numbers, uh, but we're looking forward to a really great time. In a fallen world where I'm a sinner and my wife's a sinner, no matter how hard we try, we're going to have conflicts. They are ultimately his. You understand what I'm saying? That's really what he's talking about. And they said, we saw we were done having children a long time ago, and all of a sudden, boom, they found that that Let's repent if our self-reliance, if we are self-reliant and we're not letting the scriptures guide how we raise our children. He says, everything that I get in this world, I don't deserve it. I was doing a little bit of research here and I looked at, I think I told my wife some of these. So heart to herald angels sing. There are gonna be expectations on either side. It should sober us, but it doesn't necessarily have to terrify us. We need to protect our children. And it's important that we don't get pushed by the culture in the sense that So there's a great need for balance. We are preparing them to go out. He does it through your vigilance. And then we pray especially for the Lit Conference on Saturday. I was a poor athlete, but my kid's not going to be a poor athlete. Job 1. It's certain we can carry nothing out. The answer is he uses it to bless you when you're older. There's not as many nurses. We can instruct it. But sometimes a person will take that There are times as parents that sometimes we need to go to other Christians who have kind of been through this already and say, hey, you know what? Per day. Except the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh, but in vain. Because a lot of parents live vicariously through their kids. We all have our limits. Now, this little section here is one that I think sometimes we probably don't think much about as someone living in the time that it was written. No, seventeen thousand dollars in food when they when they turn fifteen, right? Like, oh I'm gonna I'm gonna do this and then I'm gonna get this back. We ask all this in Christ's name. Okay, well if you could, let's all turn together to uh a familiar text of scripture, and that is Psalm 127. His wife is forty-eight. Another one. Let me read the verse and I'll tell you what it says Okay? But if you're a warrior, what's the purpose of an arrow? One day He's going to reward that faithfulness. Some of you, they're really young, and uh there's a long way to go. And what's exciting is this year we actually figured out how to print the booklets Um if you uh can come and help or you just want to sit in some of the sessions You're not even going to know how to answer those questions. We need the scriptures, we need godly, wiser people that have gone before us who've been in the word who can help us in these areas. I came into this world with nothing. But in order for a child to be born in this world But our children have to personally trust Christ. He says, accept the Lord, build the house. Knowing what I know now, I think I would have done it this way. Why do we eat bread? Rest is what we do when our mind is calm. And you're going to give the years of your life to the raising of your kids, okay? My mom wasn't a perfect mom. We have to be very careful. Amen. I gotta be to this thing here and this thing here and this thing here and this thing here. S. And so very important topic uh for us to get into And so the authority is the word. If you submit to their authority, you're submitting to an authority that they don't have. When I give instructions to my kids, when I communicate to my kids the things that I teach them. Those words are not meant to say, hey, you know what? It's how we feel when everything starts feeling out of control. Why is that? So these are Joel and Nathaniel, all the kids' great grandparents Lots of other countries are getting this way. You read about the the lineage of Christ and all the people in that genealogy. As the arrows are in the hands of a mighty man, so are children of the youth. It's actually supposed to be practiced in love for their soul. Your house is ultimately his house. By the way, that selfishness could be like That's what he's saying. No. Can you can you count the numbers on your uh hairs on your head? But I think what's really at the heart of this statement here is he's saying, look, you raise your kids So just a plug-in for that. Department of Labor and the Brookings Institute who came up with those numbers. All those people have work. Father, help us to be willing to make the sacrifices that are necessary. That may not be the way they're gifted. Your mother doesn't have any right 21. What I mean by that is we're going to have lots and lots of people. He says Actually you're going to be a little bit more. Every single person that they're caring for, that is a life that is being touched for a season and a very Our families are a gift from God We need to love them and be willing to sacrifice for them. You know one of the I'm doing pre-marriage counseling with a couple right now. You know what? This is all about recognizing that it doesn't all depend on us. We are not sovereign. You have to learn to release them in areas. We can model it. We say, here's what society is doing. And so you know what you have to do? Now when we read these verses, one of the things that I think is a big part of what's being stated It's got to become their personal walk with Christ. You don't have his power. He notices these things. Because God takes care of them It's really that simple. And if they're a godly person, they're a humble person, they're He says, Naked came I out of my mother's womb, naked shall I return. And so we need to be humble, content, and faithful. And I think we have about 15 or 16 We're not robots. God just takes care of them. Look at what it says in verse 3. And that's really true. Your kids are gonna have them about you too. So he's talking about a person who can't sleep because they get up early, they can't s they can't fall asleep at night, they're sorrowful. Having food and raiment, let us therewith be content. So not that we're raising our children to take out our enemies. Let's be responsible in our duties and let's trust God with what we can't control. We'll sing all three verses. There's a desperate need for us to have a balanced biblical view of this issue of children. We're not the ultimate authority. I mean we we we believe that we know what is best and what is right for them. Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them Those things are not stated. So let's begin by looking at a couple of introductory thoughts. That's not the purpose of discipline. We need to learn to trust God with our limitations. It's an evidence that we're living in light of the lie that we can control what is outside of our power. God doesn't do for you what you're supposed to do, that He tells you to do, okay? One child for one year. Because we're hungry. In other words, for all this time God said no. But I can tell you this: they were very faithful. And there's not as many people that are qualified and competent to do the things that they're doing. Amen. Except the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh but in vain. When we draw a hard line with our kids, And when it comes to our families. I'm going to leave this world with nothing. This is something that's in God's hands. So with it in mind, let's dig into several very important principles. We aren't responsible to be God. We're acting as if He doesn't really care. He said, look at look at the lilies out in the field. And so the challenge is: let's be faithful and let's be willing. You know the story of Hannah. Anyone want to guess? It's the parents many times. In other words, my authority is under the authority of Christ. It's the parent who feels the weight of their duty. We need to recognize that children are a gift. Let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer and then uh we will sing a Christmas carol and I will talk a little bit about Now, what do you think the psalmist is describing here? Let's repent if we've been self-centered in any of our ways. If you're a parent who would like to come to the one for But they've got to take it themselves. Think about this to contribute to the good of our neighbors. There are times that we have expectations for what our kids are gonna become. That may not be their interest level. It could be I got control everything. Every single one of us has our limits. He's going to reward those things. We've got to learn how to draw the line certain places. By the way, at the judgment seat of Christ, He's going to reward that faithfulness. We're preparing them to submit to another. They're a gift In fact, a great example of this is what goes on in a church. God is the one who gives children. We don't have the ability necessarily to say, okay, this is how many children I'm gonna have or Let me react against this. That's very, very important. So Psalm 127 is where we'll be tonight. You don't have his wisdom. Is it going to be preserved? They're not gonna be met. Doesn't work that way. You don't need to work at building. Listen to what it says in verse number two. Please get man with man to dwell. Seventeen thousand dollars. That's not the mindset that we're talking about here. That's a really neat thing. I know it's tiring. Psalm 127, verse number one says this. At the same time, we've got to be willing to make sacrifices for There's a need for balance. Help us to learn to trust you. They labor in vain that build it. Hey, there really comes a point where you have to recognize something. You're a flawed parent. But God was gracious. We pray that the folks that have signed up will be able to make it. It is about angels, but Okay, it's two point four hours per day. We can be too harsh, we can be too lenient. Believe them in God I'm going to push them and I'm going to make them But here is the truth. In another 20 years, because of the declines of birth rates, God can use those children. But there are natural benefits to that. We can't trust Christ for them. But here's the point. He can literally use us to build his kingdoms. In other words, the authority is flowing up to God. One of the things I have to emphasize with them is that when you get married So let's bow for prayer and we'll get started tonight The Bible never tells us In fact, they might be totally unreasonable expectations That's not the point. But we shouldn't become slaves to their desires Chad? They're not ultimately ours That's very important. You ever been in that situation? And sometimes our kids are going to look at us say, Dad, I want to do that. You know, rest is something we desperately need in the Christian life. Well, some of us maybe can. If just one of those people wasn't there, the whole thing collapsed. That's what anxiety does. I think about how many scriptures emphasize And it's possible we drift into a second That really is a lot of what is at the heart of this particular psalm. I'm a flawed parent. He says, it's vain for you to rise up early. And then he decided, now's the time. That's really what his emphasis is. That's the kind of stuff you're gonna get from a godly person We're not entitled to them. We're responsible to teach our children. Our identity has to be rooted in Christ. Very, very important. That's not what it's saying. If He commands you to do something, you need to do it. You're giving them something that isn't rightfully theirs. The point is this. Help me as I communicate this text. And you know what? I don't know The last thing we are going to go through, and we're going to finish this whole section. I've been in that situation We don't all get it right. That's the challenge tonight. Also wanted to mention Our family can't do everything Help us to love our kids. I'm We're always flawed in the way that we function as parents. The same thing is true in our households. And you say, sorry, we don't have the time. Let's bow for prayer. And