And then we will open up our service with some songs. Let's pray. Father, we're so grateful for the opportunity to be gathered as a body tonight. And as we open up the scriptures, I pray that you'll speak to our hearts. And I thank you for Chris and Paige, and I thank you for their ministry here at Anchor, and as Chris will be Um heading to his classes at the end of the week, I pray that your hand of blessing will be upon him. And as we think about um the the nature of Christian ministry and the role that we as a church play in that. I pray that we would be challenged this evening. And I pray that as Chris will be moving to a new season of ministry, I pray that the things that we Look at from the scriptures would challenge him and be something that he will take with him as he goes to this next season And uh we pray that we would just be an encouragement to Paige and the family while he is away. And then when he moves to his first duty station, I pray that uh we'd be able to send them out with a great encouragement. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Good evening, Anchor Baptist Church. And we're going to start our song service off tonight on page 592, or follow along with the bouncing ball. Page 592, but you can't remain seated for this one. Soldiers of Christ arise! All three verses. Sing it out for me. Soldiers of Christ arise and put your armor Crossbang , right , try to come for darkness and window. Okay, turn back just a few pages to five hundred and eighty-one. So keep your finger in those upper five hundreds. So five hundred and eighty-one, be an example. No, no, no more and you need to use it. Let us then be watching the idea, but we do entertain On Jesus their eyes and with that so that they might win the prize. El PEC Take this glory of my orders divine Let us stand within my gas and make a difference in there. Go ahead and have a seat. back three or four pages to 577. 577? All three be strong in the Lord. Please are in the Lord and be of your mighty dispender is always by the And I wish that we need all the enemies, they 're when we call his name. And be of good for here is. And rejoice for the So we are all wide and make your life and it 's Cast the beginning by all boy everything. I be after he is where I be strong. Every joy of the Lord We run we come in the boy I be out of here. And rejoice for the Okay, well on Sunday nights we like to take Okay, let me confer with my list on one sixty-four in the blue book. Is it a go? One one sixty four Alrighty. Listen, she oh now I don't know if I know it. Play play it through once for me. Okay, I think I know that. Here we go. Here is love at the ocean, loving life ¿Por qué no me digo que no me gusta? I like that. Now we go to the red book. Page two eighty-eight. Page 280. Oh, 288. Okay, I'll get there. Page by page. Hallelujah, we shall rise. Okay First verse In the resurrection glory, we shall rise, we shall rise. I need some work on that one, but that was good. Page sixty-two in the blue book. Alright. Yeah, I'm a I'm afraid it's stumped the song leader and not the pianist tonight. So the steps of the good man, though, I know this one No cannabis open. No, no, que hay que bajar a la balada, y ellos van a dar a la lana. Amen. Now page two hundred and eighty-four. Two hundred and eighty-four. Some gold in Daybreak. Oh God , the real thing , all you Glory of them , glory of God , everyone , we all Oh my being very more than our. . Amen. Please be seated. I'd like to invite you to turn with me in your Bibles this evening to Acts chapter 20. Acts chapter 20, and we're going to be looking at a passage of Scripture that I think is one of the most precious, sweetest passages. in all of the Bible. And that is Paul's final exhortation to the elders, or you could say the pastors that he had personally trained. Many of these people are people he had personally led to Christ. He had had a very long relationship with the church at Ephesus, and now Paul is getting ready to go to Jerusalem. He's going to be bound in Jerusalem, and it's really going to be the beginning of uh the end of his public ministry, you might say. And so this is the final time that the Apostle Paul gets to pour out his heart to the church at Ephesus. Not the church, but actually the pastors. of the church at Ephesus. And so I'd like to read this portion of Scripture as we reflect on some very, very important principles related to a biblical pattern of Christian ministry. Here's what the text says. And we sailed thence and came the next day over to Kios. The next day we arrived to Samas and tarried in Tergilia. And the next day we came to Miletus. Now I probably didn't say this correctly, but I'm going with it. For Paul had determined to sail by Ephesus because he would not spend the time in Asia. For he hasted, if it were possible for him, to be at Jerusalem the day of Pentecost. From Miletus he sent to Ephesus and called the elders of the church, or the elders of the church. And when they were come to him, he said unto them, Ye know from the first day that I came into Asia, after what manner I have been with you at all seasons. serving the Lord with all humility of mind, and with many tears and temptations, which befell me by the lying in weight of the Jews. How I kept back nothing that was profitable unto you, but have showed you and have taught you publicly and from house to house, testifying both to the Jews and also to the Greeks, repentance toward God. and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. And now, behold, I go bound in the Spirit unto Jerusalem, not knowing the things that shall befall me there, save That the Holy Ghost witnesseth in every city, saying that bonds and afflictions abide me. But none of these things move me, neither count I my life dear unto myself. So that I might finish my course with joy, and the ministry which I have received of the Lord Jesus to testify the gospel of the grace of God And now, behold, I know that ye all among whom I have gone, preaching the kingdom of God, shall see my face no more. Wherefore, I take you to record this day That I am pure from the blood of all men, for I have not shunned to declare unto you all the counsel of God Take heed therefore unto yourselves, and to all the flock over which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers. To feed the church of God, which he hath purchased with his own blood. For I know this. But after my departing shall grievous wolves enter in among you, not sparing the flock. Also, of your own selves shall men arise. speaking perverse things to draw away disciples after them. Therefore, watch and remember that that by the space of three years I cease not to warn everyone night and day with tears And now, brethren, I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and give you an inheritance among all them which are sanctified. I have not coveted, I have coveted no man's silver or gold or apparel. Yea, ye yourselves know that these hands have ministered unto my necessities and to them which were with me. I have showed you all things, how that so laboring ye ought to support the weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, It is more blessed to give than to receive. And when he had thus spoken, he kneeled down, prayed with them all, and they all wept sore, and fell on Paul's neck and kissed him. sorrowing most of all for the words which he spake, that they should see his face no more. And they accompanied him unto the ship Now I know that's a pretty large portion of Scripture, and I hope you did not fall asleep while I was reading that, because the passage of scripture that we looked at this evening is really one of the most gripping passages that I know of. There are a lot of things that are rolling around in my head as I think about the passage of Scripture that's before us. And some of the things that I think about are Um some of my own personal experiences in ministry. I think about what it was like when uh when I came here in 2008, and some of you that are here uh this evening Um you remember what it was like when I came as a single young man. Uh my wife and I got married and now we have all these children here. And I remember what it was like to work as a we I don't even know what we called it. A preacher boy, I think. I was working with Frank. and uh get on the roof and we'd talk about all kinds of things. We went to the nursing home together on Monday nights. We would uh we we did uh door-to-door evangelism and visit Got to be on the preaching schedule, got got to preach some real doozy of the sermons every now and again, and learned a lot of things. And then I remember what it was like when it was time for us to go on deputation. And I remember what uh all these different events were that were like that. And remember what it was like to go over to Ghana and begin serving as a missionary. And I remember what it was like when the Lord called us back here to anchor. The truth is that in all of those situations, what I have seen is that the way that Paul is able to speak in these verses Is what I wished or I can tell you was sweet to appreciate. What Paul is telling us in these verses, how he communicated to these people. is how every single person who has the privilege of going into ministry, that is how we should be able to communicate to others. The kind of experience that those that were part of the church at Ephesus, those men who were the leadership of the church, these are people that Paul led to Christ. And I don't know if you remember, but last year, during our missions month, we kind of followed Paul's history with it with the the the city of Ephesus and the way that Paul ended up at Ephesus and how he had this long relationship with the church at Ephesus. How the Apostle John was a pastor at Ephesus. This is a blessed and privileged church. And so what we're reading about in these verses, that is how Christian ministry is supposed to look. When somebody finishes their course, they finish it with a heart that says, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith, I have poured into the lives of people, and now someone else is going to take my place. Someone else is going to do some what I have done in my steady. I hope they go beyond what I did. I hope that they build on the shoulders that have been there and now where I'm going, I'm going to invest in them. This is the way that the church is supposed to function. I thought about this as well. When I came here, I was 35. Well I say came, I came back from God, I was 35 years old. The pastor that was here before, Master Cowerman, he was about 70 years old. Okay? If I'm a pastor, a senior pastor till 70 years of age. And the person that replaces me is 35 like I was. Guess what? They're learning how to read right now. It's true. They're learning how to read. If they're a little bit younger than that, they're they're they're getting potty trained right now. If they're a little bit older than that, they're like they're like elementary boys, maybe junior high boys There's a reason I say that. The fact is that the future of churches in America right now is five to ten year olds. Five to ten year olds. Kids that are 10, 11, 12 years old. Those are the people, if the Lord tarries, that are going to be in the positions of pastors today. And the fact is if we are raising our children wisely and we are investing in that generation, when those kids that are five, ten 12 years old right now, when they rise to the level of 30-year-olds, 35-year-olds, 40-year-olds, they're gonna step into pulpits and they're gonna preach the word of God, and they're gonna impact their generation. They're going to reach the people around them far better than we did. But if we don't invest in that generation, guess what? Our churches are going to be empty in 30 and 40 years. We're going to be like the United Kingdom where basically church buildings are shutting down, they're being turned into pubs. and nightclubs and libraries and places where people gather and they just you know they play bingo on Friday night. That's what church buildings are gonna be in thirty and forty years if we do not reach the generation of little kids that are growing up. up. And what I can tell you is this, people that are doing it right, they're going to see God do amazing things. People that don't. They're gonna be looking around going, what happens? It's really gonna be one or the other. I can't even predict it to be very frank with you. But as I look at the landscape that's out there, I'm actually fairly encouraged by the fact that people are having children. That they're training their children, they're actually teaching them the Word of God, they're investing in them, and those things are really at the heart of what we're going to talk about tonight, and that is passing on the baton from one generation to another. So let me summarize the passage like this. The passage in front of us provides this vivid picture of the kinds of conversations people have with one another when they have sacrificially invested in each other's spiritual development. And this is the kind of value That sustains healthy, spirit-filled ministry. That's what this passage is all about. God wants us to take these verses, and He wants these verses to motivate us. To motivate us to be investors, to motivate us to be giving to others. And so that is where we're going to start this evening. I want to remind you of this simple thought. Every type of ministry is temporary. Every type. I think about an evangelist. Evangelists come in here, they preach about three to four, five messages, they what do they say? They blow in, they blow up, and they blow out. And then Pastor gets to pick up all the pieces, right? That's what evangelists do. We think about people that preach at camps and they do retreats. They minister for a couple of days. The fact is that that kind of a ministry, it has its value, but it's very short. That's really not what lives are built on. Lives are built on the kind of ministry where somebody has planted for many, many years. Really they see generational change. Young people get older, they get married, they have children, their children uh get to the point where they're starting to get married. That's where real ministry begins. I think about missionaries. Their focus is developing a core of faithful believers who are well-grounded and then they pass on the baton to that generation of of indigenous leaders and then they take the word and they they take it from there. But whether you're an evangelist, whether you're a missionary, whether you're a pastor, it really doesn't matter. There is a a time frame on what you're doing. And one of the things that's so needed because of that is there needs to be mentoring. People who are learning People who are teaching, people who are serving, there is growing together, and there is ascending out. There is a passing of the baton from one group to the next group, one generation to the next generation. We even experience this in our families. Whether we plan well or not, there's going to be a day that our children reach a certain age and they're going to go. They may go because uh they're tired of us and we have this contention with one another and they want to fly and we have a a lot of a lot of challenge there, or we may get into the place where we're like, you need to go All right, it's time to take some wings and fly. Or the fact is that it actually may be a gray transition. You see that your kids are maturing and you're excited and you send them out and they go to college, they get married, and they live a very productive, vibrant life. But here's the fact. No matter how that works out, your role as a parent has a temporary nature to it. And so there's a lot for us to notice in these verses. With that being true, we need to be intentional about how we relate to each other. We need to continually give of ourselves. We need to hold our expectations a little loosely as to what God might do in our children's lives. And submit to his will ultimately. We need to think beyond today and invest in those who will replace us. So let's look at this passage together tonight. The first thing I want you to notice in the passage is that heartfelt ministry binds hearts If you are a person that has invested in the development of another person, the most natural byproduct of that relationship is that your hearts are knit together. If your hearts are not knit together, there's a problem. There's a problem with you as a minister, there's a problem with the people who are being ministered to. There is a problem. If I'm investing in people and they recognize that investment, then there's something that's going to bond us together. And Paul expresses that in these verses. He says, you know from From the first day that I came into Asia, after what manner I have been with you in all seasons, serving the Lord with all humility of mind. Now I want you to notice three very specific details about the nature of what Paul is saying here. The first is this these people were together in all kinds of He says, you know what manner I have been with you in all seasons. Ministry is not just leading people to Christ and feeling the joy of salvations. Ministry is not just taking a young Christian and discipling them. Ministry is visiting people who are sick. Ministering sometimes is confronting people who are going off into sin and they are they are rejecting biblical authority. Ministry sometimes is coming alongside a person who is grieving And is hurting and is troubled and is weary, and they don't feel like they can continue on. Ministry involves all kinds of different facets. It's rejoicing with people as they rejoice. It's grieving with people as they grieve. It's sometimes suffering, it's sometimes being transparent, it's sometimes being kind of uh confrontational, sometimes It's being very gentle. And so what Paul is saying is, I ministered to you at Ephesus in all these kinds of seasons. Second thing he says is this we suffered together, serving the Lord with all humility of mind, with many tears and temptations. Now, nobody in this room likes to suffer. I will say I do not like to suffer. I don't even like to go to the doctor and they're like, we're gonna have to draw blood at your doctor's appointment because we gotta, you know, check your your your blood sugar and your cholesterol and all that kind of stuff and I'm just Like, oh, don't do that to me. I don't want to see it. I can't look at it. I could not have been a doctor, okay? I might have enjoyed studying medicine, but not doing the doctor thing, okay? I couldn't have stuck people and cut into people and all those kinds of things. Nobody likes to suffer. But I have learned this. Suffering is one of the greatest teachers. And suffering is one of the most important things we have to experience in life. In fact, if you if you've read Pilgrim's Progress, he talks about the valley of suffering and affliction, and he talks about the fact that In that valley, that's where things grow. It's an amazing analogy that he uses. And so Paul says, we suffered together. People who have not suffered on some level have not grown on some level. And don't worry, you don't have to ask God to give it to you. It will happen. Okay? Life is that way. It's going to happen. The third thing that he mentions is that he sacrificially poured his life into these men. He says, and this is a fascinating statement: he says, I kept back nothing that was profitable for you. But have showed you. Isn't that an amazing statement? It wasn't like Paul's like, I just gave you the things you wanted to hear. Or I told you all the things I wanted to tell you that you didn't want to hear. He says, I did not hold back anything from you that you needed. That's a fascinating statement. It means that that Paul thought about the spiritual needs of the people that he was working with. And as he thought about the spiritual needs of those people, he addressed them. He didn't hold back. He didn't back off. He was willing to do it. And he didn't just say, I told you. He says, I showed. Did you catch that? I showed you. So it's not just what we tell people that sticks. Actually, it's what we show them that sticks. If I tell people you need to do it this way, and then I go and do it the exact opposite way, guess what they do? They go, whatever. They may not tell me that, but that's what they're thinking. Whatever. But when I tell them and I show it to them, they go, oh, I can do that. Oh, that's how I can do that. They have an example. And the fact is that Paul says, I lived with you in ministry in every single area. There was nothing you needed that I held back. And the fact is, I told you and I showed you what was right. You say, well, what do you take away from that? Well, first of all, I take away this. May we be like this. Okay, Paul was an imperfect man, but he was a great example. And so what we see in these verses is that the gospel binds our hearts like nothing else. I remember sitting across from Mr. Binding, I've mentioned his name many times. And I remember we'd sit together in the resource center and I had a fonti translation and I'm like trying to learn how to say these words And I had my Bible open with me and I'm I'm reading it and then I'm I'm like, can you tell me what this word here means in Fonti? And can you explain Explain this to me, and he'd give me these really e interesting fonty proverbs, and he would he would give me these fascinating illustrations, and I just I loved that. I remember looking across at him, I'm like, here's a man who's the age of my father. His dad had five wives. He grew up in a village. When I say village, I don't mean like a small town. I mean no electricity, no running water. It was a cocoa farm. And in his life experience and my life experience, they couldn't have been more different. And on paper, there's no reason that he and I should have had a sweet relationship. None. It wouldn't make sense We didn't root for the same football teams. He didn't even like football. I mean American football. Not not the international stuff. He didn't like American football. He didn't even care about it. There are so many things if I talked about he he had like no ability to understand what I was talking about because there was no point of reference. But there was a sweetness there. Why? Well because the gospel binds people. The gospel can unite people in a way that nothing else can. But it's not just the gospel that unites people. It's shared experience. It's laboring together. It's suffering together. It's rejoicing together. It's praying together. These are all a part of the thing that God uses to bind our relationships with one another. And I'm going to just make a simple observation here. If you don't labor with other Christians, you won't love them. If you don't suffer with them, you won't love them. If you don't rejoice with them, if you don't pray with them. If you do not allow your life and their lives to become interconnected, you just will not love them the way that you will if you do that. And so Paul is a great example of someone who ministered in such a way. Second thing I want you to notice Is the commendable example of faithfulness. I'm going to look at this with a little bit more of an expansion, and I want us to think about this in terms of how we relate to one another. And to say, Lord, help us to have this kind of a pattern in our lives. The first thing that I notice in verses 15 to 17 Is that Paul made a conscious effort to stay connected with those whom he loved? Maybe we could put it another way. We do not make a conscious effort to connect with people we don't love. You can look at it in two ways. Now notice what it says in verse 15. We sailed and came the next day over to Kios, and the next day we arrived at Samas. and tarried at Trigillium, and the next day we came to Miletus. For Paul had determined to sail by Ephesus because he would spend time in Asia, for he hasted. Now, don't miss this. Paul had a mission to go to Jerusalem. And Paul wanted to be there in a very time-sensitive manner. He wanted to be there by Pentecost. And by the way, In the ancient world, traveling wasn't as uh smooth and easy as it is for us today. You know, we get frustrated because our our our plane was delayed by an hour and we sat there on the tarmac and it was It was uncomfortable and it was kind of muggy and and we got frustrated because we got to our destination late. Well we're driving down I-95 or up 95 and uh and we're delayed by two hours because the traffic's horrible. Nobody's ever had that experience, I'm sure. That's not the kind of delay that Paul could have experienced. A massive storm. drives the ship off of track and and and and there's damage to the boat and they have to pull into port and they gotta repair the boat and people get sick and all kinds of different things that happen. Somebody gets robbed, they lose the money that they needed. These are the kinds of problems that Paul could have experienced. But on his way to Jerusalem, he said, I want to stop by Ephesus because this might be the last time I see these people. That's what he's saying. He could have just blown by and written them a letter from Jerusalem. Hey, he was good at writing prison epistles, was he not? He could have written, oh, to the church at Ephesus. A prison epistle. We've I've written a couple of them, I'll write you another one. No, he wanted to see them. He wanted to be with them. He took the effort. In fact, what's what's funny about it is that as far as I know, the the port at Ephesus actually began to silt in. And so boats could not go into the port as they did in the past. And so they actually had to dock outside the harbor. And then they had to take boats back and forth from the ship that was docked outside. He made effort to meet with these people. Yet in our modern world, we don't have time to write people letters. We don't have time to send emails. We don't have time to make phone calls. We don't have time for these things. That was not the way that Paul operated. When you love a person, you make an effort to be connected with them. The second thing I notice is this. He recounted to them the nature of their relationship, which involved suffering and enduring. Verses 18 and 19, he says, I've been with you in all seasons, serving the Lord with humility of mind, many tears and temptations. Paul didn't just talk about the rosy positive stuff. He talked about the hard stuff. He talked about life as it really is. He was going to encourage these men in ministry. And so what does he do? He talks very frankly with them about the nature of ministry. And this is a great example of what faithful people do. Third, he reminded them what it looks like to be faithful. Verse 20 I kept back nothing that was profitable. I showed you and taught you publicly from house to house. There was a practice that is uh it's not really common today as it was in past generations, but anybody ever heard of Richard Baxter? Is this the name that you're familiar with? with Richard Baxter. He he wrote a lot of uh Puritan works and one of them was called the Reformed Pastor. And in this book he talked about how he personally cared for the people that were part of his jurisdiction. Now I'm not suggesting that we need to do things the way that Richard Baxter did them. Or that I'd even say I agree with Richard Baxford and everything he did. But this is the part that's fascinating to me. He made an effort To sit in the households of every person that lived in his pastoral jurisdiction. And he would literally take a book of catechisms And he would teach them doctrine, and he would actually have conversations with them, not just in a pulpit, but one-on-one. That's what he did. In fact, this is a very common practice in those days. That is the nature of what the Apostle Paul was doing. He was taking like truth trackers and he was doing it in every single person's house. He'd ask them questions, he'd teach them the word of God, he'd answer their questions, and their relationship was growing on a deeper level. He was investing in them, and they were getting to the point where they were grasping what he was teaching to the point where they could actually teach it themselves. This is what faithful ministry looks like. And Paul is saying, that's what I did with you, and that's what you need to do with others. Fourthly, he did not allow the unknowns of the future to shake him. Now In verses 22 to 24, he says, I go bound in the spirit to Jerusalem, not knowing the things that shall befall me. But none of these things move me, neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy. and the ministry which I have received of the Lord to testify the gospel of the grace of God. You know what Paul is saying? He's basically saying, I know that there's a lot of unknown. Actually, what I do know is not very good. Okay? I know that I'm going to be bound in Jerusalem. God's revealed that to me. I know that this is probably the last time I'm going to see you face to face, but that's okay. That's okay because God has a course that He's established for me to run. And my job isn't to worry how long it is or what happens between here and here in the course. My job is just to run the race day by day till God says, you know, your race is done. I'm done with you in this season, it's time to move on. And so Paul is saying, this is the way you've got to do ministry You've got to stay focused. You can't get distracted. You can't allow the things that are going on around you to weary you and discourage you and keep you from just faithfully plotting day in and day out. This is the kind of ministry he had. Then in verse 34, he says, I want to finish my course with joy. And then in verse 26, he says, I take your record this day. I'm pure from the blood of all men. You say, well, what's the point, Pastor Joel? Here's the point. That is how we need to do ministry. That's how we need to do ministry in our families. That's how we need to do ministry in our Sunday school classes. That's how we need to do ministry when it comes to the local church. We need this kind of character and this kind of commitment and this kind of a focus. And so now I'd like to shift it to the final thing that Paul says. And I say the final. He says several things here. But he he goes from, here's what I have done, to I'm giving you the baton and I'm saying run. Here's what he tells them when he hands them baton. This is how he exhorts them to be to be focused in their ministry. Verses 28 and following. The first thing he says is this: take heed unto yourself. Another way to put that is this guard your heart. You cannot be an effective minister if you are not a godly person. You just can't. You're not going to be an effective parent. A pastor's not going to be an effective pastor. A missionary's not going to be an effective missionary. You're not going to be an Effective gospel witness If you are a hypocrite. And guess what? The people that live the closest to you, they find out first. It's that simple. So the first thing that Paul does is as he hands them the batonas, he says, you better guard your heart, guys. That's what he says. Second thing. Verse 28, he says, To all the flock which is over which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers, he says, tenderly care for the people God has put under your watch. Notice the words, the flock which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseer. Whatever sphere of influence God has given you. is not an influence that you took. It's an influence he gave. Okay? The children that you have, he gave them to you. The church that someone is pastoring, he gave it to. And he says it's to all the flock. That's the people that you get along real well with. And the people that you don't get along real well with. The people that are fervent in in in spirit and those who, frankly, they stumble all the time. We're to minister tenderly to all the people God has put under our watch. The third thing he says. Feed the church of God. I'll put it like this: never waste the time of the people that are standing before you when you open the Word of God. There is nothing more frustrating than listening to someone get up. With a Bible, set it down, read the text, and the rest of the things that they say has nothing to do with what they just read. It's very frustrating. As a pastor, I'm like Why am I here? What am I doing? Why are you doing this? Or it's just story after story after story. All these ideas that they don't have anything to do with this And so what does he say? He says, feed the church of God. They're his church. Not yours. They're his. Feed them. In other words, give them something of substance. Don't let them leave starving. Let them leave being filled and satisfied. And their their heart is saturated with scripture because what you gave them is what God put in his word. And so at that moment, at that time, you didn't waste their time. You gave them truth. That's what he's saying Every time you get up, don't waste it. Next, remember that they belong to Him. Verse 28 it says, which he hath purchased with his own blood. One of the things that we have to remember is that the church of God is like a generation-to-generation thing. Okay? So one day I'm going to be gone. One day you're going to be gone. One day whoever replaces me and replaces you is going to be gone. Of course, we don't know in the raptures and all that. But the simple fact is this you know, this church Essentially is 50 years old. There have been multiple pastors over the last 50 years. Some of these people are not even alive anymore. Many of the people that were members of this church over many years, they they are no longer with us. They're with the Lord. And the fact is we are here in their place, and there'll be people who will be here in our place someday. And so he says, this church Is God's church. The next thing he says is very important. He says, do not allow compromised ministers to undermine God's work or to move you from a faithful course. This is a fascinating statement. He says, I knew this. After my departing Shall grievous wolves enter in among you, not sparing the flock. And the next statement is critical. He says, also of your own selves Shall men arise speaking perverse things, to draw away disciples after them. Therefore watch and remember that by the space of three years I have ceased not to warn everyone, night and day with tears. It's sad to say this, but it is true. One of the reasons people compromise is because they themselves are not principled people. Another reason that some people compromise is because they feel the pressure of within their own church. People say, do this, do this, do this. But I'll tell you another reason that people compromise. Their ministry friends will push them too. It's true. If you look at the way churches function today 2023. And you go back to the nineteen eighties, guess what? In the nineteen eighties, most churches, you walked in, you would have heard the same kind of preaching. Teaching. You would have sang the same kind of songs. You would have seen order in the church. And it would have been in just not not every single church, okay? But the vast majority of churches would have been like that. Churches that even had some significant theological differences. They preached the same gospel, but they had differences in other areas. Yet, as we come back to the time in which we live, it just isn't like that anymore. It's not like that at all. And you say, well, what changed? Well, what changes is that, well, one, we have a dearth of ministers. One, we also have a lot of pressure. And so, when I think about what Paul is saying, he's saying this: Do not allow the people that you have ministered with who are not willing to stand on the truth, don't let them push you. I'll say this to you, Chris. You're going into a context in the military where you're gonna be pushed And I would challenge you, do not allow your career to cause you to compromise. I say it with all my heart. The fact is that we have to make sure that we stay true to the Word of God. The next thing he says, verse 32, trust in the sufficiency of the scriptures. He says, Now brethren, I commend you to God and to the Word. Of his grace, which is able to build you up , give you an inheritance among all them that are sanctified. Basically, what Paul is saying is this. You want to know how people grow? It's through the Word. You know how people mature through the Word. You know how people get saved? It's through the Word. Trust and the sufficiency of Scripture. It's not fancy illustrations. It's not bending so that you do things that people enjoy. You attract a crowd, you've got to keep them doing whatever you're doing. You just preach the word and guess that people are genuinely saved. And when people are genuinely saved, guess what? Their lives are changed. And when people's lives are changed, you preach the word, guess what? They start to grow. Now, they're not perfect. Alright? Nobody's perfect. But real change comes through the real preaching of the word. And so the trusting and sufficiency of Scripture is so critically important. Number 33, verse 33, not number 33. I have coveted no man's silver. You probably feel like this. I have coveted no man's silver, no man's gold. This is an important point that Paul makes. Don't make decisions out of pride, greed, or selfish ambition. There are many people that they start well when it comes to the handling of the scripture, but at some point something turns their head. And you know what it is? It's the praise of men. It's a growing account. It's being elevated in the eyes of other people. And Paul says, I never did that. I didn't covet what other people had. I didn't I didn't want their money. I didn't want their clothes. I didn't want I didn't want uh their their praise. I simply wanted to do right. That's what he said The last thing I'm going to leave you with is this. Endeavor to be a servant, not a leader. Leadership isn't something we should ever grab. Leadership is something God gives us when He chooses to. But service is something we always do. I love what Paul says in verse 35. He says, I've showed you all things, how that so laboring you ought to support the weak. Remember the words of the Lord, it is more blessed to give than to receive. You know what Paul is saying? Ministry is being servant. Ministry is not being a leader. It's being a servant. Now listen, when you humble yourself and you're an example, people want to follow that because they say, I don't see that around. I don't see people with that kind of character. I don't see people teaching in this kind of way. I'm not hearing the truth in these other places. People will follow those who stay true. That's true. But they follow people who stay true who are not seeking to be leaders. They're simply doing the right thing. And so that is the way that Paul closes out the section. And so I want to close by simply putting it this way. We need to take to heart every single one of these verses. Every single person in this room Needs to take to heart what's here. Because we're a church that sends people out. We're a church that's filled with young people. And we really are filled with young people. I can't tell you how many people come to our church and they say, man, I go to churches. I see everybody 65, 70, and older. I don't see any kids. They don't even need a nursery. They don't even need junior church. They don't even need a Sunday school curriculum because they don't have kids. Our church isn't like that. Our church is filled with young people But those young people have to be taught, and they have to be trained, and there has to be a pattern established for them. And that of these young people, they're going to be future leaders in the church. Some of them will be deacons, some of them will be pastors, some of them will be missionaries, some of them will be pastors-wives, deacons-wives, faithful church members, if we train them well. And so we've got to take these verses to heart. So, first of all, to the church, this is what ministry is all about. It's about pouring our lives into one another and seeing God shape us into the image of Christ. And then releasing one another into whatever area God places them. Tonight, Chris is last night with us uh uh uh in this capacity. This week he's going to be going up to Rhode Island and starting classes. In many ways what we're doing is we are passing a baton to him and saying, take this and run well. That's what we're saying. And we're going to pray for you. We're going to stay connected with you. We're going to rejoice with you when you experience blessings. We're going to weep with you when you experience difficulties. But we've poured our lives into you And you've had an opportunity to grow here, and now we're sending you out to serve the Lord faithfully where he's placed you. And I pray he's the first of many, many more people. We just continue to send people out and they continue to go out who have truly grown and been nurtured and they have matured in this place. That's what healthy ministry is. To our staff. We've got a couple of guys here. May we serve Christ and his church the way the text lays out. This is not easy. There are going to be days we fall down, we discourage, we're frustrated, and we just got to get back up. We've got to encourage one another. We've got to invest in the lives of the people of this church and one another. And then to Krishna the Page. We commend you to the Lord. And our prayer is that with all of your heart You will serve the Lord faithfully. We're going to pray for you. We look forward to hearing what God's going to do in your life. And I know that your wife will be here for a couple more months, and you'll be back, and then you'll be moving to Texas. And I look forward to when we have our farewell fellowship for your family. But I know that this journey has begun. This week is when it starts. And so we will be praying for you as you go. So what I'd like to do is I like to ask if Chris and Page can come up, and I'd like you guys to stand down here at the front. I'd like to ask our deacons and our staff guys. Pastor Josh. Brother Braxton. I'd like to ask you guys to come. You just gotta have a word of of of prayer for Chris and Paige. I know Paige you're not leaving yet, but but the truth is you're a team. And Chris's effectiveness is connected to you. And so you both, we want to commend you both to the Lord. So I want to ask you guys to kneel down. And then guys, come on over here. And We'll put our hands on you guys. We're going to have a brief word of prayer. I want to ask if Pastor Josh can start us. And I'd like to ask if Matt, you can uh go second, and then I will close us. And I want to ask you guys to pray with us as we commit this couple to the Lord. And Chris is he will be going out this next week up to Rhode Island. And uh pray that the things we've talked about this evening, that this is what we will see. So, Josh. Fathers, we come before you. We are very proud. Privilege this evening to really have just sat under the Word of God to be reminded of these wonderful truths. If life is just about an individual in service for you, it will soon fade and die. It is about passing on. is about teaching others. And Lord, this day is an exciting day. As I've already said before, a bittersweet time. But we are sending Pastor Chris out with blessing, with encouragement, and with our prayers. Have a servant of God who has been called of you to preach the gospel, to edify the believers, more specifically in our naval forces. And Father, he will need encouragement. He will need your blessing. Help him to stay faithful to your word, to his wife, to his family. As he does his best, they're calling upon his life to serve you, to encourage those young men and ladies. As in the military, many of these younger ones are leaving home for the first time. They're facing challenges, discouragement. They are seeking and looking for truth. Pastor Chris, be the one that you sent forth to encourage many, to encourage, to share the love and the truth of Jesus Christ and his precious work on the cross. and his wonderful, glorious resurrection, that they have their lives changed because of the work and the ministry that you've set forth by Pastor. Chris. Be with him as he travels up and moves his family down to Texas. And may they get settled. May they enjoy their new chapter and their service for you. And Father, we just want to lift them up to you now and for the days, weeks, and months, years to come. And we just look forward to hearing how you will use this family and Pastor Chris. And may it all be done to exalt, to lift up, and to point people to our Savior, Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray. I followed that I just thank you for the opportunity that you um provided for Chris, Paige, and the kids to serve you um as a chaplain and a chaplain's family and uh uh the armed forces. Um I in particular I'd like to pray for Paige and the children this evening as uh with being active service this is something very new for them. Um with the moves, with the um just uh constantly building new relationships um and constantly dealing with new challenges uh that are associated with with being in the military. I asked that you would um encourage them, that you would provide them with um friends and with um um just fellow Christians wherever they go that they can they can bond with, that they can uh encourage, that they can um be encouraged by, um, that you would be with. their children as they uh will be potentially going to different schools, um constantly making new friends and um there's Separation from family. I just ask that you would be with them through that, help them to look to you for comfort, for guidance, for um just the encouragement that they need to continue to press on and to serve you faithfully. In your name. Father, we think about this great ministry that has been set before Chris and Paige. I thank you that you brought them here several years ago. They've had the opportunity to serve here. They've had the opportunity to grow here. They've had the opportunity to begin their family here. And I thank you for the lessons that they have learned, the sweet blessings they've enjoyed, and even the challenges that have been, tools that you've used to mold them to become more like Christ. I pray that you will help them to be faithful in their duties. Help Chris to be faithful in his duty as a husband and father. Help Paige to be faithful in her duty as a wife and mother. I pray that as he serves our nation and he is in a position where he will interact with numerous people with great spiritual needs. Some are lost Some are young believers who are just beginning to understand what it means to walk with Christ. There are some that are believers who have been wayward and they're coming back and they've been convicted and they need they need guidance. There'll be people who need advice and they need counseling. There'll be people who are fearful and considering taking their own lives and they will be dealing with all kinds of of complex challenges, I pray that in each situation That you would guide his thoughts, that he would be thoroughly biblical in the way he handles these situations, that he would have a a tender compassion for the people that he works with, that he will love them dearly, that he will uh invests in their lives, though it is going to be a short season for each person that he would pour into them and that the ministry that he has with them would Would be something that really shapes their life for many years to come. I pray that you'll give them strength as they encounter challenges You know those challenges, and I pray that they would not allow those things to set them back or to discourage them, but that they would always look to you and find the grace that is available through Christ's strength. And that as they draw on that grace, they would be strengthened but humble at the same time. May they never be self-reliant. I just pray that your hand of blessing will be upon them, and we look forward to continuing to be involved in praying for them and encouraging them. We ask it all in Christ's name