Is going to be rejoice the Lord is king and this is an old and a very, very majestic hymn. And if you were in Ephesians chapter 6 and you see that passage that talks about putting on the whole armor of God, this hymn is going to be celebrating In order to see that, I want us to first of all start in the very first verse, and I want us to consider the audience that Jesus has for this particular teaching. And those who did not know the Lord, they mocked it because they didn't have any comprehension of the significance of those things, nor was this instruction intended for them at that particular moment. I'm asking, do you know the Lord Jesus as your personal Savior? Some people in this room said, I really am curious to know what the pastor is going to say about this, because it appears as if Jesus is suggesting that it is good to cheat a person that you're working for. We're gonna have to call you again, and if we call you again and you don't pay by a certain time, we're gonna send it to collection and then it won't be a good thing. When it says the Lord, it's not saying Jesus commended the man. First of all, when he says, make of yourselves friends, he's basically saying, use physical things to develop relationships with people. And so you're a little bit more careful about how you spend your time and your energy because you know in the back of your mind they may ask you for an accounting. And um like to ask if Justin Betts can close us in prayer. See my two I'm ever So what you're looking at in these verses is instruction that has a different audience than what he said before, what we looked at last week and the week before And you say, hey, I hate to tell you this, but there's a bill that uh it's past due and this is what you owe, and you need to pay up by a certain time or we're gonna They're not doing it. Our opening scripture is in Isaiah 29, so if you could turn there in your Bibles or look up here at the screen, we're going to read Isaiah 29 from verses 13 through 15. And let's remember to focus our attention on the need to surrender our whole heart and our lives to God. It wasn't without passion. And Father, I pray that you'd help us in our families to put you first. And so I pray that this morning as we sing these hymns, we would not find ourselves in such a place. Father, we think about those in our congregation who are dealing with great difficulty and heaviness of heart. I pray for those who have great health needs and those who have very close family members who have great health needs. Okay, so we go find okay. Verse 2, we'll sing a cappella. Make my life will be sacrifice, crucified for me. But when we read that text of scripture, I have a feeling that a lot of you said, What in the world is Jesus saying? That. Father, help me as I move through this text to present it in a way that is clear and simple and helpful. And short-sighted perspectives can act shrewdly toward what they are given. And then if you were to skip ahead to verse number 14, this would be the next text that we're going to deal with after the passage we're looking at today. And then what he's going to say next, that's what we're going to look at, Lord willing, not next week because it's the first Sunday of the month, but the following week You say, well why does this even matter? Well, he has a different audience from chapter 15, 1 and chapter 16, 14 than he does right here. and declared righteous before God and to be made alive in Christ to be regenerated. And we're going to notice that the audience that Jesus had was actually different than the last several parables that we have been looking at. It says, then the Pharisees also, who were covetous, heard all these things, and they derided him. To put it in the words of Hebrews, we need to leave the elementary principles and go on in maturity. We've got to work our way through a couple of details. The first thing we see is that the man in Christ's parable had an unfaithful manager. And you just leave them without any level of accountability, and there's a really good chance that that person, maybe not maliciously, not by intention, but they kind of drift a little bit from what you told them to do. The third thing we see is that since the manager was dishonest and he was lazy, he needed to figure out how to prepare himself for the inevitable. Such and such an amount. Give me 80% of what you owe the master. Next, listen to the word shrew. They could never have justified it if they were sitting in a classroom, but because their life is on the line, they're willing to do lots and lots of things. And so we see that in verses eight and nine, the teaching of Christ. He says, make to yourselves friends of the mammon of unrighteousness, that when ye fail, they may receive you into everlasting habitation. Now this is a very challenging statement that he's making. They're used by saved people, lost people. If you were to just look at the way you've spent your money over the last 12 months and you were to catalog every single purchase, there'd be some you'd say, wise use, wise use, wise use, necessary use, necessary use. And you start talking about how God used that interaction, you could really go down and put it this way. They're using the material possessions that we gave them to what? But what he is teaching is the way you use your money either ends with a dead end on this side of eternity, or it's used forever. and and they invest it wisely, but what we tend to do is look at how big and how visible the end result of their work is And so if we talk about a child who's just been allotted a small amount in life, but they're faithful with that, God takes note of that Why in the world would they just say, take care of this and you're on your own? is a passage of scripture in the New Testament where the Apostle Paul takes the teaching of Christ on this issue and he applies it in a very specific way that I think is super helpful to us. Verses 17 through 20. You know you're going to stand before this God. And we start realizing that, you know, what we have or what we don't have is actually not a true explanation of whether or not we're walking with God. You say, who gives me that? You know that. for the teaching of your word. uh for you and for your glory. Here's what God's word says. Therefore, behold, I will proceed to do a marvelous work among this people. of God and we celebrate the fact that He is the ultimate King. stream of thro of thought and we're going to think about his power, his might. as good soldiers of Jesus Christ. And as we reflect on the fact that Israel at that point in its history, it had the Scripture, it had the prophets It had a structure where people could be directed to you every single day and every single week and on a regular basis throughout the months of their year. And yet as the people drew near to God, it was not with a genuine heart. And may we glory in the gospel and glory in what we have in Christ. As we submit ourselves to you, I pray that you will bless the ministry of the read word, the ministry of the sung word, and the ministry of the preached word. distinct difference when we sing hymns. If you're singing this from your heart. And he that is unjust in the least is unjust also in much. Who will commit to your trust the true riches? We praise you for your life and we're not And the rest of you, I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to the book of Luke. Give an accounting of thy stewardship, for thou mayest be no longer steward. To beg, I'm ashamed, I'm resolved what to do, that when I am put out of the stewardship, they may receive me into their houses Because he had done wisely. I say unto you, make to yourselves friends of the mammon of unrighteousness, that when ye fail, they may receive you into everlasting habitation. He that is faithful in that which is least is faithful also in much. We need to be wise stewards of what God has entrusted to us. Then drew near unto him publicans and sinners and Pharisees and scribes, and then he spoke this parable unto them. is born again. And interestingly, the parables that he taught before actually had kind of a mixed multitude. It is meant to instruct the disciple. You say, well, are you suggesting that it could never be for them? Born again by the power of the Spirit, I am forgiven and cleansed in Christ. Is that what Jesus is saying? of the unjust steward. am cleansed, now that I have been justified, now that I am alive in Christ. And he called him and said unto him, How is it that I hear this of thee? where money went, how it was handled, if someone owed money, they had to go and do the work. This man in the parable has a manager, but the manager is not an honest person. And so he demands a full disclosure of the work that is done. Well, this guy was a little more than that. And in verse number 8 it says this, the Lord commended the unjust steward because he had done wisely. who has no heart and desire to know what it's saying. Now I get why you said what you did. Now, what is Jesus' direct explanation connected to the parable? Even I who preach it sometimes do that. The children of this world are in their generation wiser than the children of light. They don't sit down and think about the principles that are involved and get actual input from other people. Who are lazy, who cheat others, and they're smarter than Christians. Verse number 8 he says, the children of this world are in their generation wiser than the children of light. But then we see that Christ kind of continues this with a corollary. If therefore you have not been faithful in the unrighteous man, who will commit to your trust true riches? Uh I I'll give you a little bit of time. He says, charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not high-minded, not proud, nor trust in uncertain riches. Ready to distribute, willing to communicate, laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come. There is this continuity between the teaching of Christ and what Paul is telling Timothy to pass on to the next generation, the next, the next. But then we forget, you know, Hebrews chapter 11 and others died without the promises, and he talks about all the different ways that these people suffered for the cause of Christ. And there's so many opportunities to be in the Lord's house. Let's ask the Lord to help us. And see what he does. Let's really ask the Lord to help us to do that this week. Woe unto them that seek deep to hide their counsel from the Lord. that particular thought, how we are to put on the whole armor of God and we're supposed to be prepared for those daily struggles that are a part of the Christian experience. Encontró la fuera de mi casa, toca el manual, tu madre, me gusta la trovada, mira, no, mi cristo que me va a dar un mano, dentro de Cristo, la que dentro de la tubero que tiene tu mano. And he called him and said unto him, How is it that I hear this of thee? Then the steward said within himself, What shall I do? To beg, I am ashamed, I am resolved what to do, that when I am put out of the stewardship, they may receive me into their houses So he called every one of his lord's debtors unto him, and said unto the first, How much owest thou, my lord? And he said, and hundred measures of oil. For the children of this world are in their generation wiser than the children of light. Amen. Our triune God. And here we are being my God from If I went to my holy cloth, I would not be in one. He went into the gardens and saw his father swill. I read about his anguish and feel his sorrow there Not my will, but my Lord lead me to Calvary. Make my life a living sacrifice frucified for thee. But now he is exalted, let every tongue proclaim, and some they all shall raise him And magnify his name, not my will, but thy Lord Lead me to Calvary. Lord Jesus I surrender, my will shall be thy own, I lay aside ambition And thou before thy throne, I'll give myself for others, as thou design for me, Lord said. Not my will, but thy more lead me to Calvary. Make my life a living sacrifice crucified for me. Luke chapter 16. Very carefully about what Jesus is saying. So he called every one of his lord's debtors unto him, and said unto the first, How much owest thou unto my lord? Then said he to another, How much owest thou? No servant can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. I'm going to ask a question. And we use them in such a way that they actually have impact on eternity, though they are just temporal physical things. If therefore ye have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will commit to your trust the true riches? Just be honest. Amen. kind of give you a direction as to where we're going, but this is what I think Jesus is communicating. Let me say that again. Should we act wisely with what we have been given? said also unto his what's the next word disciples okay now I want to take you back to consider how chapter fifteen verse number one started it says Then the focus of chapter 16, verse number one. Because that instruction actually kind of had a dual kind of application. They heard. they have no understanding of at all. discerned. So I'm going to put it like this. is the disciple. That person would not manage their resources by themselves. And so he says, give an accounting of your stewardship, because it is possible that I'm going to fire you. My Lord taketh away from me the stewardship. I need to figure out a way that when I get fired, I don't starve. would be kind to him after he was fired and left with nothing. Now, there's this little saying that you'll hear sometimes. It should, though. about a man who is commenting on an unjust steward and how that man handled a situation where he knew he was going to lose his job and he was going to lose his livelihood and he was going to be in a situation where he did not know how he was going to survive. But it is not meant to illustrate it to those who don't ask for the explanation. I say unto you, make to yourselves friends of the mammon of unrighteousness, that when ye fail, they may receive you into everlasting habitation. Kind of a simple thing, right? You understand what I'm saying? That's a direct result of how we use our money. Amazing thing to consider. All that. stated in these verses. No man can serve two masters. But it's shrewd. And verse 10 it says, He that is faithful in that which is least is faithful also in much. Now, when we look at how God uses people, I think we have this tendency not to focus in on how much a person takes something that is very small and God allowed them to have opportunities that began to grow and expand. We look at a person who they're older, but they don't have the same opportunities as another person, but they are very faithful with the things that God gives them. He does not make analysis, does not make judgment based on the same analysis that we have in life. They give you a little and they watch you. Why would you do that? He's got better sense than you and I have. Now the next statement is one that may trip you up when you're looking at it. What? Okay, they can call you on a certain day and say, hey, I know for the last uh the last two weeks you've been working and I would like to see how you spent your time And material things at the same time. So what Jesus is trying to do here is he's trying to help us understand, even though I'm emphasizing how you use the stuff that you're given, I also need to emphasize the fact that that stuff better not capture your heart. If you can't manage somebody else's stuff with the level of accountability, them being able to come to you and say, what did you do with this? but rather in the living God who giveth us richly all things to enjoy, that they may do good, that they may be rich in good works. That they may lay hold on eternal life. Teach them not to trust in stuff that they have because it's uncertain, it doesn't last forever. Why is it that you who know all those things have less sense than a guy who says, I'm too lazy to dig and I'm too proud to beg? That's what Jesus is saying. Now we're living in a time where people view material prosperity as sort of like the stamp of God's approval on our lives. We really do. It's to simply say we've got to be faithful with what we have. Room. And so I encourage you, before God, ask the question: Am I doing what I'm supposed to? But the truth is we ought to open our homes. It's about stewardship. investing in the opportunities that are before them. Help us to do a better job reaching the kids coming behind us, that we would point them in the right direction and that they would be faithful when they become adults. Father, I thank you for this time you've given us. But have removed their heart far from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the precepts of men five, six, seven years old. And he said also unto his disciples, There was a certain rich man which had a steward. They may receive you into everlasting habitations. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to really help us as we dig into this text together this morning. Their need is to be converted. And this is actually a very important thing for us to understand. If their life is on the line, and they got no other choice to survive but to do something that's very unethical, guess what? The first is this, an observation. When you open your house up and you have someone into your home and you begin to be hospitable with this particular person and you develop a friendship with them and you invest in their life and this person gets saved, starts growing in the Lord. That's really the sense of what he's saying. And he starts by emphasizing the importance of it by telling the story of a person who's not wise, who's not principled, who's not hardworking. That business he employs people and you go wow that person must have always had that and it's like not necessarily why because there's incredible opportunity in this country That's what he's saying. That's totally wrong. If you look at the demographics in our nation, as far as church cultures, our church is very young compared to many out there. of I surrender all. Really excited about that text of Scripture and I think it'll be very, very helpful to us to think about. This morning, as we gather for worship, we're going to reflect on the need to re to surrender ourselves unreservedly to the Lord. Soldiers of Christ arise. Great singing. Then said he to another, And how much owest thou? When Jesus Christ, my Savior, prepared for Calvary I seek him hungry and listen to his breath A man of glowy bird, he laid aside his glory to twelve sons of bird. There was a certain rich man which had a steward. One of a man who cheated his boss, that we would learn why Jesus taught the parable. And we would recognize that in fact we are called to be wise and faithful stewards who take the things that you've given to us and we use them for your glory. Not what I've done for him. But if you are a believer, your primary concern should be faithfulness with what God has entrusted to you. In fact, it is interesting that what Jesus says is how the the person who the steward the the the person who is working as a steward for comment on the action And so this is what it says in verses 3 to 4. And I still have access to the books. They care about living. Third thing I want you to notice is Christ's teaching. The simplest way I can put it is he's saying use material possessions to develop relationships that we could say will ultimately end Now, Jesus is going to have a lot to say about this teaching of how we invest material, temporal things. Well, I'm glad you're thinking that because I'd like to give you a couple of simple thoughts to help us to practically apply what Jesus is saying. Teach them to use the good things that they've been given for eternal pursuits. But I can figure out a way to get these people to like me enough that when I get fired, they'll take care of me. When God's bringing people to hear the gospel, guess who he's bringing them to? If someone is a Sunday school teacher or a deacon or you have an area, I'll just be really frank about this. But what would really bring them in is if you say, hey, are you are you having dinner with anybody? And so I want to challenge you, if this man who was unjust could be so shrewd, why can't we who are so sophisticated and so knowledgeable be a little wiser in our stewardship? I want to be an encouragement any way that I can. Jesus is not concerned with a person who does not know him as Savior, who's never turned from their sin, placed their faith in the finished work of Christ. Save the work of Christ. Of wasting his master's goods. It's a good thing, okay? Oh, all right, I'm good with that. Second truth. An eternal relationship. It doesn't change the material substance at all. There are people who are extremely wealthy and guess what? If therefore ye have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will commit to your trust the true riches? I don't know if I'd recommend doing exactly that way, okay? There are some pastors who their mindset about getting people active is, if they're not active, I'm going to give them something so that they feel obligated to be there to do that. Very young. And there's not a lot of pastors coming up behind them who are going to step into those roles. But we're not living in Rome, folks. May God help us to wisely steward the resources He's entrusted to us. Father, we're so grateful for this Lord's Day where we gather together. Luke chapter 16, verses 1 through 13. No man can serve two masters. Because this topic of stewardship is a discussion for only Christians. You will face eternal wrath if you do not turn to Christ while you have time. And so next we see that what he does is he uses his temporary authority to settle debts at a reduced rate with the hope that his employers, debtors But all of a sudden he's feeling the weight of his situation. There are Christians who sit in church every single week and they hear truths from God's Word over and over and over and over and over again, and then they just like totally forget it as soon as they walk out the building. Now he is not celebrating a lack of character. And then he says, when you fall, they may receive you into everlasting habitation. They may receive you into everlasting habitation. In fact, when we look at the American context, there are some people who are very wealthy. Now nobody around them may actually realize what they're doing with that thing, but God does. Now basically what he's saying is, when somebody gives you something to take care of, and they have the means to give you opportunity, if they're wise, this is what they do. Then I will be much more comfortable giving you a greater responsibility. But when you're the one in charge, guess who asks you for an accounting? What's in your heart, the character that you have is going to determine what you do with what you have. What we do with what we're given actually matters. You ever thought about that? Now listen, I'm not I'm not trying to put everybody through a through the grinder and say, hey, you know, I want you to feel miserable. The fact is, we need to be wise and principled in how we look at this. And we're all learning in the process and we all go through ups and downs. Father, help us to be active in your work. And things that will last forever. In me for the power to live my life for me. Why would you give someone who's irresponsible a lot of stuff to do? Why is it that we're so stingy with the use of our finances? And so people sometimes said you need to be a monk if you want to be godly. So here's what's going on. Worldly people are sometimes way more practical about how they make decisions than Christians. And we spend a lot of money on our kids. I think we could be really practical about this. They're calling you and and and if they do that one time and you got embarrassed, guess what? So I put it like this: if people with poor character and a short-sighted perspective can act shrewdly with what they've been given, how much more should we act wisely with what we've been given? Why are we spending so little time with our children? Through proper management, we can use temporal things to provide eternal blessings. It's the absolute truth. Every Sunday morning. There are people in this church that are really hurting. Let's continue our singing. Money, it's not good or bad, it's all about what you do with it. And they were raised in total poverty and they had no opportunities in life. So it's not what you see that really Jesus is emphasizing. The second thing he teaches, if we do not manage little things well, we will not be given greater things. And eventually one day people around them start seeing what that person is able to do and they go, where did that come from? Scripture tells us not to do that. Our money. And so I pray that we would conscientiously before you ask some deep questions about whether or not we are faithful stewards of the things you've entrusted to us. Such an amazing thing to consider, but it's so practical, and we understand this principle. God wants us to be faithful. And one of the reasons that this is happening in our culture, it's not because of how wild and out there the worldly culture is. And I know every single one of us has different challenges, unique challenges. And in the end, what do you have? That's what Jesus is saying. The third thing he says is those who do this will experience the benefits of that investment. You say where they come from? It's a very faithful church. We pray that you help us all to be very faithful to whatever you've given us, Lord. Our scripture reading will be found in the Gospel of Luke. Okay, well our children who are in junior church can be dismissed to your class in the back with a little bit of help. Okay. You say, well, what is the point of this unusual parable? Please let's take out our hymn books and let's turn to hymn 390 and we'll just sing the first and the last verses. I want to begin by giving you a very simple summary statement for what I think Jesus is saying in these verses. He is not concerned with teaching them on the topic of stewardship. Now, they were not the ones who he was talking to, but they heard it. And so when we talk about stewardship, the disciples were meant to understand it and to internalize it and to apply it. So what he did is he went to each person and he said, How much do you owe my master? This is what he's saying. So I'm going to encourage you to do so. If people who with poor character and a short-sighted perspective can act shrewdly toward what they are given, how much more Secondly, we need a healthy view of material possessions. God does. My burden is not to browbeat anybody. Please let's stand together, 390. And so in order to understand what Jesus is saying and why he's saying it, which is really the intent here And as I read this, you're going to see that the pieces of Jesus' teaching coming out in this statement, 1 Timothy 6. I I appreciate your honesty. Well, good morning. If you're not a Christian, and I don't mean like you identify as a Christian or you're here this morning or you you go to church occasionally The answer is no. The second thing I want you to notice this morning is the parable itself, the content of the parable. He says, he that is faithful in that which is least is faithful also in much, and he that is unjust in the least is unjust also in much. Let's all stand. You know that he has redeemed you to himself through the gospel. It was without passion. It's a good thing. Now when we see the word wise, we need to understand that sometimes wisdom is godly wisdom and sometimes it's worldly wisdom. And then he says of the mammon of unrighteousness. Either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. We pray that we'll um uh have a good day that you'll be with each and every one of us as we go about our ways and that you'll bring us all back here uh safely tonight. We'll sing it reflectively, and then we'll come in strong on verse 3. But then there's a difference when these hymns are sung with a full understanding and an appreciation of the words. It's such a such an incidental little detail. So let's read it together. I hate to say that. And he says, if that person can be shrewd, why can't you? Verse number 13. Just want to encourage you that if the Lord spoke to your heart and you want to reach out, please don't hesitate to do that. For the children of this world, as in their generation, are wiser than the children of light. You have a person who's going to spend eternity somewhere. And uh just for the sake of focusing our attention back on the text that we're going to look at this morning, I'd like us to read it one more time. When I read that text, how many of you with a raised hand would say, I do not know what Jesus is saying? And they'll do things that they would have never done in a time of peace. It's just stuff. So Jesus has a lot to say here about how we are to manage the material things, the temporary things of life. You may not realize this, but in the next five years, 25% of pastors who are pastoring right now are going to be retired. These ought to be places where there's vibrancy. No person with good sense would ever do that. We need more Sunday school teachers. I'm going to change it up just a little bit today because again, following our theme of thinking about the words, we're going to sing verse 1. So as we sing these hymns, I really want to encourage you to sing them out with great joy, really reflect deeply on what we are saying. We could go into lots and lots of different situations, the raising of our kids. And so what God says, what Jesus is saying in this text is that the way that God deals with people is he gives them a little bit to manage and he watches what they do with it. And I pray that you would just help us as a church to be vibrant and thriving and really reaching into the lives of other people. I hope that you can come back tonight as we will be looking at an important passage of scripture in the life of David, and that's the story of Abigail. If you're not a Christian, your greatest concern should be the future judgment of God at the great white throne. He's been cheating the guy over and over and over and over again, but it's not been found out yet. Now the way he's going to go about it isn't necessarily the best, but he cares about survival You know, you can meet me in another hour. And she's probably embarrassed. They're sitting out here right now. We're going to sing hymn number three hundred and ninety-one. And he said, An hundred measures of wheat. Timothy, keep that which is committed to thy trust. Why is it that we as God's people seem to be so impractical about eternal things? He was lazy. This is how the man processes the situation, and it's a great example of why he was called an unjust steward. You say, well, how do I do that? How many of you have a child who's of that age where they could start driving and they're like, oh, I want the car keys in your life? Thank you so much for joining us for worship here at Anchor Baptist Church. I can tell. Please stand, consider the words as we sing. I cannot dig. I wish it wasn't true, but it's true. This is a very giving church. It's about stewardship. May we not waste it. Well, Christ explains for us the parable, and then he gives some teaching that really flow out of his explanation or his commentary on the parable. Use temporal, material possessions for the advance of God's eternal kingdom. We know this temporal world will not last forever. It's not our school's responsibility. I surrender all. And I will say this. Their need is to have their sins washed away to be forgiven and cleansed. His death, his resurrection, his righteousness. We should use temporal, material possessions for the advance of God's eternal kingdom. They're used for good things, they're used for bad things, they're used for things that are very beneficial, and they're used for things that are very wasteful. And others say, you know, let's get out there and let's be as like the world as we possibly can if we want to reach them. Because when you see somebody that's diligent, guess what? They're all in the back. In verse number one, he says, A certain rich man who was a steward, the same was accused unto him, which had wasted his goods. You ever think about that? And there's so many resources that are available to us. Help me as a pastor do a better job teaching our congregation, giving people opportunity. If you're visiting with us today, uh please take a moment to stop by and greet my wife and I, and we'd love to just be an encouragement to you any way that we can. It was without a fervency. It's a kind of wisdom that cares about survival. It says this. Let's ask Him to help us to grow. No servant can serve two masters. Help us to delight in the opportunity to invest our lives that are short. In fact, it says that the natural man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God. Pays him, puts the money aside. Worldly people are often more practical than Christians. It's what you do with it. But it's the Lord that we stand before. He rules and He reigns over all things. What you expect you gotta tell people, but it's what you inspect that determines what people do. Now, what's helpful about parables is that when a parable was taught, the purpose of a parable is to illustrate a principle or a series of principles. A lot of times a parable like a riddle has to be explained. But I think if we step back and we consider the details and we don't we could say inject some presuppositions, we'll actually go, oh, that makes a lot of sense. And he said unto him, Take thy bill and sit down quickly and write fifty. And I still have the ability to go to people and with us the word he says, you've got to pay the master. I'm gonna stand before him. There's some people they say, man, I wish I could do more for the Lord. For my Lord taketh away from me the stewardship. And he said, An hundred measures of wheat. This is the words, these are the words of Christ. No, I'm not suggesting that. And he goes and he does this, and then when he comes, in verse number eight, it says that his employer commenced They were given a ton and they didn't do anything with it. We'll sing the last and the first and the last verses together of I Surrender All. You might be able to tell when we're just singing them because we know these songs. And if you have not been faithful in that which is another man's, who shall give you that which is your own? If you're a manager for somebody, you answer to them But the whole idea is you're like, well, I'll tell you what. And the reason they're hurting is because they feel very isolated. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. You say, well, that's kind of weird. Notice what he says in verse 12. They would never do it. The same was accused unto him that he had wasted his goods. Okay? He's not suggesting that it's okay to cheat people and that pragmatism is okay. I'm saying this. This people draw near to me with their mouth and with their lips. And interestingly, the way that he words verse 14 is he says that the Pharisees In verses 10 through 13, he kind of builds on what he's just said Just you'll pull together and say, whoa, can we meet on Monday? We need more people who can actually be deacons. Let's bow for prayer. We ask all this in Christ's name. Everybody's honest about this. We see this down in verse number two. A lot of money. I mean, really, like if somebody can't manage the most basic things in life, why would you give them something of real value to take care of? The people that have it, the people that give it, the people who have the heart for it. A lot of us have so much opportunity and so many, so much time and energy has been put into our lives, and we're sitting on our hands too much. He that is faithful in that which is least is faithful also in much. The second thing we see is that when he was discovered, the manager realized this man has been lazy To beg, I'm ashamed. I'll give you a real simple example. And may we purpose with all of our might to be diligent and faithful. He says, he said also unto his disciples. When the Bible talks about the unbeliever, there are certain truths in the Word of God. But then he gives one final teaching that I think is so very important for us not to miss, and that is in verse 13. He's saying, you know that there's a God in heaven. May we be diligent with it. And when you see them as a 60 or 70-year-old, you see them as a very wealthy person, a person who owns a business, who manages It's what you do with what you've been given. Why is it that we are so lazy about how we prioritize our time? Why are we not shaping their lives with Scripture more? We're not living in Ephesus. But when we do it together, we're going to do it better than when we do it in isolation. Nothing that I said at the end was said because our church is not faithful. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. That is not what Jesus is teaching. I think it's important to not miss this detail. And he said unto him, Take thy bill and write forescore. They would have people who were hired on some level who were going to be the ones who handled He was dishonest. What's it up for that one? And the answer is you should be a faithful steward of what God has given to you. That money goes to a missions agency that goes to a missionary, and that missionary goes out and on the field, hopefully they're planting a church, they're winning people to Christ. It's how you channel it. But then when you fight in a little bit, but if you can make total and well everything There was an application for the believer and there's an application for the unbeliever. It would almost be like in a business where you're working with someone and you're the person who has to, you know, call the people who haven't paid their bills yet. This is Jesus' observation Now he's not talking about using money in an unjust way. He says use stuff to develop relationships. Even a marvelous work and a wonder. Why do you take the time, waste our time to tell us You have placed your faith in the finished work of Christ. So basically what he says is, I know my time is short, but I still got time. Now Jesus is not teaching you that you get saved by giving people money That's what he's saying. But at some point in their life, through circumstances that some were the decisions they made and some was it the pure grace of God Nobody. Don't get married, don't have a family, live in a monastery, separate from the world. It's not our college's responsibility. Some of them are learning. Our kids are interacting. And it's kind of a tough song to sing after a message like this, but let's do it, alright? Either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold the one and despise the other. We will not be given greater opportunity if we fail to be faithful with what we are given now. Every single one of us in this room has something that God has given us, and we're either using it or we're sitting on it. It was without a love and an affection for you and a warmth. I've been dishonest. And then the second, excuse me, the third hymn we're going to sing as soldiers of Christ arise. How much more should we act wisely with what we are given? And we pray we'll be with them forever. And he said, Another measures of oil. As we work our way through this passage of Scripture, we're going to see that the word of the Lord tells us But they need to hear the gospel, embrace the gospel, and then this becomes pertinent to them. And it was very common in those days that a person who had a lot of wealth, a person who had a large estate or who had several estates And you know what God does? He says, If you have not been faithful in that which is another man's, who shall give you that which is your own? Teach them that it's okay to enjoy good things, but enjoy them as a gift from God's hand. We need more people who can do that. Such an important thing. Old things pass away. Whatever opportunities, whatever resources, whatever finances, just that every aspect of our lives will do. Great singing. And the steward said within himself, What shall I do? And you know what they did? It's called God's providence. You're thinking this might happen again You want to come hang out with us this afternoon? So I hope that you can join us for that tonight Rejoice, the Lord is king. He's teaching to the disciple, and he's teaching to the unbeliever, the Pharisees and the scribes. We know that we're going to stand before the Lord and give an account. You know, throughout church history, there have been lots of seasons where people really got messed up on how they looked at material stuff. We need a healthy view of material possessions. If therefore ye have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon We are in Luke chapter 16 this morning. And he that is unjust in the least is unjust also in much That is going to be the flow of the entire text in front of us. I'm resolved what to do, that when I am put out of the stewardship, they may receive me into their houses. Well, that's cruel of mean. But it's not about how much we give. We'll sing all three verses. And I pray that the Spirit of God would move in our midst in a very mighty way, just working in our hearts in the most appropriate way possible, and we ask it all in Christ's name. Not the kind of person you want managing your money. I got a question. Now this is where it gets a little weird. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day, for bringing us all here together. And just a few pages over to hymn number six, I sing the mighty power of God. If people with poor character He says, give an accounting of thy stewardship, for thou mayest be no longer steward. More practical. By opening your home, you developed a relationship that had eternal consequence. It's how you direct it And if you have not been faithful in that which is another man's, who will give you that which is your own? He's going to give you opportunity. Let's ask Him to give us opportunity to reach in the lives of people And the answer is, well, actually it matters a lot. You say why? Give an accounting of thy stewardship. Jesus' observation is that it doesn't take character to sometimes be practical. And we invest a lot of time and a lot of energy and a lot of lot of tears and a lot of prayers and He that is unjust in least is unjust also in much. And what you don't know about it is that person grew up in total poverty. And guess what? The third thing, if we cannot manage resources with accountability, why would that accountability be removed? And their works are in the dark, and they say, Who seeth us? It was with a duplicitous heart. As we sing these hymns, may we celebrate your greatness. Give an account of thy stewardship, for thou mayest be no longer a steward. And he said unto him, Take thy bill and write fourscore. And they said, This is what it is. There are three things I want you to notice. Verse 9, when ye fail, Interact with people, ultimately, gospel interactions, salvation. May we do the very best we can with the opportunities laid before us. Their need is a particular gospel-oriented need I pray that as we think about these scriptures that we've just read, And just to echo what Pastor said, there is a So when the master comes to look at what he's done, he he has money there. It's not meant to illustrate it to someone So let's notice what he says here. We're not living in Corinth. We have missions month and we start putting up sign-ups. And then the second hymn we're going to sing is I sing the mighty power of God. Sitting in the back. Teach them to be faithful and wise managers. We have a lot of children in our church. And so as we sing it, I hope that you really think about uh how this just proclaims the greatness. Amen. 1, 2, and 3, our triune God, page 109 in the blue book We'll get there in just a minute And the fact is, the reason that churches are where they are today is because families are not raising their children for the Lord. Please be seated as we turn over to hymn number 592. The same was accused unto him that he had wasted his goods. We're going to sing the first three verses. We need to think about what am I supposed to do now that I am forgiven, now that I I've wasted his money. Faithfulness is not determined by how much we have. When someone supports the work of ministry with their material possessions, God uses that. In fact, not only did they not do anything with it, they actually lost what they started with, but they started with so much they were okay. As that person demonstrates faithfulness and they develop those skills, he gives them new opportunities. It's not our seminary's responsibility. Father, as we think about the Word, I pray that it would stick deeply in our hearts. And so we need to be conscientious about what we do. Be with those who've had family members pass recently. It'll be in Luke chapter 16. So this is kind of the the modern day equivalent to what's going on That's what this guy's doing. That is tragic, but that is true. It's called wise. How did you handle that situation? You say, well, they're here right now. I pray that you would intervene and work in those situations. And I say unto you, make to yourselves friends of the mammon of unrighteousness, that when ye fail, They just follow their heart and call it the Holy Spirit. Now, what is Paul writing to Timothy? It's to help us to realize we may not be doing with what we have what we should Father, as we think about the words of our Savior, we think about this fascinating parable that he taught. All things have become new. Well well do what you can with what you're given, and you may have some other opportunities open up. And those churches who are being pastored by older men, you know, you know what you're going to find out? The scriptures say When we give commissions, Let's do the best we can. They mocked his instructions Why? God has good sense. You know that there's an eternity. Our children have a soul that's going to spend eternity somewhere You cannot serve God and mammon. You know that he's going to call you to give account of what you've been given. He was wasting the man's stuff. When you show me that you are faithful in these little things You say, why does Jesus teach all these things? I'm simply asking the question, why is it that the guy in the story was a little bit more prudent than we are? All right, thank you so much for your honesty. I have been He said, I'll tell you what, give me half of it, and I'll write it off. They would have never done in a time of prosperity. You rise and fall based on your own character. We've sung them since we were I cannot dig Well, I have good news for you. In fact, you'd be surprised what people will do. Like, what is he trying to say? They're a couple years out. We need to be in a position, and I the reason I'm bringing these things up is not to browbeat you Why are we not very faithful to the church gathering? Or the fact that we know that we're godly people because look at how much we have. The Lord commended the unjust steward. He's not had to face the guy that he answers to You'll see in just a minute why. Use the stuff that doesn't last forever on things that do last forever. And um For the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid. Please let's bow together for a word of prayer. Jesus is telling a story When somebody handles the word well, guess what? And then Jesus is going to take his teaching and he's going to focus in on these people. And when the parable or the riddle is explained, then the person who's hearing it's like, oh, I get it. He's not saying this to Pharisees, he's not saying this to scribes, he's saying this to disciples. I am not comfortable giving you greater responsibility unless I see that you take what you have seriously. The first thing I want to mention is I'm not saying the worldly culture doesn't influence the church. Our homes. You are not going to have a job anymore. I'm gonna get fired. These things aren't going to last forever. And I am sure that when we read through this parable, First of all, faithfulness is not determined by how much we have, but what we do with what we are given. I mean, I don't know. We'll sing all four verses of hymn number one. And I know that this is going to like In verse number one, it says, and he that is Jesus And in this particular context, the guy's wisdom is not a godly wisdom. He said unto him, Take thy bill, sit down quickly, write fifty. Because their greatest need is different than the disciples. Now And if ye have not been faithful in that which is another's man, another man's, who shall give you that which is your own? If someone was to ask you, why should God let you into heaven, you'd say, he shouldn't. He's saying money, physical possessions, And so what Jesus is basically saying is Let's talk about how you use your time. The things of this world are not to be loved and served, but rather to be used for eternal pursuits It's about whether or not we're being faithful with what we're given. Every last one of the hymns today, you will notice And he said also unto his disciples, And he called him and said unto him, How is it that I hear this of thee? Is uh the desire to survive a good or bad thing? Do you catch that? I'm God's child because of his gracious work for me. He says, if that guy could think practically about his own situation, why can't you? We're living in a community where we have so much access to Scripture They can tell you no. Well, make your bed first. And so this principle is so important. It's mom and dad's res Not the kind of person you want managing your wealth. They care about living. You know, I hate to say this, but it is absolutely true. You know that there's a gospel. Why is it that we don't give the gospel very much? You know, have missionaries into your home. We'll take a moment, greet one another, and then we'll come back and sing the last verse. God takes note of that. Maybe they are, maybe they're watching. For my Lord taketh away me this taking away from me the stewardship. May we be a people who have a united heart and truly glory in you this day. By the end of this message, hopefully you'll understand that. You know how many Christians they just follow their emotions? That is not what Jesus is saying. May those in our congregation be better at Um we thank you, Lord, for the message of I want you to Doesn't that sound a lot like what Jesus is teaching here? Why are we not more diligently with preparing for our future? And so I do want to remind you of some of the hymns that we're going to sing in our opening, the first one. 17. We'll be reading verses 1 through 13. Amen. You cannot serve God and mammon Those things are foolishness to them, neither can he understand them because they are spiritually Now let's work our way through the pieces of what we read in verses one through eight. You cannot serve God and mammon. And the Lord commended the unjust steward, because he had done wisely. I'm not gonna have anything. Our influence shaping the next generation of church leaders. They do honor me But this particular parable is different. It's by what we do with what we have. Some have the ability right now. My Lord became a servant He says, What shall I do? He goes to another person. My wife plays the piano every Sunday morning. If I ask it again, maybe a couple more people raise their hand. And so I mean just Verse 11. If we don't manage little things well, we won't be given greater. Teach people not to be proud because of what they have. Okay, there's a lot of Christians that do that. That's true holiness, and guess what? Ask the Lord to bless our service today. Great singing. You'll stand before him They're going to get opportunity And raising up a godly generation ought to be something that's heavy on the heart of every parent in this. Every Christian ought to be a hospitable person Make my life a living sacrifice. I mean like If you do not have the ability to do that, So that should lead us to a simple question. You know what I mean? Look down at verse number nine and consider what he's saying here. He's trying to help us to understand that our lives are just like this. Oh And as we read this, I want you to think This is the concern that we're looking at in these verses. Justin. In Jesus' name amen He asks him the same question. He's simply making the observation that there are worldly people And that is in 1 Timothy chapter 6. It absolutely does. Please be seated. Interact with them. And it's going to kind of continue in that same I'm gonna have nothing. We cannot serve God. I pray that you would provide great comfort for them. So this first part is very, very important. We ask it all in Christ's name. Okay, a little wasteful. So you give instructions to somebody Well, that's wrong too Who knoweth us? There are people that we'll meet in heaven someday And so it says that this man was accused. 592 That is a different audience Instead of saying half, he says If it does, it's because it is. That's wrong. You may have so many opportunities open up you don't even know what to do with them all. Amen. Well, how do we apply what Jesus is teaching here? Why do I bring these things up? This is what he says. They're also shepherding a very old congregation. I'm gonna be completely on my own and in trouble. Okay, that was that was a bad move on my part right there. And uh let's ask the Lord to help us. I am resolved no longer to linger. Our last song before the preaching will be in the blue book. All three verses Amen. I cannot dig He is cheating his boss. Christ's audience And you go. We don't got We have to run up.