Turn with me to the book of Luke, chapter 18. And this is the text that we read earlier in the service, Luke 18, verses 35 through verse 43. Again, Luke chapter 18, verses 35 through 43. I 'll read it again just so that we will think about what is in front of us. This morning we're going to talk about a blind man who saw God's mercy and power. And some of you are going, hold on a second. How did a blind man see God's mercy and power? Well, he saw it because God healed him. And I'm excited to be out digging into this text with you this morning. It says the following. It came to pass that as he was come nigh unto Jericho, a certain blind man sat by the wayside begging. And hearing the multitude pass by, he asked what it meant. They told him that Jesus of Nazareth passed by He cried saying, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me. They which went before rebuked him. that he should hold his peace. But he cried so much the more, Thou son of David, have mercy on me. Jesus stood and commanded him to be brought unto him. When he was come near, he asked him, saying, What wilt thou that I should do unto thee? He said, Lord, that I might receive my sight Jesus said unto him, Receive thy sight. Thy faith hath saved thee. And immediately he received his sight. And followed him, glorifying God. And all the people, when they saw it, gave praise unto God. Please let's bow together and ask the Lord to open our eyes. So the significance of this miracle, very close to the time that Christ would go into Jerusalem and he would be betrayed, crucified, and rise from the dead. Father, as we dig into your word, I pray that the Spirit of God would move in our hearts. Help me as I work my way through the details of this passage to present them in a way that is helpful, that is accurate. And as we seek to apply your word, I pray that the word of God would come forward in a way that is consistent with its intent. I pray that as we see your word expounded, it would really work into our hearts. If there's someone here that does not know you as their Savior, I pray that through the preaching of your word and through the things that are presented this morning, You would open their eyes to their lost condition. You'd open their eyes to the mercy and the grace of God that is drawing them to himself so that they might repent and believe in the gospel. Father, I pray for every believer that is here. May we never tire of seeing these tremendous trophies of your grace That are laid before us week in and week out. May we recognize that the same mercy and the same power that was demonstrated in this miracle is the same mercy and the same power that is demonstrated in our lives. As we go through the challenges we encounter on a daily basis, pray that you would speak to our hearts. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. First of all, I want to begin by kind of helping you to understand how this passage of Scripture sort of fits in what's going on in the book of Luke. I mentioned this earlier in our Sunday school class. uh here in the auditorium. But when we talk about a book like the book of Luke, you need to realize that Luke sat down with eyewitnesses, firsthand accounts And he literally wrote down all kinds of information, all kinds of data that would have been presented to him by those eyewitnesses. And then as Luke writes down all this material, he personally selects the stories from those firsthand accounts. that are going to be presented in this narration of the life and ministry of Christ that is meant to strengthen the faith of a man named Theophilus, that he would understand the certainty of those things which he has heard. Now, I think it's important that I make this statement. As Luke is writing these details, he is writing the perfect word of God. The Spirit of God is moving through Luke as he is writing these details. But it's also important that we recognize that Luke is not a robot. He's not just mindlessly writing things down. In fact, if you read the book of Luke, you can see that there's order in the sequence of the events that Luke is going to record for us. And this passage of Scripture is going to help us, if we recognize that there's order, it's going to help us to understand what Luke is driving at as Jesus is on his way to Jerusalem, to be crucified, and ultimately to. Provide redemption for his people. And so there are four miracles that are recorded for us from the time that Luke or that Jesus is on his way up to Jerusalem. And each of these miracles has some unique and some similar pieces to them, and they're all pointing toward a tremendous story that we're going to look at Lord willing next week, and that is the conversion of Zacchaeus. And I know that this is a story that we learned when we were children, and Zacchaeus is a wee little man, and he kind of been a sycamore tree, but you may not realize this, the conversion of Zacchaeus being recorded for us at this point in the book of Luke. is almost like the capstone for everything that Jesus has been demonstrating in these interactions of the people that he is he's he's miraculously healing And so it's not like Jesus only performed four miracles going up to Jerusalem. There were four of note that were important to the themes that Luke is trying to draw out as he tells us about what Christ did. And so I want us to go and I want us to just kind of notice some of the key features of those four miracles. The first miracle is Jesus taking an infirmed woman who is there in the synagogue on the Sabbath day and healing her. We read about that in Luke chapter 13. Now what's interesting about this story is that this woman does not cry out to Jesus. She doesn't say Have mercy on me, son of David. She doesn't say that. She's sitting there. And he goes to her He singles her out. He shows her mercy. And he does it on the Sabbath day to highlight the hypocrisy of the Pharisees. Very interesting miracle. And then when we turn to the next chapter, Luke chapter 14, he records a second miracle, and that is a man who has dropsy. And this man again, this is an example of someone who's healed again on the Sabbath day. And again, this man doesn't come to Jesus. Jesus singles him out. And this man is healed by Christ. And again, he highlights the hypocrisy of the Pharisees. And so they're having this argument about what right do you have to heal someone on the Sabbath day and Jesus is going, who has the right to heal on the Sabbath day? The Lord of the Sabbath. That's me. I'm the Creator. That's basically what those two miracles are demonstrating, beyond his mercy and his power and his kindness and his love and all of those things. But he seeks those people out, and it becomes a great confrontation. But the next two miracles are going to be different. Because Christ is not going to seek these people out. They're going to seek him out. And in Luke 17, we see that there are ten men. They are lepers and they are healed. But only one of those ten men comes back and says, thank you to Christ. And Luke takes the moment to say that man was a Samaritan. And there's something very significant about this. These men cry out for mercy, but only one comes back. And when Jesus heals this man and he says thank you, Jesus says, your faith hath made thee whole. That's different than the word heal. In fact, in the in the Greek text is actually the same word that we use for the word saved Interestingly, this fourth miracle is going to use the exact same term again. The same word that we use, saved. But in that passage, what is highlighted is that this man 's faith was the cause that connected him to salvation. The fourth miracle, the one we're going to look at this morning, is a blind man who cries out to Christ for mercy, and he's healed. And Christ again highlights how his faith hath made him whole. And there's something very fascinating that we're going to draw out of this, but we're not going to get there yet. I just want you to kind of sit on it. And know that when we come to that statement, there's a very important detail that you may not know that I think will be very helpful to understand why this man was seeking the Lord. It's because he was already saved. It's very interesting to note. But these miracles together, being followed up by the conversion of Zacchaeus, which the Lord willing to look at next week, they kind of form this illustration that God is merciful on the helpless. He has the power to save those who trust in the gospel. So with that in our minds, here is our summary for the text. Luke recorded the fourth miracle from Christ's ascent to Jerusalem to tie together Several important biblical themes that illustrate God's mercy on the helpless and his power to save those who believe in the gospel. He wants us to rejoice in this mercy and in this power. So the first thing we're going to do this morning is we're just going to look at the flow of the storyline. What do we see in this text of Scripture? Well, there are three words that really kind of give you the whole summation of what is talked about in these verses. The first word is the word misery. Can you see that? Yeah, now don't say it in a miserable way, but it's the word misery, okay? This beggar is crying out to God for mercy because he's in misery The second word is the word mercy. Christ's mercy. And that's going to be highlighted in the text I hate to say this, but I'm not going to alliterate the third one because I'm not Pastor Josh. I know he alliterated on a Wednesday night during the Bible study, but I don't do the alliteration thing as well as Pastor Josh does. But the third word is the word salvation. So we see these words misery, mercy, and salvation. This is kind of like the summation of this entire little interaction that Christ has with this beggar who is blind, crying out to him to have mercy on him and to heal him. So first of all, let's look at the mercy, or the excuse me, the misery of this beggar who is in crisis. The story setting begins in verse 35. It says, as he was coming nigh unto Jericho, these things happened. Now, Jericho, the Jericho that he's talking about here is not the Jericho that the walls fell down. because that city was completely decimated and never rebuilt. But this is another city named Jericho that would have been and the same general So as Jesus is going up into the mountains, up to Jerusalem, he comes to the city of Jericho. And then we see the characters that are in this particular story. Now notice it only talks about one person here, but if we look at the cross references and the other gospel accounts, it appears that there may have actually been more than one individual who is crying out for mercy. But only one is highlighted in this text because this is the one whose faith saved him. In verse 35, it says, a certain blind man sat by the wayside begging. If we go to Mark chapter 10, we see that his name was Bartimaeus. And then we go to Matthew chapter 20. It appears, same event, that there were two individuals, though only the one is highlighted in the map in the Mark and in the Luke accounts. Well the question is, what was his catalyst for crying out to Jesus? This is a blind man, so he obviously didn't see Jesus coming. He'd never seen Christ. He would have had no idea what Jesus looked like. Well, the catlass is found in verse 36. Because it says, hearing the multitude passing by, he asked what it meant. So here is this man, he's sitting at the gate of the city Jericho. And as he's sitting there, and obviously a blind person, They have to feel and they have to hear. That's how they're able to get around. He hears this commotion coming towards the city. And as as as these people are coming, he says, something's going on. So he says, hey, maybe he's even talking to the other blind guy. And maybe they're talking amongst themselves. We don't know who who he's talking to, but he says, hey, what's going on? They said, well, there's a man coming into the city. His name is Jesus of Nazareth. And I want you to notice what is stated in verses 37 and 38, and I want you to notice what is the same and what is different. There's a critical distinction between what the people said to the man versus what he said to Jesus. In verse 37 it says, they told him that Jesus of Nazareth passed by. So when they say Jesus of Nazareth, In the minds of these people, this is a carpenter. He grew up in Nazareth. He's worked in that place. He's an itinerant preacher who goes around and he preaches And he heals people, and maybe he is the Messiah, but he's simply Jesus of Nazareth. A part of the t a part of the area that was not really a very noble area. In fact, one of the disciples When his brother comes to him and he says, hey, I found the Messiah. He says, well, who is he? Where is he from? He's like, he's Jesus from Nazareth. He says, what good thing can come out of Nazareth? Nothing. He says, no, this is the one. But notice in verse 38 what the man says about Jesus. He says, Jesus, thou son of who? David, have mercy on me. Do you see the difference between those two things? One identifies this Jewish carpenter, the other recognizes he's Messiah. Now let me tell you something. The guys who told him Jesus of Nazareth, Nazareth is coming, didn't say Jesus the son of David. They said Jesus of Nazareth. But he knew who Christ was. Well, it's interesting as we see the setting of the story and the catlist that kind of brings us to a head, we can see that there's kind of a building tension here. And we see this when we look at the cross references to where this is narrated in other gospel accounts. And verse 39 it says, they which went before rebuked him that he should hold his peace, but he cried so much the more, Thou son of David, have mercy on me. Now in my view, as I read this text, I see that this is something that developed kind of slowly. And the reason I say this is notice how it's worded in some of the other gospel accounts In Luke 18, 35 to 43, it says, it came to pass that as he was come nigh into Jericho, we have this interaction. But when we go to Mark chapter 10, verse 46, it says They came to Jericho, and as he went out of Jericho, we have this statement. And then Matthew 20, verse 20, it says, Behold Two blind men sitting by the wayside, when they heard that Jesus passed by, cried out, saying, Have mercy on us, O Lord, thou son of David. Now, notice in Mark 10, it says they came into Jericho, and then it says they also went out of Jericho. And so you say, well, which one is it? The answer says both. So in your mind, understand, here is Christ. He's coming up to Jerusalem, and he goes into the city, and there's a lot of noise, and this blind man saying, hey, what's going on out here? And they said, hey, Jesus of Nazareth is coming into Jericho. And he's like, hold on a second. Jesus of Nazareth, that's the Messiah. That's the one who can heal the sick. That's the one who can give sight to the blind. That's the one who's done all these miracles. He's the Messiah. And so as Jesus goes into the city, and then Jesus comes out of the city, this man is crying out to him, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. And the people that are there say, get away. Does that sound familiar to anything we just read in the last couple weeks? Yes, it does. Because there were these people that were bringing their small children and they wanted Jesus to bless their children. And the disciples said, oh, get the kids away. We don't need the kids around here. And Jesus says, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Let them come. Unless you become like a little child, you won't enter the kingdom. Jesus welcomes these little kids, these helpless kids, these dependent children. He welcomes them to himself. And here in the same section of Christ working his way up to Jerusalem, we see another person who is helpless. This is not a child. This is a grown man, but he's blind. What I think is also very fascinating about one of the parallel passages is that when Jesus stops and sends somebody to get him, the man leaves his cloak. When he comes to Jesus. Very interesting. He knew what was going to happen. The next thing we see in this passage is that Christ shows mercy on the man. In verse 40 it says he stopped. Jesus stood and commanded him to be brought unto him. Verse 41, he asked him to communicate his need. He said, What wilt thou that I should do unto thee? Verse forty-one, he said, Lord, that I might receive my sight Isn't that kind of funny that Jesus asked a blind man what he wants? I mean it kind of makes sense like he's like, oh, I just want to make a lot of money. No, he said, I want to be able to see I want to be able to see. He made him identify that. That's very interesting to me. And so get this in your mind's eye. This group of people coming into Jerusalem. These beggars on the roadside crying out to Christ. They continue to cry as he's coming back out of the city. The people are saying, Leave him alone. Jesus stops and he says, No, bring the man here. Let me talk to him. The man leaves his coat, he comes to Jesus, and Jesus says, What do you need? What would you like me to do? I want to see And what does Christ do? Jesus said unto him, receive thy sight. Now, if we were teaching this to kids in Sunday school, we'd really emphasize Probably. I don't know. Maybe in our church we do a little different. But we would really emphasize how nice Jesus is. This man was blind his whole life. He could see, and we would be all excited about that. And that is a huge part of the story. I could not imagine. What it would be like to be in such a situation, to have been blind your whole life, and to now see. The closest I can identify to this is when we're missionaries in Ghana. And one day we had a car battery that I was I was charging in my office, and uh I went to to take it off a charge and a little spark came and it blew up in my face. And I had battery acid all over my face, all over my arms, all over my legs. And I was blind for a week. I could not see. And I remember. There's a lot of pain. And I remember in my in my mind going, what would happen if I can never see again? I guess a really terrifying thing to think about. But this man never saw. He never saw. And so we could focus in on the incredible joy that he would have experienced. And we could focus on the incredible mercy of Christ, which most certainly is there. We could focus in on the power of Christ, which is most certainly there. But you know what we also see here? We see salvation. Because there's another little piece that is being highlighted. And it was highlighted in the miracle before this one, and it's highlighted again in this second, or we could say the fourth of the four miracles. The beggar's face is highlighted. If you go back to the passage where the lepers were healed and the man comes back to Jesus, And Jesus says, weren't there ten? Where are the other nine? And he basically says, this man, your faith hath made you whole. He's saying you're saved. Because of your faith, we see the same kind of thing being emphasized in this text. In verse 42, it says, thy faith hath saved thee. And you can't see this in English necessarily, but this is actually a perfect tense Greek verb. Perfect tense has the idea of this is something that's already happened and you're now in this position. So it's not like Jesus is saying, hey, because you believed, now you're saved. It's more like You were already saved. That's why you said, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. Do you now understand the difference between this guy just being a beggar on the roadside who wants to get healing and a man who understands he wants to get healing, don't get me wrong, but he understands That Jesus is Messiah, he has already trusted in him, and that's why he's crying out to him In fact, I think it may even be likely that the leper in the passage before would have been in a very similar situation In other words, he is highlighting in this text not just the fact that the man has been saved, but he's been saved because of his faith And he's also highlighting the fact that this man understands who Jesus is, he's Messiah. All of this is being presented in the text. In verse 43, it says, once he was healed, what does he do? He immediately received his sight, and he went out and he got a job, right? He did. He followed Christ. That's what he did. He wanted to follow Jesus. Why did he want to follow Jesus? Because he knew who he was. He now had the physical ability to walk around with Jesus, to listen to his teaching, to see what he is doing. And by the way, he's following Christ just a couple days before he's going to be crucified. This is at the end of his ministry. But here's what's ironic. Here's a blind man who saw Jesus before he saw Jesus. You get that? He was a blind man who saw Jesus before he saw Jesus. He saw him as Messiah before he saw him as my healer. And that is what is being highlighted in this passage. Immediately he receives his sight. He follows him. He glorifies God. The last thing that is stated in this little section is that when the people saw the miracle, they praised God. It says all the people, when they saw it, gave praise unto God. So that's the storyline. Such a simple passage of scripture. It's something we could we could teach to a child on that basic level. Here are the details. Here's why I cried out. Here's what he said. Here's why he said that. Here's what Jesus does. Here's why Jesus healed him. Here's why he was saved. All of those things can be highlighted in just a simple storyline. Second thing I want us to notice, though, is how God's mercy and power are demonstrated in the significance of this event. And how this event plays part in his going up to Jerusalem. Now I want us to kind of step back and I want us to kind of look at this in perspective, not just the details of that story. But why Luke puts that story in that place in the book of Luke? Here's where we've been over the last several weeks. We looked at the parable of the publican and the Pharisee. And if you remember back to that passage of scripture, here is Jesus who's looking at people, and he knows that these people trust in themselves. that they are righteous and they despise other people. And so what does he do? He tells a story of these two men who go up into the temple. One is a publican, which ironically Zacchaeus is a publican. And so is Matthew, a publican. He highlights how a publican goes into the temple. Someone who all of the people in the temple would have said, you don't belong here. And he knew it. And a Pharisee stands up and he says, I'm not like this guy. And he gives all the reasons that God should accept him and all of the reasons that God should be impressed with him. And all of the reasons he's better than that man. And what does that man do? He simply falls on his face and he says, God be merciful to me a sinner. And what does Jesus say? That man went to his house justified. That was the first thing we talked about in the section. The second thing we saw was how the children were forbidden to come to Christ. And here are all these people that say, hey, we're adults. He should be dealing with us. He's a rabbi. He's a leader. He's a miracle worker. Maybe he's even the Messiah. He doesn't have time for these little kids. But they were wrong. And Jesus says, let them come. Let them come. Unless you become like one of them. You won't enter the kingdom. Until you recognize you're unworthy. Until you recognize it's purely my grace and my invitation that you can come to me, you can't do it. And so he takes that little moment to highlight, a teaching moment, salvation begins with humility and dependence. The third thing we see is a wealthy ruler who approaches Christ right after these things. And this man is a blind man, not physically blind, he's spiritually blind. And how do we know that? Because the first thing he says is, good master, what good thing can I do to inherit the kingdom? And Jesus says, why do you call me good? There's nobody good. You know the commandments. He says I've kept them all. Okay. There's one you forgot. Go sell everything you have, come and follow me. Why did Jesus do that? To highlight that this man needed to repent of his self-righteousness and humble himself and say, God be merciful to me a sinner. Quit trusting in your own filthy rags of righteousness and trust in the righteousness of Jesus. And that's what's being highlighted. Do you see how there's a progression? Do you see how these are all connected together? Fourthly, after Jesus is reflecting on this interaction with this ruler, he makes a fascinating statement He says it is impossible for a rich man to enter the kingdom. And he uses this little parable. He says it's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom. The disciples say, well, but it's impossible. He says, hey, with man it's impossible, but with God, all things are possible. You know what's really interesting? Every one of these interactions is going to come to a head with Zacchaeus, a publican, a rich man. It's all going to come to a head. This is just a piece of that. What is impossible with man is possible with God. So what were the applications that Jesus gave in this section? Well, the man who said, God be merciful to me a sinner, he is the one that went to his house justified, not the one who was trusting in his own righteousness. The children should have been permitted to come to Christ because one cannot enter the kingdom unless he becomes like a little child. Why do you call me good? Nobody's good but God. He's the standard, not us. It's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than a rich man to enter the kingdom. What's impossible with men is possible with God. These two illustrations that are going to be at the end of this interaction, they demonstrate mercy and power. One man's physical blindness is reversed to provide a context to highlight his faith. He could not see in one sense he had already seen despite his inability to see in another sense. In fact, you know what's really interesting? We go to the book of John, this is a different blind man that was healed, but very similar. Because when Jesus was talking to the Pharisees about this healing, he said, if you'd have been blind, you'd be able to see. But because you can see, you're blind. What's he saying? He's saying you don't have the ability to see spiritually because you are so filled with self-righteousness, it has blinded you. And this man who is a humble man can see what you can't. That's what's being highlighted Another man's spiritual blindness is stunningly reversed. Zacchaeus, he was morally bankrupt, yet God saved him. He was materially wealthy, yet he is saved by God. And so I move to a third part. The basic components of how a person is converted are all illustrated in this story. I want you to notice them one by one. The first is this. You cannot be saved unless you have a right view of Jesus. You have to go from seeing him as Jesus of Nazareth to Jesus the son of David. You have to see who he is. Now for for a lot of us today, you know, we we don't that that doesn't mean as much to us as it would have meant in those days. But when he says, Jesus, thou son of David, he's indicating that you are the promised one, the one that was promised to Abraham, to Isaac, to Jacob, to David, to his descendants. You're the promised one. You cannot be saved until you see who Jesus is. He's not just an ordinary man. He's the Savior. He's the one and only Savior. He's Emmanuel. He's God in flesh. And this man saw it and he communicated it. Though he was blind. He saw it as a blind man, physically, but not spiritually. The second thing we see is this. You have to have a right view of self. It's not that just that you understand who Jesus is, but you understand who you are. You cannot become a believer until you come to the end of yourself and recognize I'm not the standard. I'm not the one who has the right to walk into the temple and say, God, look at all the things that I do and look at all the things that I don't do and thank goodness I'm not like that person over there. You know me. You should accept me. No, no, no, no, no. That's not how it works Until we see ourselves as that destitute beggar whose righteousness is filthy rags, we cannot be saved. Salvation comes to those who see Jesus as he is, who see self as we are. Thirdly, who are willing to face our fundamentally greatest need. I think it's so interesting. Jesus asked the blind man, what do you want? And you know what he said? I want to see. It's like a person who understands who Christ is. He's Messiah. They understand what he did. He died for our sins. He rose from the dead. I understand who I am. I am a sinner who is separated from God. I am morally, spiritually bankrupt. There's nothing I can give to God. And he says, what do you want me to do? And you say, be merciful to be a sinner. Save me from my sin. Make me your child. Give me eternal life. I have to be willing to desire such a thing. Not just I want some physical thing to be fixed in my life, or I want everything to be set in order so that I have a smooth and easy life. No, I want to be saved from my sin, the greatest need that I have. You know why the man didn't say that you would save me? Because he already was. He already was. The spiritual was dealt with. He needed physical healing And he knew who Jesus was and he knew he could do it. Fourthly, a willingness to trust. Those who are willing to take God at his word. And respond to this message by simple, humble trust are the ones he saves. This man didn't do anything to contribute to his healing. He didn't. He had no power. He didn't go to a doctor and say, hey, do the best for me that you can. God helps those who help themselves. He didn't say that He says, God, have mercy on me. I want to be healed. And he does it all. It is his power, it is his grace, it is his mercy, it is his love And that's what salvation is. God does all the work. We do all the trust in. We trust in what he did. We take him at his word. We realize that he receives sinners. He saves people who have absolutely no right, no basis to come into his presence, save the work of Christ. He receives them. And we see this communicated in the text. The last thing I'll mention that I think is communicated here is the transforming power of the gospel. What is the first thing that the man does? He follows Jesus. You follow Jesus after you've been saved. You don't follow Him to become saved. He already knew who Christ was. He'd already been saved. He followed Jesus because now He has the ability to do it. And folks, when a person trusts Christ, you know what he does? He transforms that person. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away, all things are become new. Ephesians 2, 8-10. By grace are you saved through faith, not of yourselves, as a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. For we are his workmanship. creating Christ Jesus unto good works, which God's before ordained that we should walk in that. And so what does God do? He saves us all of his grace, by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, and then he starts working on He starts shaping us into the people he wants us to be. He's doing this work of maturing in us. And it's something that could not happen if we were not saved from our sins. And so what does this man do? He begins to follow Christ with great joy in his heart. And that's what we should do as Christians. If we have trusted in him as our Savior, we should follow him as our Lord. We should surrender and submit our lives to him. We should walk in ways that are consistent with his purposes. We should live like the people that we are. Whenever the Bible appeals to the Christian, he always appeals from who you are. Wake up and see who you are. Live like it. That's what he always does. And so we see these illustrated in the passage. So that moves me to the final question. How do we apply it? How do we take this text of Scripture, such a short, such a simple passage? Set in such a prominent position in this movement of Christ up to Jerusalem to be crucified and to rise from the dead. How do we apply it? Well, I want to apply it by asking you some questions that I want you to think about. The first question that I have is this. How do you view Christ? Is he the one and only Savior? Is he God in flesh? Did he really come and really die for your sins and rise from the dead? Is he the one and only Savior who can bring you to the Father? Or are you still looking for another? Are you still trusting in another? Are you blowing off what the Word of God says about Christ? You cannot be saved from your sins unless you accept who Christ is. As many as received him, to them he gave the right to be called the children of God. Second question. How do you view yourself? There are lots of people who are very religious, and if you ask them who is Jesus, they give you the right answer. They really do. But when it comes to how they see themselves, that's where the problem is. They view themselves as good, moral, upright. If you were to ask them why should God accept you, they say, Well, I'd give you 20 reasons why God should accept me. I've been baptized, I read the Bible, I do good to people, and they list all these things that they do for God. And guess what? That's the problem. That was the Apostle Paul before he became a Christian. He says the things I counted as gain to me These I counted lost for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord. And I count them but dung that I may win Christ. Found in him not having my own righteousness, but the righteousness of God by faith. How do you view yourself? Are you willing to come to terms with the fact that the Bible says you're a sinner? Your righteousness is filthy rags. You don't have a right to come to God. He's got to bring you into his own presence through the work of Christ. How do you view yourself? Third question. Are you willing to honestly accept what Scripture says about your lost condition? There are lots of people when you talk to them, you know that they know what is true. But to get them to say that, that's the problem. It's like somebody that every time you've ever had a conflict with them and it comes comes to the point where you'd expect them to say, I'm sorry, and you say I'm sorry, and then it's all resolved. There's never, I'm sorry I was wrong. It's always like, well, you know, it's really unfortunate things work out the way that they did. And you're like, it seems like every time we end up here, there's never an acknowledgement of wrong. And you go, do they understand that there was a problem? Do they know it? The problem isn't what's going on in their head. It's what they're willing to verbalize. I'm not willing to say it's true. And there are a lot of people that you know what keeps them out of the kingdom? This distance right here. What's going on here versus what's going on here? A willingness to come to terms with the fact that I'm a sinner, I'm separated from a holy God, and if it's not for his work on my behalf, I have nothing. I admit who I am. God be merciful to me a sinner. Are you willing to honestly accept what the Scripture says about your lost condition? Does your life bear the marks of a life that's been transformed by the gospel's power? You know, not every Christian is equally wise and not every Christian is equally Christ-like in the way they live. Like if I go to an orange tree and I pick off a hundred oranges. Well, not my orange tree, but if I go I'm I'd pick off three off my orange tree, right? They're all gonna be oranges, but they're all gonna be the same size. They're not gonna be equally sweet, but they're oranges. The truth is as Christians we ought to be Christians who really live distinct. And our lives bear the true marks of being new creatures in Christ. That we are growing. in this life that God has given us by His grace. So I encourage you, let's delight in the mercy and grace of God. Let's celebrate his power. Let's realize that this is the same God that saved your soul. The same mercy , same power. We see so many parallels to where we are today. Let's bow for prayer. Before I close in prayer, every head bowed, every eye closed, and ask a simple question. Is there someone here this morning that would say Joel, I I really don't know for certain that I'm saved. You've mentioned understand who Jesus is, I understand who he is, you understood mentioning who I am, I understand that. But I don't know that I've ever really responded to the gospel. I want to give you an opportunity to do that. If you don't know the Lord Jesus as your Savior, you need to talk to someone. I want you to come and speak with me. Is there anyone here that this morning say, Pastor, I don't know for certain that I'm saved. I need to speak with you. Just quietly raise up your hand. I'm not going to call you out. I'm not going to make you come up here right now. I'm simply going to make a note of it so that I can try to speak with you about it. Anyone like that? Anyone like that at all? You might say, Joe, I'm not raising my hand, but I need to speak with you. No problem. Send me an email. Through the church office, send an email, go to the website, fill out the contact us form, give me your contact information, I'll reach out to you. Send us a Facebook message. Send a note through through YouTube if you're watching the service online. And I will get back with you as quickly as possible. Don't leave this moment without coming to terms with how you can be saved. Let's bow together for prayer. Our Father, we thank you for your word. It's power to change us. And I thank you for this passage that reminds us of your mercy and your power. And what takes place in the heart of a person who has seen who you are. who has seen who they are and who comes to terms with that turning to you. If there's anyone here that does not know you as Savior, I pray that today would be the day of salvation I pray for those who are saved. I pray that we would delight in our Savior. We would live consistent with the position that we have before you. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.