Morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And uh this is the final episode that we're going to do on Psalm twenty-nine. And uh tomorrow the plan is to uh do a bonus episode. And so if you watched our Wednesday night service or you were here with for a saying Wednesday night service we're going to talk a little bit about the content of what we discussed on Wednesday night. But if you could, let's all turn back together to Psalm 29 And uh we're going to read this again and then we're going to focus on the last portion of the psalm, which is I think probably the sweetest and most encouraging portion of this psalm. It says, Give unto the Lord, O ye mighty, give unto the Lord glory and strength Give unto the Lord the glory due unto his name. Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. The voice of the Lord is upon the waters. The God of glory thundereth. The Lord is upon many waters. The voice of the Lord is powerful, the voice of the Lord is full of majesty. The voice of the Lord breaketh the cedars, ye the Lord breaketh the cedars of Lebanon. He maketh them also to skip like a calf Lebanon and Syrian like a young unicorn. The voice of the Lord divideth the flames of fire, the voice of the Lord shaketh the wilderness, the Lord shaketh the wilderness of Kadesh. The voice of the Lord mak Make it the Heimste calf, discovereth the forest And in this temple doth everyone speak of his glory. The Lord sitteth upon the flood, ye the Lord sitteth king forever. The Lord will give strength unto his people. The Lord will bless his people with peace. Now, as we've been reading through these verses, what we're seeing is a powerful display of God's authority. authority, his might, his terror. And so yesterday we talked about the fact that because of God's nature, character, who he is. We are compelled to worship him. We should reverence him. We should recognize he is worthy of our worship Well, this this morning, what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to look at this last little section because it captures a piece of worship that's very important. I want to give you the illustration of someone who is in political authority. Maybe you could say like a president or a vice president or someone who is the governor of a state. We recognize that that there is tremendous authority in those offices. And so we we show respect to those people who are in those official positions. primarily because of the authority that is vested in them because of the position that they have. But just because we honor the office or maybe show honor to the person in the office does not mean that we necessarily believe that they have commendable character or we would look at them with affection and love because of the kind of people that we are well that they are. We could look at someone and say, I ascribe uh the authority to you that you have, but I don't necessarily have an affection for you because your character is not good and not noble. Well one of the things that we're going to see in these verses is that the God who is a God of infinite power and wisdom and majesty and authority, is a God who takes interest in us on a very personal basis. And so the same God who can literally tear apart these these massive cedars of Lebanon in a thunderstorm, and he reigns as the king over the th the flood, this same God Cares about you. And we see that in verse number 11. Notice what it says. It says, the same God, the Lord who sits king forever, is the Lord who will give strength. unto his people, and the Lord who will bless his people with peace. Those two little statements, he's going to strengthen his people, and he's going to bless his people with peace, are what I want to focus in on this morning. That is really the most powerful expression of God's nature in the Psalm. It's not the thunderstorm. It's not the heavens declaring the glory of God. It's the fact that God cares about sinners. Think about what it says in Ephesians chapter 2. It says that we once were dead in trespasses and sins. In times past, we walked according to the course of this world. We lived according to the lust of our flesh, and we were by nature the children of wrath. But God who is rich in mercy loved us. Think about that for a moment. That's really where the psalmist is taking the the the last portion of this psalm. He's saying, The great God who made everything, who thunders with might and power is the same God who loves you as an individual. He desires to personally strengthen you, and he's going to bless you, his person, with peace. That's what he is saying. And so let's kind of em let's kind of notice those two little pieces together for a few minutes and reflect on that because I think that this will be very encouraging to us. So let's take the first piece. The Lord will give strength. When we talk about God giving his strength, we've got to recognize that God gives his strength through some very personal means that are available to us. Think about what the psalmist says in Psalm 42, verse 11. He says, Why art thou cast down on my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him who is the health of my countenance and my God. Now when David is is writing these verses, he's discouraged. He's cast down, he needs strength. And he calls himself to think upon the God who strengthens and sustains him. And he says, He is the health of my countenance, and he is my God. So how does God do this? How does God strengthen us in the inner man? Well, one of the ways that he does it is through the providential guidance that he gives us. Romans chapter eight verse twenty eight says that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. So God takes everything in the life of the Christian And he moves it to an end that ultimately redounds to God's glory and for the good of the individual that God is working in. And ultimately that purpose is to shape us into the image of Christ. Something that strengthens us. We know that God is sovereign, that He rules, that He is providentially at work in our lives. Another way is that God strengthen us strengthens us through His people. In Galatians chapter 6, Paul writes that we are to bear one another's burdens and so fulfill The law of Christ. Well what does God do is he calls us to obey him by bearing one another's burdens, and as we actively do that, we are the hands and we are the mouth that God uses to encourage and to strengthen and to serve. his people. Or think about another example of how the Holy Spirit works in our heart to strengthen us in the inner man. Rom Romans chapter 8, verse 15, it says, We've received the Spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba Father. The Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit that we are the children of God. And so the Holy Spirit who indwells us as Christians in moments where We are discouraged and we are frustrated and we are weighed down and we we question for just a moment that we are God's children whom he dearly loves, the Holy Spirit. takes the word of God and he impresses that upon our hearts and he reminds us we are his children. We can cry out to him, Abba Father. The last thing I'm going to mention is that he does it through the scriptures. The Spirit of God takes the word of God and he presses it upon our hearts. In Psalm 119, verse 71, it says, It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn of thy statutes. Thy law, the law of thy mouth is better to me than a thousands of gold and silver. What is the psalmist expressing? He's expressing that God's word is what It's what tells him, look, when you've been afflicted and you've gone through hardship, it drove us to the Word of God. The Word of God got into us, and what does God do? He strengthens us through his word. So that's the first side. That's a very personal thing. God demonstrates in a very tangible way that he loves us, that he cares about us, that we are his children, that we actually matter to him when he comes alongside of us and he strengthens us through those various means. But the second aspect of this, I think, is even more profound, and that's the statement that the Lord will bless his people with Peace. Now when we talk about peace, I don't know where your mind goes with this, but out of all the different, we could say, categories of peace that we read about in the Bible The category that is the absolute most important is the one I want to start with, and that is that we have peace with God. What I mean by that, and what the scripture means by that, is that we who were once enemies to God have been reconciled to God through the death of his son. Romans chapter 5, verse 1, it says it this way. He says, being justified by his grace, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Peace with God. Very important statement. You are accepted by God. There's no more condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. because of the redemptive work of Christ. The second peace that's talking about is not a peace with God, but it's an internal peace that's available to a person's conscience because of what the cross has accomplished for them. Here's what it says in Romans chapter 9, verse 13. He says, if the blood of bulls and goats and the ashes of an heifer are sprinkling uh sprinkling the unclean, sanctify to the puring uh purifying of the flesh. How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works? to serve the living God. Isn't that a great statement? So he's not just talking about us having peace with God, but he's talking about how that peace with God that's accomplished through the redemptive work of Christ is something that can give us peace within. I can know, I can be certain that I'm accepted by God, I'm right with God, I can have a pure and clean conscience because of the redemptive work of Christ. There's a third aspect, and this is also very, very significant, and that is peace with others. One of the things that we struggle with in a fallen world is that we are sinners. Our neighbors are sinners, our spouses are sinner, our children are sinners, our parents are sinners, people we go to church with are sinners, your pastor is a sinner, the people in our congregation uh they are sinners. And because of that, we have all these tensions that can begin to develop between us because we are fallen creatures in a fallen world. This is what it says in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 14. He is our peace, who hath reckoned who hath made both one and hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us, having abolished the enmity in the flesh. And this says that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by the cross. Therefore you are no more strangers and for us for for for foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints and of the household of God. Whenever the scripture appeals to things like forgiveness and forbearance and patience with other Christians, it is always connected back to the gospel. And so it's not just peace with God and peace within, it's peace with others. The last peace that I want to mention is the peace that never ends. It's an everlasting peace. And in Isaiah chapter 9, verses 6 to 7, when it talks about the Messiah, he puts it this way. He says, Unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government shall be on his shoulders, and his name shall be called wonderful. Counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, and that next statement's important. The Prince of Peace, of the increase of his government, and peace there shall be no end. And so it's not just that we have peace with God and peace within and peace with our fellow neighbor, but we have peace eternal. because of the redemptive work of Christ. And so when we look at Psalm 29, what we're seeing is this vivid picture of God's power And his might. And the natural response to that kind of power and might is is terror. It's worship. It's recognizing with reverence and awe the God that we serve. But the most powerful demonstration of God's character is not in the thunderstorm. It's in the cross. It's in what was accomplished for our redemption. So you may say, well Joel, what what can we take away from this? Well, there's a lot that we could take away from it, but I want to focus in on a couple of things that I hope will be important uh very helpful to you today. The first is this, today, this morning, what we're remembering Is that the same God who sits as king over the fiercest storm, who is infinitely wise, just and good, he pursues you. A sinner who has absolutely no basis within yourself, I don't have any basis within myself, to be able to stand in the presence of such a holy and righteous God. Yet he comes to us. And he has established by his love and by his grace and through the cross full forgiveness of sins, a righteous position in Christ. freedom from condemnation, a full acceptance in the beloved, and an eternally secured position, an inheritance with the saints. That there is nothing that can take this from you and from me if we are in Christ. That's what this is all about. That is rich and practical and encouraging. Number three His motive was it some deficiency in him. It wasn't something that he needed. He didn't say, Oh, I really need somebody to do my work for me. So I'm going to find somebody. Or, you know, I have this emptiness within and I've got to find somebody to fill that emptiness. That's not why God pursued us. It wasn't because of a need or deficiency in him He is holy and pure and he's dependent on no one. The reason that God comes to us is his pure grace. It is infinite, it is free, it is full, it is rich, it is pure. God's grace and his goodness is the source of such an action. Not his need and not his deficiency because he has none. And the last thing I'm going to mention Is that this amazing God, who is robed in righteousness and is more holy than anything you and I could ever imagine in this world, he invites us into his presence and says, I want to commune with you. I want you to know me personally. I want you to be strengthened by me personally. I want to fellowship with you as my child. That's what God offers to you this morning. That's what he offers to me. He doesn't offer it to us because of our deserving it or earning it. He offers it to us because he's good. And the basis has been established through the work of Christ. I hope that this has been an encouraging psalm for you this week. I have really enjoyed studying it. I've enjoyed teaching it. I've enjoyed rehashing it. And I hope that you have enjoyed learning from it as well. Lord willing, tomorrow we're going to have our bonus episode. And so I hope that you can join us for that. Hope that you have a great rest of your day and a great weekend when we get to the weekend. Bye now.