Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a new week and another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And the passage that we're looking at this morning is Luke chapter 11. And we're reading verses 33 through 36 together. And so we're going to read the passage. I'm going to give you a summary statement, a couple of thoughts. And then just kind of leave that as an introduction for our week. And I hope that as we work our way through this passage of scripture, you'll find it to be extremely encouraging. It'll motivate you. It'll be an encouragement, challenge. And so let's read it together. Luke chapter eleven, verses thirty-three to thirty-six. No man, when he hath lighted a candle, put it in a secret place, neither under a bushel, but on a candlestick That they which come in may see the light. The light of the body is the eye. Therefore, if thine eye is single, thy whole body is full of light But when thine eye is evil, thy body is full of darkness. Take heed, therefore, that the light which is in thee be not darkness. If thy whole body therefore be full of light, having no part dark, the whole shall be full of light, as when the bright shining of the candle doth give thee light. Now if you remember back to last week Um the emphasis was uh mostly a negative emphasis, and the idea is that it was a folly, it was foolishness for a person who has access to tremendous amounts of grace. uh tremendous amounts of information that they would reject that light, that they would reject what is available to them. Well, this is going to continue in the same stream of thought. However, it's going to look at it from a more positive standpoint and I almost said a positive light using a pun there. Um and the idea is that while we looked at the negative last week, we're looking at the fact that underlying Uh God's giving of truth to people, giving them access to the truth, underlying the underlining that, the foundation of that, is God's desire for people to know him and to walk with him and to enjoy him and to be brought into relationship with him when they have been separated from him by their sin. And so a simple summary of these verses is that God loves people. And because he loves them, he has purposefully provided them opportunity to have access to truth. And in these verses, truth is the light. However, he warns people that there are devastating consequences if someone does not have a heart for truth and is apathetic to the truth. I mean what God's showing us in these verses is that we need to have a tender heart toward truth. We need to embrace the truth. We need to long for the truth. We need to love the truth. And this past week on uh the the 2nd of February, um, I was reading a passage of Scripture, Proverbs chapter 2. And as I was drawing down in my little journal what that passage is emphasizing, I think it really fits well with what we will be talking about this week. In Proverbs chapter 2, and I'm summarizing it, not using the exact language of the text, but the idea is he says, My son, if you will receive my words. And if you will incline your heart, if you'll apply your heart, if you'll cry after knowledge, if you'll seek her as silver, search for her as hidden treasure, then you will understand the fear of the Lord. And then you will find the knowledge of God, because the Lord gives wisdom and understanding. Now, those verses in Proverbs chapter 2 are emphasizing that a person who has the wisdom of God and has understanding and is able to see um the things of life clearly is a person who seeks after wisdom and applies their heart and inclines their ear. It's a person who is willing to dig. And that really is at the heart of what Jesus is emphasizing in Luke chapter 11. The person who loves the truth and longs for the truth is a person who gets more truth. And a person whose heart is apathetic toward it is a person who is going to become dull and complacent and ultimately will lose what they have. And so that's where we're going this week. I hope that as we go through this study, your prayer will be, God, give me a heart that longs for truth, that loves the truth, that wants to know you, that is willing to submit to you. That's what our prayer should be this week, and that will be the focus of our study. So please join us this week. Perhaps pass this along to another person who can be encouraged by it. And uh my prayer is that as we work our way through the passage, our heart will be strengthened with an intense desire to know the Lord, to walk with him. and that he will uh open our understanding so that we will be men and women of integrity, of wisdom, and who can truly help others and can walk with a healthy heart. Have a blessed start to your week and Lord willing tomorrow we will uh dig into this passage with our second episode. Bye now.