When the hollow storms of God and fear us still, by the living word of God I shall prevail. But the emphasis is in fact slightly different. Whether in the way that we communicate with one another, most certainly the way that we live as we leave this place. But you know what usually wakes me up? It's because he loves us. He says, so that we might lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness. You can't believe unless you hear the truth. And so we regularly do this all the time. I went to a specialist and had to pay an extra price because I was a foreigner and all that kind of stuff and eventually got the care I needed. I can't make you do right, you can't make me do right, I can't make my spouse do right, and she can't make me do right, I can't make my kids do right. And so in John 16, verse 8, it says that he, the Spirit of God, will reprove. I'm like doing this thing over here, you know? And read the text. Push it away. First Timothy four one, the spirit speaketh this freshly in the latter times. Well, to put it in the simplest way I can, God wants you to have a tender heart toward His Word. Teens need to sign out. And they had some fun games, some great food, and they enjoyed some good preaching. Explaining some games of some things that seem odd, just ask him about it. And if you become a youth pastor, you get to go over and over and over again. I have rejoiced in the way of thy testimonies as much as in all riches. Standing on the promises of God, standing, standing, standing on the promises of God, my standard, standing, standing. will be found in the Gospel of Luke, chapter 11, Luke chapter 11, verses 33 through 36. together. Complete and deep, oh shall I break that connect within Libra to free and I shall stand and very soft to your word. And I pray that you would use it to accomplish your purposes in our life. And so his emphasis in the Sermon on the Mount is that as light, don't try to hide your light. The simple fact is that God wants us to have a heart that is tender to truth. to our services is that preaching is supposed to get down into the heart and it's supposed to motivate us to express worship to God, whether in song So the first thing I want you to notice in the text in front of us is found in verse 33, and it is that God has revealed himself because he loves people. He's seen how we relate to other people. And I want you to see it in the text. in a place where it benefits those that you want to have access to the light. And as soon as church starts, we just shut off the lights and we say, well, we're just going to sit here in the dark and we're going to do church. And so what he's emphasizing is that a person who's not a Christian, when they open up the Bible and they read it, they're just not going to understand the significance of those truths. This is emphasizing the goodness of God's intent behind the giving. I was like, oh, I need to I need to take that thing off of charge. Now we tend to think, oh, somebody is hungry and now he's given them food. The counsel of the Most High. And how you will know that those people are believers is there's going to be a new spirit put in their heart. He says, I'm going to take away the stony heart out of your flesh, and I will give you a heart of flesh, and put my spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statues, and ye shall keep my judgments and do them. And there's motivation instead of resistance and resistance and rebellion and dishonesty and concealing things. And we begin to think less like a Christian and more like we did before we were saved. You start you you make decisions differently. which have not the law do by nature the things contained in the law. their conscience bearing witness. The things like the disciples and the apostles you know, the Apostle Paul and all those kinds of things, they start going, I don't think there's any other logical way to explain this other than Jesus really came, he really died, he really rose from the dead, and this confirms what was talked about hundreds and hundreds of years ago in the Old Testament. But I remember what it was like to sit in these kinds of sessions when I was a teenager. If you just need to spend time alone reflecting on what the Lord has teaching you, do it. Take the time to learn what God's teaching you. You know, every season of life has has good and it has bad. And then seeking God's strength, tell him, God, I want to do this. To ask those probing questions, what does this mean? our hearts. Just so thankful for everything you've done for us, Lord. My born his anger news at last. We thank you for a pastor that preaches the the word. That we won't be a beacon for you to say that there's a difference in us, that they there is something they want and that they need, and give us the opportunity to be able to And if you did not receive a welcome packet when you came in, hope that you'll get one of those at the end of the service from the welcome desk. And if you'd like us to reach out to you during the week, please take a moment to fill out one of the connection cards and put that in the box in the back and we'll try to set up a time to meet with you. open with our opening scripture. Sportsman's Banquet, Senior Luncheon, the next men's grill are all there to be signed up. And I think God uses camp because they're separated from so many distractions that we have today. I better open our service with some scripture in Psalm 119, starting with verse 5. Encourage us where we may be discouraged, uplift us where we need that. The solid rock. But I think that one I think uh whatever sort of I have to make the games or whatever needs to be No drinking much Well screw just like it's mine and my friend No greater dune than thy name of the Matthew five through seven. is light. to be concealed because by virtue of it being light in the darkness and by virtue of where it is on a hill, everybody can see it. He wants them to have the capacity to be able to understand truth and to respond to that truth and then to live in the light of that truth and to be transformed by the truth. Because he's not only emphasizing the fact that he gives light, and he gives it for a reason, but you and I respond to the light that we have access to. He wants you to have a heart that is embracing truth, that loves truth, that wants to know God. neither under a bushel, but on a candlestick, that they which come in may see the light. But God loves people. You know why I get up so early in the winter? So get up really early in the morning, go down there, get that fire going. Because I have a purpose. This is why they do not cover the light when they put it on. He's got a reason. Verse 30, 31, and 32. This next statement is very significant. And the only way that people stumbling in the darkness can walk in the light is if they are rescued by the Lord Jesus Christ through his death, burial, and That's why the scriptures say that God is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And he takes what is stated in Luke chapter 11 that God lights the world for a reason. And God has exposed you to the light by his grace. through you. God commanded the light to shine out of darkness. Because there is something preliminary that's foundational that is the first piece to them being able to understand and comprehend all these other truths. And and it was it was great. I didn't unplug it first. anymore. It's like you can see things so clearly. It is growing, it is maturing, they're becoming more and more like Christ. The fault is not the environment and it's not the access that you have the truth. is expressing to God words like, I hunger for the truth, I long for the truth, I love the truth. It's something we check off on a list. And a new spirit will I put within you. it. Because when you read a parable, I ask you this question, do you immediately understand it? And he says, all right, you have no heart for the truth, I won't give you more information. And they understood. But you would be absolutely amazed how many times what they're saying conforms to what the Bible says. Unto them that are defiled and unbelieving is nothing pure. We hear it and just like it's like it like we didn't even hear it. Now I've got to say this, this is kind of interesting. truth so they could take the word and show them who Jesus is, what Jesus has done, and why it matters to them personally. I will respond to your email, okay? I want to encourage you, if you're here this morning and you do not know the Lord as your Savior, and you maybe you've been coming to church for twenty years and you don't know if the Lord is your Savior. Give it down for me and pay the price of all my gifts and doubt for me for me. a business meeting after the service. And keep us safe and free and be able to come and read our read your word, Lord. Good morning. Uh to purchase the tickets you will need to reach out to First Baptist Church of Calvert County there and having to pay through them. CAMP is always a good opportunity to get young people. that invest in lives to change them for the rest of their life and and impact in eternity. I will delight myself in thy statutes. With my whole heart have I sought thee. Help us to understand the weight of these truths, and as we think about how to practically live in the light of Scripture, I pray that you would work in our hearts. I pray that today would be a sweet day of Christ-centered worship and encouragement, and we ask all this in Christ's name. but on a candlestick, that they which come in may see the light. But when thine eye is evil, thy body is also full of darkness. 397. Eating every day, still bringing as I would found, for when I feel like I crown, me all be given by my own. I since that my poor is no more than me, I have no more complaints me, anyway, over the fly. And people are like on sort of expansion. No light can shine so fright as the ball makes no My law, why can I come together to that king of The whole shall be full of light, as when the bright shining of a candle doth give thee light. May we see that your word, in fact, it is good, and it is sweet to the soul, and it gives light to the understanding. And in fact, you love us very much, and that is why you have given us access to truth. However, he warns us of the devastating consequences of a heart that is apathetic to the truth. Now, this statement that is made in Luke chapter 11 is also recorded in the Sermon on the Mount. Why does God send light to people? God loves people and really at the heart of him choosing to reveal himself to people is his love for people. your heart for the truth or your heart against the truth is either going to help you to see things clearer or it's going to dull your ability to see. Now, God has a lot of reasons to not love people, just to be very frank. If you light a candle, you do it for a reason. In the same way, God gives us truth. Somebody designed and put all these lights here, didn't they? of the Gentiles, that thou shouldest be for the salvation unto the ends of the earth. hath shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God and the face of Jesus Christ. and resurrection through them being regenerated by the power of the Spirit of God and by the Holy Spirit indwelling them and causing them, impressing them, and motivating them and moving them to walk in the light. Acts chapter 13, verse 47. Now that statement, I love it, because it's almost like it's taking the intent of what Jesus said in Matthew chapter 5, that you are the light of the world. He says, how can they believe on him whom they've not heard? The natural man does not understand the things of the Spirit of God. That first piece is the gospel. That's single. Therefore, when thine eye is single, and he's not talking about somebody being single versus being married, okay? Is there anybody in this room who has ever experienced what it was like to be blind for a period of time? It was a really disheartening feeling. It's their eyes. He says, if your eye is evil, then thy body also is full of darkness. If someone has a properly functioning eye, they can see things clearly as they are. You have a person who has the ability to see. A heart that says yes, a heart that submits, a heart that embraces, a heart that loves and longs, and a heart that says no. Psalm 107, verses 8 through 11. He satisfieth the longing soul. Such as hid in darkness and in the shadow of death, being bound in affliction and iron, because they rebelled against the words of God and contemned the counsel of the Most High. They are slaves, and the reason is because they rebelled against the Word of God. Psalm 119, 97, O how love I thy law, it is my meditation all the day long. So if a person's not a Christian, what is the Holy Spirit doing? He's incapable of living the Christian life. Sin, conviction of sin. And the fear of the Lord, what does it do? Had walked away from God, he's going to regenerate people. It's an amazing passage of scripture. I want to know God. And you say, well, am I just like a little more dense than everybody else? And if you want to know what they're saying, you're going to think about it. And the illustration, he's saying if someone can see, they need to guard against losing that ability. And so Christ is saying in his illustration, if someone can see, they need to guard against losing that ability. Everybody has certain basic information that they're responsible to respond to. God hath showed it unto them. Okay. There's a conviction and there's an understanding this is true. This person starts with response to truth. down. One will grow or one will regress. Believers can become spiritually immature and need to relearn the basic principles. the first principles of the oracles of God, and are become as have need of milk and not of strong meat. You have become, you now need, do you see how that's not what they were, but that's what they are. He is personally dealing with us for our good. I better take the time to help people who are starting to sew like I was. There are certain blessings for every single season of life, and there are certain challenges for every single season of life. Let's say things like, oh how loved by the law it is my meditation all the day long. As we have opened up the Word of God, I pray the Spirit of God would have impressed these truths deeply on our hearts. Please don't hesitate to reach out. Or if you're a lady to get you connected with my wife or another lady in the church. Send it again. Sodom, your great sacrifice in your cleansing of our sins, Lord, and be able to see them get saved someday, Lord And I recognize that every person in this room carries unique burdens and challenges. And Father, we pray that as we worship as a body, that worship would be very sweet, very Christ-centered, would be very unifying for us as a body of Christians Changing faith in every call, I am a story dead. And I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to Luke chapter 11 this morning. The light of the body is the eye. And come to the knowledge of the truth. 2 Corinthians 4, 6. of those who are older. All right, I guess I learned a lesson. And what's amazing is some of the people that I listen to, I know for a fact they're not Christians. And he goes on to say, he says that the Gentiles which do not have the law do by nature the things contained in the law, not having the law, this is a law unto themselves, showing the work of the law written in their hearts. And I when I read the Bible, it speaks so clearly and so specifically about me and the rest of humanity. Of them working through things and God working in them, and they finally they get it. The conviction that boom, it nailed my heart on some of the points that were made. I mean, don't go on a teen winter retreat so that you can ask yourself the question. All man Christ received for me, he died for me, he less and ever last. This Thursday there's a ladies' meeting at 7 p. Father, help us to have a passion, to know you personally, and to walk in submission to the Word of God. If thy whole body therefore be full of light, having no part dark, the whole shall be full of light, as when the bright shining of a candle doth give thee light. I'm pressing on the upward way. And prophetic God, I say it was by the fall. My law, what would not hear? Sovietu May I be walking like my law. Help us to understand the way he is speaking about the heart of a person. And when we respond to the light that we have access to, that response is going to affect our souls in a very significant way. That's what he wants. I'll put it like this. When I was in Ghana, we used to use inverters so that we could power fans when the power was off I'm gonna tell you, I learned this firsthand. It's your heart. And one of them is embracing truth and they love the truth and they're growing and thriving and they're maturing and their understanding of the world around them and their understanding of themselves, the understanding of God. Because they resist. I need a savior, not a coach, not a helper, not assistance, not some encouragement. And so he was illustrating the truth to make it memorable. And they desired to know the truth. Truth number three. And he continues working in you. Take heed therefore that the light which is in thee be not darkness. How did I respond as a 14-year-old to the things that my son's hearing? You say, well, how do I have a tender heart? You've come in contact with the truth, and it's God's way of turning on the light because he loves you. He doesn't give you the truth because he's trying to tease you. It's really easy for us to go, you know what? Not, how do I feel about this? What is this teaching me about him? As we close out our service today, my hope is in the Lord to give Blessed art thou, O Lord, teach me thy statutes. As we give, may we give from our hearts. I will shout and sing Standing on the promises of God Standing Standing Standing on the promises of God my Savior The scriptures say, no man, when he hath lighted a candle, putteth it in a secret place, neither under a bushel Knows that remark such by the glory. Here is one. Neither under a bushel, but on a candlestick, that they which come in may see the light. Take heed, therefore, that the light which is in thee be not darkness. Father, as we think about your word, I pray that we would understand the way the Lord Jesus Christ is speaking of access to truth. God loves people, and he has a purpose for providing each person with access to light Simeon states, mine eyes have seen thy salvation, which thou hast prepared before the face of all people. Spiritual understanding starts with a heart that wants to know the truth. Nothing around them has changed, but their ability to perceive it is gone. They're declining. It's like a person who gets cataracts. He wants the truth. Or they can embrace it. They stuck their fist in his face and said, I don't believe you. A love for God, a love for his word, being transformed through the renewing of his mind. You ever ask yourself the question, why did Jesus teach in parables? And as they work their way through this, eventually that they're going to come to the point where they say, I believe this. And here I am, 40 years old. Something hit me uniquely because I heard it. And sometimes hearing a larger chunk of scripture, understanding the context a little bit more, it draws things to our attention that we didn't see before. For me he's an ice I wish on my Please let's stand together and let's sing 336. Brother Matt Suit, can you please come close us in prayer? And now for me he stands before love and road shows in front of and then makes me pass his All within less than 24 hours. Then shall I not be ashamed when I had respect unto all thy commands. When I shall have learned thy righteous judgments, I will keep thy statutes. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way by taking heed thereto according to thy word. Our theme for worship today, let's rejoice in God's grace and respond wisely to it. My faith has found a resting place. Not because we're good. I do that because I like the warmth. Why did the Father send the Son into the world? On every single level. And I remember running, stumbling in pain to a bathroom sink, just washing my face. I could not see. The eye was damaged because I couldn't pick up my Bible and read it anymore. If you enjoy beautiful things, it will be gone because your eye's been damaged. The difference is with us. I want to be in the Bible. We need the Spirit of God to work in our hearts. I need somebody to rescue me from my broken condition and judgment. For the believer, it's a new heart. You better watch out that what you know you don't lose. We all encounter truth with some basic elementary understandings. Now, I like listening to political commentary. I don't want to hear it. Was there a time when I used to be so convicted about that? So the question I want to ask us is, what's the point? We've got to have a tender heart to truth. May each of us cry out to you, Lord, help me to love your word. Standing, standing, I'm standing on the promises of God, standing on the promises that cannot fail. I think one of the many woman I'm the ground Water might be on my ground prison neighbor And so his illustration is the eye changes everything. It just makes sense. But as they're responding to that basic level of information, what happens? Well, reach out again. I cannot fall, blessing in the violence in the spirit's call, resting in my spirit, my love and all. Sparing, spending on the power things of God stable, spirit, spending. Every night. Here's what our Lord says. Do you see how he's taking all of those applications and he's kind of like blending them into this one statement in 2 Corinthians chapter 4 verse 6. Sounded like a shotgun blast. We will not understand the truth without a heart for it. You had to contemplate it. Maybe I'm different than you, but that's not the way it works for me. They it might not happen immediately. This finger right here I have a I have a cut. Sometimes just hearing the word of God read brings conviction, warms the soul. Does it all the time. That is what we should walk away with from the text in front of us. I want to scare thee, I will strike And catch a clean up for revive But still I'll pray the count would leave me on to hide He's not callous toward people in their unconverted state. But if your eye becomes damaged, guess what? Our heart can become desensitized. But it's easy for us to become consumers where we like the nice stuff and we just ignore the hard stuff. So let's develop a love for his word and a sensitivity to it. Your fragrance fills me as the rose of shadow. We'll bow together for a word of prayer, and then we're going to dig into a very important topic as we are continuing to work our way through the book of Luke. The Bible says that it is the fear of the Lord that is the beginning of wisdom. What's true is true. That's what he's saying. And a person who understands these things on their most basic level has to decide they're going to respond to it. A person could respond in humility and have clarity, and guess what? It absolutely is. for any discussion that we have tonight. Needs to repent and believe the gospel. That is also on the teen bulletin board. I think it's my salvation more I want that for me and more and why I do something. Okay? Nobody. And so when we talk about this issue, the fact is when an unbeliever comes in contact with the truth and the Spirit of God is beginning to convict them of sin, righteousness, and judgment, they can resist it. Suppress it. The believer and the unbeliever can both respond right or wrong to truth. What are you trying to teach me? He died for me, my and my heakers. So the one who is longing, he fills. When you realize that you can lose something and you value it, you guard it. There are certain things that people understand intuitively. He does this through the Word of God. We'll sing all four verses of hymn number four hundred eleven. Here is the holy, righteous, perfect God who created everything, who knows every single idle thought that we have ever thought. It's because he cares about us. Another way to put it is, you have one person who experiences the fullness of the joy that's available to them because they embrace the word, they're hungering for it, and another person, they're in bondage to their passions. Now he's not saying, well, that the Gentiles, they're more righteous than the Jewish people. A budget sheet that there is several that are at the Welcome Center. They say, no, no, no, no, no. I don't want to think about it. In Hebrews 5. Whatever their access to the truth has been, may you press upon their hearts the great need to go to someone who has the gospel message available and ask them to check. Oh, we're running dealing with the spirit red sword standing on the floor and God. So he's not emphasizing that we need to be light. I wish that the Christian life worked this way. I will respond. Please let's all bow together for a word of prayer and uh commit this service to the Lord. We'll sing all four verses There is no You had a car battery and you'd charge the car battery and you'd charge it for like six, seven, eight hours, and then you could like run fans in your house and do whatever you needed to do. Please let's take out our hymn books and turn to hymn 336. I'd like to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church. And it appears as we work at work through the passage in Matthew chapter five that Jesus is emphasizing the fact that the Christian Verse 33, it says this. Let's all stand because we will be singing the first two verses of 397. He's talking about everybody. Good morning. It's the cold in the house. Thy whole body is full of light. I know last week we really kind of emphasized the heaviness of the folly of rejecting the truth when it's given. And oh, by the way, God sent lots and lots of people so that you could hear the truth. That's what he's saying. I'd be glad to pray with you, talk to you, try to encourage you any way that I can. And that purpose is not just for my benefit, it's for the entire family's benefit. He looks around, he can see every single person here, he can see what they're wearing, he can see everything about this room. I'm like, I do not want to have that happen again. You say, well, well, that's a really easy thing for you to say. Before I read the opening scripture, if you would like to talk to one of the teenagers, I think they had a great time. And forever I do shall be complete in me for why I know the thing to me. It drives us to God and says, I need your answers. That's great. Have you ever burned yourself so badly that when it healed you lost the ability to feel? Going to on a on a on a a a teen senior retreat. His point is God has a reason for shining light into the darkness. I want to understand what it says. Oh, I'm gonna feel guilty because dad's gonna ask, did you read your Bible this morning? In fact, when you're reading the book of Proverbs in Proverbs chapter 1, he talks about the dark sayings You say, what does it mean? He's not a Christian. What it's basically saying is when a person becomes a Christian, their disposition toward God has changed. I want to think about how good he is. Or you see somebody doing that, you're like, hey, I you know I'm not trying to be like overbearing here, but that's not a good idea, and I'll tell you why The agenda was posted a couple weeks ago on the bulletin board near the offices and also the financials for 2023 are available. There's nobody in this room, nobody in this room that would be saved today if it hadn't been for the kindness of God coming to you in the darkness. Your heart can be sensitive to truth, and you embrace the truth, and as the truth sets into your heart, it just illumines your understanding. That can happen to your heart. Now he's talking to the nation of Israel in these verses. I don't want to consider the implications of it. He sees how we relate to him as our creator and sustainer and Lord and Savior. I just removed I removed one of the connectors. And amazingly, a lot of the things that Jesus taught, it will state in the text, it will say, then his disciples remembered these things after he was resurrected. Say, Pastor, I don't understand salvation. Not because we're lovely. It's because as soon as I wake up, my mind is immediately thinking about all the things that I want to do or need to do in the day. He shined in our hearts to illumine the darkness of the world around us. Now listen, the only thing that changed in me was that eye right there. It is impossible, or excuse me, not impossible, it is possible to regress in our understanding of the truth. I don't think I'll do that again. 11 he says, You are dull of hearing. Please stand with me. It's not just that we can live easy lives, it's so that the truth can go out into the darkness of the world. Have you ever looked on the top of a battery where it says, beware of the potential for explosion? You could have a husband and wife in that position. He filleth the hungry soul with goodness. It's incredible. May we recognize your authority, your right to command, and our responsibility to submit I love Ezekiel 36. When I was in the ninth grade, I was doing something you know genius for a ninth grader, I guess. You might have to ask a question to the person that gave it and say, I don't get it. Whether you're a Christian or not a Christian, there are certain things that are self-evident. Submit to what God's showing you? What does this mean to me? For me, he died, for me he missed an everlasting life and my free. He is not so much emphasizing that the believer is light, though in fact that is true, but he's emphasizing the intent for which God gives light. Somebody put in all those light bulbs. And I had this battery exploding and I had acid all over my face and my arms down my legs and in my eye. If if you love to read, you won't be able to you'll be listening to audiobooks a lot. What is this teaching about me? Please do that. This is probably the greatest of all the statements. It's like a person who has an eye injury. I'm thankful for my church. I will respond to your call. It might be that you say I'm a believer and I I'm I'm fearful that my heart has become calloused. I pray again that you may continue to put a shield around this church, Lord, and protect the people in it. Jesus the Father I think of the God My wife likes the warmth. Oh, that men would praise the Lord for his goodness and his wonderful works to the children of men. They didn't believe on him. Yeah, I was sowing like this for a long time, and this is what I reap. m. I'm standing on the promises of God, standing on the promises of Christ the Lord. In Christ's illustration, he's saying people light candles for a reason. And this is Zechariah speaking. A light to lighten the Gentiles and the glory of thy people Israel. God commanded the light to shine out of darkness and shined into our hearts. How can they hear without a preacher? It's like a person in the Sermon on the Mount, he says, he is hungering and he is thirsting for righteousness. There's a resonating of the truth. I still can't feel on this side of my finger. He does this through the church body. There are several events on the All Church Bulletin board that can be signed up for. I've turned him touch the brush for king. And we're going to get into this in just a moment. Because one day I'm sitting in my office, I've been charging this battery for six, seven, eight hours. Those basic levels of information can be acted on one way or the other. Teroney Fire, we thank you again for opportunity to come and hear your word being spoke. Oh, let me not wander from thy commandments. No man, when he hath lighted a candle, putteth it in a secret place. The Lord commanded us saying, I have set thee to be a light And really we have to make a distinction between those who are believers and those who are not believers. There are things that are hard about being a teenager that are not nearly as hard as being a 30-year-old or being a 70-year-old. And our last song will be in the blue book, complete in the 192. No man, when he hath lighted a candle, puteth it in a secret place. In other words, some of the ways that older people give wisdom isn't just boom right there in your face. He's not just talking about Christians. And when they sub and the way that he puts it is they suppress the truth and unrighteousness. What does this teach me about me? They're working through the worthy book. May we give with a desire that we would honor you as you have blessed us. Open your hymn books to hymn number 445. It's probably getting hot. He's convincing him that he is a sinner who needs a savior. Because that's what parables and Proverbs do. And those moments, those seasons where we begin to slide back and we begin to regress. And we ask it all in Jesus' name. It might start with saying there's a God. He doesn't give you the truth because he's trying to smack you upside the head and say, I have nothing to do with you while he walks away. My hope is in the Lord. I take my rough last sweetest break But I will see those days I pray for Or you can be resistant to it and you can resist what you're given access to, and if you do that, whatever ability you have to see becomes desensitized. Needs to turn to Christ. Is he teaching them how to treat his wife and his kids and teaching them how to live the Christian life? You can come back later if you have a different mind about this. And that's what Paul is saying in Romans chapter 2. And God just keeps working and working and working. I pray that it might use us to be alike to our friends, our neighbors, our community, our co-workers, Lord. Therefore, when thine eye is single, thy whole body also is full of light. And the next statement is, because God's desire is that all men be saved. He loves people and he desires them to be saved. These having not the law are a law unto themselves, which show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness Let's not take lightly the opportunities that He has given us to encounter truth. Please let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to help us with this. They can do one or the other. I don't want your uh your instructions or any of those things. Well, we teach our kids, well, it's because these are illustrations. Some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits and doctrines of devils, speaking lies and hypocrisies, having their conscience seared with a hot iron Let's not miss the underlying principle that motivates him to give us access to the truth. I purpose to walk in obedience to your word here. And I hope that tonight uh you'll be able to join us again. No, no, no, no. But anyways, so if you're excited, you hear them. Why do I do that? So let's not resist or miss the many ways he does this. What does this teach me about God? I just never grow up, obviously. Maybe a way to put it as personal responsibility And there are a lot of scriptures, especially in the Psalms, where David or whoever the psalmist is You know what that's evidence to? Maybe it's a bad thing, I don't know, but I like listening to uh to political commentary, especially those who have a lot of historical background We don't even care. And I'm looking forward to a wonderful service tonight and just the Lord working in our hearts. And if you're visiting with us today for the first time or the first time in a long time, we'd like to warmly welcome you. Good morning. And now you have embraced the light, and he's channeling that light Like my son, like my daughter, like somebody that's a younger person that I haven't come in contact with, a young Christian. Because he is good. And that you know a physical that would be a physical analogy, but I don't think that's what he's emphasizing. And then the next statement is, and their foolish heart becomes darkened. Help me to submit to your word. It can get to the place where the same truth that used to like prick and convict, and we felt uncomfortable. That's the question. My kids like the warmth. I can see now, okay? And somebody in the exact same family listening to the exact same preaching and teaching, the exact same fellowship, all factors being the same save one, the hearts. And I start reflecting on all the things that he's done for them. And if you think about it, when you get it, you really get it. We could also say this, he was veiling the illustration to weed out those who didn't want to want to listen. I mean even even if I've got a jump jumper cable, a car battery, I'm telling you I'm like You know, here I am, I'm sitting here. And the reason that that cold wakes me up is because we use a wood fire. Your life will never be the same. Even their mind and conscience is defiled But when thine eye is evil, thy whole body is full of darkness. The difference is the heart. Here is one. There is a sense in which there's an affectional longing to know truth, and the result of that is what? Well, no. I will do it. And there is a warning there as well. Challenge us where we need to be challenged, convict us where we need to be convicted. All people are naturally in this state of ignorance and moral darkness, yet he still loves them and desires their salvation I get this, and I grow, and then I kind of slide a little bit, and then I grow and I slide a little bit. Because I know what can happen. Unbelievers can become desensitized to the truth. And I was so tender to that, and now I don't even care. I like hanging out with these people. How should my thoughts and actions be shaped by these truths? It's that we are light. That's what he wants. Why wouldn't we just turn on the lights? Then they come in contact with Jesus. Ask them to forgive you where he has nailed out a point. What does this mean? Take heed, therefore, that the light which is in thee be not darkness. You could have people sitting in this congregation for 20 years. That's not what he's saying. How do you put all this together? I was like, man, I hope that what I said afterwards is helpful too, but the word of God has power when we hear it. Well, thank you again for all you've done for us. So whether it's a winter camp or a summer camp, it's all very, very good, worth the investment. With my lips have I declared all the judgments of my mouth. I will not forget thy word. And it's not for his benefit, it's for our benefit. And then he says, they've been sent. It's like a person who loses an ability that they used to have. It's what you do with it. What you have access to, what God has graciously exposed you to, you don't lose it. But you'll sit in a service and ask yourself, when that topic is touched on. He does this through the changing seasons of our life Standing on the promises of Christ my King through eternal ages, let his praises ring, glory in the heart. You could have siblings in that position. That word means to convict or to convince the world of sin and righteousness and of judgment. I say, do I still respond to the word like that? Uh there is a business meeting tonight following the evening service. The light of the body is the eye, therefore, when thine eye is single, thy whole body also is full of light So I walked over, the genius that I am, don't ever do this. Righteousness, I am helpless I need to do things your way. This is a prophetic text. And back to four hundred eleven Thank you so much for that. He has to command you and he has to command me to love people. That's what he's saying. Anybody like that? But there are some who sit in the darkness, and the way he puts it is he says, they are bound in affliction of irons. That's evidence to the way we're responding to the truth that we're coming in contact with. And I'm sitting there and I'm listening, I'm taking notes, and sometimes I stop and ask myself, My wife and I will also be in the Narthex following the morning service, handing those out. And this morning you have an opportunity to have a tender or a hardened heart to truth. Let that be true. How do people get that way? I like to use the acronym of CAMP. All right, let's continue our singing this morning. But here's what he says in verse 34. It says, a new heart will I give you We certainly know that because of where the passage goes as he descends down that that that text of Scripture. Or you could just let it blow you right by. And God uses the changing of those seasons to draw out things that are in us that need to be confronted so that we can grow and mature. We'll sing all four verses together. But he has the idea that a person has the ability to see things distinctly. I get saved and I'm at this level. Let's pray, God, open my eyes that I might behold wondrous things out of their law. So if you hear them, they're very excited, and it was a great time. So if you see some excited teams run around One of the reasons that we have preaching and is so central It would make no sense for us to put all these light bulbs in this building, in this room. It was to save people. Needs to place their faith in the finished work of Christ alone. I'm like, no, I didn't. Maybe to put it another way, don't charge your battery in your office. Help me to apply your word. And the simple answer is, well, he gives light because he wants people to see. And basically I'll say this, when we respond, something changes. Hebrews 5. You don't know why I came here today. I don't think I'm not hell, but all that I do. Yo me lo puto de una experiencia de la palabra y yo no me cotago una cacoparcia que no lo he ido. Amen. Well, I do it because I want the house to be warm Excuse me, Simeon speaking, after the birth of Christ, and Jesus has been shown in the temple. And that's why you heard it, and that's why you believed it. He's saying whether you're a Jew that has the law of God, or you're a Gentile that's never come in contact with the Old Testament, you both have a conscience Now I don't listen to uh teen evangelists very much. Luke chapter 11, and we're looking at verses 33 through 36 together. The point is, you want to know what is right and wrong. Massive numbers of people That's the point. The young men and the young ladies in our church. If I don't, then I didn't see it. Maybe you want to set up a time this week to meet and to talk about what's going on. My only hope is found in Jesus Christ for me. And God has communicated truth because he loves us. You know what that thing did? His point is that the disposition of the heart determines a person's ability or inability to understand what God has revealed. And some people they get saved after hearing the gospel two or three times. What does this teach me about myself? God wants our heart to be tender to truth. Now, to put it very simply, if a person is not a Christian. But if their eye has been damaged in some way, then they are blinded and incapable of seeing what is around them. If you do, you don't immediately understand all of them. Good night, goodnight. When for the time ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that when teach you again The purpose of a parable was to illustrate, but you had to work in order to understand. His point is it's possible to have a basic level of understanding and to regress. He wants you to know him, he wants you to enjoy the blessings of walking with him. One a special mention about the Sportsman Banquet. We want a warm house, a cozy fire. God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness. I had no idea how long it was going to be like that. And we kind of touched on this last week. And they don't say, well, the Bible says, and then they quote it. It is exciting for them to want to grow in the Lord, and it's an excellent opportunity to do so. And my wife said, Are you okay? He created the world. Standing on the promises, we'll sing all four verses of hymn number four hundred and forty-five. And Father, I pray that as we listen to the Word of God, our hearts would become tender. Every person in this room, he wants you to have a heart that is submissive to him. And that is the focus of the first thing that Jesus says. I see everybody here. And you say, why is that? I embrace this. And uh we need the Lord to work on And I pray that as we gather around the Word of God, that we would be able to have quieted hearts No, it's a totally different type of mindset. They're nice people. And I need to talk to somebody. That's what Paul writes. And the simple fact of these truths is that they emphasize we've got to love the Word of God. And he starts with saying, you need to be reconciled to me through the Lord Jesus Christ. He's saying there's evidence as moral creatures that they know this is right and this is wrong. They're eventually going to believe in the gospel. Well, God does it. But there's a totally other possibility. It can happen. 11. Thank you, please be seated. If thy whole body therefore be full of light, having no part dark. Father, help me as I communicate this text to do it in a way that is very simple, easy to understand, consistent with the text in front of us. And so if you've done it for a reason, you're going to put the light Okay, I see some hands. And now he's a Christian. Our children who are junior church age can be dismissed with the help of the parents. Psalm 119, verse 20. What did God say? The Bible is a mirror that shows us God's glory and our sinfulness. Many of them went on the teen winner retreat. Forsake me not utterly. Now, to put it very simply, he says I get up really, really early in the winter. I will meditate in thy precepts and have respect unto thy ways. Even when we're commanded to pray for those who are kings and all who are in authority. But that's really the emphasis. And what he says, he says, there is a window into your soul, and that window is like the eye. You could have one family versus another family in that situation. But he's talking about how a group of people who were rebellious against him Let's develop a regular pattern of healthy responses to the word. We do have Amen. We are like a city that is set on a hill. He blends those two things together and he says, you have been walking in the darkness. But he failed it to illustrate it, to make it more memorable once people understood. How should we respond? And I am now completely Please let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then dig into this topic, this passage of scripture this morning. And I think that that really is the emphasis of these verses. Well, before you come down the stairs and get ready for school, I want you to read your Bible for this amount of time. And there's gratitude and there's humility. Help the word to change me. And then teen activity, there is a consent form for teens that the Father, we're so grateful for this congregation that's assembled this morning. Unbelievable. I better stop. Strengthen me to do it by your grace. Amen. I'd like to give you a summary statement for the text in front of us. I want to read to you a couple of scriptures that I think really capture this so very, very well. I can make them I can make them follow my You know, we laugh, but the truth is For instance, in Romans 1. Titus 1:15. He says ye are dull of hearing. And that's true. Thy word have I hid in mine heart, that I might not sin against thee. Say, well, we can pay our electric bill, can't we? And that is true, but there's actually a little more to it than just these are illustrations. Can you explain it? You go back and then you get it. And they start understanding what the Bible says about Jesus. Father. It's a Christian atmosphere for the ministry of preaching. With both eyes, alright? It will never be the same. There are certain things that if you stop and you look at them, you will recognize, well that's right and that's wrong. He works in them You see words like, ye are dull And we have nice people in our church. Father, help each of us as we sit here today. Give my life to believe and recognize his work of Well, he uses the same kind of analogy in Luke chapter 11. Simply put, God's desire for people is to hear the truth and to be changed by it. You see how there's all this connection? And I said, I don't know. It's the heart. Next statement is interesting. He is broken and undone, and his righteousness is a filthy rag, and the only hope that he has is the redemptive work of Christ. He says they're foolishness to him. Has anybody ever seen that? Now what is Christ's illustration? He says, I want to know the truth. We need to understand why Christ taught in parables. One will be saved and one will become hardened. I've had people come up to me and they're saying and they'll say things like, Pastor, when you read the text, Open our hymn books to hymn number three hundred ninety-seven. It wouldn't make any sense to not do it. You can do better, you can do better, you can earn your weight. It's the truth. I love that song. And please be seated as we turn over to hymn number four hundred sixteen. Do you see the intent of God's heart? If you enjoy seeing your spouse, your children, your grandchildren, all those things, you won't be able to see it anymore. He says, oh how love by the law. It's pretty amazing. They condemned Because the difference is huge, okay? They are softened towards Him. This is an amazing statement. Think about. It blew up in my face. The answer is no. I don't know why you came here. When you experience the tough consequences of life, we all do, guess what? And that reason is to illuminate a dark room for the benefit of everyone in the room. It's because people are stumbling in the darkness and God wants them to walk in the light. But if that person has a damaged eye, they're sitting on that front row, they look around, they don't see anything. And then I go to this level. That's the sense. It speaks so transparently and so honestly. This is my only hope. He says, the light of the body is the eye. Internalizing the truth. So you'll have to reach out there. He loves us. Oh, that my ways were directed to keep thy statutes It's a slightly different emphasis. And again, I go back to the believer versus the unbeliever. That's dangerous. I will praise thee with the uprightness of heart. Literally when they have access, they say, I don't like it. If you've got to go and make an issue right, go and do it. Keep us from harm. When something matters to you, you guard it. This can happen to us as Christians. Some of you get that later. I have experienced this Because what is true is true. And the God who created the world is the same God that gave us the word. And I go back in my mind and I think about Obviously, this is all about response to the Word of God. Complete and the work of my may take care. It's to motivate us to turn to God. 19, that which may be known of God is manifest in them. He says, unto the pure all things are pure And I had gotten a brand new pocket knife and uh I cut myself very deeply. I've lost the ability to feel because it of how deep that cut was. On the third verse we will take a moment and we will greet our neighbors and then we'll come back and sing that last verse. That's how we heat our house. And so you step back and you say, God, I'm saved because you're gracious. Learn from me My soul breaketh for the longing that it hath unto thy judgments at all times. And when they do, you go, oh, I get it. I'll be glad to meet with you today, right after church. In the blue book. Notice how he states it. He satisfieth the longing soul. We ought to ask the question, God, why did you let me come in contact with this message? How does this shape the way I should think and act? That's a good one. As we fellowship with one another, may we encourage one another in the Lord. When life is on And as we are turning there, Yet he loves us. God is very kind to me. It starts with recognizing who he is and who you are. Ask yourself that question sometime. If you would like a The second thing I want you to notice is found in verse 34. It's a longing soul. And I'm concerned about that. And Jesus is saying in the same way, it would make no sense for somebody to light a candle and then cover it. That's the only thing that changed. But you have come and access I'm pressing on the upward way to hide my game. No, no, no, no, no, no. I'm going to trust in this. But when thine eye is evil, thy body is full of darkness Rules, but I can't make their heart love the truths I guarantee you you don't. And when you get it, it sticks. If you question that God loves you, then this message is proof that he does. Couldn't see my wife, my kids. I love our church. That's what meditating on the truth is. And it's impossible for a city that is set on a hill in the darkness Neither can he discern them because they are spiritually discerned. It's true. For a whole week I couldn't see. It's my meditation all the day long. Notice what he says in verse 35. And what he's going to say is So if I wake up at 4 o'clock, I'm getting up at 4 o'clock And so I get up early and I go and I do that. Things that you do and you take for granted right now every single day, you will not be able to do them anymore. And then I go to this level. They give you an illustration. Father, if there's somebody here this morning who does not know the Lord Jesus as their Savior, So please find one of us and we'll make sure that you can get one. He knows every single word that's come out of our mouth. He brings you in contact with the truth because he loves you and he's drawing you to himself. Do that. Please close us in prayer. And there are some people, it takes years. We pray that the Holy Spirit will take the Word and impress it upon our hearts. It's a very positive emphasis. So he's teaching a parable there are some people who say, I don't want to hear this. He does it through the church body. Pastor Josh I better take the time to help them. But there's another side to what Jesus is saying as well. You know, not like the big stuff, but the little stuff you could do that That is an affectional kind of statement. And they start investigating the claims that Jesus made. Somebody can take the truth and they can say, I don't like this. Listen to some of these statements. It's a it's a it's a fellowshipping kind of a church. I ask all this in Christ's name. Don't hesitate I need a savior We said, I need to respond to this. But God continues working in me. And when I read it So that's kind of where we're going this morning as we dig into this passage. Let's internalize the truth. And it's just this endless growth. For instance, for the unbeliever, what does he need? Because we do not naturally love people save ourselves. This is an internal thing Even though God never said this is right. Give me a love and a longing for you and your word. And I need encouragement We have a couple of announcements and then Pastor Josh will My word has been my display. He loves us because he's good. It's that simple. It's chewing on it. How should we respond to the Word of God? Sparing on the violence of the law. Did you catch that? He says Or in Romans chapter 2, verse 14, he says that the Gentiles Luke chapter 2 That's an amazing statement. The heart begins to understand. We don't just read the Bible because What does this mean? It's allowing the word to take root in us. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of this word. So if you want to pick that up before you leave. My faith has been. That's what he's saying. Nothing around them has changed. That's all we're talking about. I'm going to walk away. Our scripture reading for this morning was Amen. Maybe it's the first time. I have my warness And as they start thinking about This is wrong. Push it What put it up on that man? This is this is ridiculous. Somebody says, I want to read the word. I think And I'm not sure. This is