Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflex Reflection. And uh this is our second episode on Psalm 29. So if you have your Bible, I'd like to encourage you to take it. And we'll read the psalm together. Yesterday we did just a very brief introduction, and today we're going to get into the first part of this psalm. It says, Give unto the Lord, O ye mighty, give unto the Lord glory and strength. Give unto the Lord the glory due unto his name. Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. The voice of the Lord is upon the waters. The God of glory thunderth, the Lord is upon many waters. The voice of the Lord is powerful, the voice of the Lord is full of majesty. The voice of the Lord breaketh the cedars, yea the Lord breaketh the cedars of Lebanon. He maketh them also to skip like a calf, Lebanon and Siren like the young unicorn. The voice of the Lord divideth the flames of fire, the voice of the Lord shaketh the wilderness, the Lord shaketh the wilderness of Kadesh. The voice of the Lord maketh the h Finds the calf and discovereth the forest. In his temple doth everyone speak of his glory The Lord sitteth upon the flood, yea, the Lord sitteth king forever. The Lord will give strength unto his people. The Lord will bless the people with peace. Yesterday we gave a summary statement for this psalm, and today what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to dig into the first part of it, verses one and two, and that is a very distinct call to worshiping the Lord. And so those verses say this, give unto the Lord strength and give unto the Lord glory. Give unto the Lord the glory due unto his name. Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness In these verses, there are three ways that David expresses this call to worship. The very first part is he ex- he tells us exactly what God should receive. And it says in verse 1 Give God glory and strength. Now when we talk about giving God glory, what we're basically saying, or what David is saying in these verses, is that we need to ascribe to God greatness. We need to declare his greatness because he is great. And so when we think about God's character and his ways, and the way that he's dealt with us, we should be a people that proclaim his greatness. And by the way, we're not proclaiming his greatness because he needs it from us. We're declaring his greatness because that is the only appropriate response to him. The second part of this call to worship, expressing what should be given to God is strength. When he says strength, what he's saying is we need to serve God because he has created us with a purpose. And that purpose is directed toward him So the second thing we see is not only what should be given, glory and strength, but the second uh emphasizes the disposition that we should have. How should we be thinking toward God? What should be our attitude toward God when it comes to this issue of declaring his greatness, ascribing greatness to him, and giving him our strength. Well the answer is that we should be giving him the glory that is due unto his name. That means that the kind of worship that we give to God should be proportionate to the value of God. And so we're talking about someone who uh is infinitely good and they are infinitely wise and they are infinitely powerful and They are self-sufficient. And so that leads us to this question, how in the world could a person actually give to God uh glory that is that is consistent with the incredible infinite goodness and wisdom and power of him? And the answer is we never really truly can But what it does do is it emphasizes to us how important, how pressing the need is for us to worship God. Not because he is lonely and he needs something, but because it's the only appropriate response. The third thing that we're going to see about this call to worship is not just what we're supposed to give God, glory and strength, and the disposition that should characterize us, we desire to give him glory glory that is due to his name. It's consistent with his his value and his greatness. But the last thing that he emphasizes is how this disposition, how we think about God, is supposed to actually shape the way that we go about worshiping God. We shouldn't come to God in a flippant way or in an arrogant way. We shouldn't treat him as if he's a peer. And so notice what it says in verse 2. He says, Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness and that word holiness is extremely important. I asked the simple question, how in the world could we trivialize coming into the presence of God? Or how could we treat him with a reverence? Or how can we treat him as if he's a peer? We're dealing with someone who is holy, set apart, he's distinct. There's none like him in all the earth And so this shapes not just what we're supposed to do and the disposition of how we're supposed to do it, but we could say the actual approach itself. And so that leads us to a question of what exactly is worship and how does worship look when it's done the right way? Well the first thing that I would mention here is that worship starts with our thinking. Worship does not start with emotion. Now that's not to suggest that emotion isn't a part of worship. If worship is to be done appropriately, obviously it's passionate, it's with the heart, but it starts with the mind. the mind has to be informed to think correctly about God. So we can see a lot about God just looking at the the the world around us and observation. But the fact is that our interpretation of what we see It's not infallible. So we have to go to a place where we see a perfect revelation of who God is, an explanation of his nature, to the extent that we as people can understand that. And that's in the Word of God. And so worship doesn't start with a feeling or with an assumption. It deals with propositional truths about God. It deals with the mind. It starts with our thinking. It's supposed to shape how we view God personally. The second thing is that as our mind is shaped to think correctly about God And as we process this truth through reflection or meditation, then ultimately that reflection on the truth and that processing of the truth is going to stir us up within our hearts. We could say that our innermost affections are going to be awakened and they're going to be shaped by the work of the Holy Spirit within us. And so as we process the truth, mentally, intellectually, it affects our emotions, it affects our affections. And a heart that's been moved in its affections is a heart that is overflowing with gratitude to God and overflowing with love for Him, overflowing with a desire to express this affection toward God And so the question is, how is this affection supposed to actually be expressed? And the answer is it's an action. It's an obedience. And there are lots of different ways that this can go forward. One is proclaiming with our lips his praises, speaking the truths of God to other people, singing praise to God, telling people about his greatness. So expressing with our lips would be a part of it. Another sense is that we have this expression with an overwhelming sense of how great God is, his holiness, how awesome he is. We recognize that we need to approach him with a sense of reverence. The distinctiveness of God is something that's on our mind And ultimately what this leads us to is practical daily obedience. When I think correctly about God, and that shapes my affections and my heart toward God, That's ultimately going to move me to express it in action, obedience. And so when we talk about worship and how he calls us to worship in these threefold way in this threefold way, that's ultimately what he's leading us to. Biblical worship. And by the way, these pieces, the mind, the affections, and action, we find them in many, many other passages of scripture that talk about worship. For instance, John 4:24. Those that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. What's that talking about? It's talking about the affections that are flowing out of truth. In other words, the mind is impacting the emotions and the affections. We see truth and spirit. Colossians 3. 16, it says, Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom. And then he talks about the expression of that. What do we see? We see truth, affection, action. Ephesians chapter 5, verses 17 and 18. That he prays that Christ would dwell in our hearts by faith. that we would be rooted and grounded in love. What do we see there? We see we see mind, affection, action. Even Ephesians 5. 18, being filled with the Spirit, what is that? It's the Spirit of God affecting my mind, my emotions. And my actions. So when we talk about worship, we talk about worship starting with biblical thinking, which hat which which influences godly affections, which ultimately leads to what? Obedient outcomes. That's what worship is all about. And that's really at the heart of what we're seeing here in Psalm 29. And so I want to close with some very practical thoughts. How do we take these simple truths this morning And apply them in our life this morning. The first thing that I'm going to mention is that God calls us to worship. By the way, his very existence compels us to be worshippers of him. We are creatures He's the creator. We are finite. He is infinite. Any wisdom that we have, it ultimately comes from him. Any goodness that actually flows through us is a result of his work in us and through us. And so when we think about God, we are compelled to worship him because of his character and his ways. The second thing I'm going to mention That worship is not a casual matter. When I open up the scriptures to read the scriptures, I ought to take that very seriously. When I gather together with other believers for corporate worship, I ought to take that very seriously. Anytime I set my heart to worship my Creator, I need to have this sense of reverence and awe because He is a God who is majestic and He is holy and He's infinite. The third thing that I'll mention. is that worship begins with the mind. If I want to be a person who truly worships God, I've got to be a person who gets into the word of God regularly. And by the way, if I'm reading the word of God the way that I ought to, and the Holy Spirit is working in my heart through the Word, then I'm going to be a person whose life is consistently establishing a pattern of worship in my daily walk The fourth thing I'm going to mention is that not only does it start with clear thinging about God and the mind, but it involves the entire person Worship is not just some cold thing that we do. Worship is something that we do with our affections, with our heart, with a genuine love for God, with a genuine appreciation for for God, gratitude toward God. And so worship is not just intellectual, it's passionate. It's it's from the heart. Fifthly, it's ultimately going to end with gratitude and obedience. If I am truly worshiping God as I ought , That's going to lead to a worship-filled obedience to God. A person that can go to church on Sunday and be moved emotionally and then can go home on Monday and throughout the rest of the week and live as if God does not exist. And they can talk about God's holiness on Sunday and then live as if there's no way that God's holy the rest of the week. That means that there is a deficiency in their understanding and practice of worship. And so worship ends with obedience. And lastly, I'm going to mention this. If our worship is not beginning with truth and ending with obedience, it's time to reevaluate how we're approaching this particular matter. I hope that as you think about this this morning, it's an encouragement It's a challenge and ultimately it presses you into a more faithful and obedient walk with the Lord. Our desire this morning is that we would walk in humility before God. And have a rich affection for him, because truly he's worthy of not just our obedience, but of our love. Hope that you have a great rest of your day, and Lord willing, tomorrow we'll continue in our study. Bye now.