Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church, and uh it's good to have each of you today. Uh if you are visiting with us today for the first time or the first time in a long time. Uh we'd like to warmly welcome you and uh when you come uh through the lobby area there's a welcome desk and uh if you did not receive a welcome packet at the beginning of the service, please stop by there at the end. And inside that packet is a little connection card. And if you'd like us to reach out to you and connect with you, please do fill it out and we'll reach out to you during the week and try to set up a time where we can can connect with you and uh just get to know you, find out how to be a blessing to you, and uh answer any questions that you might have about our church. Pastor Chris has a couple of announcements and then I have a very special announcement that I'm excited about, and that is our sacrificial Sunday. But before we do that, I have to walk out in the lobby and grab something. So go ahead, Pastor Chris. That I forgot to grab on the way in. But if you did grab a uh bulletin, I didn't want to point point out just two things in particular. We have our uh T Nerf war, that is this coming Friday. Um that's changed from this past Friday, so if you showed up at the church and there was nobody there, that's why. Um but this Friday at six PM we'll have our team Nerf War. We uh encourage you bring your own Nerf gun, your own ammo, um your safety glasses. I think somebody was bringing a riot shield. And you're more than welcome to bring that because it's going to be a good time. We're looking forward to it. And also make sure to bring your Bibles. for our devotional on Friday night as well. And then our men's breakfast and Bible study is on the 11th. So right after the teens are worn out from nerf war, we'll have them come up early in the morning and uh Well, at least one of them will be cooking for you. But our men's breakfast is that uh morning at eight AM and if you haven't signed up in the back, men, please do let us know that you're coming so we know exactly how much food to prepare. And then just a service reminder that next Sunday is daylight savings. So make sure you turn that clock spring forward, right? Not spring back. I just messed everybody up. So uh yep, daylight savings is next week, so please uh be mindful of that. And with that, Pastor Okay. Well, every year when we come to Easter Sunday, our church does a special offering. And we call it Sacrificial Sunday. And Sacrificial Sunday is a way for us to give for a very specific project. And this year I want to tell you a little bit about the project that we're going to do. If you opened your bulletin, you're going to see a little sheet that has our Easter flowers. If you would like to place an Easter flower in memory. or in honor of someone uh that gives you the information. And then on the other side we have sacrificial Sunday and there's a QR code that uh links to a video that explains more details about our sacrificial Sunday offering. But in order to do that, I want to read to you a little plaque that hangs in our lobby and you may not even know that it's there, but this is what it says Citation of honor to Anchor Baptist Church, Millersville, Maryland, USA. Didn't say Millersville. How should they believe on him of whom they have not heard, and how shall they hear without a preacher? Thanks be to God for the gospel of salvation made available in the person of His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, of which members of Anchor Baptist Church, Cape Coast have become partakers to the faithful obedience of Anchor Baptist Church, Maryland, and to the Great Commission, Matthew 28, 19-20. Many souls have been brought into God's kingdom of light from darkness through your missionary focus on Cape Coast, Ghana. The planting of ABC Cape Coast has been a great testimony of God's providence. to restore gospel-centered, biblical sound, and a healthy church in a community where pseudo-Christianity has marred the gospel of the Bible We rejoice over the bond of friendship which is rooted in Christ, and thank you for your support to ABC Cape Coast at different times and look forward to your continued friendship in the future. May the Lord reward your work in Ghana. God bless you all. That was written by one of the pastors at the church in Cape Coast. And uh several months ago, one of our men, Cheryl Neese, and I traveled to Ghana. We were able to be a part of a baptismal service, baby dedication. And uh the ordination of two men, one of whom wrote that, uh, and then they sent it to our church. And when we were over there, one of the things that really stood out to us was the tremendous need that they have. for a building that is a proper building. And I'm going to give a lot more detail in the video. So I hope that you'll watch that. And if you are not able to manage the QR code and you need help, I'll be glad to show you the video. But it tells you a little bit about the need. It tells you about some of the dynamics that they're dealing with. And I I really believe that as a church, we can be a tremendous encouragement to them and probably can help get them to a point where they can actually meet under the roof of a proper building, not where they're meeting currently today And so I want to encourage you to prayerfully consider that. All of the money that is not designated on Easter Sunday, that means it's not designated for missions or not designated for tithes or general fund. That money will go directly to that work. And if you uh would like to give at a different time, then please designate it for sacrificial. Sunday. But please look through the video. It is an unlisted video on YouTube, and I did that on purpose. I don't want it to be publicly distributed. It's just for our church. so that uh you can see that but um the truth is I'm going to share some details in there that um I don't necessarily want to be publicly distributed all over the place. So please do make sure that you honor that. Don't share it on your Facebook feed today or on some other location. If someone has the link, they can watch the video And um I think that it'll it'll not just show you the need, but it'll talk to you about really our burden as a church when when it came to to going about establishing um an independent work there in Cape Coast. And so There's a lot that's covered in that video, not just the need. If you could, let's take out our Bibles and let's turn to our opening scripture this morning. We're in Romans chapter 5, and uh we are having the Lord's table this morning, so I'm looking forward to that. We also are taking in members at the end of the service, and I'm looking forward to that as well. So as we read this, let's really focus our attention on the Lord's table and what was accomplished for us when Christ went to the cross. It says, Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom also we have access by faith into this grace. wherein we stand and rejoice in hope of the glory of God. For when we were without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly For scarcely for a righteous man will one die, yet peradventure for a good man would some even dare to die. But God commendeth his love toward us, that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us Much more than being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. For if when we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his son This morning, let's bow our hearts together and let's ask the Lord to really open our eyes to some very important truths. As we look at the 29th Psalm for our text this this morning, my prayer is that the Lord will really use this. To impact our thinking and our hearts. So let's bow together for prayer. Father, we are so very grateful for how kind you are to us. We are assembled together this morning as a body, and we have such a wonderful opportunity to hear the Word of God read. To sing praises of triumph of the cross as a body together. We have the opportunity to hear the Word of God preached. Father, I pray that every single means that you use this morning will point our attention to the finished work of Christ, will cause us to glory In that cross and in Christ's shed blood in the triumph of the resurrection. Father, I pray that this morning we would not be distracted by the cares of life The frustrations and the disappointments that entangle our thinking, but that we would truly have the freedom as a people to look into the word and to delight in your work. I pray that every aspect of the service today would truly bless you and honor you. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. I forgot one other announcement. The Betz's baby was born very early on Friday morning. The ladies prayed at the ladies' meeting that this little one would come. And he did. So there'll be more details coming uh by email, but I I did not mention that and I should have some. All right. All right, good morning, Anchor Baptist Church, an esteemed guest, both in person and joining us on live stream. We're going to start off the services this morning with praise and singing. So if you'll follow along with me on the screen or get out a book, we're going to turn to page two. I'm going to turn to page two and sing all three verses of Come, Christians, join to sing. Please stand with me. Come, Chris, just joy today. Are all your Okay, just over a couple pages to page six. Page six, all three verses of I sing the mighty power Lord comes my one with our big night. Where are they? We are in the heavenly dark. Amen. Go ahead and have a seat now. Well, we turn to page 60. Page 60. Good focus on singing those two songs. Now we're going to sing How Majestic Is Thy Name, all three verses. When I get never the club I can lost the moon and I wanna Make it the rich to make the Lord , where we are , our Lord, how we just make it a name. My mother , all the thy prayer. All thy wondrous were proclaimed. Oh the whole thing is thy name , the dark heavy the glory of God free. Bitch, really bit Why do Christ I Why would God the creator of all make the former allowing us to die? Oh Lord, oh Lord, how I can give thy name, my hands , our creation of thy name. All my wonder for claim all all I 'm a getting. My name is the ring and glorious. All I know Oh And we'll have a scripture reading now. We're going to go to Psalm chapter 29. Psalms 29, we're going to read the first 11 verses, verses 1 through 11. And the Word of God states Give unto the Lord, O ye mighty, give unto the Lord glory and strength. Give unto the Lord the glory due unto his name. Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. The voice of the Lord is upon the waters. The God of glory thundereth. The Lord is upon many waters. The voice of the Lord is powerful. The voice of the Lord is full of majesty. The voice of the Lord breaketh the cedars. Yea, the Lord breaketh the cedars of Lebanon. He maketh them also to skip like a calf, Lebnan and Syrion like a young unicorn. The voice of the Lord divideth the flames of fire The voice of the Lord shaketh the wilderness. The Lord shaketh the wilderness of Kadesh. The voice of the Lord maketh the hinds to Cav, and discovereth the forest And in his temple doth every one speak of his glory. The Lord sitteth upon the flood. Yea, the Lord sitteth king forever. The Lord will give strength unto his people. The Lord will bless his people with peace. And may the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. Amen. Alright, we'll continue a couple more songs. If you're going to follow along with us in your book, turn to page 68 Page 68, or otherwise, follow along with the screen with me. Remain seated as long as you keep singing out like that. And we're going to sing holy, holy, holy, all four verses Shawanala I didn't bring when I entered Holy Holy Holy. Amen. Okay, we're gonna Bring out the blue book for the next song, or you can follow along on the screen again. We're going to turn to page 167. Middle back of the blue book. And we're going to sing all four verses of It's Still the Cross. We are in the air and good and we have you have to make them Allah , it's getting God Allah , come right , we never lie , we did provide. We don't have a brain rain. Only glory who measures no waters in all of his hand who wants the law of Glory of indescribable, great and marvelous agent days. Jesus Savior reigns forever. With his highly power conquered that one of victory Hory us can describe great and marvelous changes of days seen a stage or rain forever, you alone are worthy of. They fall Okay, I've been excited all week knowing what the music was gonna be this morning. It's okay. It'll be fine. But you guys help her. Can I ask the children to be dismissed to the back for junior church I was very excited this week thinking about the songs of the We're going to sing, very focused on Christ, and uh very triumphant as we consider the cross. But like us to do before we go to this passage of scripture. I'd like us to bow together for a word of prayer. And we ask the Lord to help us to focus our attention on His Word. Father, we are so grateful that this morning we can come into your presence and we can reflect on the cross of Christ. The cross is central to what gives us stability and strength and peace. The cross is what purchased our redemption And this morning, as we look at an Old Testament passage, Psalm 29, we are going to be reminded that you are a God who is truly Triumphant and powerful. And we would have no ability to enter into your presence save the redemptive work of Christ I pray that this morning as we open the word that you would grip us with this powerful reality. As we spend time together focusing on the cross and redemption, remembering together as a body what was purchased for us, I pray that you would strengthen us through it. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. If you could, let's turn to the 29th Psalm together. I'm going to read this text together, read it to you, and then we're going to spend some time dealing with some very, very powerful truths. Psalm 29, verse 1 starts out this way. Give unto the Lord, O ye mighty. Give unto the Lord glory and strength. Give unto the Lord the glory due unto his name. Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. The voice of the Lord is upon the waters. The God of glory thunderous. The Lord is upon many waters. The voice of the Lord is powerful. The voice of the Lord is full of majesty. The voice of the Lord breaketh the cedars, yea, the Lord breaketh the cedars of Lebanon. He maketh them also to skip like a calf, Lebanon and Syrian like a young unicorn. The voice of the Lord divideth the flames of fire. The voice of the Lord shaketh the wilderness. The Lord shaketh the wilderness of Kadesh. The Lord the voice of the Lord maket Gift to Heinz to Kauf And discovereth the forest, and in his temple doth everyone speak of his glory. The Lord sitteth upon the flood. Yea, the Lord sitteth king forever. The Lord will give strength unto his people. The Lord will bless his people with peace. The passage in front of us is one that is very triumphant, it is very powerful, and in fact, it's describing something that we've actually probably witnessed on some level at some point in our lives. What David is writing about in these verses is the description of a violent thunderstorm. And as we move our way through this description of the violent thunderstorm, more than anything, what David is describing Is not just the terrifying power that is displayed in a thunderstorm, but he is reminding us that it is God Himself who created that kind of power. And when we witness such an event in our lives, it reminds us of the kind of power of the God that created us. And so when we look at Psalm 29, what we're seeing is a vivid display of God's power in nature that is calling us to humbly worship Him. for his power, but then there's a second side to this. It's not just about bowing on our faces in the presence of God and saying you are worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power, but it's about loving him. It's not just about saying he is mighty, he is powerful, he is full of authority, but it's about recognizing that he is good. And he is kind, he's compassionate, he's tender. This is all about us seeing not just the power, but the personal interest that God takes in the lives of us. And so that's what we're going to look at this morning as we reflect on some very important truths and as we prepare our hearts to partake of the Lord's table. God wants us to be a people whose hearts are filled with worship and affection, love for God Himself. And so what I'd like us to do is first of all begin looking at the beginning of this psalm, the first two verses, and see that there's a very distinct call that David is giving for us to worship God. Notice what it says in verses 1 and 2. He says, Give unto the Lord, O ye mighty, give unto the Lord glory and strength. Give unto the Lord the glory that is due unto his name. Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. Now this call to worship really is expressed in three different ways, and they're all kind of interconnected with one another, and on some level they actually build upon one another. For instance, the first thing is it is expresses that God is a God who should be given worship. Now, by the way, the reason that we should give God worship is because of who he is. It's not because God needs anything from us. It's not like God is in the heavens ringing his hand and saying, Boy, I really hope that the people at Anchor Baptist Church this morning will give me worship because I'm lonely and I'm disappointed and I I'm going to struggle today if they don't. That's not the kind of God that we serve He doesn't need anything from us. He is self-existent. We are dependent on him. He's not dependent upon us in any way. The reason that we should ascribe glory and honor to him is because there's no other appropriate response to this kind of a being. A God who created the heavens and the earth and everything displays his might and his glory. There's no other appropriate response Than to glory in him. And so the verse starts out with, give God glory. In other words, we need to declare his greatness. By the way, we did that this morning. Every single one of those hymns declares the greatness of God. It talks about his might, it talks about his power, it talks about his holiness, it talks about his righteousness. It talks about his plan of redemption. All of it points to the glories of God. But there's a second aspect of this call to worship God, and that is to give him strength. Now, we're not giving God strength because he's like, I need your strength. We're giving him strength because we recognize he created us with a very distinctive purpose. The fact that you and I have life today means that God has purpose behind sustaining that life that He's given. And part of that purpose is that we would serve him with our strength. And by the way, that serving him with our strength comes in so many different ways. It comes in simple things like taking care of our kids. Ministering to our wife or ministering to our husband or encouraging a brother in Christ or seeing that there is a need and and going and meeting that need. A lot of this, giving of God our strength, a lot of this is stuff that nobody will ever see. It's stuff that we do in the private of our lives. But the reason that we give him our strength is because we understand who he is. So that's the first aspect of this expression of worship. The second is that this expression of worship is to come from a very particular disposition. In other words, there's a certain kind of attitude that we should have when we enter into the presence of God and we declare his glory. Or when we take with our hands and we begin to serve him, there is a kind of disposition of the heart that is an essential part of what I would call biblical worship. And so in verse number two, he says, to give the glory that is due unto his name. Now that's going from just saying, I need to worship God, I need to ascribe his greatness. And I need to give him my strength. And it's to say, you need to do it in a way that's comparable to the person that you're worshiping. And I asked this question. How in the world could you and I give to God in heaven an appropriate level of worship? Just think about that for a moment. I'm not asking it because I'm going to answer the question. I'm asking it to say, well, think about it. How can we do this? We're talking about someone who is infinitely wise, infinitely good. He's all powerful. He sustains their very lives. Everything good that we enjoy in this world, it comes from his hand. How can we give to him glory that rises to the level of who we're talking to, and who we're praising, who we're singing about? So I asked this question. How in the world can a person express this level of respect to an infinitely good, wise, powerful, and self-sufficient God? In a flippant and casual manner. Ask yourself that for a moment. A lot of what people call worship is not. The God that they are praising is not the God who made them. It's the God that they imagine made them. We move to a third expression, and that is it not only expresses the disposition, but it shapes the manner in which we come to him. It shapes how we come into the presence of this God. And here's what it says in verse 2. It says, worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. You know what holiness is? Holiness means that it is distinct and set apart. There is nothing in this world that is as pure as God Himself. Nothing. There is none that we can truly compare God to. When God describes himself for us in the Word, there's always limitation to the way He expresses His own nature to us. Because these minds cannot fully comprehend that God 's. And so he says, the way that you come to God is one that is distinctly beautiful and holy. You say, well, why? Because we're trying to give him worship that is consistent with how great he is. It is the glory that's due unto his name. So that's where it starts. I also want to make a few statements about worship. Worship starts with our brains. It starts with our minds. And the reason that it starts with our minds is because God wants are thinking about him to be right before we try to express how we see him. The truth is that before we come to sing praise to God, we have to have content to sing about. Before we express how we feel toward God, there ought to be an objective, truthful basis for those feelings. In other words, it starts with our minds, and as we reflect on the truth, it shapes how we think so that we're thinking correctly about God Himself. As we begin to process the truth in our minds, there's something that it does in our hearts. As believers, we have the Holy Spirit who indwells us. And the Holy Spirit takes the truths of Scripture, and as we understand them, what He begins to do is He begins to press it on our hearts. He begins to awaken our our affection. toward God, and we begin to process the truth in a way that push us to want to express worship to God. Putting it simply, a heart that is full of affection for God is one that can't help but express love and devotion to Him. And love and devotion to Him is expressed in action. We proclaim with our lips his praises in a way that is overwhelmed by the distinctiveness of his person. We approach him with a sense of reverence and awe, and we express it in our daily obedience. Worship isn't just what happens in this room. Worship is what happens in this room, and then what happens in this room shapes worship the rest of the week. It shapes worship and how we relate to our kids and our spouse and our our employer, our employees. It shapes every single aspect of our lives. And what's intriguing about the passage is In the scriptures that talk about worship, particularly in the New Testament, he talks about truth and affection and obedience. He does it in Colossians, he does it in Ephesians. Listen to some of these passages. John 4 28, we're to worship him in spirit and in truth. Mind and emotion. Colossians 3 16, where to let the word of Christ dwell in us richly in all wisdom. And then speaking to ourselves in Psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. And then he goes through all these lists of here's how you treat your wife, here's how you treat your husband, here's how you treat your Here's how you respond to your parents. Here's how you work with somebody that has authority over you. Here's how you treat somebody who is under your authority. He goes through all those areas. Why? Because worship begets daily worship. That's what it's all about. Ephesians 5 18. Be filled with the Spirit. That's what worship is. And so really Psalm twenty-nine is saying Worship God biblically. That's what it's saying. Second thing we want to see this morning is that he gives us a compelling case to worship God The reason people don't worship God is one of two. Either one, they don't understand Him, and so they don't feel compelled to worship Him, or two, they understand Him and they don't like what they understand about Him. That's called rebellion. The first example is ignorance. The second is rebellion. A believer has truth in the heart and says, I want to worship my Creator, my Savior, my Redeemer. And so we see this compelling case in verses 3 to 10. I'm not going to read the entire section on the front side, but we're going to work through some very fascinating descriptions of a violent torrential storm. Verse number three, he says, The voice of the Lord is upon the waters. The God of glory thunders. The Lord is upon many waters. Verse number ten: The Lord sitteth upon the flood. Yea, the Lord said King forever. Every aspect of God's creation, every aspect points to his greatness. Psalm 19: the heavens declare the glory of God. The creation points to his majesty, his beauty, his wisdom, his order, his power, his care. They're all there. The heavens declare the glory of God, the firmament showeth his handiwork. Day into day uttereth speech, and night into night showeth knowledge. There is no speech nor language where their voice is not heard. The creation never stops praising its creator. Save you and me. Job 38, verse 4. Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? Who hath laid the measures therefore if thou knowest? Or who hath stretched the line upon it Whereupon all the foundations thereof were fastened, or who laid the cornerstone thereof when the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy? Or who shut up the sea with doors When I made the clouds, the garment thereof, the thick darkness a swaddling band for it, hast thou commanded the morning since the days, and caused the day spring to know its place? Hast thou entered into the springs of the sea, or hast thou walked in search of the depths? The book of Job is full of some very rich and descriptive language about creation. A lot of it is from God's mouth himself. And basically what God's telling Job is, you know anything, Job. What you know is just barely scratching the surface about me, about how good I am and how powerful I am and how I've ordered things. If you could know everything that there was to know in your time, you still wouldn't understand everything Ecclesiastes 1 5 it says, The sun ariseth and the sun goeth down and hasteth his place where where it arose The wind goeth toward the south, and turneth around unto the north, it whirleth about continually, the wind returneth again according to his circuits, all the rivers run into the sea, yet the sea is not full, and unto the place from whence the rivers come thither they return again. Isn't that an amazing description of the way that the creation displays God's wisdom and his goodness? All the simple beauties of the world display their creator's goodness, wisdom, and power. But Psalm 29 goes to a very particular case. And the picture that I want you to get in your mind Is that of the most terrifying thunderstorm you've ever witnessed? Now, when I think about this, I I think of two situations in my life that really stand out. One is when we were traveling in California. We were traveling in California, we were driving through the mountains, and there was a torrential, horrific thunderstorm that I will not forget. There's another event that I remember very well, and that was standing on my porch in Ghana. This is early on in our time there, looking out and seeing on the horizon it just get thick black clouds. And all of a sudden the wind starts whipping and the temperature just drops like that. And all of a sudden the rains are pouring in sheets. And there's lightning flashes all around you, and you hear the massive booms of thunder. This is what he's talking about. This is what David is writing about. He's giving us the picture of a storm that's building over the Mediterranean Sea in the northern region of Israel. He says, The voice of the Lord is on the waters, the God of glory thunderth, the Lord is upon many waters, the voice of the Lord is powerful, the voice of the Lord is full of majesty. And as David is witnessing this storm that's sweeping across the northern part of the land of Israel, it sweeps across the northern regions, and there are these towering mountains in the north of Israel, and there are these massive Trees, the cedars of Lebanon. We could say the pride of the ancient world in those days, these massive trees, and as David is looking, he sees these trees getting ripped apart by the winds. And it says, the voice of the Lord breaketh the cedars. He breaketh the cedars of Lebanon. That's terrifying, isn't it? And then we see the fury of the wind and the pounding of the rain, and we see that there's brilliant flashes of lightning. Verse 7: the voice of the Lord divideth the flames of fire. He's talking about lightning. And then the fury of the wind and the pounding of the rain not only leaves you these brilliant flashes of lightning, but you can hear these booms of thunder that literally shake the wilderness everywhere that the lightning crashes. Verse number eight. The voice of the Lord shaketh the wilderness. The Lord shaketh the wilderness of Kadesh. Now that's in the southern part of Israel. So as David is writing this description of a thunderstorm, he's talking about it moving from the north all the way to the wilderness of the south, and it's leaving this torrential rain. These booms of thunder, these massive lightning strikes, this violent wind, and massive trees that are split in two into splinters. You say, well, why is David doing that? Because he's saying, when I see that, it reminds me of something. God is glorious. And he is king. And he says in verse nine , In his temple doth every one speak of his glory. By the way, I left out an important detail. Even the deer are affected. Verse number nine: the voice of the Lord makes the hinds the calf and discovereth the forests. Go ahead and do a little research on your own time and see how the lightning strikes and the violent storms during certain times of the year actually cause the wild animals in certain parts of the world to give birth. That's what he's talking about. The trees are affected, streams are flowing, the mountains are shaking, the deer are giving birth, and you know what he says? I see all this, and as I sit in the temple of God, I say He is glorious. That's what he's saying. He's the king forever. This awesome display of God's power and authority compels us to worship. But that's not the most amazing thing about this psalm. It's not. We tend to think of God's power and the violence of this wind and the violence of the rain and the violence of the sounds of Of thunder and all that, go back to where we see God's power. That's not where we see God's power the most. It's what he says in verse number eleven. Look at it. There's a compelling case not just to worship him, but to love him. He says the Lord will give strength unto his people and will bless his people with peace. You say, oh, that's not saying a whole lot, is it? Actually, it's saying a tremendous amount. Because here's what it's saying: the God who created this world out of nothing. And the God who sustains this world by his own power, and the God who guides the events of history according to his own wisdom. Is the same God who cares about your soul. Let that settle in. He's the same God that cares about your soul When he says that the Lord will give strength, he's saying God's going to take a personal interest in you. When it says he will bless his people with peace, that means God is taking personal action to accomplish that. The God who created all these things is a God who cares about you and me. And that's not because we deserve to be cared for. It's not because he got this amazing deal when he got us. It's because he's a very good God. There is no way that you and I should have the ability to walk into the presence of a holy and righteous God. We break his laws, we stumble in so many ways, we rebel in so many ways. We're weak. We complain. All of us do. There's no exceptions here. There's not some great exception sitting somewhere in this room. Oh, well, I don't deal with this. No, we're all made of the same stuff. Even David himself, who's writing these words. In his greatest moments, he was an incredible person. In his lowest moments, you'd never want to be David. Think about the fact that this God invites us into his presence. You know, we're going to partake of the Lord's table in just a moment. And what the Lord's table does is it reminds us. That there is a basis for us to come into the presence of a holy and righteous God. And the basis of that righteousness or the basis of that, of that ability to come into his presence isn't something that we contribute to in any way. It's entirely what he did for us. He is the one who established that basis. His cross, not your cross. His righteousness, not your righteousness. His resurrection, not your resurrection. His obedience, not your obedience. The cross and the righteousness of Christ and the resurrection, they're all the work of God. We simply receive them by faith. We trust in what he did. And faith is something that I'm just depending on what he did. Not saying, I'm going to make a deal with you. Here's what I'm going to do for you. That's not what faith is. Faith trusts. It's reliance on what He did for us. This infinite God has made a basis for us to come into His presence. Listen to Ephesians chapter 2, verse number 2. He says, you who once were dead in trespasses and sins, who walked according to the course of this world who lived as slaves to the lust and fleshful passions that we live by, who were by nature the children of wrath. You and I can enter his presence. And so he says that the Lord will give strength. God doesn't just like zap strength into us, he gives it to us through means, through instruments that are at his disposal. He literally a personally upholds us when we are cast down. Psalm forty two, verse eleven, it says, Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God, for I shall give praise and with the health of my countenance. And my God. David's discouraged. He's frustrated. He wants to quit. And he goes, What are you doing, David? Trust God. He says, God strengthens. He does it through his guidance. Romans 8. 28. All things work together for good to them that love God, to them are the called according to his purpose. God takes some of the most complicated and frustrating and disheartening situations in our life, and he uses them to accomplish good in our lives. He strengthens us. He does this through his people. Galatians chapter 6, verse 2. He says, we are to bear one another's burdens and so fulfill the law of Christ. And so sometimes God just comes alongside and he strengthens us internally. Sometimes God brings a believer along our path. It could be a brother in Christ, a sister in Christ, somebody that cares about us, and they they share with us The scriptures, they encourage our heart, and that mutual encouragement strengthens us. That's God ultimately who does it. He uses us, but he's the one who accomplishes it. He does it by his spirit. Romans 8, 15. You have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Ah the Father, the Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit that we are the children of God. And if you look in that context, you will see that he's talking about sorrow and suffering and the hardships of life. And he says, in those moments of darkness and discouragement. The Spirit of God strengthens and upholds our spirit and reminds us that we are the children of God. We belong to him. He loves us. He does it through his word. Psalm 119, 71. It is good for me that I've been afflicted, that I might learn thy statutes. The law of thy mouth is better unto me than thousands of gold and silver. How do we get strength? He does it. That's personal interest. Number two, the Lord will bless his people with peace. There are lots of different ways that we can look at this concept. And I'm going to break down a couple of them for you. But this is not an exhaustive list in any way. The most significant peace that we have in this world is peace with God. We have ru - we have Wronged him, we have sinned against him, we have violated his commands, we have broken his laws, we deserve eternal wrath, and we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus. Christ. Romans 5:1. We are justified by faith. We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. There's no peace that is more important in all the world than that one right there. We can have peace within. We're talking about the conscience. Anybody ever struggle with their conscience? We all have. Yet we can stand before a holy and righteous God, forgiven and cleansed. And knowing we have access into this presence because of what this text says, Hebrews 9. 13. If the blood of bulls and goats and the ashes of an heifer sprinkling uh sprinkling the unclean sanctifies to the peering of the flesh. How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God? Peace with God. Peace within. That's significant. Peace with other people. One of the things that's very apparent when you study history is that the most common thing in history is that people fight wars. It's true. Why is that? Because we're sinners. One of the most common things that you learn in life, if you work in a in a business context and you happen to rise to a supervisor level, probably you spend more time dealing with interpersonal conflicts than almost anything else. Else in a in a in the business world. Why is that? Because people are sinners. Even in the church context, where people are redeemed and they're saved and they know the gospel, we still have our issues that we struggle with from time to time. Time. Within marriages, husband and wife who stood at an altar one day and said, Till death do us apart, for better or for worse, richer for poor, they can look each other in the eyes. And say, I don't even want to look at you in the eyes, because there's so much animosity. Why is that? Because people are sinners. People whose parents took care of them from the time they were little, little kids, made sure that they were fed and clothed and had the education that they need, and they took them to church. They get up to 18, 19, 20 years old and they look at their parents and they despise them. What an ungrateful thing to think of. Why is that? These people are sinners. You can flip it the other way too. Parents who have children, who God has given to them as a gift, who they should love and nurture and care for. If they're an inconvenience. So many different ways we could look at this. Why? Because people are sinners. Peace with our fellow men. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 14, He is our peace, who hath made both one and hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us, having abolished in his flesh the enmity. To make in himself of twain one new man, that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by the cross. Now, therefore, we are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints and of the household of God You can preach an entire series of sermons on that concept. The last one I'll mention is he's an everlasting peace. Not just he gives us peace with God and peace within and peace with each other, but peace forever. Ephesians 9, or Ephesians, Isaiah 9, 6, unto us a child is born, a son is given, the government shall be upon his shoulders His name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Listen to what it says. Of the increase of his government and peace, there shall be no end. So as we look at the 29th Psalm, what do we see? We see this massive display of God's might and this reminder that He cares about us. And there is no greater example of that care than the cross of Christ. You say, what can we take away from it? Let me give you a couple of thoughts before we partake together. Today we're going to remember that the God who sits as king over the fiercest storm has come personally to us. He's established in the cross of Christ forgiveness, a righteous position, freedom from condemnation, acceptance in the beloved, and eternally secured inheritance with the saints. And his motive isn't I needed something. His motive is grace. He's good. He loves us. That's why he did it. He did it because he truly loves a people that don't deserve such favor. And so I ask you this morning to take a few moments to prepare your hearts as we will be partaking of this table together. Let's bow for prayer. Father, we are so grateful that today we are reminded of a work. That is so rich, such a tremendous demonstration of goodness and love and grace We are forgiven and cleansed, and we are able to come into the presence of our Father And nothing can take us from the hand of the Father because of what we will remember together. I pray that as we do this, we would do it in a way that is Consistent with the weight of it, that we would partake in a manner that is worthy of what we remember That we would remember the weight of this sacrifice, that we would glory in it , we would be comforted in it, and we would be strengthened as we remember. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. Our hymn book is the very first in the insert, Blessed Be the Tide That Binds. Let's stand together, please, and let's sing this song out together. We'll sing the first, second, and the fourth, please. And we are done, and if that 's new word and