Good morning, I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And this is episode three for the week. And so I want to invite you back with me to Psalm 29. And uh we're looking at the entire Psalm together, but today we will focus in on kind of the heart of this psalm, verses 3 to 10. So let's go ahead and look together at the Psalm. We'll read it in its entirety and then dig into the text. It says, Give unto the Lord, O ye mighty, give unto the Lord glory and strength. Give unto the Lord the glory due unto his name. Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. The voice of the Lord is upon the waters. The God of glory thundereth. The Lord is upon many waters. The voice of the Lord is powerful. The voice of the Lord is full of majesty. The voice of the Lord breaketh the cedars. Yea, the Lord breaketh the cedars of L He maketh them also to skip like a calf, Lebanon and Syrian like young unicorns. The voice of the Lord divideth the flames of fire, the voice of the Lord shaketh the wilderness. The Lord shaketh the wilderness of Kiddish The voice of the Lord maketh the hinds to calf, and discovereth the forest, and in his temple doth everyone speak of his glory. The Lord sitteth upon the flood, yea, the Lord sitteth king forever. The Lord will give strength unto his people. The Lord will bless his people with peace. Now these verses are wonderful verses because they are so graphic in their description of God's power. And yesterday we talked about in these verses the fact that they compel us to turn to God and to worship Him in a very distinct way. What I'd like us to do this morning is I'd like us to look at a compelling reason or a compelling case for us to worship the Lord. And so I want to direct your attention into these verses and show you how The psalmist, David, is taking a very specific situation that probably many of us have witnessed on some level, and it gives us an appreciation for God's power. So before we get into those details, I want to make this statement because it is a part of the discussion we're looking at today. All of creation Endlessly praises the greatness of the Lord and it compels us to worship Him. Several passages in the Old Testament are majestic type passages that show us that. For instance, Psalm 19, we're very familiar with this one. It says, that the heavens declare the glory of God. And the firmament showeth his handiwork. Day into day uttereth speech, and night unto night showeth knowledge. There is no speech or language where their voice is not heard Whenever we look into the creation and we see the heavens and the beauty of a sunset or the beauty of a sunrise, when we look up into the night sky, all of those things declare that God is great and glorious and he's worthy to be praised. Or think about what God says about Himself in Job chapter 38. He says, Where wouldst thou when I laid the foundations of the earth Who laid the measures thereof? If thou knowest, or who hath stretched the line upon, whereupon the foundations thereof are fastened, or who laid the cornerstone thereof Hast thou commanded the morning since the days, and caused the day spring to know his place? Hast thou entered into the springs of the sea, or hast thou walked into to search of the depths? What is the Lord saying to Job? He's basically saying, Job, this creation compels you to bow down in my presence and worship me. Because there are so many things in this world that are wondrous to behold and you can't fully comprehend it. And I'm the one who designed it that way, I'm the one who created it that way. Or in Ecclesiastes one five it says that the sun arises and it goes down and hastened. The wind goeth toward the south, and turneth again to the north, it whirleth about continually. The the winds return or the rivers return into run into the sea, yet the sea is not full. Unto the place from whence the rivers come, thither they return again. And so he talks about some of the things that we witness in the creation that that compel us to worship God. I I put it this way, all of the simple beauties of this world display the Creator's goodness, wisdom, and power. And I think it's important for us sometimes to just stop and pause and reflect and to really glory in God through what we see He has made. And so the creation points us to the creator. It shows us his yindi work, his wisdom, his power. But Psalm 29 kind of takes a very specific kind of situation that you've probably witnessed before And it demonstrates God's power. I can remember a couple of times that I was able to witness a very distinct and powerful thunderstorm. I can think about examples when I was living in Florida growing up and how we would see torrential rains and and and intense lightning and loud booms of thunder sometimes in the summer. Where I think about when we lived in Ghana, we would stand out on our porch at the very beginning of the rainy season, kind of at the end of May, going into June, and we would see torrential, heavy rains and uh intense lightning and thunder. And we would just sit there and just watch this with amazement. I remember when we were in California on deputation there was a time we were traveling through the mountains there in California and we saw a a terrible thunderstorm. And that's really the picture of what David is talking about. I want you to notice how David describes uh this violent torrential thunderstorm And then what he says, how he applies what he witnesses. For instance, he begins with uh giving us this picture of a storm that's building over the Mediterranean Sea in the the the northern regions of Israel. And this is what it says in verse 3. It says that the voice of the Lord is upon the waters, the the glory of God thundereth The Lord is upon many waters, the voice of the Lord is powerful, and the voice of the Lord is full of majesty. And then as David is witnessing this thunderstorm that's building over the Mediterranean Sea, it sweeps down from the northern regions and it rips through those mountains where those tall cedars of Lebanon are growing there on the mountainside. And this is the way that he describes it in verses five through six. He says, the voice of the Lord breaketh the cedars. Yea, the Lord breaketh the cedars of Lebanon. And when we talk about those cedars of Lebanon, we're talking about massive trees. that they would have used when they were building the temple and when they were uh making construction like like Solomon's house and places like that. And so these are huge trees and he's saying, as this thunderstorm sweeps through These trees are swaying in the breeze and the lightning crashes and these cedars are just splintering apart because of the power of this thunderstorm. He then continues to focus in on the fury of the wind and the pounding of the rains and the brilliant flashes of lightning that accompany the storm. In verse seven he says, The voice of the Lord divideth the flames of fire. And then he moves on to the loud crashes that you hear when a thunderstorm is going on, and you hear that thunder rumbling as a result of the violence of that storm. He says in verse number eight, the voice of the Lord shaketh the wilderness. of Kadesh. And so in this psalm, it's showing a picture of this storm moving from the north all the way down to the wilderness regions, the desert regions. of the South. And David is witnessing all of this. He even gives us a very interesting detail in verse 9. He says the voice of the Lord maketh the hinds to calf and discovereth the forest. And he says, These are such violent rains and such violent storms, that as those deer are coming to that time of the year Where they will give birth, this thunderstorm actually causes them to respond during that season and to go into birth. And so what we're seeing is this massive display of power. You might even say a terrifying display of power, a fearful display of power. I refer back to what we talked about yesterday, where it says that we're to worship the Lord And to give him the glory that is due unto his name, and we're to worship him in the beauty of holiness When we take those kinds of statements and we lay them beside this picture of a violent torrential rain and thunderstorm, what we're seeing is David is saying, this God, our Creator is worthy of all praise and all honor and all glory. But what I think is fascinating about these verses Is that what David does is he doesn't just focus in on the terror of the storm, he focuses in on the fact that the storm is under the control of God Notice what he says in verse 9. He says, in his temple doth everyone speak of his glory. What David is basically saying is in the midst of all of this terror, there are people whose perspective is not so much focused on the storm as the fact that the storm has a creator. And the storm has someone who uses it to demonstrate his glory. And so he says, in the temple, people recognize the glory of God and they speak of his glory. That means when they look at the creation, they're not going, oh, that's really cool. Let's worship the creation. Or wow, that's really neat. I wonder if it's just the result of blind and random chance. That's not what the psalmist is saying He's saying in the temple where people fear God and worship God and think of God, when they witness these things, they think of them in terms of their creator. And that's the way that we're supposed to look at the creation. But there's a second little detail. He not only emphasizes that in his temple they speak of his glory, but he emphasizes that he is the king who sits upon the flood. Listen to what it says in verse 10. The Lord sitteth upon the flood. Yea, the Lord sitteth king forever So what does David ultimately take away from this scene that he's describing for us in very poetic language? What he's taking away from it is that the most terrifying things that we witness in the world that dis that that that show us our limits and show us how weak and how small we are and how great God is. They demonstrate that God is sovereign, that He rules, that He reigns, that He's in charge, that He's king. That's where David goes with that. All of these awesome displays of God's power and authority compel us to worship Him. So I asked this question this morning. Are you one who is compelled to worship him? And that word worship has the idea of bowing down, giving reverence, having a sense of awe, having a sense of respect for the Lord. Are you a person who lives your life conscientiously in light of the glories of the God that made you and sustains you or not? How do we practically apply this this morning? Let me give you a couple of thoughts that I think are that flow naturally from this display of God's power. And the first is a question. How much of our lives are really centered on Him? In other words, when I do my work, when I respond to people and circumstances, When it comes to my view of the my perspective of the things that I'm experiencing in life. Maybe it's a health issue, a financial issue, a relational issue, an interpersonal issue within our homes, whatever the situation Do we have him being the center of our lives or not? Do we interpret those situations in light of him being the sovereign king over all, or do we not? The second question. Are we trusting Him with our cares and our burdens? The truth is every one of us carries some burden in our life And we go through some seasons where it's the cumulative nature of the burdens that we've carried that finally come to a head. Or sometimes it's not the cumulative effect, but it's something very intense and very severe just for the moment. Maybe it's not something we are personally experiencing. Maybe it's something that we see another person experiencing. And those cares and those burdens, they weigh very heavily on our hearts. And ask this question Are we are we willing to trust him with those things? The same God who created the world, the heavens declare his glory, and the might and the power of this thunderstorm that David describes in poetic language Are we willing to trust that God, the king over the flood, with our cares and our burdens, and the cares and the burdens of others? And the third question I ask is this. Are we willing to daily prioritize our time so that we personally reflect on Him and worship Him as we should? It is so easy to get our days going and to completely neglect a time of study in the Word, a time of prayer, a time of reflection. It's really easy for us to jump to the next thing. without considering the importance of worshiping the Lord. And by the way, it's our times of personal and private worship That shape our hearts so that we will live out a worship-filled life when it comes to our daily work and our daily labors As we think about this passage of Scripture, I hope that we are struck with the power of God and the greatness of God and the majesty of God, and I hope we're also compelled to worship Him. Now, this is an amazing passage that we're looking at, but I have to tell you that what we're going to talk about tomorrow is what I think is an even more compelling case to look at how we should approach our creator. It's not just about worship, but it's about an affectionate worship It's about a heart that is filled with love for him. And so, Lord willing, tomorrow we're going to talk about the next little portion of this psalm, and then we're going to try to apply it. I hope that you've had a good time studying with us this morning. I hope it's been an encouragement, a challenge, a blessing. If it has, please share that. Maybe share some feedback or Share a word of encouragement, pass it along to someone else, let them know about what we're doing. We put these out generally by 8 o'clock. And Lord willing, tomorrow we will continue in our series. And I hope that you have a great rest of your day. Bye now