Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of Our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And uh this is our tenth week that we've been working our way through The Sunday morning messages, and I'm excited about the psalm that we're looking at this morning and that Lord willing we'll look at throughout this week, and that's the 29th Psalm. So if you have your Bible, I want to encourage you to take it, and let's turn together to Psalm 29, and I'll begin reading in verse number one. It says, Give unto the Lord, O ye mighty, give unto the Lord the glory due, of glory and strength. Give unto the Lord the glory due unto his name. Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. The voice of the Lord is upon the waters. The God of glory thunderth. The Lord is upon many waters. The voice of the Lord is powerful. The voice of the Lord is full of majesty. The voice of the Lord breaketh the cedars, yea, the Lord breaketh the cedars of Leb He maketh them also to skip like a calf, and Siron like a young unicorn. The voice of the Lord divideth the flames of fire, the voice of the Lord shaketh the wilderness, the Lord shaketh the wilderness of Kadesh. The voice of the Lord maketh the hinds the calf, and discovereth the forest, and in his temple doth every one speak of his glory. The Lord sitteth upon the flood, yea the Lord sitteth king for ever. The Lord will give strength unto his people. The Lord will bless his people with peace. The 29th Psalm is a powerful psalm of Praise to God. And as I was studying through this passage of Scripture, there were several commentators that I read um that that gave some beautiful descriptions of the twenty ninth Psalm. For instance, James Montgomery Boyce he talks about this being one of the most uh magnificent of all of the Psalms. He talked about the poetic nature of the Psalm and the parallelism parallelism that you find in the psalm. But the thing that he really focuses in on is the setting of the psalm. And I'm not going to talk a lot about this this morning, but we will as we get into this psalm talk about the setting. And the setting is a thunderstorm, a mighty thunderstorm. And in that thunderstorm, what we're going to see is that the thunderstorm displays God's glory in a very unique in a very specific way. But that's really not going to be the entire focus of the Psalm. That's where the the vast majority of the Psalm is going to spend its time describing this powerful event where we hear uh thunder and we see lightning and we see floods of water and we see trees being split apart. I mean a magnificent display of God's power. But really what the Psalm is doing is it's calling us to worship God. And he's going to begin with talking about the distinctiveness of worshiping God. And then he's going to move from the distinctiveness of worshiping God to this massive display of God's power But then he's going to focus in on something that is very personal. And so that gives you a little bit of a prelude into what we're going to be talking about this week. I'm very excited about this psalm. Because it is a rich psalm. It is a powerful psalm. It's a very picturesque psalm. And by the end of this week, you're going to see it's also a very personal psalm. The way that God's dealt with us as his people is absolutely stunning to consider when we consider his his power and his distinctiveness and his might and even the terror that we see in certain displays of his power. So that's where we're going this week in the 29th Psalm. But before we get into that, Lord willing tomorrow, what I'd like to do is I'd kind of like to set up the psalm by simply giving you a summary statement and then just kind of the basic point of what God is trying to teach us in the Psalm. So here is my summary for the Psalm. Psalm 29 uses a vivid display of God's power in nature to call us to humbly worship Him for His power. and then to love him for the personal interest that he takes in our lives. This psalm isn't just about seeing God's power and might, but it's about drawing us to not just bow down in humility but to adore God, to be grateful to God, to love Him thoroughly, so that this worship is not just a fear, but it's a worship in awe of majesty. that that delights in the Lord. And the fact is that God wants us to be a people that delight in Him, a people that love Him with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength. If we talk about obedience, the the the the heart of obedience is a heart that loves God. And so that's really where this psalm is going to be driving us. It's going to be driving us to worshiping God with a heart that is filled with passion and love for him because we understand who he is and how he has dealt with us. So I hope that you'll really uh look forward to in uh de dealing with this passage this week. Um it's gonna be a very short introduction, uh, but Lord willing tomorrow we're going to get into the first distinctive element of this psalm, and that is going to be a distinct call to worship. And we're gonna talk a lot about worship. And so I hope that you'll join us for that. If uh this uh series has been an encouragement to you, I want to encourage you to share it with other people, uh perhaps share some of the feedback. from questions that you might have or encouragements that you thought on. And I always appreciate that and I'm glad that you've been enjoying this series that we've been doing. Have a blessed rest of your day and Lord willing tomorrow we're going to get into some really good content on this song. Bye now.