And I think it's important for us to understand that there is an order that we cannot miss in this text, or that is important for us to understand as we come to this text. And is the gospel really available for me? Maybe you've not been convinced that this is the only way of salvation. There's a reason for that. Then one said unto him, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren stand without, desiring to speak unto thee. Aren't you one of his disciples? It's the only way. Despise them, have animosity. And we have a couple of announcements and then we will open up our service with scripture reading. to sign up for the senior lunch and college and career men's breakfast down that way but if you are interested please make your way down see that bulletin board but quiet week this week but a couple weeks things will start right back up again I pray that the Holy Spirit who indwells each one of us would work in our lives through the preaching and the teaching of the Word. I pray that we would come with a ready and earnest expectation that you would be working in our hearts. that the gospel would be expounded with great clarity and that your church would be strengthened in the inner man. And Father, I just pray that you would also be with our land. We'll sing three verses of this, and then after that third verse, we'll greet one another, come back together and sing that last verse. I'm pressing on the upper way. And more remaining shall we went around your Will you live up with your Savior? We are given your hands over. To have we give us more to whom much have been given, much more shall be required. Less happily, after he has laid the foundation and is not able to finish it, all that behold him begin to mock him, saying, This man began to build, and was not able to finish. I pray that you would speak to our hearts in a very profound way. Then it's very important that you listen carefully to what's going to be said because you are starting with some presuppositions that are not looking at the context in front of you. I think I'm supposed to obey him in a casual way, but he is my highest priority. Well, the way that someone becomes a disciple starts with, first of all, a conviction in the heart worked by the Holy Spirit that turns this person to faith alone in Christ. When a person hears the gospel, the Holy Spirit takes the word and he presses it on the person's heart and convinces them that in fact this is true and convinces them they have no other place to turn And old things have passed away, and all things have become new, and the Spirit of God's working in your heart. and they had to yell at you and their their veins started popping out. So as the Word of God comes, specifically the law of God that says, Thou shalt, thou shalt not, and you go, I do, and I'm in trouble Christ's redemptive work is laid before me. And I know there's no other place for me to turn. And we talk about it's called the penal substitution of Christ. Of God against our sin was poured out on Christ. A sinner's prayer is just words. is saying here. Doesn't matter. The word that I want you to remember this morning, and truth number one, is the word priority. And we can see that if we drill down into the context and we think about some of the things that Jesus has stated already that are laid out before us leading up to this statement. And he gives the story of a good Samaritan because the guy that Jesus is telling the parable to hated Samaritans. And you know what's amazing? Now, in Luke chapter 2, we're talking about Jesus as just a young boy. Later on in chapter 12, verse 52, he says, From henceforth there shall be five in one house divided, three against two, two against two. Now I know in our culture we think about some of the images that are associated with Christianity, one of the very first images that people get in their minds is that of a cross. In the Old Testament, that points us to understanding that the Messiah is going to be crucified. It's possible that I'm going to go up to Jerusalem. You say, well, there's a lot of Christians that do kind of nasty things and sometimes harsh things, and sometimes the world hates us because of what we do, not because of who we are. Catch that? Christian lady. with me. There has to be a confrontation in order for you to become a Christian. There's this way, this I I'll try a couple different ways, and it you know if I diversify my options then I'm gonna eventually work it out. I think Spurgeon used to say the difference between heaven and hell is uh six inches right here. Today, this morning. Hopefully you'll take some time to join us for that. And let's remember to keep one another in prayer throughout this week, especially those who are going through great afflictions, because we do have some that are definitely doing that. Last week of July seems like almost the last week of summer. August 6th, we're having the ABBI classes restart Tuesday night at 7. And to desire that you might be filled with the knowledge of His will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding. Help us to be clear-minded. and to have our minds and our hearts settled firmly on you and your truth. Hymn number six, we'll sing all three verses of I sing the mighty power of God. And whosoever doth not bear his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. and counteth the cost whether he have sufficient to finish it. So you have to do it. So I want to hell, I'm in my in our blue book. To reach out to our enemies and embrace them with his bug. Luke chapter 14, and we are going to read verses 25 through verse 35 this morning. Verses 25 through 35, and the text in front of us is talking about a disciple's enduring commitment. And he that hath ears, let him hear. We ask this in Christ's name. your father and your mother and your wife and your children and your brethren and your sisters and even your own wife, you can't be my disciple. and enduring commitment to him that makes him our highest priority. Isn't he trying to encourage people to come and follow him, not push them away and say, you know, the the test of being a disciple is far too high. And so I'd like us to begin first of all by giving a summary statement of what Jesus is saying here. that I think will be very helpful to us as we analyze what Jesus is saying here. That is a priority that is even higher than your husband or your wife, your children or your parents, those things that are necessities for our bodies. He is to be the absolute highest priority. Instead, what Jesus is teaching is the order that flows from a real, genuine faith. Making church, what we mean by that is we want people to follow the Lord Jesus Christ in every area of our life, not just I believe in Jesus in a casual way or And they understand that Jesus is not just a man. built in their heart by the working of the Spirit through the preaching of the gospel. Now notice there's an order there. It's something that you have the capacity for and the desire for because you are a new creature in Christ. So, what must take place in someone's heart for them to have this enduring discipleship and this commitment to Christ? The law breaks our hearts to the point where we recognize I don't measure up. They need the law to take them and show them they have no way to be saved apart from Christ's work. Guess what? We have to either say God's right and I'm wrong, or God, I'm going to keep believing what I believe. And then we have this word persistence. He says, if any man come after me and hate not father and mother and wife and children and brethren and sisters, yea, his own life also, he cannot be my disciple. First of all, I want to remind you of some clear statements that Jesus makes about our attitude towards family and towards neighbors and towards friends, even enemies. For instance, in Matthew 19, 19, he says, honor thy father and thy mother. What you shall eat, neither your body what you should put on. in him. There might be some ladies here today that are wearing a cross on a necklace, or maybe you're wearing a cross on an earring, or you might have a cross on one of your shirts, or something like that. Right after he says, I'm going to give to you the keys of the kingdom. And so the apostles have no message to preach if there's no cross and there's no resurrection. Do you remember what happened when Peter was there warming his hands by the fire and Jesus was there getting grilled by the Sanhedrin? They're about to kill him. Now what is Jesus saying? Don't be surprised when the same kind of hatred that was leveled at Jesus is potentially going to be leveled at you. In Galatians chapter 3, verse 26 it says, As many of you as have been baptized into Christ have put on Christ. And you serve Christ in whatever capacity he has placed you. Some of you, but you are washed, you are sanctified, you are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and the by the Spirit of our God. Christ first. Think about John 14. Acts 4. So there are people they hear the gospel, they understand the gospel, they can explain to you the gospel, but if they've never conscientiously said, I rest in it, they're not saved. He died for our sins. And they understand what they believe and what they don't believe, and they wrestle. That produces an enduring commitment to Christ has three aspects to it. It were given unto him by my Father. And in order for a person to do this, they have to genuinely trust him. of the gospel. over all of our lives? perspective. If you don't know for certain that you're saved, I really would love to sit down and talk to you. Thank you, Lord, for the way that you've moved this morning with blessings from the Scripture, not only through music, but through now the written word. for the choice of your son that we could have uh redemption. And being missionaries, Lord, to see men and women, boys and girls come to a saving knowledge of you. go out into our mission field that we might be a testimony and witness for you. Uh f second we'll have the second Sunday or sorry second Tuesday we'll have the Baltimore Rescue Mission and we'll have the senior luncheon, Collagen Career, and Men's Breakfast that following weekend. strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, unto all patience and long-suffering with joyfulness Who hath delivered us from the power of darkness and hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear Son? in whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins. Father, I pray for those in our congregation who carry heavy burdens and those who are dealing with great affliction. We'll sing all four verses. verses 25 through 35. and mother, and wife, and children, and brethren, and sisters, yea, and his own life also he cannot be my disciple All that behold it began to mock him, saying, This man began to build and was not able to finish. Or else, while the other is yet a great way off, he sendeth an ambassad and desireth conditions of peace. So likewise, whosoever be he be of you that forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple. Salt is good, but if the salt have lost a savour, wherewith shall it be seasoned? He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. Since now my call to the Lord was me, I have no more country than me. And wrap giving road until will you give to him your life? More shall be required to move our gather, much more shall be required The word of the Lord says, And there went great multitudes with him, and he turned and said unto them, If any man come to me and hate not his father and mother and wife and children and brethren and sisters Yea, in his own life also, he cannot be my disciple. For which of you intending to build a tower sitteth not down first and counteth the cost, whether he have sufficient to finish it. What man going to make war against another king sitteth not down first, and consulteth whether he is able with ten thousand to meet him, that cometh against him with twenty thousand? Or else while the other is yet a great way off, he sendeth his embassage, and desireth conditions of peace. To understand the text in front of us. A faith in Christ that understands who Jesus is, that understands what Jesus has done, and that understands that they are new creatures in Christ, whom old things have passed away and all things have become new. Someone might say, well, hold on a second. If that is your understanding of the text, then you need to step back and say, do you understand the gospel? Jesus has no desire to be important to you, but not supreme. And so the order is this: the order of faith in Christ and Christian discipleship. is not by saying, you know what, today I've decided I'm going to stop doing this and this and this and this. Well, a disciple is someone who follows Christ. The second question I want to ask is, well, how does someone become a disciple? Now when I use the term conviction, that is a really important term. Jesus is the one and only way. Faith presses us to follow, not the other way around. What you believe is wrong. I need to be saved from my sins. You may have another person that the person of Christ is the offense. For another person, it might be there's no way somebody could rise from the dead. God literally confronts us in our sin. Or maybe you hate your view of yourself, whatever the issue. We're even commanded to love our enemies. So what is just Jesus saying here? That ye sought me, wis ye not that I must be about my father's business? He prioritized the will of his father over that of his earthly family. And he honored Mary and he obeyed Mary. And this is a really interesting illustration because what it does is it captures Christ's love for his mother, but the prioritizing of his father's will. It's a pretty amazing thing. And who are my brethren? Do you think she wanted to watch the Lord Jesus Christ go to the cross? A correct understanding of Christ's statement is bound by the flow of the context. What's the word? But I want you to realize that in the first century nobody would have ever thought of a cross in such a way. He was someone who was being killed in the most humiliating and torturous of ways so that when people saw it, they said, whatever this man is guilty of, I want no part of it because I don't want to end up like he did. The first is this. Began Jesus to show his disciples how that he must go unto Jerusalem and suffer many things of the elders. and the chief priests and the scribes and be killed and be raised again the third day. So when Jesus talks about carrying a cross, he's anticipating the fact that that's going to happen to him. But the whole point is that his followers would be identified with him. If ye be Christ, then ye are Abraham's seed and heirs according to the promise. You break with the sinful identity and you embrace a new one. Him. We have to be exposed to his redemptive work, and the Spirit must convince us of the weight of these facts. Repentance describes this calculation side of our faith in Christ. In verse number 30 it says, this man began to build and was not able to finish. Faith has an intellectual side to it. When you hear the gospel, you are compelled in the inner man and say, this is true. Then said Jesus to those Jews which believed on him, If you continue in my word, then are ye my disciples indeed. And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. He said to those who believe, if you continue in my word, you're really my disciples. And if you're truly regenerate, and there's a convictional side to this, you will continue to recognize that this is my only hope. Then Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? His redemption is a complete redemption. And he's promised us that nothing can shake that ultimate purpose that he has to complete everything he's purchased. Genuine faith is connected to a conviction regarding the person and work of Christ and a wholehearted dependence on Him. Do people associate us with Christ when they observe what we do, how we think, what we love? You say, I'm not raising my hand, but I need to. Let's bow together for a prayer and ask the Lord to help us to take these things to heart. Help them to grow as they go through these hardships and difficulties. I say you are taking the. Please be seated. Oh now we find through speed the lost and hungry and feed and dead work. Salt is good. If you ask that question, then you don't know him. that Jesus is the one and the only one who has provided a way of redemption And when we talk about this concept of Jesus is the second person of the triune God, and he takes on humanity and he goes to the cross and he dies for our sins. Verse 33, likewise, whosoever he be of you that forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple. Then said he unto the disciple, Behold, thy mother. We have to remember that in these days, a vast majority of people actually were not free people in the Roman Empire. And John 6. the uh life that you have uh chosen to uh give for our life, Lord. That ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God Father, we're so grateful for the opportunity to gather this morning. Going to make war against another king, sitteth not down first, and consulteth whether he be able with ten thousand to meet him that cometh against him with twenty thousand. Produces an enduring commitment that puts him first. And as a new creature with new passions and new convictions, he purposes to wholeheartedly follow Christ. That removes all of these barriers to them placing their trust in what Jesus did for them alone. If a person is a very self-righteous person, guess what? They would say God would never accept thee. The math is simply a confession of what's going on in the soul. Priority. Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength. But his father, we see the priority of father over family. Now, I give these two examples to show you something. To do this. Mary the wife of Cleophys, Mary Magdalene. The cross is an instrument of torture. And it was meant to identify someone as being cursed by the government. You say, well, why does Jesus talk about picking up a cross and carrying it? In John chapter 15, verses 18 to 21, Jesus said this, and he says it in the upper room, right before, he goes out to the garden where he is going to be betrayed, and they're all going to run from him. Remember the word that I said unto you, the servant is not greater than his Lord. And now they're not, I'm a Jew who happens to believe in Jesus, I'm a Christian who happens to be ethnically Jewish. Think about 1 Corinthians 6. It's absolutely not true. Faith is a decision. Sometimes our faith gets in such a place. And we see this in verses 34 and 35. That ought to be a part of us. We'll sing the first, the third, and the fourth verses of I Surrender. Heavenly Father, thank you, Lord, so much for the opportunity and privilege we have of assembling ourselves here together in your house Giving thanks unto the Father, which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light. The scriptures say, And there went great multitudes with him, and he turned and said unto them, If any man come to me and hate not his father produces an enduring commitment that puts him first. The first is this. So when we talk about this issue of repentance, what you need to understand is there is a convictional side to this issue of repentance. Matthew 19, verse 19, he says, Love thy neighbor as thyself. The second is like unto it. Children, whatever the relationship, all human relationships are secondary to our highest priority. Now you know what's really interesting about this passage of scripture? He says, if the world hates you, you know that it hated me before it hated you. He's suggesting your primary identity is not that. Acts 17, we realize that God now commandeth all men everywhere to repent. This is all I can embrace. It's real. And it ought to be really clear to them that that's not something I approve of. Good morning. For this cause we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you. Our focus of worship this morning is for us to magnify Christ's value by submitting unreservedly to his authority. The next word is the word repentance. We have to become spiritually alive instead of continuing to be spiritually dead. And there has to be a convictional resolve in the heart of this person. Now spiritually alive. You haven't been convinced that he's God in flesh? He's not saying that. Question. Now that was not a casual reason for that. And he took the time while Jesus is hanging on the cross bearing the sin dead of the world. The father divided against the son, the son against the father, the mother against the daughter, the daughter against the mother, the mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law, the daugh And in those scenarios, there should be no flinch. But during the life of Christ, Jesus had a lot to say to prepare his disciples for the eventual reality of going to the cross. The Christian's most significant identification is rooted in our union with Christ. Colossians 3. Ask this question, Christian. In verse 28 he says, For which of you intending to build a tower sitteth not down first, and counteth the cost, whether he hath sufficient to finish it? When a person hears the gospel, especially as they get older, they should actually struggle with the claims of Scripture. They come to recognize that this is very different than what I've been believing. There's an emotional assent to that as well. We are the salt of the earth. And so this is what God wants. Are you a real disciple of Christ? I really do. I'm not sure if I'm saved. And help us to recognize that genuine faith in Christ is the foundation for true discipleship. For another person, it might be the exclusivity of the gospel. And that is what Jesus is emphasizing in these verses. And it is accompanied with regeneration in the indwelling spirit. But if we have genuinely believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, we know in the depths of our soul, I don't have another option. Great singing. What does that do? But I'm going to give you what I think is one of the most fascinating examples of this. What is the point here? That is, his followers would be in danger of the same fate through their identity with him Maybe that's true in some cases, but that's not what Jesus is saying. I want to go back to what I said earlier, and I want you to notice how that grid fits so perfectly into what Jesus is saying here. And the same way that someone makes a calculation before starting a building project or going to war, we make a calculation as well. That is exactly what he's talking about. And a commitment that naturally flows because of the conviction that has been instilled in the heart. And the bottom line is, genuine faith is built on a conviction on these facts that come as a result of the preaching. Secondly, we need to ask ourselves if we've genuinely placed our faith in Christ. I don't need to lead you through a sinner's prayer. Truth is, if I'm a Christian, I'm in a setting where people are not Christians. Luke 14, 18. And he's saying, you crucified the Lord of glory, and he's risen from the dead, and you can't do anything to prove that what I said isn't true. 12, we realize there is no other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. You put all your faith and trust in the one person, the Lord Jesus Christ. Truth number four. You say, can a child do that? You will continue in this. You say, what do you take away from this? I really am struggling with this issue. All right, well, our closing hymn is hymn 390. Number fourteen, worthy of praise. And make it five and far thy life and call for me Our children who are junior church age can be dismissed to the bat for their class. Then we have this word faith. It means you literally put weights on these people because of your relationship to them that God has given. It's the Father's will. Jesus was nailed to a cross and he was identified as a criminal. What is the basis that you give for your standing with God? That's not real faith. And verse 27 he says it this way, Whosoever doth not bear his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. And so that's the second piece of he's anticipating the cross, and he's anticipating that disciples of Christ who are identified with him can be in danger of the exact same thing that he himself was going to face. Things that there are some people in our society who think, well, you know, I can identify with this particular sexual sin, I can identify with this particular group of people, and I can identify that and be a Christian. We'll do it just a little bit differently. It falls to the side. Are you a quick Christian before your status in society? With head bowed and eyes closed, before I close in prayer, I want to ask just a very simple question. Now let me begin by making this statement. You know what it is? I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven. I mean think about that. And so during this time, he's not left us in the world, or he has left us in the world to be distinct and a people who point others to him Are we functioning in the capacity God has created us to function in? You cannot be a Christian if you're just taken this way as a hope. And it starts with childlike faith in Christ and new life in Christ through the work of the Spirit. We actually see a perfect example of how Jesus does this in his ministry. Or you had somebody who is a Gentile and they were associated with a certain cultural group and certain religious beliefs, and all of a sudden, what am I? And so when Jesus talks about bearing the cross, he's saying, I'm going to the cross, you're identified with me, and your life's going to be in danger. Truth number three. 63 says, There are some of you that believe not. Between those two commandments, the summation of the law, which one's given first? More than anything in this world, if you are a Christian, that is your identity. God wants committed disciples. Are you trusting alone in what Jesus did for you or not? In John chapter 11, verse 25, it says this. We see the case that Scripture makes regarding the person and work of Christ, and we realize that only pride keeps us from trusting in Him alone. Let's turn over to hymn 374. Much more shall we repa? He's talking about priority. And you know what that does? And that is the sense of the text. Why is that? And I want to just make this simple statement. 10. He rose from the dead. Identification, alright. I'm going to be next. But if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be seasoned? He talks about Jew and Gentile. Do we put him first in our lives without exception? Amen. The Spirit works through the Word to continually strengthen and mature us in our faith when it's tested. Great singing this morning. A sinner's prayer hasn't accomplished a thing. Stretched forth his hand toward his disciples and said, Behold, my brother, my mother, and my brethren, for whosoever will do the will of my Father which is in heaven, the same as my brother and my sister and my mother. The point is this. I don't know that guy. He's saying if you're a Christian and you're willing to follow Christ and you're willing to be identified with him, You have put on the new man. I'd like to welcome you to our morning worship service and hope that you have had a great week and we're looking forward to just a wonderful time in the Lord's house, focusing our attention on Him. It's anticipating that Christ is going to go to the cross. We realize he is the way, not a way. Anybody like that? We'll sing the first and the second verse. There's got to be a confrontation. I have no other place. He wants real disciples who are really regenerate, who are truly convinced that he is the one and only Savior. First is this, we need to understand the concept of genuine faith. And as I hear it, I hear it in such a way that my heart is convicted and convinced Well, there's a clear order in the command given in Mark chapter 12, where Jesus talks about the summation of the law. He's the highest priority. So what what we see here is that when we talk about this issue, this is not about Jesus saying, hate your family. Thanks so much for joining us for worship this morning. That is a very shocking and a very challenging text of Scripture. Doesn't it appear that Jesus is saying something that would be very different than what he says in other passages that we read in the Gospels? How do you live your life? Are you a Christian before you're an American? You don't need to walk an aisle. He's not suggesting that if you, son or daughter, are bitter against mom or dad, that you could be a disciple because you're bitter against mom and dad and you hate them. He says, such were some of you. You won't turn away from it. And I'm just going to say this very simply and very straightforwardly. Maybe people get upset at me and I'm going to die. You have a person who is very wealthy. The word is endurance. Open up with our scripture reading in Colossians chapter 1, and we will start in verse 9. Please let's all bow together for prayer. Help us to think deeply upon these things. What you're holding on to is wrong. What is faith? It's a decision built on real facts, not just an academic understanding of those facts, though. From that time many of his disciples went back and walked no more with him. Do we put him first in our lives without any exception? Okay, fine. The law of God is laid before me. And there are some people who say, I cannot accept that God would do such a thing. He confronts us about Christ. That leads to conviction. You know what's also amazing about the text? When there's a conflict between mom and God, God's number one. He says, If the salt hath lost his savour, wherewith shall it be seasoned? Rather seek ye the kingdom of God, where your treasure is there, will your heart be also Of course they can. So someone becomes a disciple when under the conviction of the Spirit he turns to Christ in childlike faith, trusting in his redemptive work alone. You do not purpose to follow Christ first. I need to respond to this message. And then we have the presence of the indwelling Holy Spirit, the Comforter, who was the convictor of us in our sin, and he's now the comforter of us in our position in Christ. Luke 6. The word is calculation. But there were times that there was a conflict between what Mary wanted and what his heavenly father wanted. Truth number five. Because I'd hate for you to go through life thinking you're saved and finding out you're not. I hope that you'll be able to join us back tonight as we have our uh continuation our uh series through the life of David and Saul and the text it's being dealt with is a very, very practical one. And I'd like to ask if Mr. The Gospel of Luke chapter 14 verses 25 through 35 Great singing before we have our preaching we'll sing our final song Complete in the 192 To trust in certain facts. It's that simple. Now what is repentance? I know it's available for him and her and those people, but what about me? I mean, the keys of the kingdom are connected to the redemptive work of Christ. I don't want them to know I'm associated with him. He's dealt with our sin debt. It could be a teenager, it could be a kid, it could be an adult, could be a senior. That means that as Jesus was nailed to the cross, our sin debt was placed on him, and the wrath In fact, it flows through every single detail of the passage in front of us. You make a choice to trust in that person and in that person's work. Doesn't say y'all need to be the salt. We pray that we would turn to you as a nation. They need to be convinced that their sin really matters, that they fall short of God's standard, that there is no righteousness in them that God will accept. They say, you know, all roads lead to Rome, and there's lots of different ways to God. It's called Jesus. Now, Jesus didn't say, I know you guys believe, but you're not going to believe anymore. Sometimes we get in a place where things are very hard and we are shaken and we're weakened. That creates an enduring commitment. The passage in front of us is in many ways a shocking and a startling passage of Scripture. That is not genuine faith in Christ. He's about 12 years old. Matthew 12, verses 46 to 50. Our identity must be entirely lost What are you talking about? Know ye not the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? We must be confronted with God's law, our inability to meet his perfect standard of righteousness. Very simple. I hope I don't have a bunch of people doubting their salvation after this message. God could never receive me into his presence. There's neither Greek or Jew, circumcision or uncircumcision, barbarian, Syntian, bond free. It is a decision built on facts that accompanies conviction. Trust him there in your seat. Um we have it'll be quiet around the church this week, nothing going on, but following week, so next Tuesday Our scripture reading will be found in the Gospel of Luke. May the Lord add his blessings to the reading of his word. He gives this analogy where they give all these examples of why they can't come, and Jesus makes a point to say, those people rejected what was most important. That's not you saying you know you're not. Reach out to me after the service. It's trust. Maybe you haven't been convinced of the resurrection. 27, love your enemies, do good to them, which hate you. What is the word? The third verse, we'll sing a cappella, and then we'll come back together and sing that fourth verse nice and loud. And if what a person's believing and what a person's saying is not the same thing, what they believe is what actually matters. So what is the point? In life, there may be times that those who are the closest to us, physically speaking, will try to put themselves before God. Why is that? He is God in flesh. And that's not what I mean by confrontation. It's not what he's talking about. And I thank you for the Lord's Day, a day of rest and refreshment, an opportunity to fellowship with other Christians. And I choose with a knowledge of these facts and a conviction in my soul to try. There's a reason that the Ten Commandments start with talking about God as opposed to talking about mom and dad. Even in Jesus' earthly ministry, there was a priority. Do you think Mary wanted to watch that man who she held in her hands as a little baby there in Bethlehem? You cannot do it. Lest happily, after he had laid the foundation and is not able to finish it, That's not how I think, and that's not what I love, and that's not what I want. We'll sing both verses. And when we talk about someone who is a Christian, we use this term a lot. There might be someone here this morning. Our Father, we thank you for the word. Pray Lord that you would just continue to work out your will in the uh life of our church, that we uh might be dedicated to going out into the world and Let's bow together for a moment and ask the Lord to really help us Christ who is not teaching us that disciples harbor and justify animosity towards other people. There is no priority in life that is to step between us and God. And that is in John chapter 18, verses 25 through 27. Absolutely no question that a child can do that. If you ask that question, you don't understand who he is And that really is an important question for us to consider, because this is something that Jesus is going to address by implication in the verses in front of us. It was more than an instrument of death. Our soul must feel the weight of our sin, realize we have an inescapable problem. Lastly, we need to live our lives with a distinctly Christian He confronts us about his work. It's a very simple matter. And he talks about priority. It's you're a Christian. You have a person who is very poor. Take a Bible and help you to get that settled with confidence. Father, help us to recognize that discipleship is something that flows from the genuine faith in Christ. And when Jesus therefore saw his mother and his disciples standing by, whom he loved, he said unto his mother, Woman, behold thy son. Here's the why. I don't know if that's six inches, but he's basically saying the difference between knowing the truth and embracing the truth in the heart. Please stand with me and open your hymn books to hymn number six. With the heart, one believes unto righteousness. And from that hour that disciple took her unto his own house. And I think that a lot of times when we talk about faith, we tend to start in a different place. The word is quality. Ask the Lord to bless our service this morning. Be thou my vision. Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother and his mother's sister. Jesus is saying the more that you live like me and the more you're identified with me, the more likely it is you will face persecution. And I see some great examples of this. Will you do as he is done? Will you give to him your life? It clearly states that he loved the people that were there at the foot of the cross. Do you live with this mentality? Endurance. Because there's a convictional side to it. He wants people who follow him unreservedly. And I pray that we as a church would minister to them during their time of difficulty. Now when I say confrontation, I don't mean that someone had to get into your face. The perfect standard of righteousness is laid before me. You say, what do you mean by that? Jenny, Bill Jenny, can come up and close us in prayer. We must do as it is. Think about Romans chapter 10 where it says that faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. Real, genuine faith involves the will, the intellect, and the emotion. Simon Peter said, I don't understand everything, but I do know this. He's given us everything in Christ so that we can grow into Christ-likeness. And the rest of you would like to ask you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to Luke chapter 14. You ask this question, well, why in the world should Jesus expect such a high priority? I follow him in all areas. The point is this: repentance removes every single roadblock to place our faith squarely on the finished work of Christ. But he answered and said unto them, Who is my mother? And if they would crucify Jesus, why in the world would they think that they were not next? I surrender all. That leads to an understanding of who Jesus is. Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Yes, somebody from a Jewish background, guess what? Sing out this morning. What you are standing on is wrong. You're not a Christian. He is the highest priority of all. That's not what he's saying. Oh, I saw you with him. So the most important thing about you as a Christian is who you are in Jesus. Why? Guide and direct us throughout the day, and we'll give you the praise for that in Jesus' name. Whosoever doth not bear his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. And as they wrestle through this, they recognize I have no other hope. And it would be pointless if you did it without genuine faith in the heart, trusting Christ. With the heart one believes into righteousness. Are we functioning as salt in a decaying world? First of all, the summary, genuine faith in Christ Repentance is the thinking change that goes on in the heart of an unsaved person. So I want to hear if you could say it. We're commanded to love our neighbors. You need to put God first. And so when Jesus was nailed to the cross, the text says in the Old Testament, cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree. Faith in Christ and the discipleship that follows that faith begins with careful calculation. It starts with belief, conviction, and now a desire to obey the Lord. It's not a casual or academic assent to facts. And people are laughing about things and talking about things and their perspective is drifting in a certain direction, it ought to be really clear to them that that's not me. And Father, help us to obey you. Father, as I take this text and lay it before us, I pray that you'd help me to handle it in a very careful manner and a way that is consistent with Christ's intent. It's resting in what Jesus did, depending on his death, his resurrection, his righteousness. And so he's making it very clear, I have to go to the cross. The following Sunday we'll have Teensynx Praction. That is what we mean by confrontation. Are you a Christian b before your skin color? That was a little weaker. Jesus knew from the beginning who they were that believed not, and who should betray him, and he said, Therefore said I unto you, that no man can come unto me except I'd really love to be a help to you, encourage you any way I can. Father, I pray that this morning as we're gathered, that you would meet with us in a very special way. This is regeneration, and we don't do that to ourselves. He's going to die. Now, Paul is not suggesting that when you become a Christian, you stop being a man if you're a man, or a lady if you're a lady. You say, well, I remember when. And we see the prioritizing of his father's will, not being an earthly father. Not a chance. And so we have to make a calculated choice that will forever change our eternal destiny and also change the course of our lives. Because it's real. Unless we do ask it, for the much has been given. Because what it means is that a person recognizes Maybe you haven't been convinced of his substitutionary death on your behalf. He's talking about an issue of priority. Now there's a lot of scripture And you submit to his expectations because your identity is now rooted in The way, the truth, the life. You're not sure that you are. I pray that this morning, as churches are gathered all over this country, that the Lord Jesus would be exalted. They hear that Jesus is God in flesh and the goat. You say, well, well, what if a person praises sinner's prayer believing such a thing? Thou hast the words of eternal life, and we believe and are sure that thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. Jesus has no desire to be second place in your life What I mean is that the truth came to you in such a way that it showed you the way that your thinking is in fact wrong. I don't meet God's expectations. You had a person who was a slave in Rome. What is the word? That is not what Jesus is teaching here. And their struggle is not I'm a sinner. No one would have ever thought, wow, I'd really like to, you know, put crosses in my ears. From that time forward I mean we can put it this way, you're a Christian man now. What's he say? He says you are. If it's not Christ alone, then what is keeping you from trusting Him as your Savior? I'd like to ask you to stand together with me as we sing this. Thank you, Morgan. Let me say that again. And I'm going to give you a couple of examples that I think will help you to understand this very well. Like for instance in Luke chapter 12, verse 22, he says, take no thought for your life The statement's anticipating a couple things about Christ and his disciples. If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you. Is there someone here this morning that would say, you know, Pastor And they understand that he died and that he rose from the dead. More than anything in this world, if you are a Christian, that is your identity. Thank you, Heavenly Father, for the It's actually something that flows out of a genuine faith in Christ. So truth number one 1 Timothy 2. It doesn't work that way. It is neither fit for the land nor yet for the dung hill, but men cast it out. To put it very simply, it is God's will for each of us to have an enduring faith. His expectation is that he is the highest priority in your life. That's what a disciple is. You know what repentance is? He confronts us about the exclusivity of the gospel. Think about Isaiah 53, for instance. But there's a second principle here What's the word? To put it very simply, genuine faith I'm going to state this on the front side. This is a very important aspect of this issue of discipleship. That word honor is a pretty important word. He says I have to do this. That's the confrontation. Did you get that, Will? Let me give you some text. I know this is a challenging text of Scripture. I pray that your hands would be at work in their lives, that you would uplift them and strengthen them, give them wisdom. We'll be reading Luke chapter 14. And we think about those scriptures, and you know what they tell us? Father, help us to be tender to your word. Sure much shall much more shall we repay. What I mean is this: our worldview has to be radically changed. What's the word? Do those who love Christ feel drawn to us, and those who hate him feel uncomfortable in our presence? For which of you, intending to build a tower, sitteth not down first? You say, oh, I prayed a prayer. It's our relationship to God While he yet talked to the people, behold, his mother and his brethren stood without desiring to speak with him. And then I'd like us to look at some introductory thoughts. You have professed faith in Christ, but the fact is you've never been convinced of who he is. 374. So that might be where the repentance comes in for an individual. And Jesus, Mary was his mother. Not because I'm trying to draw attention to myself, it's because I have a conviction in my heart I'm gonna do the right thing. There are two verses where it is really, really clearly stated. In Luke chapter 2, verse 49 and 50, it says, How is it Again, that's Luke chapter 14. So likewise, whosoever he be of you, that forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple. And Jesus wanted to draw that out. What's amazing about Peter is that after the resurrection, he's boldly preaching the gospel. And he says, your identity is not that. They understood not his saying. We ask all these things in Christ's name. It is neither fit for the land, nor yet for the dung hill. We'll talk about the fact that we are a disciple. And Jesus gives a parable about a good Samaritan. He was identified as someone who was out of touch with the state. You are truly regenerate. Let's all stand once more. Higher ground, 397. And so there are a couple of things I want to address. That's what I mean by confrontation. He looks down at Mary and John. It was meant to instill terror in people. Now Jesus wasn't saying it's There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither bond nor free, there is neither male nor female. You know It's neither fit for the land nor from the dunghill, but men cast it out. As we think about these doctrinal truths that will be expounded, as we think about the scriptures that will be laid before us Christ First. Quality. So ask this question: Are you a real Christian? And we ask all this in Christ's name. Genuine faith in Christ Truth number two, the word is identification. They were breaking with Judaism to embrace the gospel. 5, we realize there's one God, one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. Do it now, before we're even done. We pray, Lord, that you would just continue to guide and direct each one of us now as we There's no way that you can do this. You say, well, what are those barriers? And they struggle in this particular area Do you think she wanted to watch him suffer? You have to know that there was a real man named Jesus. But we see this a lot more clearly when someone's a little older and their worldview is very well shaped. But you know what? Good morning. It's someone who follows the Lord Jesus Christ. All right, well, good. It's exclusive He didn't say that. Endurance. John chapter 8, verse 31. That brings us right into our Or what king I'm going to add what I like from what you've said, and I'm going to continue with what I believe, and you're part of it, but not all of it Dad, God, God's number one. It's a decision Are you a Christian before you're an American? It's recognizing you have to accept such a thing. What does the Bible say? Now I start with all those things because those things will help us to understand what Jesus says If you genuinely believe, you'll continue in this. Listen to what it says next. That's pretty stunning if you think about it. That was a big deal for me. There's no other savior, and you're the one. We are here to function with a distinctiveness that is only possible of true Christians Let's bow for prayer, please. I pray that you would meet with us in a very special way Let's pray. Their struggle is does God actually love me? Last word we'll have to remember tonight. There's no way that's true. Such were. When a person repents and believes, the Spirit of God gives them life that they didn't have before. But we see it beautifully illustrated in John chapter 6. Hope you guys are enjoying this last I fall short of the righteousness of Christ. And there is nothing else in this world that is more significant than your identity. If you should doubt it, I hope you do. No man cometh unto the Father but by him. It's not just some superficial statement. Anybody like that? I want to put out a couple of things that I hope can be helpful to you on this point. Doesn't matter. There is none other commandment greater than thee. That's a really interesting statement. Fourthly, we need to act on this conviction with an enduring, wholehearted commitment. And if I can do those things and keep that commitment, then God will accept me. And guess what? Let's pray. I mean, think about what Jesus is saying here. All right. And it's amazing that he makes the statement Endurance. Help us to apply it appropriately. Open our hymn books to hymn number three hundred and ninety-seven. But there's a third piece that's very important. I'm going to start with this word, and that is the word will. I'm not asking about what you remember. What's Peter thinking? I don't have any other place to turn. A disciple's enduring commitment. The way that a person gets saved And that calculation is Jesus is the one and only way. Our Father, as we open up the word and as we consider this passage, It's not just obey them because they told you and they're bigger, it's honor. Somebody walks up and says, hey. I have no other no other no other place. Or do much as men give more? That kind of depends on the person. So he states it. You're a Christian Is there anybody here that say that's me, Pastor? Not true. You know what that is? Listen to what it says. 390. Amen. Your identity is Christ. We are endurance. First of all, what is a disciple? Doesn't matter. Well, if those are the two ways that you respond to the text in front of you I got baptized. Priority. Amen. And we have to make a choice about it. Will you make away your Savior? Christ is all and in all. Then said Jesus unto the twelfth, Will you also go away? But the rule might have been given much more. And with that is a conviction that is Listen to what it says. I mean his humanity comes from Mary. He's God in flesh. Amen. Listen to what it says in Matthew 16. Thirdly, we need to ask ourselves if our identity has been lost in him. There is no other way. You may have another person, they have absolutely no no problem understanding they're a sinner. Party number one was right there. And by the way, he mentions some very specific things there That is what genuine faith is. Otter in law against her mother in law So if you guys like to see, there are a few things on the bulletin board All four verses complete in the 192 in the blue book. Well what does that mean? Here's what I mean by that. The first one is in verse 26. He says, John, take care of my mom. No. It was meant to absolutely humiliate people That is an indication of Jesus prioritizing his father's. Lord, we're thankful for that. I hope they will. That's not what he's saying. I am a Christian, but that happens to be my ethnic background. He says, if you're not willing to hate Or someone may go, well, why is Jesus giving such strong language? That's what the repentance is. Or have it hanging around my neck. I'm asking, what are you interested in today? Christ must be our highest This is the first commandment. Here's what We're going to come to this at some point in our Luke series. Listen to this text. And no the day to be not. Why did he do it? The word will is important. But men cast it out. You know what that means? Doesn't matter. I must turn to him and to him alone. It's not just blending into a culture. I don't know for sure. And even the laying down of his own rights. Richard singing And I embrace him alone. A careless calculation will not produce an enduring commitment. The first is this, Luke chapter 2. He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. Great singing. They wrestle with whether or not this is true. Or if you have some enemy that you dislike. Higher ground I'm a member of this church. Faith is a decision. It's the Father's will. That means Please be seated as we turn to hymn number four. You can pick up. Now listen carefully to the next statement. You know why that was? Do we live as if he is the Lord? My father. That's not what he's suggesting. Third is this. That's not true. You are all one in Christ Jesus. Everything else is insane. So . Eating eating