Philippians chapter three, we'll look at verses twelve to fourteen, and I'll start reading in verse twelve. Not as though I had already attained, either were already perfected. But I follow after, if that I may apprehend that for which also I am apprehended, of Christ Jesus. Brethren, I count But this one thing I do. Getting those things which are behind and reaching forth unto those things which are before. I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. When we come to this passage of Scripture, we want to keep this passage in light of The passages we've been studying over the last many, many weeks. And this little section right here has this purpose, I believe. Paul is trying to communicate to the church that he's not yet arrived. to full spiritual maturity, nor is he complacent in his service to God. The reason he's doing that is that he wants them to embrace a similar humility and purpose By God's grace to continue to grow spiritually and serve him faithfully. In fact, it's kind of interesting after we read this passage If we kind of continue down through the passage, later on in the text, you'll see that he encourages them to follow him just like he is following Christ. And so Paul is basically saying, look, I'm a person who knows I'm not spiritually mature. Can you imagine Paul saying that? I mean, if Paul's not spiritual spiritually mature when he writes this, then what about us? He hadn't arrived and he wanted them to understand that. He didn't want them to be complacent. You know, Paul was a very diligent servant of God. He was so focused as a servant of God. Yet he said, I'm not complacent. Where I've been and where I'm going is not enough. And that was the way that Paul looked at it. He's basically saying all this because he wants these Christians to realize you haven't arrived either You need to press on as well. And so with that in mind, we see this little truth that God wants us to grow and not stagnate in our Christian life. How can we continue to grow and serve the Lord more faithfully and not stagnate? That's the question that I want us to answer tonight. So with that in mind, I want to begin with a picture of two young men. Well, they're not young anymore, but they were 40 years ago. Forty years ago, they were in junior high, then they went into high school. One of those guys was, he was an athlete. He was one of those guys on the weightlifting team. He was the strongest kid in his high school. He was the one that was like the tough guy on the football team. Everybody knew him as an athlete. The other guy, who's a classmate, wasn't exactly known to be an athlete. He was just kind of an average kid. If you went into the weight room and you said, hey, can you do a pull-up, he'd Probably not get one. If you said, can you do a push-up? He'd be like, I can do one or two. And that's as much as he could do Well, 40 years has passed. These guys are no longer in junior high and high school. Well, they're now middle-aged guys And those two guys, believe it or not, the one who was the athlete and the one who obviously wasn't, are actually at the same place physically in life. They're both sitting in a doctor's office, not the same one, sitting in a doctor's office, and the doctor looks at him and says, you know what, sir Your blood pressure is a little high, cholesterol's a little high, gained a little bit too much weight, it's time for you to start exercising Time for you to start trimming down on all that snack food that you're eating, all that candy, all of those salt preservatives, all that stuff. You need to cut it out of your diet, and you have to start exercising. Well the one guy says, You don't understand, sir. I'm I'm an athlete. And he goes, Were. Not anymore, my friend. You were an athlete. Not anymore. He says, you know You don't understand. When I was in high school, I could bench press 400 pounds. He said, Well, you're all well beyond halfway there now, sir. And it's not how much you can push. It's how much you weigh. He said, Yeah, it's true. He said, You can't live off the path, sir. You've got to change your lifestyle or you're gonna have some major health problems in the coming years. The other guy, the doctor, says the same thing The first guy who is the athlete decides he's going to live off of the past. And when he's 60, he has a heart attack and he dies. The other guy, who's never been an athlete, never was a runner, never was a weightlifter, he takes really serious The things that that doctor says, and believe it or not, after changing his lifestyle, he gets to the place where he can run on a daily basis. He starts weight training, believe it or not. He can do more push-ups than he did when he was in junior high. He can do more pull-ups than he did when he was in junior high. And it's because a doctor said, look, you better change your lifestyle, or you're not going to live a lot longer without having some major health problems. The point that I'm trying to make is this. What you were 40 years ago does not have anything to do with what you'll be in 10. You can't live off of that. You have to live off of where you are today. The truth is there are a lot of Christians that are kind of like that athlete. Forty years have come and gone, and they're still talking about what they did in junior high and high school. And the truth is that they haven't matured very much in the last couple of years. They've gotten to be really complacent. They're not serving the Lord very faithfully. The truth is they're a lot like the guy who's eating too many potato chips and watching too many hours of football on Saturday instead of taking care of his body and exercising so that he has a body that's fit and healthy and strong. Paul doesn't want these Christians to become complacent. He doesn't want them to become lazy. He doesn't want them to think that they've arrived. He doesn't want them to fail to go forward because of failures they've had in the past. He doesn't want them to sit there complacently and say, look at all that I've done. I've arrived. I'm done. I don't need to go any further. So Paul hits the perfect balance here. The first truth I'd like us to see in this text is found in verse 12, and that's this. We need to keep a humbled view of self. We need to keep a humbled view of self. Look down in verse 12, it says this. And I know that the way it's word is a little bit complicated. I'm just going to explain it in a real simple way, in a paraphrase, if you will. But this is what it says. Not as though I had already attained, either were already perfect. But I follow after, if that I may apprehend that for which also I am apprehended of Christ. I want to break down this statement into the parts that Paul is basically stating. The first thing that I want to say is this: Paul remembered his history. Paul remembered what kind of a man he was before his salvation. In fact, in the verses previous to this one, the first section in chapter 3, Paul talks about the fact that he was a very self-righteous and arrogant man. He was living for uh well he believed he was building up credentials for God. In fact, he was living a very We could say hateful life towards Christians. Paul was formerly a hater of Christ. He hated the Christian message. He'd done unbelievable damage to Christians and their families He'd done unbelievable damage to the church. He'd attacked personally the Christian message. This was Paul's history He was a person that was self-righteous. He was zealous for a lie and didn't even realize it. He knew his history. And so that was something that was on Paul's heart. He realized he was a fallible guy. He realized there was no reason that God should use him, yet God chose to use him. He also goes on beyond that. Paul knew that he was not yet a fully matured person. There are two words that should catch your attention here. He says, I've not yet already attained. He says, I've not gotten to a position that I know I need to get to or where I desire to be. He says, I'm not yet already Perfect. And that word perfect has the idea of fully matured, complete. Paul believed at this stage in his life he hadn't arrived. And so he's stating that. He wanted to grow further in his knowledge of God. He wanted to go deeper in his Christian experience. Remember what we said in the former verses right before this one He says, I want to know the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings. And Paul says, I've not yet experienced all the power of the resurrection. He had experienced the new birth. He was experiencing victory over sin, but he didn't know what it was like to live in a glorified body. And he desired that. He wanted to know that aspect of the power of the resurrection. He wanted to grow deeper in his Christian experience. Paul wanted to see the kingdom of God advance to a greater degree. Think about Paul's life. He talks about the fact that there's no other part in the area where he was preaching. So he wanted to go to a place where Christ wasn't preached. And so he writes to the church at Rome. And he says, I want to go to Spain. Because there's no church work there. I'm done with my role in this region. I want to go further. Think about when Paul was going to go to Jerusalem and that prophet Agabas Takes a belt and he ties his hands and he says, The person who owns this belt is going to be bound when he goes to Jerusalem. And you know what Paul said? I don't care. That's where I purpose to go. I want to keep the feast there. I want to encourage the believers there. I want to preach Christ there. I'm not afraid at all. I didn't bother at all. Paul said, I want to go to Rome. He says, I want to appeal to Caesar. That's the kind of guy that Paul was. He wanted to see the gospel go further and deeper. He wanted to see God's kingdom advance and expand. He'd not yet already attained. He'd not reached that level he wanted to reach. Paul wanted to grow in his with other Christians. This is something that we see so many times. Paul had a deep affection for God's people. And he wanted it to grow deeper and fuller. He wanted to know them better and he wanted to share with them how they could grow deeper. This is the kind of man that Paul was We also see that Paul wanted to do what Christ seized him to do. Now this is what the passage says. He says I follow after, if that I may apprehend that for which also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus. Now, does anybody know what that's saying? Let me put it in real simple terms. Paul's basically saying this. I'm striving for a purpose. And you know what that purpose is? It's the purpose that God grabbed a hold of me and gave to me. That's basically what he's saying. I'm striving to do what God seized me to do. That's what he means. In other words, when Paul was going on that road to Damascus, God had a real reason why Christ met him on that road and knocks him to the ground and he says, Why are you persecuting me, Saul? It's difficult for you to kick against the pricks. You can't stop me. I'm going to grab your attention. It's as if God grabs him and pulls him into his kingdom. He seized Paul. Why did he seize Paul? Well, to save his soul, to transform this individual, but to use him as an apostle. And so what Paul's basically saying is the reason God grabs me and thrusts me into the ministry. The reason he sees me, that's what I live for. I live for his purpose entirely. That's basically what he's saying So when we see the first truth, we see that Paul had a humble view of self. He remembered where it came from. He realized he hasn't already attained. And he says, I'm purposing to live for the purpose that God saved me for. And I haven't reached that yet. We come to a second truth. And that's this. We need to refuse to live in the past. If we are going to not become complacent , Then we cannot live in the past. Now, I didn't say we can't learn from the past. There's a big difference between learning from the past and living in the past. Learning from the past means I went through something that was really good, I learned something about God's goodness. I went through something really bad, I learned about God's comfort and God's strength and God's provision and God's care. I failed miserably to learn about God's mercy and God's grace and God's forgiveness and his compassion and his love. I've learned all those things from the past That's different than living in the past. Living in the past basically means I did those things, so now I can't. I did those things, so now I don't need to. Those are the two different ways we can go at that. Learning from the past and living in the past are very different. We must refuse to live in the past. Verse 13 says, This, brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind. and reaching forth unto those things which are before. Now I want to pause for a moment and I want to kind of comment on what he's saying here. It kind of doesn't make sense for Paul to say, I do one thing and then he states two things. Does that seem confusing? This is the one thing I do. I forget what's behind and I reach forth unto what's before. Well, those two things, Paul. What are you talking about? Well, in Paul's mind it's actually two aspects of the same thing. In other words, if I do the one, I'm going to do the other. If I don't do the other one, I won't do if I don't do this one, I won't do the other. They go together. It's kind Of like repentance and faith Repentance is the side where my mind has to change and it has to be transformed so that I see things differently. Faith is where I end up. Once my thinking is correct about the gospel and about myself and my sin. , Now I can place my trust in Christ. So if I don't have repentance, I won't have faith. If I have faith, I have repentance. They go together. So in Paul's mind, the one thing that he's going to do involves two things. One, forgetting what's behind, and two, reaching forth under what's before. If I don't forget what's behind, I won't reach forth under what's before. If I'm not reaching forth under what's in front of me, then I'm living in the past. That's what Paul is basically saying. When he says I count not myself to have apprehended, he's basically saying this. My past is not something that I think too much about. And there's two aspects of Paul's past that he didn't think a lot about. There's the failure side. Paul lived the majority of his life. For a lie. Just think about that. The majority of his life was lived for a lie. When he writes this, the majority of his lifetime had been lived for a lie. Paul had done unbelievable damage to the cause of Christ at the beginning of the inception of the church. The first martyr that was killed was killed with Paul standing there overseeing that action Paul dragged innocent people out of their homes and dragged them into Jerusalem so that they could be judged by the religious leaders. Paul was a man who hated the church before his conversion. And for Paul to press forward, he couldn't allow those things to constantly drag him back. You know, there are many Christians that don't move forward because they are petrified by their failures. Look, there's nobody in this room. Who has escaped failure? We've all done it in many different ways over many different seasons of life. And you know what Satan does when we fail? He wants to keep us living in that failure so that we can't press forward. Paul didn't allow that to happen. He forgot what was behind. He pressed forward. But there's a second aspect to that. Because yes, Paul lived the majority of his life for a lie. But after he was confronted with the gospel, you know what? He lived about as passionately for the things of God as a person could. He was diligent. He suffered. He sacrificed. He gave everything he had to the cause of Christ. And it would have been very easy for Paul to get to a place in his life that says this, you know what? I've been involved in enough church plants in my lifetime. It's time for me to walk away and retire and say, I'm done with this. You guys take it and it's all on you now. I'm going to kick back and I'm going to enjoy the rest of my life. He didn't do that. He could have said, I've done so much work here. It's time for me to take a break. It's time for me to relax. It's time for me to do some me time. I've done enough you time, it's time for me time. He didn't do that. He forgot what was behind. He didn't think too much about his failures, nor did he think too much about his successes. Paul's past was just that past. And as he's forgetting what's behind, he is focusing on something else. He's reaching forth to what is before. It's like somebody who is straining and pressing for a goal. Okay, like we got those two guys The one guy who couldn't do more than two or three push-ups when he was in junior high and high school. He couldn't do a full pull-up. Guess what? He gets a chair. I don't know if you guys ever done this. And he says, you know what, I'm going to do my first pull-up with that chair. And he just does it every day. And one day all of a sudden he doesn't need the chair anymore. And he just starts building a little bit at a time. And over the course of months, this guy's able to do something he was never able to do. He's reaching forth to a new level. That's what he's doing. Basically, Paul is saying this. I am pressing forward to greater things for God. I'm not going to live in the past. We then come to a third truth, and I think this one's also extremely important. We have to continue to push ourselves. Now, I do think that it's possible for a Christian to get burned out. But you know why we burn out? It's because we're doing the right thing for the wrong reason. It's because we're doing it for other people. It's because we're doing it for ourselves. It's because we're trying to do the work of God and the strength and arm of our flesh. The truth is that if we will do God's work, God's way based on his strength, we should be able to continue to press forward for years and years. In verse 14, he says, This I press toward the mark of the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. I think the question that we should all ask is this, what does he mean by the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus? What was this thing that Paul was so intensely motivated for? The thing that he wasn't distracted by his past, whether it was the failure or whether it was the success, he didn't let the past become something that he lived in. What was it that he was so motivated for? Well I don't think the text actually tells us But as we look at the whole context of the book of Philippians, there are two or three big things that I think will really stand out to us. In Paul's mind, the things that he most treasured and valued were becoming like Christ in his character. And being found faithful in what he was doing for God. He wanted to become like Christ. He wanted to be a godly man. And he wanted to be faithful in what God had given him to do. Paul's greatest motive was not how people perceived him, it was not how he perceived himself. It was not what he was able to accomplish in his labors. His greatest motivation was becoming like Christ and serving faithfully. And I'd like you to turn to First Corinthians chapter four, because in First Corinthians four, Paul states exactly what I just mentioned in that statement. In 1 Corinthians 4, 1 to 5, this is what Paul writes. And I want us to really catch these details because I think they're important. He says, this let a man show a count of us As the ministers of Christ. That word minister means that he sees himself as a servant. He's under the authority of Christ. He's not doing this for his own sake, but for the sake of another. He then says this. He is the steward of the mysteries of God. Now that word steward means he's supposed to manage. And I really hit that quite a bit on Sunday, the fact that we are supposed to be being good stewards of what God has entrusted to us. We're supposed to manage the gifts and the monies and the resources, what God has put under our care. Now, if I'm managing something as a steward, I don't really own it, do I? It's not really my stuff, is it? In other words, I'm doing the work for somebody else. So when he uses the term minister and he uses the term steward, he's basically emphasizing a position of lowliness. of submission under authority. He's showing he doesn't have rights. He's doing this for somebody else's benefit, not really for his own. He then says this, it is required in stewards that a man be found faithful. But with me it's a very small thing that I should be judged of you. Now, this is an interesting statement. In the context, Paul is basically stating that you guys are extremely critical of the work that I'm doing. And they were a very carnal church. They were very hard on Paul. They had no right to be. He was a godly, faithful man. He was not a slacker in any way. But he basically said this, when you judge me, I could care less. That's a real blunt way of putting it. I don't do this for you. I'm not concerned about what you think. I'm a minister of Christ's. I'm a steward of Christ, not yours. He then goes on to say this. He says, I judge not my own self. I know nothing by myself, yet am I not hereby justified. Basically, what Paul is saying is this not only do I not serve Christ for your opinion, I don't do it for my own either. He said, I have a free conscience. There is nothing that I'm aware of right now as I write this letter that stands against me. I have a pure and clean conscience in the eyes of God. But that doesn't mean that I'm perfect. Doesn't mean that I'm being faithful. Just because I think I am is not really where it matters. So he's saying it's not even for my own conscience sake that I'm ultimately serving. He goes on to say this: judge nothing before the time until the Lord comes. Who will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness and make manifest the counsels of the heart, then shall every man have praise of God. He says, be careful that you don't judge me, and I'll be careful that I don't arrogantly judge myself. Because I'm going to stand before Christ, and he's going to lay in front of me not just what I did, but the reason I did it. The reason I bring all this up is because when Paul talks about pressing toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God, he was not doing this because he wanted other people to think something of him. He wasn't doing it for the sake of his own conscience. He wasn't doing it for the sake of his own pride. He was doing it simply because he loved Jesus. He wanted God to say, Well done, good and faithful servant. His greatest prize in his mind was that when he stood before Christ, he would say, The thing that I called you to do What I gifted you to do, the place that I fitted you in my kingdom work, you did it well. That's what he's talking about. And so, folks, the truth is this: not only do we need to have a humble view of self and refuse to live in the past, but the reality is this, we need to continue to press forward. To be found faithful when we stand before Christ at the judgment seat of Christ. Let me ask you this question. Why do you serve? Is it because you are afraid of what somebody might say to you because you didn't? Is it because you are really kind of coding your own ego? Is it because you don't want to feel guilty and you know how horrible it is to feel guilty? We need to be motivated by a love for Christ and a desire to be found faithful of Him. I conclude with these three statements. We cannot forget what we really are. All of us. I am a sinner who continues to need to grow into Christ's likeness by the grace of God. I will never get to a place on this earth where that statement won't be true about me. It won't happen. It won't happen for you either We are sinners who must continue to grow into Christ's likeness. Number two, we cannot allow our past to hold us back or drown us in complacency. You know, there are people in this room that there are areas in your past that Satan loves to draw your mind back to. He wants to bring those memories to your mind and say, look at you. You want to do this? You can't do that. Look what you did. God doesn't love you. God doesn't care about you. He can't use you. You failed him. Look at you. That's the way that Satan is going to work in people's minds. And he plants those doubts and he plants those thoughts and he can cripple a person because they continue to live in the past. Let me tell you, the more that you purpose to serve God, the more Satan is going to press those things into your mind. And people who's who truly are living in the midst of the battle, they're going to face these thoughts from time to time. I'm sure that Paul was reminded of that at times. He said, I was before a blasphemer. I persecuted the church. Obviously those things came back to his mind. A third truth is this, we cannot take our eyes off of the main thing. Folks, we need to be focused on the judgment seat of Christ and letting God make us more like Him. There are a lot of people in Christian circles that they live their daily lives to check off a checklist of things that they did for God. I gave out these tracts this week. I read my Bible this many minutes every single day. I spent this amount of time in prayer. I had this conversation. I did this. I did this. I did this. It's all about them. Folks, that's not what the Christian life is. The Christian life is about standing before Christ and Him and Him saying, Well done. I fitted you and gifted you and placed you to do that work and you did it faithfully. Well done, good and faithful servant. May we as God's children be diligently focused, not proud and complacent. Let's put our hearts together in prayer. Father, we thank you for Paul's example of being a man who didn't live in the past. He didn't allow his failures to cripple him and keep him from pressing forward diligently as your servant. And thank you for his example. He didn't allow the tremendous sacrifices that he made. Give him an attitude of entitlement where he felt like you owed him some me time. Father, help us to be humble and diligent. Focused on the day we stand before you. Help us to understand the purposes for which you fitted us. Help us to embrace those things. Help us to glory in you as you use us in those various capacities Thank you for every person here. May you work in their lives. May you stir them up and strengthen them as they serve you. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.