Um we pray that you continue to protect the the health and well-being of our congregation. But we'll see two pages. Now, when I was putting this together, I just put intensive discipleship, but as I was reflecting on the passage we're going to look at this morning, I said, there's a word that I'd like to add into that And as he thinks about the last groups of people that he'll be writing to, one of those individuals that he really wanted to remind and encourage and strengthen in their ministry was this young man named Timothy In Luke 14, 28, Jesus said, Which of you intending to build a tower sitteth not down first and counteth the cost, whether he hath sufficient to finish it? That man's a learner. It was actually Mary. He hasn't gifted me that way. And it will be giving him, make sure that you uh put a check that says it's for the love offering in the box. Okay, it's the way it is. That's what Paul was. That needs to be involved in relational disciple making. That's what happened. uh 'cause we're not live streaming to everybody, uh but since I wasn't here I wanted to see how the missionary did. So sign up for that if you uh have not yet done that. So with that in mind, let's bow together for a word of prayer. And I pray that you would help each of our families who are dealing with sickness to be able to be back in good health very soon. Stand with me and we'll start off with Amazing Grace. And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men who shall be able to teach others also. The junior church can be dismissed, ages two to six, and please be seated. have your Bible like to actually take through and let's turn together to 2 Timothy chapter 2. So if you have your your brochure at the end of the brochure, you'll see two things. Or on the second side, we have embracing our role in the Great Commission. It's an extremely relational passage of Scripture. And I want to encourage you. And so the Apostle Paul is really at the end of his life and at the end of his ministry, and he knows that that's the fact. Now I wouldn't say that I know that for a fact. So how can we do that? In fact, when we pray to God, what do we say? We see this familial relationship and the terms of family used over and over and over again in the New Testament. And that when she saw the first competition, she was terrified because she thought someone was going to have a broken bone of some sort. That's struggling the entire game to get to the quarterback or to defend the quarterback. The Christian life's not easy. He does it by his spirit, but he does it through people in our lives who come alongside and they walk with us in those greatest of valleys. We may not realize the end result, but someone who's walked in those shoes before can say, keep sewing well now. Serious really is. And here is the fact. He's saying, Timothy, it's your turn, and I trust you, and I and I know that you're a godly man, and you're going to do a great job, and I want to encourage you. You'll find their names come up in several portions of Scripture. is that Aquila and Priscilla had an integral ministry in Ephesus without Paul there. with clarity. There is a culture that God planted you in, and he wants you to be salt and light, and he wants you to be a gospel witness in that particular environment he's placed you in. He can reach people for his honor and glory. Dave Smith will be preaching this evening. This morning I was same thing, blessed, encouraged, and challenged. And under uh your guidance in Jesus' name, Amen Okay? Pani say yes, you want me well, be in some living way Fans say opposite boss may be sadly Too will I enter in um the collection that we take. Declare his glory among the heathen, his wonders among all people. For all the gods of the nations are idols, but the Lord made the heavens. Give unto the Lord, O ye kindred of the people, give unto the Lord glory and strength. O worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. um have been members of our church in the last many years um who are either in very poor health right now or one that has passed away. And then all throughout the world, throughout the nations, throughout the people groups of this world. Father, we marvel at the perfect righteousness of Christ that's available for us as we repent and trust in the finished work of Christ Father, we just want to adore you and worship you this morning because we truly are grateful people. just grieving over the passing of a dad and a husband. Father, I pray that this morning you would help us to have a greater sense of appreciation for what we have. as we bask in how glorious you are, as we think about your love and your patience, your grace, your tender mercies. That's it, it's like me. Now I see the grace that caused my heart to fear and face my fears relief. Amen. Up to live or die, sing it out with me. To pray and never sleep again. But help me use my beginning breath to follow you to write for her death And when my heart comes with last week Thou, therefore, endure hardness, as a good soldier of Christ. And if a man also strive for masteries, yet is he not crowned, except he strive lawfully. Feel an art of coward sitting from leping away for my sin. That's good singing. All to all world for the sake of his name Last week, I know that uh Chris preached, and so it was a little impromptu for him, but we dealt with 2 Timothy chapter 3 and specifically talking about the importance of our preaching and teaching being doctrinally focused. So with that in mind, let's look at the text in front of us, 2 Timothy 2, and we're looking at verses 1 through 6 together. I'll therefore endure hardness, as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. Now, when we come to this passage of Scripture, we're looking at one of the most personal scriptures we find in the New Testament. Now, my guess would be that when Timothy received this information, he was probably very similar to the age that I am today. how you should think and how you should do the work that God's called you to. without recognizing that there is a relational dynamic to seeing someone first of all become a Christian, get baptized, join a church, and then begin to grow as a disciple of Jesus Christ. And so the purpose of this text was Paul addressing and exhorting this young man, Timothy, to have a ministry that was distinguished by relational disciple-making. Again, let me say that the purpose of this section of Paul's letter was to exhort Timothy to have a ministry that was distinguished by relational disciple-making. Well, this passage in front of us is going to give us several, in fact, five specific statements that tell us about the nature of the Christian walk That a relational discipleship kind of ministry is extremely important. Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. There is a familial kind of relationship between Paul and Timothy. To the younger to the older women, relate to them as if they're your mother. as one who is an older man who has experience in ministry and a younger man who has a passion for the Lord, but doesn't have the experience and the depth and the wisdom yet that the Apostle Paul had. In another sense, it's impossible to become a Christian a part of the work of God. There's a reason that the way that leads to destruction is broad and the way that leads to life is narrow. I have to put to death those sinful passions. He doesn't like seeing people growing in the Lord. In Ephesians six twelve he says, We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. It's you and them and that's it. From that moment till the last whistle, it is a grueling battle. And let us run with patience the race that is set before us. And by the way, what's interesting is when the Apostle Paul uses these athletic illustrations of wrestling and boxing and running, and then he talks about the arena where one is actually But what we need to realize is during the time of Paul, there were Roman soldiers in every single city. I therefore so run not as uncertain, so fight I not as one that beateth the air, but I keep under my body and bring it into subjection, lest by any means when I have preached to others I myself should be a castaway. And the great strong in the Lord and in the power of his might, put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. Now we read the New Testament, we see what we are commanded to do. but individuals play a part in the corporate commission given to the local church. If I do it, I do it the way that he'd want me to do it. I'm holding the church back. They had the giftedness to do it. They are still extremely important to that church. You realize that? And you know there's gonna be a day that I'm gonna be looking at people that were kids in the youth group who are now my age and who have their kids and I start realizing that, you know, that's the future of the church. Who God will call out and send you to another location and you'll be involved in a church plan. But if there are, it's going to be a very small group of people. And someone might say, well, you know, then why does this message matter to me? That God put Paul in their lives and them in Paul's life through very interesting circumstances and he used them mightily. Faith. We see them in Ephesus again in 2 Timothy 4, 19. Making congregation, that this would be a part of the culture of our church, that we would be a warm and friendly and loving community when people walk in, they see a vibrancy and a love for Christ. on a wonderful blessing. month is that during our Sunday school hour we just have a question answer time where we're able to learn and be challenged. with our families, our church, our friends, our co-workers. He shall judge the peoples righteously. And each week we have looked at a different theme in our theme of exalting Christ to those in crisis. continue that theme by looking at the concept of being a church that is focused on relational disciple making. We have prosperity. Father, help us to be a people who are passionate for your glory, that we would be passionate about making disciples in Anurundo County and this local church Help us to think about those who wander in the darkness and have no concept of the gospel and how they can be reconciled to you through the death and resurrection of Christ. We fall short, yet you use us, and you're persistent in our lives. those who are joining us by the live stream, and those who have worshipped with us in years gone by, who are going through great trials and challenges. Father, we want to thank you for your willingness to use us in your plan of bringing people to faith in Christ. And then, Father, we pray that this morning you would give us a renewed sense of your greatness and your power. I pray that we would have a renewed and heightened sense of your greatness, and that we would truly express that in song and the submission of our hearts to the preaching of your word. Our guests, everyone dialed in on live stream, it's a pleasure to be here with you as we begin our song services and as we obey that command from Psalm 96 to sing unto the Lord. When we've been buried in past years, right shining as the sun We know that take the same God's place, and when we first big God My bed or my lives waking or sleeping, I presents my life. My own heart, whatever will be my vision of ruler of. Amen. I know I had time to worship by all for bring our rebel It really rings a bell for me because it goes down there to the very bottom of my low range. Off police winter with ice to know reindeer before thy front We bear the crotch that claiming fell from the hands of the Lord, who gave their life complaining that Jesus Pray that the spirit wise will open darken eyes. Where's my exhaust? Share our joy this day, joining us all for the sake of The first page, the marks of a healthy, missions-minded local church, each Sunday we are looking at one of those marks. Well, this morning we're going to look at a third mark of a healthy missions-minded church, and that is the mark of intensive discipleship There is an intensely relational element to this thing of making disciples. And if a man also strive for masteries, yet is he not crowned except he strive lawfully. So let's look at this passage and see how God wants us really to have the exact same kind of ministry that the Apostle Paul challenged Timothy to have in this text. God also wants us to have a relational disciple-making kind of ministry. is that the nature of the Christian life demands, let me say that again, demands relational disciple making in the local church. What kind of illustration should come to our mind as we think about the nature of walking as a disciple of Jesus Christ? and the nature of the Christian ministry. Then we move down to verse 6, and he says, If a man also strive for the masteries, yet is he not crowned, except he strive lawfully. The husbandman that laboreth must be first partakers of the fruits. verses that we find in this passage. My son. We are cleansed. But one of the things that happens to us the moment that we're saved is that we are placed into a body, the body of Christ, we become a part of a family. He's expressing their familiar relationship in the body of Christ, and he's also expressing their mentoring relationship in the Now, it's not difficult to become a Christian in the sense that it's simply by faith alone in the finished work of Christ. It's interesting. The Christian life is not an easy life. The one who is presenting the gospel is in the thick of a spiritual battle. There are challenges that you face as a dad or as a mama. financial resources, mental and physical energies. That we are broken and we are helpless and we can't be saved. But the Christian life is different. Because it won't be easy. He's not talking about a hundred meters. fighting hand to hand. I've never run more than 10 miles at one time in my life. So run that ye may obtain every man that striveth for the mastery is tempered in all things. It's like you need the coach to come alongside and say, keep pushing. You need dear friends who are going to come alongside and strengthen and encourage you. There was incredible strength and force that was demonstrated by Rome. In fact, one of the things that the peoples of that time period most treasured was whether or not they could demonstrate their physical strength in the arena. You know, the steroid arrow and all the players were crushing the ball out of the park. It's true we stand in this position by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, in the righteousness of Jesus alone. And the second truth is that the scriptures give us a model for relational disciple making. Baptizing them in the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I've commanded you. how we're supposed to do it. And it's a very simple formula or a very simple approach to how we're supposed to do the Great Commission. He says, the things you have heard of me. You say, why? The reality is every time we enter these doors, if I'm doing my job the way I'm supposed to, you're being fed. And the reality is that we need that all the time. One of the reasons that Paul loved Timothy so much is because he knew for a fact Timothy was a learner. And there are times that when we read, we read for our souls. And say, I'm going to be here and I'm going to learn. But he wants us to absorb it and then he wants it to flow out of us so that we're actually teaching people and we're actually coming alongside and helping them. And by the way, in most churches that's probably not really the way it is. They will not continue. Right there, coming up through the church. He doesn't speak the same way. It's just as vital here as it is over there. Gives vitality and strength to the church, and God uses them in a mighty way. He came unto them, and because he was of the same craft, he abode with them and wrought for by their occupation they were tent makers. The reason that they were kicked out was because they associated with Judaism, not with Christianity or not with some Roman cult. And so here they are, they're migrants. It wasn't a skill they went to college for. And so they made tents so they could sell them to all these people flocking to Corinth to participate and to watch the games. Similar interest, similar occupation, you become friends. Was it because they took a course in theology? But he did not know the full gospel. We let her see evidence of this couple. And in all of those examples, it appears that they're involved with a church plan out of their own house. You and your job are in a unique position that nobody else in this congregation is in. It's the people sitting in the pews who are talking to their friends and neighbors and coworkers, inviting them to church, inviting them into their homes, talking to them about the gospel. Answering their questions, praying for them, weeping with them, encouraging them. means. They see that there's learning and there's investing and there's multiplying. morning. I have resolved to enter the kingdom speaking the past thing. That you get with somebody to get that information. I pray that you'd help us to be a people who are sensitive to the needs of others, not just the physical needs, but the spiritual needs. was hospitalized over the weekend. Everything about those situations, I pray that you would strengthen and encourage these Christians. He will marshield advocate as long as life in Oh Lord of my heart, not be all take that heart. I think I've never explained I reached heaven, bright and sight heart of God tell me use my taking breath To hold it pro life for her death And when my heart passes Lord help me use my taking breath To water you through my death And win my heart down to its fast case Does this one sound familiar for folks? Placing a thing that drives us to our needs, our need that undermines the building. And so it would be very similar to an older man who knows he's at the end of his life, he's lived faithfully for the Lord, he's invested deeply in a young man who's in the ministry, saying, I know them at the end of my life. The first statement is the phrase my son. sister in Christ. In Hebrews 12, 1, he says, seeing we are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight and the sin which doth so easily beset us. Just like one enters into competition, if they violate the rules, they're disqualified. Even if you're a Justin Gatlin, even if you're a Roger Clemens, even if you're an Alex Rodriguez, we could go on a list of athletes who violated the rules and were disqualified. There's disqualification from certain blessings and prizes that God wants to give to his children who've been faithful. But what we've seen and what we've talked about in past sessions is that the Great Commission is not just an individual commission The answer is no. I know he will care for your affairs the same way that I will. And challenged, not just filling our heads with information, but our hearts are being stirred up with affections by the things we're being reminded of. In Acts chapter 18, we are introduced to a couple named Aquila and Priscilla. In other words, they were refugees or migrant workers in Corinth who'd been deported from Rome because of an anti-Jewish sentiment in the city. And the reason that they went there is because many people would flock to Corinth at that time of the year, and they needed a place to stay. So you have a migrant family who's been kicked out of Rome, and you have the Apostle Paul who travels all over the Roman world establishing churches, and they become friends because they're trying to make a living. Sounds like somebody you might work with at a mechanic shop, or in your occupation, or somebody that you might come in contact with in school. It's how you became friends. O sing unto the Lord a new song. We want to thank you for the opportunity that we can have to grow into Christ's likeness and to help come alongside others who are also growing into Christ's likeness. In the midst of this COVID pandemic, you've protected us from getting cases in our church or connected to our church. Yeah, 374. So it's been a while, so I hope that might have uh brought the tune back to your to your memory here. See thou might and thy true word I ever with thee and thou with me more Thou my Read Scripture for this morning. This all embled we okay. Are by the same ambition to the week yield our powers. Oh Father whose sustainment, O Spirit who inspired, Savior whose love containment, who toil with. In Jesus, which crise you the Lord Oh Jesus Call, please, and big as wife, said big call. Intensive relational discipleship. Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. As we examine the nature of the Christian life, what kind of illustrations does God use when he describes the Christian life? My son is because when a person becomes a Christian, he's placed into a family. What does that tell us? And the family is a place where there's relationship, deep relationship, connection. The road that follows is not an easy road. I'm not saying that for you to feel bad for me, okay? Jesus talks about discipleship as if somebody is setting out to build something that's going to take a long time and it's going to take a huge investment of resources. I remember a match one time where when I was trying to slide back on my outer cl clothes from the wrestling tournaments, I couldn't even grip my jacket. In 1 Corinthians 9, verse 24, he says, Know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but one receiveth the prize? Through people who share with us God's word at that moment that we needed it most. He talks about the sacrifice of the soldier. But Paul tells Timothy, you need to be a part of intensive discipleship and mentoring because people need to know that. And they need to see that, and they need to walk alongside you in this struggle. And the idea is that we need to be reminded that as we labor in ministry and as we labor with people and as we plant seeds over years and years of life. It's kind of like Mary and Martha. And I say you, I mean me too. There were counseling sessions I was having with people, and I realized I don't even need to be in this counseling situation. And all of the sudden it went from me recognizing I'm the teacher too, I'm going to step back and let them teach Going and another generation is coming. Teach as you are being invested in and get to the place where the people following you have the maturity and the depth and the wisdom and the character to do what you're doing and maybe even better than you're doing it. The reality is that a missionary will not be as effective as a national pastor who is walking with the Lord. I want to give you an example of this. are examples laid out in the scripture preserved for us to read about of people who were divine appointments Literally, when Claudius got into that position, he said, You know what? Well here's what's interesting. And you say, well, why were they making tents in Corinth? During this time, we see that they were able to have a conversation with a man named Apollos. And Apollos becomes a very well-known and articulate evangelist in those areas. That's what the text tells us. I have resolved to follow the Savior people and to each day. The Lord has promised good my hopes secure And what a great missions seem out of this text. Anybody remember this one? All right, we will sing Facing a Task Unfinished. Alright. The second phrase that should really stand out is the phrase: be strong in the grace that's in Christ Jesus. The reason is because it's a whole lot easier to walk down a road where you just give into your flesh and you just give into the ways of the world and you just do whatever is easiest. Because my hands were so well, I don't even know what you call it, but I could not move my fingers. You realize that that is the illustration that Paul uses of the Christian life. It's a one-on-one competition that's going to take all of your mental, physical energies, and you will have to be focused in the midst of that struggle. And so Paul uses the illustration of the boxer, the wrestler, the runner, and he says that's what the Christian life is like. This is why we need discipleship. By grace doesn't mean there aren't expectations of the way we walk past that time. Here's what happens when you do it the right way. I've sat in church a long time. We've got to be learners. By the way, when Paul's talking to Timothy, he's saying, Timothy, the people that are most faithful are the ones that should get the most attention. By not giving them the things that they need to be strong and to grow and to mature. He says, Who shall be able to teach others also? I believe this very strongly. In other words, I was teaching classes that they could teach. I want to say that again. And he found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontius, lately come from Italy with his wife Priscilla, because that Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome. That we would each play that role that God has fitted us for, and that we would be saw and light in the place He has planted us. be light in this world of of darkness. Well, amen. Tide and rose. It might be shocking to know that it was my mother that encouraged me to get into such a sport. Yet this is the illustration that he uses to describe the Christian life, running with patience the race set before us. Because the fact is, you need somebody to run the race beside you. He's using analogies of warfare, of combat. But he says it's a matter of life and death. He uses this phrase, not crowned, except he strive lawfully. They lost certain honors that they had received. Relational disciple making involves learning and it involves teaching. We invested in them in a way that said, we are going to pass a baton to you. You can love people, but you cannot fully remove the stigmatization of being a foreigner in that country. They were not born in Rome. And they would have running competitions and weightlifting competitions and wrestling competitions and boxing competitions and gladiator fights and all kinds of things that they did at those Isthmian games. Was something that was clearly an example of relational discipleship. It'd be like you met somebody selling stuff at the Super Bowl, okay? We learn from this interaction not to underestimate the potential of every divine appointment. That's just a question I want to pose to you. We're so grateful that you plant us where you plant us. Things that are higher, things that are nobler, please have a Lord my side Jesus, straight and quiet, I will come to thee I will hasten to him, a sin so glad and free Jesus greatest highest, I will come to thee on the land encourage us and uh spurring us on to better things. We marvel in the gospel. Look up to the screen. And so what we see is that a lifelong fruitful ministry partnership began with a temporary job connected to an annual athletic competition. Scripture is going to be the 96th Psalm, so if you uh could, let's direct our attention to the 96th Psalm. I still lessen off the law In other words, again, he uses the analogy of the soldier. We must all live the Christian life with an awareness of Christ's Lordship. The people that are here are the ones that are to be invested in. After he was in Ephesus for a very short period of time, he left them in Ephesus. I'd like to ask you if you could, our closing hymn that we're going to be singing is hymn 391. Jesus great as highest, I will come to thee Just to get the chair. Listen to some of the passages that use the illustration of the difficulties of the Christian experience Sometimes I look back on my high school and college years and I ask, what was I thinking when I started wrestling? The things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men who shall be able to teach others also The fact is, it's not just about learning new things, but it's about being challenged. And as time went on, there came a point in my ministry in Ghana where I realized I'm no longer helping the church thrive. But there's a third truth that I think is so important, and I want to mention it briefly. He said, I'm kicking them out of the city. And that they are thrilled by the way that you use one generation after the other. I will Harry send to him, it sits so bad and free I will hasten to him, peace and so bright and free Go ahead and have a seat for the next song. May the Lord add his blessings to the reading of his word. That is the way that I operate as a pastor. They're involved in making disciples. May my birthday to direct Christ. And the reality is, what we know needs to happen on the mission field has to happen in the church here too. We ask that you would be glorified through our obedience to the word. I don't want you to just, you know, feel really bad or feel really good and make a decision right here and then that's the end of it. In Acts chapter 18, this is what the scripture tells us. God will for his souls we pay will That's how we reach people, folks. And my challenge to you this morning is that when you go home, you'll think about the text before you. That's my challenge to you this this morning. He hasn't wired me that way. You might say, well, what should jump out to us about that statement, my son? Do I really need that much Bible in my life? But the reality is you won't grow. For Christ and be no days, I should live up for him, and if I die always. Thirdly, we see the Christian life as a matter of life and death. You invest in those that want to learn. Every day a glory proclaim That man is an absorber of truth. Getting kicked out of a place where you were established because of your race, because of your religion is not nice. I hope that it's been an encouragement for you to be in the Lord's house this morning. I want to strengthen you. In one sense, it's very easy to become a Christian. And I'm starting to get a little bit of gray. How precious did that break up here? If you uh pick up one of our 2020 crisis to those in crisis uh roch shorts, you'll see that at the end of our little filmplace In fact, some of the most effective gospel ministers are not the one who preaches every Sunday. And God used it. To those that have not been coming to Sunday school, I want to encourage you to come to Sunday school. Lord, we are so grateful to you for the uh the wonders that you uh bestow upon us, the grace that you've shown. Well those two pages, we have the first of all, wow, now we wanted to hear it. How can we be that kind of a church? Are you really committed to being in the position to learn? If our churches do not get to the place where we see learning, teaching, and multiplication, our churches will all die. Let's bow together for prayer. Okay? Now, now, oh, I see what I did. We must see every context as a potential divine appointment for ministry. In fact, when Paul's talking to Timothy and he says, this is how you're to relate to the people in the church, he says, to the older men, relate to them like they're your father. The church is the one that baptizes those that identify with Christ. We see a second statement. We have access to truth. Stay with me on this one. He doesn't look the same way. Have you ever felt compelled to speak with the people around you? Now we'll go to our insert to live or die. It doesn't mean it's impossible. He's using the illustrations of the sports of their day. One of the most amazing examples that I can think of in the New Testament. He'll also be giving a short PowerPoint as well. We marvel at what Christ has done for us on his cross. By the way, how does God give us his grace? One generation comes and another generation goes. Keep your eyes peeled on the screen and sing out with me. Facing a task. We are declared righteous by God. They had the heart to do it. I don't mean I was holding the church back because I was a horrible missionary. That's how you got to know one another. In other words, the what is go and make disciples. This was a teenager, college student, married, having children. This is just thinking about how long Paul ministered, thinking about how old Timothy probably was when he met the Apostle Paul. That tells us that the growing of the Christian life happens in the context of family. So how does this apply to me? And so as he's preaching, they pull him aside and they say, Apollos, there's a story you don't know yet, and it's about Jesus and what he did for you. We pray for those in the Stencombe family that are coming together and Where are we at? Our Father, who's in heaven. The way of the disciple is challenging. You invest in those people. Facing a set. No. Okay? They moved to Rome. Uh Brother Scott Moore, could you close us in prayer? We pray for those in our in our congregation who are dealing with sickness and those who are who have traveled. And in each of those verses, there are several statements that should jump out at us. He's not talking about a five K. It wasn't a skill they went to trade school for. Because the reality is the Christian experience is tough. He says, the things that you have heard of me among many witnesses. Mary was the one at Jesus' feet. They've been kicked out. It's because Micah and I, when we went to Ghana, from the very first day that we started working with people, I want to challenge you. I've sat in church longer than you've been alive. But what's really important is that they pass it on well. Paul and this couple became friends at Corinth because they had a similar skill. They're involved in a church plant at Ephesus. And my prayer is that God would help us to see that developed in this church, even beyond where it is today. He doesn't like seeing churches established and thriving. He emphasizes the fact that everything's on the line when one is in the position of a soldier under authority. Ours is the same combination, the same but message ours And each of these five statements will really drive us to recognize We need this constant flow of information so that we are digesting the things that we're hearing. I do it conscientiously. And that's exactly what Paul is saying. And so I do want to encourage you to please come to that. Okay. There's a lot on the line when we live the Christian life. In Rome, in Rome six Romans 16, they go back to Rome. Lord, I pray for the the message that was uh we were fed with this morning. Sing unto the Lord all the earth. Fear before him all the earth. I do also want to remind you there are some that were not here in Sunday school or didn't hear the beginning announcements, but there are a few folks that But let's bow together for a word of prayer. In other words, be a learner. We'll sing four verses. Sometimes we give people the impression that, hey, it's not only easy to enter the kingdom, but the way is simple, and that's not true at all. The world's going to misunderstand me and misrepresent me. You just won't grow. The second statement is we need to be not just a learner, but a teacher. We're constantly trying to get people. Not too much. Brazing Grace outsweet The reality is we need to see one generation pass the baton to the next generation. No, it's because of relational discipleship. Musicians will turn to page 374. He can know a lot about the culture, but he will always, always, always be a foreigner. It's because every year Corinth would have a special Games, kind of like the Olympic Games. If you're to open your mouth and say, hey, would you like to come to church with me, would your witness be compromised? Hymn 391, I am resolved. I pray, Lord, that we might um be a a strong testimony for you as we uh reach out and uh try to Unlike any time in human history, I pray that you'd help us to be a people who are not complacent. Whoops. In fact, the reason that we have a church functioning in Ghana today Paul writes and he addresses those families and those places in his absence. He drew good out of what was very bad. We'll play it once through. Start up the chorus again. On the chorus. They had the compassion for the people of the church. That's what happened here. I love what I do, but the reality is there are challenges that I face as a pastor. And he says, before you start, you better be committed to the task. I'll get a little bit of gray hair here. At the time, I would assume Aquil and Priscilla were not Christians. Also, if you would like to participate in a love offering for Dave Smith, um oftentimes we forget that um we have a box in the back, but if you want to participate in a love offering Let's bow together for a word of prayer as we focus our attention this morning on worshiping God by being committed to making disciples for his glory. And I want you to realize something. I flipped over two pages instead of just the one. Well, the first thing I'd like us to see this morning from the passage in front of us. But when I've come close, it was one of the most miserable things they ever did. Matthew 28, it says that we are to go and teach all nations. That's the way that missionaries operate. You invest in those that listen. How many of those individuals will go to another culture and plant a church as a missionary? Doesn't mean that you can't be a disciple, but it does mean that it's difficult. Why did Timothy have that kind of confidence before Paul? I don't want any Jewish people in this city. And you can only imagine how humiliating that would be, how infuriating that would be. It's not just people going to a foreign field and passing out gospel tracts that are supposed to be involved in relational disciple making. And not just the Christian life, but the life of the Christian minister. He uses this phrase. Okay. Because I want you to realize that when we talk about discipleship, when we talk about helping people grow as Christians, Yes, you do. I'm not going to be a church planter. For the mess. One is marked, excuse me, of a healthy, missions-minded local church on the left-hand side and on the back. I really want to encourage you that this month you take a lot of time to reflect on those two pages. That's really the sense of the passage in front of us. You say, well, why don't you invest in the ones that are not interested? God wants our church to have a culture that is distinguished by relational disciple making. Honor and majesty are before him, strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. Go ahead and have a seat. It seemed like everybody got away with it. For the Lord is great and greatly to be praised. And first, or first, no, 2 Timothy 2, 1 through 6. The statements that are being made are the statements of someone who really loved and invested in a much younger individual. And so we see the difficulty on that side. That's the sense of the text in front of us. They were not from Rome, and they were not really, Corinth wasn't their home either. Our Father in heaven, we are so grateful that you use us in spite of us. No man that warreth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier There are challenges that you face within your working environment simply because you're a disciple of Jesus. We must all live the Christian life with a principled approach to what we do and why we do it. This is how Paul connects with them. Here's what I want to tell you as you think about the end of my ministry and as I'm passing the baton on to your ministry. To the younger men, relate to them as if they're your brother. You can do this. And so he says, be strong in the grace that's in Christ Jesus. We need that. In other words, God has to open our eyes and we see I do it with a heart and with a passion. That's really an amazing thing to think about. And I want you to realize that Aquila and Priscilla When Paul left Corinth, we see that he traveled with Aquila and Priscilla to Ephesus. We ask it in Christ's name. This is another one, I think, from Missions Conference 2 2017. Let me tell you, as soon as that first lock happens We read to have our hearts stirred up. It was called they worked with their hands, they made tents. Will not be enough to grape the pathway to my face And in this passage, he actually gives us this model. If he asks me to do something, I do it. Why aren't you in church? Be thou my vision. A little bit of trivia on this song. God is used grace. No man that worth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier Martha was the one doing all kinds of things. That you empower us to be able to do the work of ministry. Pray look forward to the message tonight what's you have for us and uh for this day that you've given us Lord and we just ask that we do everything in your name and Um I pray for those that are carrying emotional burdens. We're going to sing three verses. After these things, Paul departed from Athens and came to Corinth. You give us opportunities all the time, and we just want to thank you for that He says, endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. They ruled the world. Anyone in here baptizing people? And they sit Apollos down. I pray that you will strengthen their family and bless and encourage them. It's an absolute necessity. Let's say it together. Someone might say, I'm 60 years old, man. You might say, well, I've been a Christian for five years. Would they know to come to you when they are in a crisis because they have confidence in your stability and in your character? Sing out. For the sake of his name. Sorry about that. Alright. We are set apart unto God. Well, he does it through instruments. The how is 2 Timothy 2, verse number 2. My papers are out of order here. Well, the statement should tell us this. Okay? Sing unto the Lord, bless his name, show forth his salvation from day to day. To put it very simply, there are rules and expectations that God has for his people He says in the Christian life, if you don't run your race the way that God says to run it, We must see every context as a potential divine appointment for ministry. We'll sing the first, the third, and the fourth verses together. It's good to see each of you today, and Lord willing, tonight uh we'll be able to gather back together. And um I was blessed. Say among the heathen that the Lord reigneth. We marvel at the power of the resurrection demonstrated when he conquered death. He talks about the focus of the soldier, the obedience, the submission of the soldier. That's really where gospel ministry takes place. Father, we want to adore you this morning, recognizing that you're a God who has a glorious plan of redemption Now in me dwelling, and I with the wine In fact, as we get into this text, I think that there's no way you can walk away from the passage in front of us. Now we've basically read three of the six He's talking about the marathon This is the picture that he's using. God wants this church to be a church that has a culture that's distinguished by a relational disciple-making ministry. He says the Christian life is a wrestling match. I'm going to come and get you. Paul is saying, learn when you're in that season. But what we see is that Paul's interaction with this couple And what we'll see as we read the book of Acts And so I hope that you'll be able to join us for that. He uses the illustration of the race. Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible Every time these doors are open and you have an opportunity to be in the Lord's house, you should do it. I was preaching in the pulpit when there were men sitting in that church building that could come up and preach to them just like I was. Our Father, we are so grateful that we live in a time where we have freedom, we have opportunity. Read with me. Yes, I have it. 2 Timothy chapter 2, but I want to kind of remind you a little bit about what we're doing here He's facing incredible opposition. You know, we've lived in a time period where we don't really understand this kind of a thing. But then there's a third, and this is extremely important. And that is the example we find in Acts 18. And the reason that he uses that kind of terminology He's talking about the football player in the trenches on the line It's about being exhorted. And that's what he's saying. It's faith alone in Christ You need somebody to train you when you're preparing for the difficulties of life. Make that joyful noise. I become a Christian by faith alone in Christ, but as I walk as a disciple, I grow and I struggle and I'm challenged. Unless it's a baseball player in the nineties, okay? You invest in those that take it to heart. And it was really good to see your son and daughter-in-law and grandkids. Father, we confess to you that we do not take the opportunities to heart that we can. And good morning, everyone, here in person. Then we move down to verse 3, and he says, Endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. And the reality is The reality is when I look out over this church, I realize ten years ago I was younger than Chris and Paige were when I came here. There we'll make sure that that's uh added to Three verses. Now did that ring a bell for some folks? And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men who shall be able to teach others also. What's the phrase? What are you going to teach me? What I mean by that is I was holding the church back because I was doing for them what they could do for themselves. And by my presence being there, it was keeping them from doing what they were supposed to do. Where you are today is a divine appointment. How did they get there? Give unto the Lord the glory due unto his name. We will go ahead and do it. When we talk about our relationship to one another within the church, we call each other brother in Christ. You do need it. I'm not going to be a missionary. So we'll all sing all three verses The husbandman that laboreth must be first partakers of the fruits And you wouldn't think that seven minutes could feel like three hours, but it does. And so we see the need for relational disciple-making. Just a little bit. You come in contact with people that nobody else comes in contact with. And I want to ask you this morning: is it possible that you underestimate your opportunities? Amen. You know, when we become a Christian, there are several different things that take place. You have lots and lots of people that you give opportunity to, but only those who take it seriously. I don't even know if there's anyone in the congregation right now that will do that. If you want to use that analogy. I want you to go home and I want you to think about the text in front of you and prayerfully ask God to help you to live in the light of it. I got all caught up with the song. And so the reality is that the Christian ministry is a difficult place. In Ephesians 6:10 to 11, he says, My brethren, be strong. I'm going to come and get you. When we came to making decisions, we wouldn't just say, here's what we're going to do, but we would say, let's work through this and let's ask some questions together. I have resolved no longer to linger, charmed by the world divide. We'll continue singing. We then come to a second truth. The first word is learn And the next group coming. Father, help us to have an overwhelming sense of awe and reverence. What's really interesting is as you follow this couple throughout the New Testament. It's I Am Resolved. Also, please come to our mission's breakfast Help us in the roles that we can play and should play to come alongside them and encourage them in the Lord. All right, sing out now. Now we're gonna sing for the sake of his name. A sport that she knew very little about. You need mentors And the reality is that those who are wanting to learn, we would be doing them an incredible disservice by not teaching them. They see that one generation is truly investing in the generation that's following them. Amen. I pray that you'd help us to take to heart, deeply take to heart, the text that's before us this morning. Lastly, we see that we reap according to what we sow. But each of us plays a role in that. This person is fully capable of saying the exact same thing that I'm saying here. So that they came in contact with the gospel and eventually were used of the Lord. Keep your That's what they did. I think the last time we sung sang this was back in Missions Conference 2017. And the world is constantly going to be attacking the disposition that we have toward God. He does it through his word I'm kicking everybody out who claims to be of Jewish ethnicity and of the Jewish And so at some point between getting kicked out of Rome, ending up in Corinth, they got to the place where they can articulate the gospel. And Apollos is a very eloquent individual. I was encouraged, I was challenged. And I want to ask you a question. We thank you for how you've protected our church. He knows that he's coming to the end of the race that was set before him. There is a love that should bind us one with another Thou, therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. The husband that laboreth must be first partaker of the fruits Very good. No matter who you are, you not only are replaceable, but you will be replaced. Okay, so at this time we'll uh I think Look down at three of the verses that are before us. But I want you to realize that when one becomes a Christian, when they enter into new life in Christ. Okay Because it's a waste of time. And the reality is, which of those two was the one who really was close to Christ? I know as I look out over this congregation, there are only a few. God's providence directed these people together through highly unusual and may I even add, difficult. And each week we've looked at a different mark of a missions-minded church. They conquered by force. That's the big picture command. I pray that it would There is a relationship between them, like the relationship of a father and a son. I grew up in a Christian home. Paul is passing the baton. Because Paul knew his heart. It's not that I'm not willing to do that, but God hasn't put that in my heart. They associated with the Jewish faith. One of the probably one of the best parts of our missions conference this this month And then, Father, we want to lift up to you those in our midst Get back into that. So the first week we talked about the importance of gospel clarity. To the younger women, relate to them as if they're But here's the reality: you violate the rules, even if you're a Lance Armstrong. You cannot do it He is to be feared above all gods. We are thankful that you choose to use us as instruments. Hold on, I'll catch up And he uses the illustration of the distance runner. The truth is, God doesn't want us to just absorb all of this information and just sit on it. Let me put it like this: Aquila and Priscilla were refugees In Corinth again, in 1 Corinthians 16, verse 19. Here's the first statement. It's very simple. I'm going to just say this very simply. What is that? So that's really the focal point of our service this morning 2 Timothy 2, verses 1 through 6. We are regenerated. I couldn't. Fourthly, there are specific expectations regarding how we live the Christian life. I need it. You're learning something. Was it because they went to Bible college? You say, why do you bring this up? I don't think they say it's not working. Lots of people heard Paul's teaching, but Timothy was the one who was always there. He's saying, commit these things to faithful men. They didn't know the gospel. We pray that you would continue to do that. You know those burdens. He will not Okay In this statement, we recognize that the Christian life is a difficult life. But if there's anything that I learned about the sport of wrestling, is that when you walk into the ring Let's stand, please, and this will be our closing hymn. The world also shall be established, that it shall not be moved When Paul says, I have sent Timothy to work with you, he says, there is no one like-minded like Timothy. It's about our heart being stirred up. I think you'll really miss out. We'll read verses 1 through 10. If you're not going to be there, then you're not going to be there. Mm and I forgot about the song the sound game Here's the result in my life. And the reality is Satan doesn't like people entering into the kingdom. Now I know you don't have your hymn books, but it'll be on the screen behind you. Now he's not talking about a sprint. And it's not that the generation is no longer important to the church when they pass the baton. You would say, why in the world did God allow them to be in such a situation? They learned, he taught, he passed the baton. So if you miss those announcements, maybe How I first feel. I know that many this week are out for various reasons. Stand with me, please, for the reading of God's Word. We do not deserve our position in any way. Last week's I watched on uh a private live stream link. Everybody know this one? That is the result of relational disciple-making. I pray that you'd help us as a congregation to be a disciple The things you've heard of me commit to faithful men who'll be able to teach others also. Every one of us needs it. They called them the Isthmian Games. Uh thank you, Lord, for your goodness in our lives. Well, if that's your attitude, then that's that's a All of a sudden we realize that as time goes on, one generation is That is the model of Scripture. He says it in verse 2 this way. We know what we're supposed to do. Because of the intensity of that competition. I went to Christian college. A very small group of people. You know Oh Are you a learner? Notice what he says. And he says, the husbandman laboreth. He said that Bring an offering and come into his courts. How did they end up in Corinth? The reality is you're at a similar stage of life. That's where the vitality of the church is found. Amen. You're growing. He is theologically in depth at depth. Jesus Christ on the course again. That means we have new life in Christ. We are to be involved in the Great Commission And the word is multiplication. I am slide by death. There may be there may I don't know. I bring this up to say it's not just missionaries that That's what He wants for us. We are forgiven. And as they explain the gospel to Apollos, he embraces it. We pray for uh Dick Kilcup as he For the sake of his name. We ask these things in Christ's name. Thank you for putting up with me. For sister And that's why we need relational discipleship. And so Paul uses these analogies. It's likely that he would have been similar in age to what I am now. What do I have to learn? There are times that when we read, we read for our minds. He says, commit it to faithful men. You're being challenged I will invest in those that are available. Father, help us to be passionate about making disciples. In verse 1, he says this. I hope that you can make it back together. It matters to God What's interesting is the text in front of us tells us And here's what the scriptures say. We are unworthy. And um let's go ahead and close in prayer. Well, they were kicked out of Rome. No? We're going to That's really what happened. You won't grow. At this time. Uh But the same fact that we stand in our position Let's play through it once. Amen. Um