And the rest of you, I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and turn to 1 John 4. I saw him, I heard him, I was there. You see, you can affirm the facts of the story, but not the theological implications. And the voice I hear falling on my ear, the Son of God disposes, and he walks with me and he talks with me. We've testified. While he went from courtroom to courtroom that night and early in the morning, where he was lied about and spat on, beat, grabbed his beard, they ripped it. understanding of all things from the very first, to write unto thee in order, most excellent Theophilus, that thou mightest know the certainty of those things which thou hast been instructed Obviously they they preserved it and people read it, but for those that did not read Hebrew and understand Hebrew, they translated into Greek. Those places they translated it ego of me. If you reject it. And he in us, because he hath given us his spirit. With the intent for which it was given. It in Jesus' name, amen. Christianity. Jesus was a real literal person. The fact is, if we're going to have a genuine, healthy Christian faith, we've got to have a biblical experience. And that song, that is a very old, old hymn, believe it or not. The fact is that the Christian faith should move our soul and our heart. Now the Spirit doesn't bear witness with people spirits who are not the children of God, okay? We need this. It doesn't mean you're lost, but it means that there's an imbalance, and we need to maintain that balance in our walk with God. Now I'll tell you something. the savior of the world. Jesus take a little boy's lunch? Beat it into him. the savior of the world. And he's affirming that. is eternal. Really brought to a head. Read the Old Testament in Greek. Old Testament where you see the term Lord capital L O R D, it's talking about me. Spirit dwells in me. It's a story about a real person who lived 2,000 years ago. Heard of me and faith and love which is in Jesus Christ. Genuine Christian faith. to address that? found in this passage. that John was trying to affirm. present to his audience there many, many years ago that we're going to look at this morning. I just want to sit down. In fact, we have a song in our hymn books called I Come to the Garden Alone. Okay. There's something deeper, something more emotional, something that you need. John. says he did. in the church at Ephesus. It was actually dealing with the uh the idea of Trinitarian doctrine. It's a very interesting statement. We actually have fellowship with him. Now listen, when you got saved, when I trusted Christ, I passed from death to life. Remember from the first chapter all the way to where we are, I keep hammering on this little concept. it. Which he hath given us. Where our heart is warmed, that we feel conviction, and that we feel God's forgiveness, and we have confidence we're in Christ, and we can really say we commune and have fellowship with God If our faith doesn't have that, then there's a problem. But the fact is that over the course of your life, over the course of your Christian experience, when you hear a rich doctrinal song sung, or when you sing a great hymn, or when you read a text, as you think about those things, Experience. If you're going to write notes, write down the word history. I did. I can be. Reality. This is your mom take care of her. of the word of life. Things which are most surely believed among us, even as they delivered unto them unto us, which from the beginning were eyewitnesses. And to teach until the day which he is uh was taken up by his spirit. It's the exact opposite. feelings in the soul. Sticking point. the gospel. The fact is, not only is our Christian faith something that involves experience, not only is it rooted in history, but it's something that has doctrinal content. Identifies a very specific thing. Crucified. Jesus is fully God. Folks, if you don't believe it, you're not a Christian. Harsh. That's kind of understood. I mean, there's a reason for that. Doctrine, to embrace the gospel, to understand that God the Father sent his son, that Jesus Christ died on the cross for our sins, that he did his work by the power of the Spirit, and that now that I'm in Christ, the Holy Spirit And fast in the truth. Experience. To be people who don't get backed into a corner and feel we can't stand on historical realities of our Christian faith. People who hold fast to sound doctrine and don't get lured in by new unbiblical teachings. Balance, who stand firm in truth, and have a healthy Christian experience. Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God, God dwelleth in him, and he in God. Sitting down to write this little section. About the Christian faith. that were going on in the church as John is writing. And I want to tell you something. faith. A kind of mystical approach to our faith. The fact is that there are a lot of people today that don't believe that Jesus was a real historical figure. But he was kind of like a mythological figure. That in the church at Ephesus, there were people who are actually that close to the time of Christ were undermining the reality of Christ's person and ministry. The reason I bring this up is because the problem hasn't ceased. Of who Christ was. We've got to have a good solid conviction of the historical aspects of the gospel and the Christian faith. You can know in an experiential way that God dwells in you and that you dwell in him. You can have this sense internally. Your soul can be warmed and your soul can be moved. Hereby we do know that we know him. Chapter 2, verse 5, he says, Whoso keepeth his word in him, verily the love of God is perfected. Romans 8:16, I've mentioned this passage a few times. There's something in your soul that should say, he's talking about you. It should involve real character change, real thinking change, real warmth and passion in our soul, peace and joy, true worship, confidence. And feel peace. Do you affirm to speak the truth and nothing but the truth? What John said. He's saying our Christian faith is not just some little mystical religion. Of historians saying, we saw this. I want to tell him what God has done in my life. That which we have seen and heard, we declare unto you, that ye may have fellowship with us, and truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son. He says, I'm writing a treatise. And what does he do? People didn't affirm that truth. You affirm that truth in this debate, and that puts you on the side of truth. If you don't affirm certain truths about Christ, certain truths about his ministry and work, certain truths about yourself, you're not a Christian. You might go to a church, you might be a minister, or you might read a Bible, but if you don't affirm fundamental doctrine, you're not a Christian. A young man born in Bethlehem went to Egypt. Who is he talking about? You can never connect the dots perfectly in your mind, but you can affirm biblical orthodoxy. That commands us to repent and to trust alone in Christ. I'd like us to bow our hearts together in prayer and ask the Lord to really help us to understand some very important and I think also extremely practical truths that we find in this text. falls short and doesn't give us deeper things. Walk out into the rose garden, and whatever I feel, and whatever voice seems to pop in my head, that's God speaking to me. chance. Mystical, emotional experience that they wanted outside of the doctrines of the faith. Okay? Read the Bible and go obey God. Plus there are a couple ladies there too, probably, a couple kids. Okay. You can listen to the repetitive song and it can move you emotionally. So there's certain roadblocks to someone placing their faith in Christ. Statement. Before Abraham was I am, he was again affirming this. Aspects of the gospel is understanding who Christ is. Implications of that. There are a lot of people today within our culture that would say, I'm not a Christian. But I'm a very spiritual person. Yet he's still God in flesh? From the Holy One, and he says, Ye know all things. He illumines your mind, he opens your understanding, he presses your soul. It's not like all of a sudden this light bulb went off over my head. But that's experience. I tell you, I'd never die for a while like that. 1 John 1, 1 to 4, he says this, that which was from the beginning, which we've heard, which we've seen with our eyes, which we've looked upon, which our hands have handled. Because there were people in the church who said Jesus Christ is not Son of God. There's no end to that relationship. on the church level, in Christianity in general, and then in our personal lives. You know, it should maybe bring a tear from time to time to our hearts. Know we that we dwell in him and he in us, because he hath given us How you think, what you do, and what you don't do? And have this overwhelming sense of God's presence when the gospel hasn't been preached in that cathedral for a thousand years. And it keeps them in proper balance. It's not just some mystical experience. We thank you for the past week that we've had. God wants each person here to have a genuine, healthy Christian faith. It's all mythological, man. We could say fundamental essentials to the Christian faith, and most certainly it's going on today as well. Mysticism, and these things are common today. If you're writing down notes, maybe write this word experience and look down with me at verse number 13. It didn't move our heart at all. We sense God's presence. But I can have this internal confidence and sense that I'm a child of God. Romans chapter 8, verse 1. The idea is that the Holy Spirit's presence impacts me in an experiential way. And do testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. I saw the miracles. There are people that understand that there is a convincing, powerful argument for the reliability of the gospel, but they turn away because of implication. He calls him the Son of God. In the beginning was the Word. Of the faith, who embrace and stand in the non-negotiable doctrines of the Christian faith, and who have a vibrant Christian experience. And John's going to address that issue. And take God's name in vain. And you know what's interesting? Deficient, not a man, not God, not the same as the Father, a distinction between the persons of the God. And then there's a third area, and that's the area of doctrine. John says, you can know that you dwell in him and he in you because he has given us of his spirit. I don't believe what Luke said. See what he's saying here? Now, John is not going to sit down and give us a grocery list of all the doctrinal truths that are non-negotiable. It was needful for me to write unto you and exhort you that ye should earnestly contend for the faith. These false teachers were denying the eyewitnesses accounts of the people that were sitting not in pews, but there in that setting, some of them who are eyewitnesses, like the Apostle John He really did it. And one by one, what does the Holy Spirit do? Let's bow our hearts together in prayer, please. To be people who think deeply about what John expounded in this passage. I have experiences, spiritual experiences, when I'm up in the mountains and I'm sitting in a cabin and I'm listening to a crackling fire. A lot of people that teach that today. I'd say a lot of our very general evangelical Christianity probably to some extent drifts into that. I mentioned it's a major theme in the book. You can manufacture these in an imitation kind of a way. It's going to come from God's work, not our manufacturing of those things. I remember that little section. Are you sure he physically died? I saw those things. Folks, I want you to understand something. It's kind of interesting. A lot of times we sing the great hymns of the faith. We have the ability to shortchange all of these things, but a vibrant, healthy Christianity is going to press us in these areas. Facts were seen. The treatise is the kind of stuff that we don't read anymore. If ye believe not that I am He, ye shall die in your sins. And the Spirit gives us that. And then he says, what people are saying about who Christ is is wrong. Over time, he peels away all the objections and he says, this is true. I think we're very good at emphasizing doctrine. What is the source of this experiential confidence and joy? We can have a song played that doesn't even have good doctrinal content and you feel warmed in your soul. I saw Pilate take a basin of water and wash his hands and say, He's on you, not me. You realize in a court of law today you can convict somebody on DNA evidence? And they hate the truth. Father, as we open up our Bibles, as we read this passage, and then as we think together about it, I pray that you'd open our eyes to understand the weight, the significance of the truths that are Do you think that Jesus really rose from the dead? Was willing to say, I'm gonna testify before the Emperor. John affirms that there is an experiential side to our faith. A story that's been embellished over 2,000 years, it's true. It's truth, folks. All that stuff didn't make sense if you don't embrace those doctrines. And what's very interesting is in those days, there were people that came to the church and basically said, John's a good man, but what John's teaching falls short. I've quoted that verse a long time since I was a little kid. And most certainly that's going on today. What did you see? The life was manifested, and we've seen it and bear witness and show unto you that eternal life which was with the Father and was manifested unto us. Verse 15 he says this Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God, God dwelleth in him, and he in God. He's affirming the eternality of who Christ is. Every time you come to the pat to a passage that mentions God's name, Lord, capital L O R D, you would find out in that translation, they translated it, ego. You can manufacture counterfeits. Well I hope by the end of the message today you'll see him there. And so today we're going to look at a very interesting topic from the passage, a genuine, healthy Christian faith. That's history, folks. I saw them weep whip him and beat him mercilessly. When he affirms that statement, Jesus, they understand, John believes he's a man. Help me as I present the passage to do it in a very simple, very direct, very God honoring way. Let me read that again. In John chapter 8, Jesus makes the following statement, verse 24. The passage we'll be looking at is in verses 13 to 15. And I pray that the Holy Spirit would take the things that are said and would minister to specific needs in our hearts. You saw this with your eyes. We were in there in the Sunday school class, and one of the things I was talking about was that repentance can kind of take a little bit different form depending on the person. He didn't say Jesus Christ was the Son of God or Jesus Christ became the Son of God or Jesus Christ hoped to be the Son of God or Jesus Christ wished he was Three facts that were under attack from false teachers in the church. Okay? I don't believe what Matthew said. There are people that would lead you to believe that if you're a Christian, you just took your head, stuck it in the sand, and you've lived your life with your head in the sand. We come to a third truth, and that's this. I want to meditate. Those miracles really happened. Chapter 3, verse 24, he says, He that keepeth his commandments dwelleth in him, and he in him. Whenever I come to a passage, I'm very methodical about how I like to approach it. You can't believe that stuff. The message being taught by these teachers was not orthodox. I do think that sometimes in churches a little bit like ours, we tend to not emphasize the experiential side of our Christianity. There are people living in this world today that have read the Bible, they sat in churches growing up, they know this is true, but they love sin a lot. There are people like that. Could it be that you're seeing the faith being attacked on one of these fronts? You and I should have a Christian faith that has an experiential side But let me tell you something. I don't think I could be any clearer than John was there. He says, There's no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. In fact, if you look in your Bibles, it's it's in italics because it was supplied in the translation. Jesus is fully man. Very obvious in the context, that's how they understood it. The same kinds of problems, at least in principle, maybe not the exact application, but the same problems really continue to this very day in We actually feel his presence in our life. I saw a centurion thrust a spear up his side, and blood and water come out. And basically what John is saying is this, that is non-negotiable, folks. Is there an area in your walk that's falling deficient? That's not not saying we shouldn't do that, okay? I heard him speak. This is a Trinitarian passage. But the actual Greek phrase is ego and me. That word know has the idea of there's a very intimate knowledge. Five loves, two faces. There was a response. God wants you to have a genuine, healthy Christian walk. Well, here's the reason, I think, from reading the passage. I'm laying out a history to convince you and to prove to you this is reality, this is truth. It's not something you're aspiring to or hoping to. We didn't feel any warmth in our soul. We then come to Acts chapter 1, and he says, the former treatise, by the way, a treatise isn't a myth, folks. They write books on it. Let me put it this way. Jesus was a real person in human history. When I was at the cross, I saw his agony in the middle of the day. Are you kidding me? There are churches in this town right now that if you sat down with the minister and you asked him, Do you believe that Jesus really fed 5,000 go That was actually a debate going all the way back in the early church. It's like, oh now I'm a Christian. In Galatians 5, 16, it says we're to walk in the Spirit and not fulfill the lust of the Spirit. And so when they came back from the captivity, and a lot of the people didn't speak Hebrew anymore, the scribes took the Hebrew Old Testament. And it doesn't say anything about where you stand before God. When John is talking about the problems in the church, he emphasizes the experience. The Word was with God. I have these spiritual experiences in places like Sedona in the desert. Hereby know we that we dwell in him and he in us because he hath given us of his spirit You can have the sense of peace and the sense of comfort and the sense of confidence. Notice the little phrase he says, He hath given us of His Spirit. And he begins to tell us the story. He takes that objection and he brings it down as the as the scriptures are taught and preached. He affirms the humanity of Christ. The emotional, experiential side of the Christian faith is not deficient. It's connected to historical realities. And as time went on his legacy got bigger and some of the things that he did, well they got embellished. But not only did I see it, you see these guys over here, they saw it too. I don't believe any of this stuff. Folks, this is history. I want to feel God's presence. There are really ministers today that believe that. Let me just give you a little, just a quick little summary of some of these passages. In the Ten Commandments it says, Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. It's that simple. Focusing on the Word of God and how you've spoken to our hearts. We don't think a lot about what's going on. There are a lot of people who will say, oh, I believe Jesus really lived and I believe what the Bible says, but they don't understand or they don't embrace the theological But he says this: the Spirit beareth witness with our spirit that we are the children of God. That's a lot of people, okay? Yes. I saw him and heard him say, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. It's truth. And they were meant to be signs to authenticate his person and his work so that we would repent and believe on Christ. So let's get into the passage and let's look at how John affirms those three areas. And what's interesting is this is a major theme all throughout the book of 1 John. I'm not saying you're lost, but I'm saying that there's an imbalance in your Christian faith. Verse 14 says this: We have seen. And he says, I affirm I will speak the truth and nothing but the truth. And not just that you'd die, but you'd die the way they did it. If you are the son of God, that means that there was no beginning to that relationship. Very old hymn. It's as if John stands in a court of law and the the judge says this We testify. But let me tell you something. You saw him take a little boy's lunch, and he broke it and he distributed it to five thousand men We heard this. You cannot embrace a Christ that is unorthodox, unbiblical. You know, I like the story of Christ. Okay? He has no beginning. Is Jesus really different from the Father in person? Everybody can see that. They basically explain why he's not really who the Bible says he is. When I grow up, my background affects what I'm thinking before I come face to face with Christ. The song kind of goes this, I come to the garden alone while the dew is still on the roses. No. The truth is that when we sing wonderful doctrinal hymns, it really should move our soul. They won't listen to it, stop their ears, they turn away. He's very burdened about those things. There are many people today that are being told that the message of the Apostles This is true. Another passage where John basically states the same kind of thing. I'm going to ask you this question. We're very good at defending the historical realities of the Christian faith. They read them back in the 1700 and 1800s. The Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. It ought to warm our souls. I was in the garden the night that Judas betrayed him with a kiss. You can sit around the campfire. And we have seen and do testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world And there were people in the early church who were trying to undermine biblical Orthodox positions. And just because you're saved doesn't mean that you always have this strong, compelling sense. The reality is that our experience is something that we can be very deceived in. Because they really are. We can tell you about it. Very rich doctrine. And that idea of an avunction is you have an anointing and you have this special relationship with God. That's an experience that we have. How does that work out? That shouldn't be going on. I I got this halo now. The fact is that the Christian faith is more than just emotional, mystical feeling in my soul. I remember when I was in Iwana, probably about my son Joel's age, learning that verse. It took a while before I really got the sense of what he's really saying. Folks, this is history. Do you realize that these men were willing to die for what they saw in that testimony? It's more than just a body of doctrine that takes the story of Christ and the gospel and explains the theological implications of that story. Believe it and embrace it. In fact I've heard this many times. I don't care what he thinks. The Word was God. You say, Pastor, that's a little bit dogmatic. I heard the crowd cry, crucify him. To whom also he showed himself alive after his passion by many infallible proofs, being seen of them forty days and speaking the things protected. It's not just, oh, I remember, I trusted Christ, but you have this sense of God's presence as well. You saw him do that? They're saying he didn't really come. The Christian faith is more than just a feeling, it's based on historic He has no end. I want to sit out on a bench in the woods. It's interesting, John's going to make a statement in this passage where he affirms a specific doctrine that was being undermined by false teachers. You know, the song that Byron sang, there's some really rich doctrinal truth. It's reliable. We come to Luke chapter one, and what does Luke say? He was a good example to me. So let's look down in our Bibles together, please. We feel his strength and we feel his comfort and we feel his encouragement. And then he explains the nature of people in that position who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. He said, We have seen and do testify that the Father sent the Son to be the It's something that you are. That puts you on the position of standing in Christ. Later on, he ends up in Nazareth. I don't say it because I relish in that fact. In Ephesus, nearly 2,000 years ago, there were people who wanted a different John wrote the book because he wants us to have joy. John wanted this little section to affirm three facts. You might say, well, I don't see three facts in that passage. Was he really conceived in the womb of a virgin? We we sang some wonderful hymns today, but how many of us sing them and it's as if our mind was checked out? Everything that we read about in our Bibles that the scriptures There are certain aspects of our Christian faith that are experiential, and that's what he's talking about here. Hereby we we know that we are in him. 1 John chapter 4. Well, to be very honest with you, that's how a lot of people kind of view their Christianity. I don't go to church. We can help you to find that, but you won't find it in John's teaching. And they teach that. When Jesus makes this statement, what he's basically saying is all those times in your old And he talks about various ways that God strengthens that sense and various things that undermine that sense. You affirm that that is true. God's word speaks from the point And what's really interesting is that there were specific things Those three battlefronts involve our experience, how we feel as people, they involve the history of the Christian You have this sense, this conviction that you know him He used the term Jesus. In Jude 1, Jude writes, Beloved, when I gave all diligence to write unto you the common salvation. That's what he's saying, folks. He is in relationship with the Father within the Godhead. He writes this, hereby John affirms the non-negotiable doctrines of our faith They took up stones and they wanted to kill him. And I like to begin with a purpose statement. And if there's not a vibrancy there, then there's a spiritual problem. DNA evidence. It's true. But he is distinct in person from the Father. You say, well, that doesn't mean anything to me. May we be people who have a solid understanding of the historical reality. He's aware of those things. And so he wants to address that particular issue And that's going on today too. It ought to convict us. When I sit down and I think about the words of that song, it should affect my heart. I affirm it's true. Who died on the cross? So what are the truths that John is going to But we read the Bible, we obey God, but we actually commune with God You say, Pastor, why do you bring that up? Well I want to begin kind of with this little thought. You can walk into the cathedral. And they call each of them one by one. Sa definitely that's not something that happened to me when I when I trusted Christ as a little kid, you know? You don't affirm that, you're not a Christian It's your nature. I said therefore unto you, ye shall die in your sins. Genuine, healthy Christianity puts all three of these facts and puts them together Do you have a vibrant gender We ask these things in Jesus' name. We pray you'd continue that work this morning. People say, why do you emphasize the Bible so much? And there are people within the pews that believe that. Well, it's the Spirit I want to go see him It's accurate. Jesus is eternal. It's there and it's genuine. People can walk into a cathedral. Chapter 2, verse 3 says this. A second truth that he affirms is this: He affirms the historic side of our faith Chapter 3, verse 14, he says this. And hereby we know that he abideth in us by the Spirit. You can go sit on a bench in the woods So the first thing that he emphasizes is it Our Christian faith is not just mythology. The same was in the beginning with God. No, he was your sin-bearing substitute. That's a spiritual reality. Long explanation, giving all these proofs of some concept. Our faith is more than just a body of truth. Help us to be people who have a genuine, healthy walk. 2 Timothy 1:13, hold that form of sound words which thou hast heard I don't hold any kind of doctrinal creed. Two distinct persons? Something that happened thirty years ago. He's working with his dad. It's got nothing to do with the message at all It's true. That's why he's bringing that up I saw it And that's a lie. And I want to ask you a question: Is that really a biblical approach to Christianity? I'll ask you this question. There were people in the church at that time who were denying the historical reality that Well, this was the sticking point in the church. The first thing is John affirms the area of experience Ego and me means nothing to me. The Lord will not hold him guiltless, which taketh his name in vain. And he wants to address them It's true, there are a lot of people today. It ought to make us feel confident in Christ. And I want to feel God speak and move in my life. Not an arrogance, but a confidence. They said Rampantly manifest. I heard them say, His blood be on us in our church. When he talks about Jesus, the people understood that was John 1, 1 and 2. I say it because it's true. And so John is going to address that issue. This is real. He says this it seemed good to me also, having had perfect understanding The fact is in the Greek language I'll tell you why I bring it up. Who lives in your heart? May it be consistent with We thank you for the work that you've been doing in our midst. He's not doing that here. It's a non-negotiable But it's connected to doctrinal truth. Hereby know we that we dwell in Him. I saw his mother weeping. You can listen to the pipe order. And we see all throughout the New Testament, this is affirmed. But when they came to those Might I encourage you The Holy Spirit indwells you. For as much as many have taken in hand to set forth in order a declaration of those Paul, who hated the Christian faith. And he convicts us and convinces us of those truths. Might I encourage you to stay Okay? Are you sure? Those things are true. Father in heaven, I pray that you'd help us Or some people might say, well, Jesus was a real person. That's what he's saying. I can't see it, and you can't see it. It's that simple. He ends up having a three-plus year ministry. And so what we read in our Bibles is not trustworthy. And we need to hold fast to Orthodox doctrine. And I stand here to testify to you. Why was John He says, of all that Jesus began both to do and That's a pretty stuff You cannot be saved. Did you see But he goes beyond that. I pray that we would be people with good That's what we're going to look at. There are three battle fronts that I think we face as Christians And when he convicts us and we repent and we ask for forgiveness, we feel forgiveness. And he wants us to have fellowship with God. And one of the things that we have is that we get undermined in those areas. The father sent the son to be And the reality is this: we're going to find out in this text Chapter twenty chapter two, verse twenty. They're non-negotiables. We ask Amen. But sometimes we fall a little short on the experience side. They can convict somebody of a crime. And that doctrinal content is non-negotiable. So it's not just about manufacturing emotions. The Christian faith is more than emotional, mystical We know that we've passed from death unto life because we love the brethren. We see we saw this. Did you see Jesus of Nazareth walk on the surface? There are people that are saying what you've been taught is A second area is in the area of history. They took a crown of thorns and they placed it in his skull and they I know he died. When he says, Ye believe not that I am he Well, folks, if you were to One of the non-negotiable There are even people in religious academia that don't believe that Jesus You have no righteousness apart from him. Well there are a lot of people that say, if I don't understand it, I don't believe it The fact is you have to affirm Trinitarian doctrine. He's addressing one issue that was a big-time problem in the church. In John chapter 8, this is As you read the Bible, as you study the truth. I'm as sure as I Help us to be people Let's bow together. A genuine, healthy Christian. You know what's wonderful about this passage? When Jesus says Folks, that's not Christianity. The Jewish people were afraid I followed. Let me give you a couple of examples. We thank you for this church. Does that reality impact at all how you feel? I saw him look down at me and say, It's the content of our faith. He also affirms that Jesus It's a little bit hot. In other words, our Christian life isn't supposed to just be And he was And I want to say this. Ye have an unction He's basically saying this Fact is there are a lot of people that believe that. Yet people say, I don't believe Didn't get this halo, it didn't look any different And we Now why does he say that? John I Yes, I did.