I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection, and this is the third section of our study on 1 John chapter 4, verses 13 through 15. If you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it and we will look at these verses together again. We'll look at our summary statement and then dig into the final part of our study. 1 John 4. 13 says this, hereby know we that we dwell in him, he in us, because he hath given us of his spirit. And we have seen and do testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God, God dwelleth in him, and he in God. Now we look at this passage, we saw our summary statement. was that John wrote this final this little section to affirm three facts about the Christian faith. And these three facts were under attack by false teachers in the church at Ephesus. And so when we looked at those three aspects of the Christian faith that he affirms, the first is that he affirms the experiential side of the Christian faith. We see that the Christian the Christian faith actually fundamentally changes people. There is an emotional, worshipful, real impactful change that takes place in people when they trust Christ as their Savior. We then saw the historical aspect of the Christian faith. In fact, really, if we were talking about Christianity from an apologetic standpoint We would be looking at the fact that Jesus was a real person , and the Old Testament foretold who he was, what he would do, where he'd be born, all kinds of details about his life. And so the apostles laid out four formal explanations and proofs, testimonies to who Jesus was and what he did and why he did it. Well, this morning we're going to look at the third aspect that's affirmed in this passage, and that is that the Christian faith is a theological or doctrinal position as well. Now one of the things that we've tried to emphasize each of these studies is that the Christian message is not just a historical message. It's not just an experiential change that takes place in people. And we're going to look today that it's not just a theological proposition. However, all three of those elements are there, must be emphasized, are extremely important. The truth is out of all three of them, the one that is often the most significant and the one that is sometimes the least uh emphasized, and the most dangerous not to emphasize would be the theological side. The truth is you can believe that there was a Jesus of Nazareth And you can believe a lot about him, but if you don't believe the theological implications and what the Bible affirmed about his nature, and what he affirmed about his nature, then you really aren't a Christian. In other words, it's not just the knowledge of a historical person. Or not just the fact that we have an experience connected to what we view as Christianity, but we need to recognize that who Jesus is, what he did, the theological implications of that are extremely important. So let's look at the this the simple little things that John says here that really are extremely important. In verse 15 he says, Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God, God dwelleth in him, and he in God. Now that's a very simple verse, not really a lot that's said initially when you look at it, but there's a lot to unpackage in each of those phrases and statements The first thing that he that he does is he identifies that there was a person named Jesus of Nazareth. He says, Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is. Now, what does that tell us? He's affirming that there's a real historical person named Jesus Somebody that he followed, somebody that he knew, somebody that ate meals with, a real person. He's emphasizing the humanity of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's extremely important. That's a fundamental part of our Christian faith. Jesus was fully man. However, he's also going to affirm another aspect that's extremely important. He affirms the eternal nature of the relationship between Jesus of Nazareth and God the Father. He calls him the Son of God. Now, when he talks about him being the Son of God, what's he emphasizing? He's emphasizing the Lord Jesus Christ's position within the Godhead. Now, if we are talking about his position within the Godhead, we have to assume there is such a thing as the Godhead. So what we're getting into now is we're getting into Trinitarian doctrine. We're talking about the fact that there's one God and there's a person, the Lord Jesus Christ, who is God. There's a person, the Father, who is God, there's a person the Spirit who is God. In other words, Father, Son, and Spirit, co-equal, co-eternal. We're talking about one God, three distinct persons. Well, that's an extremely important doctrinal theological proposition that we have to look at. And one of the things that we need to realize about the Lord Jesus Christ's ministry is that one of the reasons The religious leaders hated Jesus so much was that he affirmed that he was equal to the Father. He affirmed that he was before Abraham. In fact, you think about the passage where he talks about Abraham rejoicing to see my day, and he was glad in it. And he said, before Abraham was, I am. He talks about his eternality. He is connecting himself with the covenant name of God Yahweh, the I Am. So when we talk about Jesus, we're not just talking about a man, but we're also talking about him being God. So we're talking about him being God in flesh. An amazing concept. The reality is that you do not have a Christian faith if you reject the concept, the theological proposition, of God in flesh. Emmanuel, the Lord Jesus Christ being fully God and fully man, the second person of the Triune God. And so when he uses that term, son of God, we need to realize that John's really referring back to the exact same thing that he talks about in John 1. He says, in the beginning was the word. He's emphasizing that Jesus is eternal. When the world began, what we call the beginning of time, the Son already was. In other words, he wasn't the first one created, or he didn't begin after the beginning. He already was the eternality. of the Lord Jesus Christ. That means he's outside of time. That means he's eternal. That means he's God. He then goes on to say, and the word was with God. So he's indicating a relationship between two persons. He's indicating there's a relationship between the Father and the Son. And the Word was God. So he's emphasizing the fact That when we look at the second person of the triune God, we have to talk call him God because that is his essence. That is what he is. And so when we talk about the Trinity, we're talking about an extremely important doctrine. This passage also emphasizes he's the creator. So we see he's eternal, he's fully God, he's distinct from the Father in person, yet the same in essence. These are all theological doctrinal propositions. We do not have a Christian faith without the experiential side, the change that takes place in us. We don't have a Christian faith without the historical affirmations of the person of Christ. But we also don't have a Christian faith if we don't have the theological implications of who that person, the Lord Jesus Christ, is In fact, it's interesting. In the book of John, in fact, one of the highest moments where Jesus is being accepted and rejected by people. is in John chapter 8. And that's the passage where he talks about being the I am. But this is what Jesus says in John 8. 24. He says, I say therefore unto you that ye shall all die in your sins. If ye believe not that I am he, ye shall die in your sins. And when he uses that term, I am he, he's talking about himself being the I am. In fact, it's interesting in the Greek it's egoami, all right? He's saying I am the I am, the same one that talked to Moses in the wilderness. And when Moses says, well, who do I say has sent you? He says, tell him that I am has sent you. That's what Jesus is saying. If you reject who I am, then you reject the gospel fundamentally. And so when we talk about this issue of theology and doctrine, we need to recognize this is extremely important. It is a non-negotiable. You cannot Set it aside. You cannot call yourself a Christian apart from a a sound theological orthodoxy So what are some of the implications of this? Well, first of all, the Christian faith is far more than just an emotional, mystical feeling in our soul. It's a story, it's history about a real person who really lived 2,000 years ago. But he didn't begin to live 2,000 years ago. He took on flesh 2,000 years ago, the eternal Son of God, the creator of all things. took on humanity at a point in history. That's what we're talking about. The second thing is that the Christian faith is a body of doctrine In other words, it's taking the story of the person of the Lord Jesus Christ, and it's explaining the theological implications of that person. the theological implications of what he did. In other words, it commands us to repent and to believe on the person of the Lord Jesus Christ because of who he is. Because of what he did, because of why that's significant. A third thing I'll mention is this. The Christian gospel, when embraced, will radically transform who we are, what we do, what we love, how we think, how we relate to one another and our circumstances. in a fallen world. In other words, we see the theological, the historical, and the experiential side of our faith all coming together into one. If we are going to be healthy, balanced Christians, then we have to properly wait and explain and emphasize all three aspects of the Christian message. And so I'm reminded what Jude says in Jude 1. He says, I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common salvation It was needful for me to write unto you exhorting you that you should earnestly contend for the faith which was once delivered for the saints. In 2 Timothy 1. 13, Timothy is commanded to hold fast the form of sound words which he had heard from Paul in faith and love which is in Jesus Christ. The truth is that we have to hold fast to all three elements of what we call the faith. The theological, the historical, the experiential. God wants us to have a genuine a genuine healthy walk. He wants us to be people that have a solid understanding of the historical reliability of our faith. He wants us to people, he wants us to be a people who stand on those non-negotiable doctrinal propositions that form that body of truth that we call the Christian faith. And he wants us to be a people that have a vibrant walk that demonstrates the power of the gospel. My encouragement to you this morning is that that would be the way that you look at the Christian faith. That you would have a healthy balanced, vibrant Christian walk. If this has been an encouragement to you, I hope that you'll share that. And I'll look forward to going to our next section in 1 John. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and then we'll see you next time. Father, again, it's so good to have been able to sit down and to think about just a simple passage that really is so powerful when it's unpackaged. Help us to be well -rounded, balanced, vibrant Christians who recognize the historical, experiential, and theological aspects of our faith We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it's been good to see each of you this morning. I hope that you'll share just a word of encouragement to some of those who have also joined us, and we will see you next time. Have a wonderful, wonderful day. Bye now.