Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection, and we are back in 1 John chapter 4, just like we were yesterday. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to invite you to take it, and let's look at 1 John 4, verses 13 through 15. 1 John 4, verses 13 through 15. Hereby know we that we dwell that we dwell in him, and he in us, because he hath given us of his spirit. And we have seen and do testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God. God dwelleth in him, and he in God. Now yesterday when we were looking at this passage, we gave a simple summary statement, and I want to remind you of that, and then I want to remind you of a couple of the details so we can dig into the second part. of this section. John wrote this little section of scripture to affirm three facts about the Christian faith that were under attack by the false teachers that were there in Ephesus. And so the first fact that we talked about was the fact that experience is a major part of our Christian life. So when we talk about the Christian gospel, we're not just talking about a faith that's just a proposition of facts. We're talking about something that actually changes people. We're talking about something that has the power to radically change me from one person into another person, a person that's conformed to the image of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we talked about the fact of experience yesterday. We also saw that there's a second aspect to the Christian faith that he emphasizes. I'm going to talk about that this morning. And that is that the Christian faith is an historical account. And so when we talk about the Christian faith, we need to recognize that it is A history. It's a story. It's a story about humanity. It's a story about the fall. It's a story about God's plan of redemption. It's a story about how God has worked out that plan and the implications of that plan. But the Christian faith is a storyline of God's interaction with his creation. And so today we're going to talk about that. And then tomorrow we're going to talk about how the Christian faith is also a doctrinal proposition. In other words, it's something that based on those facts has theological implications. We're going to talk about that. Really, all three of those aspects, the experience, the history, and the doctrine, all come together with a healthy, vibrant Christian faith. And so if I'm going to be a healthy Christian, I need to recognize all three aspects of that. And I also need to recognize that all three aspects of the Christian faith are going to be undermined on some level by false teachers. That's what's going on at Ephesus, and that's what continues to go on even in our day. So let's talk for a little bit about this second aspect of the Christian faith. The fact that John is affirming in this passage that the Christian faith is an historical account. Here's what he says in verse 14. We have seen, very important word. and do testify, another very important word, that the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. Now let's focus in on each of those little phrases or words that I emphasized. The first phrase is we have seen. Now when he talks about seeing something, he's talking about facts It's almost like he could say, we've handled this, we've touched this, we've tasted this, we've interacted with this. This is factual. So when he talks about the gospel and he talks about the person of Christ, he's saying this is not some mystical sense. This is something that really took place. We really saw it. We really interacted with this person, the Lord Jesus Christ. And when he says that we do testify, the idea is that we've responded to those facts and we're explaining them to you. Think about a court of law. Think about how there's a case on hand and somebody's trying to defend and somebody is trying to prove that someone is guilty. And what's presented in the case? Well facts are People take the stand and they testify, they give evidence either for or against the defendant. Well, when John's talking about this, he says, we the apostles are giving a testimony, a record, a reliable explanation of the things that took place in the life and ministry of Christ. And so he's emphasizing the history of the Christian faith. Then we see a third aspect, and that's this. This is his testimony. He says that the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. So he talks about the action that actually took place. He explains the gospel. So when we talk about the gospel, the gospel is not just a theological statement. The gospel is not just some emotional feeling that I have. The gospel is a historical record. It's an account of something that happened. And the theological implications are important. And the way that this message changes a person who embraces it is important. But all three elements are extremely important. Let me give you an example of a couple of passages that emphasize the historical aspect of the gospel. And I want you to realize that the passages that I'm going to refer to are just a few amongst many. The reality is that all of the Gospels, all four of the Gospels, are historical accounts. They are testimonies. They are records. It's as if somebody is standing in a court of law and somebody says, I don't believe that Jesus is the Messiah. I don't believe that Jesus is the Son of God. I don't believe that Jesus can save you from your sins. And Matthew stands up and he says, let me give you a detailed accounting of why Jesus is the Son of God. of why he's the Messiah, of why what he did really happened and why it's significant. And Mark gets up and he does the same thing. And Luke gets up and he does the same thing. And John gets up and he does the same thing. What's the point? We're talking about a historical record. Listen to the way that John opened his letter, 1 John chapter 1. He says, that which was from the beginning, which we have heard, very important word, which we have seen with our eyes. Very important statement. Which we've looked upon and our hands have handled of the word of life. The life was manifested. We have seen it and bear witness and show unto you that eternal life which was with the Father and was manifested unto them unto us. That which we've seen and heard, we declare unto you, that ye also may have fellowship with us. And truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ, and these things write unto you that your joy may be full. That passage is a very strong statement of so many different ways that the apostles interacted with the Lord Jesus Christ. And so when John writes this record, he's writing as an eyewitness. He's giving an account of things that he saw, that he heard, that he actually interacted with. Luke does the exact same thing. In Luke chapter one, verses one to four he says, For as much as has taken up in hand to set forth and order a declaration of those things which are most assuredly believed among you even as they were delivered unto them and unto us, which from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the word. It seemed good to me also having had perfect understanding. of all things from the very first, to write unto thee in order, O most excellent Theophilus, that thou mightest know the certainty of those things wherein thou hast been instructed So when Luke begins writing his gospel account, what does he say? He says, I'm trying to give you an accounting that is rooted in history, that's full of details. These are eyewitness detailed accounts. He's saying I researched and I talked to people and I interacted with them. And by the way, this is not suggesting that Luke isn't writing under the inspiration of Scripture. Okay, Luke is writing and speaking by the Holy Ghost. So what we have is scripture, but it's also indicating that not only is Luke writing under the guidance of the Holy Spirit, where the words that Luke writes are God's words. But he's also indicating that on the practical physical level, he interacted with lots of details. Almost like somebody is writing a book of history. And as they're writing that book of history, what do they do? They do interviews. They watch. videos, they listen to statements that people were made. They read books and articles and they try to gather as much information as they possibly can. And they take all of that information and what do they do? They condense it into a storyline that you can understand that's rooted in the facts. Luke's saying, that's essentially what I'm doing. He's saying, I'm giving you that kind of detail, but I'm not just giving it to you based on my research. I'm giving it to you by the power of the Holy Spirit as he's speaking through me. I'm writing as an apostle And so he says, I want you to know the certainty of those things from which you have been instructed. What does that tell us? Luke believes the gospel is rooted in history. He believes that it is factual. He believes that it's something that's verifiable. He gives all his details so that people can say, oh, I know when he was born and I know when he was in power and I know when this event happened and that event happened Luke gives us all those details like a historian. And then we come to the book of Acts, which acts as the continuation of Luke's gospel account. This is after the cross, after the resurrection, after the ascension. What's the rest of the story? Because Christ's ministry wasn't just going to the cross, it was also after the cross. It's the continuation of the ministry of the apostles. As those who bear Christ's authority go out and preach the gospel to the whole world, what do we have? We have the continuation of the gospel story. And so Luke picks up in Acts chapter 1 and he says, The former treatise. Think about that word, a treatise. This is a volume of historical details and facts. The former treatise have I made, O Theophilus, of all that Jesus began both to do and to teach, until the day in which he was taken up. And after that he through the Holy Ghost had given commandment unto the apostles whom he had chosen, to whom he also showed himself alive after his passion by many infallible proofs, being seen of them forty days, and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God. The reason that I draw your attention to those three sections of Scripture is because I want you to realize that when we talk about a healthy Christian faith, we're talking about a healthy Christian faith that is rooted in history. There are theological implications to those historical events. There is a powerful change that takes place and the lives of people who repent, trust Christ, who are regenerated by the power of the Holy Spirit, and are now growing into Christ's likeness. There's an experiential side. All three aspects of the Christian faith are very, very important. So what are the implications? As we think about the historical side of the Christian faith, how does this apply to me practically? Well, let me put it very simply this way The Christian faith is more than just an emotional, mystical feeling in our hearts. I'm very concerned there are many evangelical Christians People in America who say, I am a Christian, who their faith, and I put that in quotes, is really nothing more than a mystical feeling It's some kind of feeling that they get in a moment where this this atmosphere has been created. It's a feeling that they could get in almost any atmosphere that's created just right. It's not rooted in history. It's not rooted in facts. Their faith is more of a feeling than it is dependence on a historical account. And the theological implications of that historical account. And so we need to understand that the Christian faith isn't just some mystical emotional feeling. There's a true experiential side to the Christian faith. But that's not all there is. And that feeling and that emotion and that experience has to be rooted in truth, rooted in the facts. You know, you can manufacture cheap counterfeits. You could sit around a campfire and have a conversation with people, and because of that atmosphere, you begin to have all these highly emotional feelings. Okay? You can walk into an impressive cathedral and you can look around and you can feel the sense of awe and wonder and majesty But it's not rooted and connected to facts about God at all or facts about the gospel at all. You could have a purely secular person walk into that cathedral and have the exact same feeling. You can listen to this to the powerful pipe organs playing in a cathedral like that. You could go into a contemporary worship service and all the feelings that are wrapped around that, that event. can overwhelm a person who has nothing to do with the gospel, who doesn't understand the gospel, who rejects the gospel, who doesn't want the gospel, who doesn't understand the gospel. You can have a person who does not have any connection to the gospel have the exact same feelings in those moments because it's been manufactured by the environment. We need to understand that the experience of the Christian faith has to be rooted in the facts of the gospel, a knowledge of those facts. a dependence on those facts, and an embracing of the theological implication of those facts. The Christian faith is not just a theory. It's not a coping mechanism. It's not some mythological story or legend. It's a story, it's a history about a real person in time, a real person who was witnessed by multitudes of people. His ministry and the purpose of his ministry was authenticated by signs from God. His ministry was was explained hundreds of years, in fact even thousands of years. Prophecies talked about where he'd be born, what he would do, why he would do it. In other words, when we talk about the gospel, we're talking about something that's rooted in time and in history. And so when we think about the Christian faith, I hope that you'll keep in your mind it's not just some emotional mystical feeling. It's a story about a person. God in flesh, who came and dwelt among his people, to die for their sins, to rise from the dead, so that we could be redeemed. The Christian message is an historical message. If this has been an encouragement to you this morning, I hope that you'll share that. And I hope that you'll Look at yesterday's if you missed that. And then tomorrow we'll talk about a third aspect of this issue, and that is the doctrinal side of our faith and how important that is. I hope that this has been an encouragement to you this morning. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then Lord willing, we'll see you next time. Father, thank you for the opportunity to be reminded again. that our Christian faith is not just a feeling. It's not something that we get when we are in the right environment. But Father, this is a story about a real person who came and died for our sins and the implications of that. I pray that each person who listens to this message, this lesson, this this reflection would be encouraged by it. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Well it's been good to see each of you this morning. I hope you have a great day and that you have a great rest of your day and Lord willing we'll see you next time. Bye now.