Well, as we work our way through the passage, we're going to see that in fact the groom, the son of David, is a description of the Messiah. So when he says my heart is indicting to good matter, he's like, I'm overflowing with the incredible topic that I'm about to describe to you. Then do you realize that, in fact, as the psalmist pens these words, he's describing something that's more than just an ordinary wedding. And to open the seals, for thou hast been slain, and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation. And there are some love songs in the Bible, and this is exactly what this is. And it is a prophetic psalm, and it is filled with beautiful pictures, beautiful analogies that I hope that as we work our way through them Therefore, God, thy God hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows. and thy father's house, so shall the king greatly desire thy beauty, for he is thy lord, and worship thou him. They shall enter the king's palace, instead of thy fathers, shall be thy children, whom thou mayest make princes in all the earth There are very few times that we have in our lives had the opportunity to go to a wedding that is comparable to what's being described in these verses. The bride is being described as a beautiful woman who is being called to leave her family, to leave the nation that she has been a part of, and to be united with this groom, and then they will together be a part of the ground This is very clearly a description of the Messiah. Who has set his love upon a bride that should worship and adore him because he is Messiah, God in flesh. As we work our way through these truths, we're going to see that God wants us to glory in the beauty of Christ our Savior, but also to rejoice in his eternal purposes for us that are being described in metaphors in the passage in front of us. So in order for us to do that, let's begin digging into the text. Now in verse 1 he says it like this, My heart is indicting a good matter. Now I'm going to admit to you that when I read that in this whole English, you probably have no idea what it's saying. That's what the psalmist is saying. We'll come back to that question at the end of the sermon. It's not a Baptist confessional where all you feel is misery and you say there's no way in the world I could ever partake of those elements because I am an unworthy person. That's what it's all about. But you sit down at the table and you say, all right, before we thank God for this food and we eat this massive meal that your mother or your grandmother or your grandmother and your mother And your aunts and all these people that were involved in it, the people that came to the house that brought the desserts and all that stuff. And they have just no choice but to pour out what is there, because it's really gripped them internally. And what is it expressing about the role of a king? But in fact, it's the kind of individual that they are. the Davidic covenant. with the oil of gladness above thy fellows. They shall wax old as death a garment, as a vesture, shalt thou fold them up, and they shall be changed, but thou art the same, and thy years shall never fail. And so I encourage you maybe go back through this this afternoon or sometime this next week and just spend some time reflecting on some of the individual pieces that are here. and sending their congratulations. The daughter of Tyre shall be there with a gift, even the rich among the people shall entreat thy favor. Doesn't that sound a lot like the wording of Psalm 45? But that it should be holy and without blemish. On such the second death hath no power. because we are entering into the spring season. you will appreciate the significance of what is being described in these verses. O Most Mighty, with thy glory and thy majesty. Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever. The daughter of Tyre shall be there with a gift. Her clothing is of wrought gold. I will make thy name to be remembered in all generations. And I pray that as we read through this text and work through these truths, that this would prepare hearts to partake of the Lord's table as a body. That as we think about the incredible sacrifice of Christ, his death on the cross, his blood that was shed to remove our sin debts, This is a wedding that is involving two individuals that are a prince and a princess of kingdoms. are going to be getting married, there is a tremendous, triumphant procession that is there in the picture that it's described. of a kingdom. He's describing something that's supposed to give us a deeper appreciation for our Savior, who is also our Lord. the groom's bride. The Lord Jesus Christ. O God is forever and ever the scepter of thy kingdom is a right scepter. And Hebrews 1 removes all doubt. But that word indicting actually has the idea of something that is overflowing. As I think about these things, I'm overwhelmed by that. As I start to talk about the words that are going to be a part of this psalm, I am just overflowing with desire to talk about this. Maybe your kids go to camp and they come back from camp and and you know you're expecting them to be exhausted and and sometimes they are, but sometimes they've slept the whole way back from camp and they get into the car and they just duck duck duck duck I can't even contain myself. of the incredible sacrifice that gives you access to the God to God the Father. That has cleansed me from every sin. Grace is poured into thy lips, therefore God hath blessed thee forever. and righteousness, and thy right hand shall teach thee terrible things. The first thing is very interesting. So it's not just that this is an attractive individual, but in fact this is a person whose attractiveness is not just physical characteristics. They care deeply. Can't marry this one, guys. I think we've kind of gotten to a time where we kind of domesticated God a little bit, okay? Gird thy sword on thy thigh, O mighty, with thy glory and thy majesty. And so sometimes they fulfill their role fairly well, but sometimes it's also a very like self-centeredness in the way that they do this. He's merciful. But he's also merciful and he's patient and he's kind and he is the perfect balance of these things. Now that word terrible there is the old English way of saying terrible. of what he's doing. And notice the way he is described in verses 6 and 7. And he's really looking forward to the time when the Lord Jesus Christ is going to establish his rule forever. is qualified to receive this worship. Now there are a lot of little details here and I really can't dig into them all as carefully as I'd like to. This is a beautiful wedding processional. The United Kingdom will be the closest example I can think of. Forget thine own people and thy father's house, so shall the king desire thy beauty, he is thy Lord, worship thou him. You've established a new household. giving allegiance to your former family and that former nation, but you are united to someone different today. And what are they doing? With gladness and rejoicing shall they be brought. And thou makest princes in all the earth. I saw thrones and they that sat on them, and judgment was given unto them. I speak of the things which I made touching the king. Grace is poured into thy lips. And meekness and righteousness, and thy right hand shall teach thee terrible things. to understand this very important psalm. The illusions, the metaphors, the pictures that are used here to describe the power and the beauty and the goodness. As we see the attitude of this king toward his bride, how he loves his bride, how he cherishes his bride, the incredible affection and the warmth that is described in these verses. I pray that we would understand what is being communicated prophetically in Christ's love for his people. is a love song. of Christ for his people. He is in fact the groom and the church is the bride. The first half of this psalm is going to be focusing in on the groom. The second half of this is the statement, my tongue is a pen of a ready writer. That's the idea. How does your heart respond to the things that are laid out in these verses in very descriptive poetic images and symbols? Now, I want you to think about the picture of people sitting at a table at Thanksgiving. When your heart is full, you should have no trouble talking about it. Because they don't have what they want, because other people got it better than them. What we see in these verses is a person that is expressing incredible admiration because their heart's full The question is, can you partake in a worthy manner? Why did God institute human government? power in individuals who their job is to protect their people. This is a king who defends his people. as beautiful, as kind, and as a mighty warrior who defends his own. In verse 4 it says, In thy majesty ride prosperously because of truth and meekness and righteousness. When we see the cross, you know what the cross is? Who should have that kind of admiration and that kind of loyalty? This is actually a description of how God the Father has given specific responsibilities and duties to the Son. The prophetic focus should remove all doubt. And if we go back over Israel's history, in fact tonight we're going to do this a little bit because we're kind of bridging the gap between Saul uh King David's reign and then we're going to start looking at the sons of David, and we're going to start with Solomon, and we're going to talk a little bit about the Davidic. Solomon wasn't a king of that level. A scepter of righteousness is the scepter of thy kingdom. And I think you'll really see the connection of how these are described in Psalm 41 and then just laid out very explicitly in New Testament text. Upon thy right hand did stand the queen in gold of Ophir. So shall the king greatly desire thy beauty, for he is thy lord, and worship thou him. The king's daughter is all glorious within, her clothing is of wrought gold. The second part is going to focus in on his attitude towards the bride. Now I don't know if you've ever seen a royal wedding. Very powerful, probably very proud, very wealthy, have a lot going for them, a lot of pomp and circumstance. Secondly, rejoice, delight in your husband's love for you. These people were engaged in trade all over the Mediterranean world. He deeply loves and cherishes it. He makes three statements that are noteworthy here. They shall enter into the king's palace. They will actively participate in an administration that was not formally open to them. So here's the question that ought to really sink into our minds. Counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace, of the increase of his government and peace there shall be no end. So how should we respond? We should rejoice in his grace that will assemble a remarkable kingdom from every kindred, tribe, and nation. Secondly, we see that he delights in his people like a man delights in his bride, at least should. Which made a marriage for his son, and sent forth his servants to call them that were bidden to the wedding. But I simply highlight that this psalm reminds us that this is a picture of our Savior loving his church. It says, my heart is indicting a good matter. King's daughters were among thy honorable women. Of not just any king, but a specific king. His triumphant resurrection from the dead, his body that was broken, and that process and the sufferings of Christ, his agony, all of those things would remind us of the great love. is overwhelmed by the goodness and the beauty and the glory of this topic that I'm about to lay before you. The death of Christ, his body broken, his blood shed, and as you think about those elements, they remind you with warmth and affection and gratitude and joy. He's talking about coming into the presence of God and remembering with joy in your heart, though I am a sinner who has broken God's laws and has no right to enter his presence because of the blood of Christ. Come back to that at the end of the sermon. And so when we think about this, we think about a king who is perfect righteousness, he is truth, and he's make. Not the rest, the whole thing, but especially from this point on, because this has been noted, we need to read it, understanding that this is a description of Christ and his bride. There are kingdoms who are going to be united because of this wedding. And from north and from south, and they shall sit in the kingdom of God. The psalm in front of us is a fascinating psalm because it is a song that is written to describe the beauty of a wedding. And so stir up our hearts and encourage us through these truths. Are you warmed and filled with joy as you think about them? In our opening scripture reading, that's where we stopped, and people are like, ooh, that's a little bit dark right there. He created human government because we live in a world where there are abuses and there are injustices and there are evil people all over the place. Only Christ is worthy to receive this kind of delight. He then goes on to describe him a fourth way. He is righteous. No king ever met this standard. It's written to describe details that are going to be more thoroughly revealed in the New Testament. Now, does that make sense to you that God should delight in us? Better than your boss, your co-workers know you. And he loves you. Third word is the word worship. So long as you both shall live. Third statement. Into communion with him. From the incredible weight of these truths. He shall be great and shall be called the Son of the Highest. And some people sit there and they're like, I can't think of a thing. That you do not put people on pedestals. By the way, the writer of Hebrews is demonstrating the superiority of Christ to the old system. He delights in us. Fourthly, he describes the bride as beautiful and an object of the king's affection. But that is what he's pointing toward. The first detail is this. Upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom to order and establish it with judgment and justice from henceforth even forever. That was a promise that would have been given to kind of reaffirm or strengthen people's understanding of what was communicated in a psalm like this one. How does the truth, specifically the truths that are in this passage of scripture, how do they affect your heart? Verse number two, he's described as one who is filled with grace. Unto the Son saith, Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever. Where is he quoting from? Forget your former family. May God help that to be how we think of him as we go to remember his death for us. We are an accepted people. As we remember the death of our Savior, may our hearts be warmed deeply. His kingdom will be filled with citizens from every people group. But he does. And then think of the words that were spoken to Mary when it was announced she was going to have a child. And they just go on and on and on about all the things that they enjoyed from Kent. The scepter of thy kingdom is a right scepter. And that means he's talking about us. Isaiah 5, excuse me, Ephesians 5. We're talking about a bride being united to a groom who's God in flesh. We are people who every one of these truths that was laid out will one day be realized in its fullness. Absolutely tragic. Thirdly, it describes the way that Gentile neighbors would respond to this wedding. When this individual is described, he is described as someone who has incredible, beautiful characteristics, physically attractive. That's kind of the sense of terrible. How does God love his church? Our Father, as we think about the truths of this psalm, I pray that nothing said would distract. Fulfillment. And so this is a very interesting passage of scripture because as we work our way through it, it would be fascinating just to think of it in human terms, but In fact, we know that because it's going to be quoted in Hebrews chapter 1. Lastly, he's described as strong and effective and resilient in all his duties. Save one. It is a song that is written at the time of a wedding. He loves, he cherishes, he values his church. And when I say groom's bride, it's the son of David's bride, and the question is, who is this son of David? He's gracious. He will never do injustice. This is such a big deal that this Gentile neighbor is bringing gifts to this wedding. He's described as being handsome. You've established a new family. They are good. A person has just experienced something very exciting. What's the point of that? Christ is the king described in Psalm 45. And so the question is, are you warned by these truths? And you know, just to kind of help us out, we go to the New Testament and listen to what it says in Hebrews chapter 1, verses 8 through 12. The psalm in front of us. Therefore shall the people praise thee forever and ever. I know it doesn't feel like that this morning, but um this is a song that was set to a tune probably called Lilies. She shall be brought unto the king in raiment of needlework. And I pray that our hearts would be overwhelmed, that we would recognize this is not just about his collective love, but in fact his love for even the individual members of that body. I'm overflowing with excitement to tell you about these things. Second truth I want you to notice here in these verses is that it is easy to express admiration when your heart is full. Verse 9. That is the picture of what we are talking about here. I'll say it this way. We wouldn't use this at a wedding if we did it in our church, but it would be appropriate here. Not David, Solomon, or any of David's descendants. And thou, Lord, in the beginning hast laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the works of thine hands. I guess in our lifetime, maybe not everybody's in here, but most of you have lived through uh a period where a royalty kind of person has gotten married. And you know the thing that we see about God is we have a God who is holy and righteous and just That should shock you. And this is going to be described in some pretty amazing detail in the following verses. Therefore, God hath blessed thee forever. The question is: what is the purpose of this psalm? Because of Christ's faithfulness, Christ's sacrifice, Christ's resurrection, Christ's imputed righteousness, I can come into the presence of the Father through him alone. He's married to the church. It is the removal of God's wrath to bring us to himself because his wrath has been satisfied. We should glory in him. They shall be priests of God and of Christ and shall reign with him a thousand years. Christ. Our Father, as we dig into this passage, I pray that the beautiful analogies I'll say something more about that in a second. No man ever yet hated his own flesh, but nourisheth and cherisheth it even as the Lord the church. As I'm about to describe the things that are part of this psalm, I am overwhelmed by its goodness. So in order to do that, I just want to work our way through these things to see how this king, who is Christ, is described in the text. He says, Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever. There was never a king in all of Israel's history that met these criteria. What is he really picturing here? Thirdly, his people will have a meaningful role in this kingdom. Upon thy right hand did stand the queen in gold of Ophir. The first truth I want you to notice here is that these are beautiful truths that should constantly fill our hearts. Grace is poured out of their lips. Maybe some of you watched that wedding many, many years ago. You know, when you go to a wedding, what do they say? He'll present it to himself without spot or wrinkle. Fifth truth. King's daughters were among thy honorable women. 25, husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it, that he might present it to himself a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing. David wasn't a king of that level. Even the rich among the people shall entreat thy favor. Did you catch that? He knows everything about you. You realize your allegiance isn't to mom and dad when you get married anymore? He's even talked about as the anointed one. He will always do what is right. And so when we see this king's description, we go, there is nobody as good as this person that has ever walked this planet and been a king anywhere. That you would defend individuals no matter what they did. He's called God. There was no other way. The scepter of thy kingdom is a right scepter. They are kind. And so when he describes this, he's saying, you are no longer They shall enter into the king's palace, and said of thy fathers shall be thy children. Don't forget it. Guess what? We are a sanctified people. He rules with perfect balance of truth, righteousness, and meekness. The first statement is this, with gladness and rejoicing shall they be brought. The way he just described it. Thou lovest righteousness and hatest wickedness. I mean, He knows you better than your spouse knows you, better than your children know you, better than I know you, better than you know me Hearken, O daughter, and consider and incline thine ear, forget all thine own people in thy father's house. I will make thy name to be remembered in all generations. That's very entitled. He protects his people. They are beautiful, they are powerful, they are glorious He instituted human government to protect those who are vulnerable, to protect those who are innocent. Now sadly we live in a time, I I should say, we live in a world where we you know anyone who's in that role is a sinner. We should be a thankful people, a humble people. And they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years. And I think that this is also a very significant psalm for us to look at this morning. And in thy majesty rise ride prosperously because of truth. You ask them to say, are you thankful for anything? Verse 2, thou art fairer than the children of men. Not an accident. Thou loved righteousness and hated iniquity. And so the rest of the psalm needs to be read with that understanding. Verse 13: The king's daughter is all glorious within, her clothing is of wrought gold. Don't worry, there aren't ten. I pray that this would come out as we dig into this passage. Gird thy sword on thy thigh, O most mighty, with thy glory and thy majesty, and in thy majesty ride prosperously because of truth and meekness She shall be brought unto the king in raiment of needlework, the virgins, her companions that follow her, shall be brought unto thee And you know the truth is that it's hard for us even to appreciate some of what is being written about here because Psalm 45 is a wedding psalm directed to both the groom, the bride, and wedding parties. By the end of the message, we're going to look at some of those examples because I think they'll really warm your heart. And when you think about Tyre and Sidon, you thought about places where there was tremendous wealth and they were Gentiles. Therefore shall the people praise thee forever and ever. You know, we talk about the Lord's table, the purpose of the Lord's table. Thine arrows are sharp in the heart of the king's enemies, whereby the people fall under thee. And the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David, and he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there shall be no end. I'll forget it. And when we come to the Lord's table, you want to know how much God loves you, remember the depths of the sacrifice that brought you. In Christ's name, amen. And the reason is we'd be here for a long time Let's go ahead and pick up in our Bibles. My tongue is as the pen of a ready rider. Thou lovest righteousness and hatest wickedness. Hopefully that's the experience. Can you do that? But notice how he's described in verses 3 to 5 Not in the sense of he's going to do something evil or vindictive, but he's going to do something that's awesome. These descriptions refer to a very specific king. His throne is eternal. What is he saying here? And as we look at this passage of scripture, he refers to this individual as God. Do you understand the significance of the cross? He says, Grace is poured into thy lips. Only Christ is worthy to be viewed in such a way. Forsaking all others, keeping yourself only for this person. Luke 13, 29. That word indicting has the idea of overflowing in a beautiful or good scene. We should marvel at his love for us, both as individuals and as members of the church. That is actually the sense of the old term that is used here. And when people are banned out of shape because they don't have enough. They are gracious. But then we see the side of meekness. Jehoshaphat wasn't a king of that level. Revelation 5. Maybe some of you do this. That should overwhelm you with incredible gratitude. Are you grateful? Well, you need to understand who we're talking about here. The first way this is described is that it describes Second statement, whom thou makest princes in all the earth. You don't. God has blessed this person forever. Thirdly, he skillfully defends those who are under his care. Verse five Thine arrows are sharp in the heart of the king's enemies, whereby the people fall under thee This is kind of an interesting little detail, but in verse 12 it says While we delight in him, he delights in us. Be overwhelmed with joy as you think about the greatness of this moment. Gird thy sword upon thy thigh. The second half is going to be focusing in on I'll put it that way. They're like, eh. He does his job. You and I could not come into the presence of a holy and righteous God save through the sacrifice of Christ. Their heart is just boiling with enthusiasm to lay out the things that are going on inside of them. There's going to be a new family that's established, and there's going to be alliances, and all kinds of people are sending their gifts Isaiah 9, 6 and 7, Unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, the government shall be upon his shoulders, his name shall be called wonderful. And the daughter of Tyre shall be there with a gift, and even the rich among the people shall entreat thy favor. Upon thy right hand did stand the queen in gold of Ophir. Notice the way that he puts it in verses 2 to 5. And the description is only possible through God's redemptive work. We are forgiven people. He's talked about as God. Don't forget it. Be careful that you do not worship people. And so what do we have here? And we should labor faithfully knowing he has eternal purposes for us as his people. Fulfillment He's using an analogy here, and he's basically saying it like this. Hopefully it's not, oh, this happened and that happened. Well, each element of this psalm has prophetic significance for God's people, and I want to just show you those very briefly. The virgins, her companions that follow her, shall be brought unto thee with gladness and rejoicing shall they be brought. I speak of the things which I have made touching the king. Before we thank God for this food, let's go around the table and everybody tell us something you're thankful for. He's called the anointed one. In Christ's name. Because if you can, that's what he's talking about. We have a glorious future. Revelation 19, verse 9: Blessed are they which are called unto the marriage supper of the Lamb. 9, they sang a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take up the book. Only the son of David, the Lord Jesus Christ. He's saying that the people who are pictured in this metaphor have a future that will be filled with unspeakable joy. All thy garments smell of myrrh and aloees and cassia, out of the ivory palaces whereby they have made thee glad. The king's daughter is all glorious within. They are merciful. Verse number four, thy right hand shall teach thee terrible things. Every thought, every word, every deed, every motive, every good, every evil. There'll be no end to the joy and privilege that these people enjoy. Now, when he talks about places like Tyre and Sidon in those days, those were very wealthy, very prosperous cities They shall come from east, there's Tyre, and west Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection. And here's what he says. Therefore God, even thy God, has anointed thee. Luke 1. As I mentioned, Psalm 45 Write it down The fact is when your heart is full, you should have no trouble expressing gratitude Revelation 20, verse 4. I would summarize it like this: the son of David, described in these verses, is the perfect king. Secondly, he calls the bride to do three things that are kind of interesting. That's pretty awesome. And you say, what is meekness? Therefore, God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows. But there are all kinds of dignitaries from the United States, from the United Kingdom, from all over the world, people that are But this king is very different. He is described Look down at what he says in verse 9. Therefore shall the people praise thee forever and ever As flawed and as broken as we are as individuals in Christ, we are fully accepted in the beloved. Thou lovest righteousness and hatest wickedness. That's really what this Psalm is all about. Some of you are like, we'd never do this in our household. That's tragic. And when these people So I want to pause and ask you a question. Therefore, God hath blessed thee forever. And I want you to realize that that would be the kind of picture that we're talking about here Psalm 45 will begin in verse 1. Thy arrows are sharp in the heart of the king's enemies, whereby the people fall under thee. So when we talk about this individual, he is a person who is going to speak the truth every time. But this is clearly a description of Christ. Hezekiah wasn't a king of that le Hearken, O daughter, and consider and incline thine ear, forget also thine own thine own people. That word, my heart is indicting a good matter. You say, well, I can't answer that because I don't know it's here. Do you in your heart desire to express that? We are a justified people. And it is all a result of your grace. It's not. He's talked about as one who has an everlasting kingdom. That's a quote from this Psalm. But it moves us to a fourth truth. Worship him because of who he is. Spare our hearts in prayer, please. Maybe I can squeeze something out. Well, this king is somebody specific, isn't he? Thou art fairer than the children of men. This is a king. There is no reason why God should love us as we are. Verses 15 to 17. Amen. Third truth. Because you will never meet a man on this side of eternity, or a woman for that matter. This is a person that when you talk to them, you say Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows. Matthew 22:1: the kingdom of heaven is likened to a certain king. He's describing something that's prophetic. And so if we were to understand what the psalmist is saying, he's literally saying this: my heart Now this is important. That's a stunning thing to consider, but it's true I could actually go to volumes of Scripture to lay out these truths. That is the sense of it Thou art fairer than the children of men. Thou shalt conceive in thy womb and bring forth a son, and shall call his name Jesus. Three words to remember in how the psalmist talks to the bride. A lot of very interesting implications in that statement. Let's say Alan ask the Lord to help us. Very interesting. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. But it's very positive I mean, in some people it is, but it shouldn't be. Can't get a better king than that, can you? He does not pour out all of his wrath, but he holds it back. They will perish, but thou remainest. Why? And when we talk about God's relationship to the church And some of the ladies in here aren't married go, that's who I want to marry. He says, the king's daughters were among thy honorable women. Don't miss this next statement. Everybody's unworthy. So God has invested Because we're talking about Christ. Now I know But while the first part of the psalm is focused on how beautiful the king is. It's almost like when a person has had something very exciting happen in their lives. And then we could go see some others who were even worse than these In fact, this is a love song. He says, thy throne, verse 16 We're going to come back to that again. It was a song about wedding See, there's the end of the psalm. There's a huge problem. You go, indictment sounds like a negative thing. All right. That's what it's all about. While we delight in him, You say, how in the world do you get such a balance? This description of the bride reveals how Christ views his church. That's the psalm. Very interesting statement. Verses 10 and 11. Thank you. You can't even begin to wrap your mind around the greatness of God. Who is that? My tongue is the pen of a ready rider. Do these truths grip your soul? That's the way he's described. Christ I guess uh He knows all of it. First of all, the word forget. Only in Christ. That would be us here this morning. What does he mean?