Well, good morning. Like to welcome you to another edition of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Today we are in Ecclesiastes chapter 10. Yesterday I took the day off. Our family went to Ocean City and just had a little time away. And so it's good to be back. And today we're just looking at one verse. So let's look together at Ecclesiastes chapter 10, verse 1. Here's what the scriptures say. Dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to send forth a stinking savor. So doth a little folly him that is in reputation for wisdom and honor. You know, when we come to this passage, it's just one verse, but it's an actually really practical proverb. And so I want us to think about it for a few minutes together, and I hope that we can practically apply what we've learned here as well. First of all, let me give you just a simple summary of the proverb. It takes time to earn the trust and respect of others, but just a few moments to destroy what we've earned. When we look at these verses, he's talking about an ointment that is created because it either has medicinal qualities or it smells very fragrant. In fact, another way to use that term ointment is to say it's a perfume. It's something that smells very sweet and it's meant to actually relax and encourage people. Well, when we talk about this issue of somebody basically making an ointment that's going to smell nice, and then all of a sudden it's ruined by a fly He's using that as an illustration or an example of how a person's reputation that's supposed to be a sweet fragrance and a blessing to other people can be something that actually gets destroyed very quickly. So let me give you a couple of simple facts as we talk about this issue of reputation The first fact is this, respect and honor take years to build. And when I say years, the verse obviously doesn't say years, but the idea is that it takes a long time. Just because someone's in our life, just because they're in authority over us, just because our our lives have come in contact with one another, doesn't mean that we immediately are going to trust one another, that we're going to have respect for one another. It's true that there's a certain level of respect and trust that we give to people as when we first meet them because we have no reason to distrust them or to not respect them. But the reality is the kind of respect we're talking about here and the kind of trust that we're talking about here is more than just a uh a casual respect and trust that we would give to anyone that we meet. But we're talking about someone that we really value their judgment. This is a person that we would we would listen to them when we had a very difficult question. They would be the person to go to. We would trust their judgment. We're talking about a person that we hold in very high esteem, not just somebody that we casually know, but somebody that we say that person is a very respectable and trustworthy person. Well, there are three words there that are important. The word reputation, the word wisdom, and the word honor. When he talks about reputation, he's saying, how do people view other people? In other words, how does the average person that knows this person, how do they think about them? That word wisdom has the idea that there's a trust there. That means that this is a person you would go to when you have a difficulty. And then honor, respect. The second fact is this indiscretion can set you back indefinitely. The phrase here is, dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to send forth a stinking savor, so doth a little folly. The ointment was meant to have a medicinal purpose. It was meant to smell good. But once that fly dies in the ointment and it stays there, the fly destroys the ointment. In other words, one little fly that has started to decompose in perfume can ruin the perfume. The question is, how do you get the smell out of the perfume? And the answer is you can't Once the perfume's been tainted, it's really impossible for you to extract what is causing corruption so that you have something that's pure and fragrant. He says, that's the way reputations are. You have a person that has been in a position of respect and honor, a person that you trust, you value their judgment, you've actually entrusted to them certain information And if they go back on that, if they compromise that in any way, it will be very difficult for you to trust them again. It will be very difficult for you to hold them and high esteem again, because that trust has been violated. That that honor has been destroyed by something that's done. And you say, well, it's just a small thing. You have a person's life that has been built over years to be very trustworthy and very wise. Yet it can be destroyed in a moment. The answer is absolutely it can And so the point that he's making is, listen, if you are an honored person, if you are somebody that people believe is wise, you better make sure that you don't damage that by something that you do. So you might ask, well, how do you practically apply this? Let me give you a couple of thoughts that I jotted down today that I think will help you with this. First of all, I want to encourage you to have pure motives when you deal with people. One of the things that's frustrating, and as we get older, as we get older, we've gone through challenges in life, we've been wounded a few times, we've had people let us down. We are a little bit slower to give people respect. We are a little bit slower to actually really trust people and to really value their insights. And the reason is because as time goes on and we've been let down and we've been disappointed, what happens? We start realizing that, you know, there aren't a lot of people out there that have the kind of wisdom that I want to trust explicitly. There are a lot of people that I I I hold them in in reasonable regard, but do I put them in high regard? We are slow to do that. Understanding that should help us to realize that it takes time for us to develop trust and respect with other people. If we're in a position of leadership, we need to just be faithful and we need to be consistent. We need to serve people out of pure motive. And if we do that over time, that trust and that honor is going to be developed. The second thing, be patient and let time demonstrate your attitude towards them is genuine. The fact is that that time is going to be difficult for you. It may be that if you're working in a position of authority, And you're dealing with people at at some point you realize early on that that there's a little bit of a distrust there, or maybe these people aren't giving you the kind of respect that you would expect of them And the fact is that you have to be patient. Don't get angry with people or frustrated. Their backgrounds have a lot to do with why they're relating to you in that way. So just have pure motives and be patient. Thirdly, I'll mention this. Don't let your guard down and make allowances for foolish behavior. You know, there are certain things that if you do them, that trust will never come back. That honor will never come back. People will completely write you off if you do certain things that damage your credibility. And so when you're developing relationships with people, recognize that the decisions you make and the way that you handle things are very, very significant. You may have a life that is full of goodness in many ways towards somebody, but one poor decision, one lack of discretion, one foolish moment can completely undermine all of the credibility that you had before that. Fourthly, let me mention this. You can't go back quickly and repair the damage that has been done when trust and respect have been broken. You know, I think about a situation with our children, I think about a situation in our marriages, I think about situations in churches. You can go into so many different contexts. The fact is that you can have built a trust and respect over years. It's damaged in a moment, and you immediately want to go back, and that's not possible. You're going to have to rebuild over a long period of time the trust and the respect that's been lost. And so I want to encourage you, don't allow yourself to get in a position Where you want to go back and correct what's been done. You cannot change an indiscretion. And those things are going to stick with you for a long time. And the last thing I want to mention is this, realize it's difficult for people to look past flaws and still learn to trust others and respect others. Now when I say difficult, obviously the point of this proverb Is that when a person's life has been damaged by indiscretion, it's it's it's impossible to reverse that. And practically speaking, what Solomon is saying is true. There are very few people that have the ability to look at a person's life and to see the good and to see the bad and properly weigh them. There are very few people that are able to look at the judgment of others and they can embrace the good and they can hold back on the bad. In fact, when we talk about reading a book, we might say you know, eat the meat and spit out the bones. Or let's judge people by the hi their historical context. Well it's true that we know we're supposed to do that, and it's true that some people have the ability to do that But it's also true that many people, in fact the majority of people, really have a very difficult time doing that. And if we can do it with somebody, if we have a difficult time doing it with somebody that we don't know that we don't personally engage in engage with, like an author that we're reading or like a a a person in history that we're studying about, how much more difficult is it to do this on the interpersonal level? And so I want to remind you that it's extremely important that when we are relating to people, we're consistent, we develop trust. We demonstrate that we are walking in an honorable way and we do nothing, absolutely nothing to undermine that. And by the way, that's how we'll have strong relationships with people. That's how we'll really be able to invest in people's lives. And I know God wants us to do that. He wants us to have strong relationships. He wants us to invest in one another's lives. So let's work hard at being faithful and consistent so that we're in a position to really invest in others and to really develop deep and strong relationships. I hope that this has been a challenge to you this morning. It was to me as I thought about it, especially as a pastor, as a husband, and as a father. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Father, thank you for the opportunity to study this little verse together. I pray that you'd help us to live in the light of these truths. Help us to be faithful, consistent people, not to let down our guard. Father, help us not to be people that um that excuse indiscretion, but help us to do things that are honorable and that are right consistently. Father, help us to have strong relationships. Help us to be in a position to invest deeply in the lives of those around us. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it's been good to chat with you this morning. I hope that you have a wonderful morning, and I look forward to Lord willing talking to you tomorrow. Bye now.