Let's pray. Father, thank you for the opportunity tonight to gather as a body of believers, to sit under the ministry of the word, to fellowship with one another. And I know that on this prayer sheet there are some very heavy requests. There are some families And individuals who are carrying very heavy burdens. And I pray that you would sustain and strengthen them, give them a special measure of your grace. And then as we uplift these individuals by name, and as we uh pray earnestly for their healing, their strength, uh spiritual growth, um victory Victory and areas where they are ensnared, I pray that your hands would work in these situations in ways that are clearly outside of our control. And then we think about the praises, help us to glory in you as you answer prayer. And as we think about that, help us to be encouraged by it. We ask these things. Okay, the passage we're in is uh Ecclesiastes chapter ten, and we're looking at only one verse today. Kind of, okay. We only have one verse in our text, but the truth is that this verse is a continuation of the thought that we were talking about last week. So let me read the verse. It's Ecclesiastes chapter 10, verse 1. It says the following. Dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to send forth a stinking savor. So doth a little folly him that is in reputation. For wisdom and honor. Let me read that again. It says, Dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to send forth a stinking savor. So doth a little folly. him that is in reputation for wisdom and honor. Now before we actually dig into this verse, I want to remind you of what we read about the And the week before it says, This wisdom have I seen under all the sun. Now there was a poor wise man, and by his wisdom delivered the city. And then at the end it says, Wisdom is better than weapons of war. One sinner destroyeth much good. Now, one of the things that we learn about Hebrew poetry and Hebrew wisdom literature is that many times the Jewish people would present a thought with a parallel idea. For instance, a lot of the Proverbs, when you read them You'll see a statement that's made, and then you'll see a second statement that is cons it's it's similar, it's parallel in idea. There's a logical connection And sometimes one is kind of explaining the first one, or sometimes they're kind of the opposite of one another. Well, that's exactly what we have in these verses. Basically, what Solomon is saying is wisdom is better than strength. And so he's elevating the decision of one person, the power of one person. having wisdom, how it delivers a city. And then he gives this parallel contradictory side. He says on the other side, one sinner can destroy so much good. In other words, he's saying there's power in one person making a decision. One person making a decision for good can be incredibly beneficial to lots of different people. One person who is sinning against a group of people can cause tremendous grief and disruption. So keep that in your mind as we're looking at these verses. Basically, what Solomon's doing is he's giving an illustration that kind of pictures what he's talking about. In Ecclesiastes 10:1, he says that dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to send forth a stinking So when we lived in Ghana, that word aposthecary was actually used. We don't really use the word aposthecary here in our culture. At least we don't really very much anymore. But an apothecary was someone who was kind of like an old chemist. This was a person who was involved in pharmaceuticals. This is someone who made ointments that were supposed to be fragrant. Maybe someone took herbs and they put it in this ointment and that aroma, that smell might clear up sinus congestion. I think I know what that's like today, okay? Or maybe someone has a cough or they have uh some kind of a pain on their arm. They put this ointment. Well, this is a person that was skillful in creating medicines. Creating things that would have smelled very good. And so really there were kind of two points of what they were doing. Some is they had an ointment that was supposed to smell nice. That was the point of it. There were other ointments that you were supposed to apply or to drink or to use as a medicinal purpose, something that would help a person who is sick, help their body to heal. Strengthen their body, strengthen their immune system. That's the kind of stuff that the apothecary would do. And so they were working with chemicals. Well, if you walked into this person's office or their house, the place where they did their work, and you smelt something unusual, it would you say, well, where is that coming from? I'll give you kind of this illustration. This happened a couple of times. On a Tuesday I might walk through the building and as I'm walking through I start noticing something's a little off in this uh in this room over here. I don't know what it is, but something's a little off, and as I walk a little closer I start going, something's not a little off, it's a lot off. And then I walk into a room and I discover there's a dirty diaper sitting in a trash can. Or I find a dead rat. This is something that happened a while back. I found a dead rat in the HVAC room. And I could smell, I mean, the aroma, not uh fragrant aroma, it was it was going through all of the all of the building. I could smell it all the way down the hall That one dead rat, that one dirty diaper, it made the whole building stink. And a little fly That's in the ointment that smells so good that can be used to help your body heal and get strong. That one little fly can destroy the whole thing. That's his point. In other words, it takes time to make this product and it doesn't take very long for it to get spoiled. And then he gives the application. He says, In the same way, so doth a little folly, him that is in reputation for wisdom and honor. So let me give you a summary statement for what's here, and then I want us to look at a couple of simple Truths that I hope will be an encouragement and a help to you. First of all, the summary statement. It takes time to earn the trust and the respect of others, but just a few moments to destroy what has been established. Let me say it again. It takes time to earn the trust and respect of others, but just a few moments to destroy what has been established. In application, what God wants us to learn from this is that we need to establish a consistent, well-ordered life, and we need to do it by his power. And the result of a well-ordered life that walks in wisdom is a person's going to have a good name, a good reputation. That really is at the heart of what we're looking at in these verses. Solomon's saying a reputation that is good is a good thing and it's a valuable thing. But you can destroy it so fast. So let's look at a couple of truths that we find in the text before us. The first truth is that indiscretion can set you back, and let me give you a word that I think captures it indefinitely. indefinitely means that when you do something that is disreputable, something that is an indiscretion You have no guarantee that you will ever, and may even say should ever, regain the trust and the confidence and the respect of those whom you have sent. Against. Now that's a very sobering thing. But that's exactly what these verses are saying. In fact, in the illustration that's being used Once the ointment 's been polluted, then the ointment can never be used. I mean, just by taking out the fly, it's not like it stops smelling bad. That fly's breaking down, and that fly has completely polluted what was being done there. Really, the only way that this can be resolved is you've got to pour it out and you've got to start all over again. And he says that's what a person's reputation is like. The ointment was meant to have a medicinal purpose, but it It's been ruined. And once it's been ruined, it really cannot be fixed. Now let me give you a very, very personal example from the Book of Proverbs, and I want us to examine this example because it really captures what I think Solomon would want us to see in these verses. So go with me to Proverbs 6. And we're going to look at verses 21 through 26. And I want us to kind of examine this from the perspective of what he's trying to get his children, primarily his boys. to understand. Here's what it says in Proverbs 6. 21. He says, My son, keep thy father's commandment And forsake not the law of thy mother. Bind them continually upon thy heart. Tie them upon thy neck. When thou goest it shall lead thee. When thou sleepest it shall keep thee. When thou awakest it shall talk with thee. For the commandment is a lamp, and the law is a light, and the reproofs of instruction are the ways of life. Now, those verses are meant to help someone who has not yet established a reputation to destroy He's trying to help them to establish a pattern of life that can one day be viewed as honorable. He's trying to help his children to live in a consistent manner so that there will be a day that their peers and those who are younger than them will look and say, that's a man of integrity. That's a woman of integrity. That's a person who has wisdom. That's the kind of person I can trust. That's what Solomon wants. So the question is, how does this happen? Well the way it happens is he teaches his kids what they shouldn't do and what they should do And if they will embrace this, and if they'll bind it on their heart, if they'll tie it on their neck, it's something that's going to lead them when they sleep. It's very interesting. It's going to shape their conscience. It's going to direct their dreams and their passions. It's going to take them away from things that are destructive. The commandment is a lamp and the laws of light. In other words, by the instruction that they receive before the reputation has been established. They're going to have light so that they can see the path that they're supposed to walk down. And he says the reproofs of instruction are the way of life. He doesn't just mean you're going to be physically alive. He's using the term life in the sense of a vibrancy of life. You know, a person who is addicted to drugs and alcohol is physically alive. But when he's lost his family and he's lost his kids and he's lost his job and he has no home, his quality of life is very different than someone who has made good choices. Who has a healthy, vibrant home, who has a good relationship with their spouse, a good relationship with their kids, who has a good job, who is paying off their house Those two people, while physically alive, are living different qualities of life. Hugely different. Why? The choices they make So he says that the commandment is a lamp and the reprose of instruction of the ways of life. Now listen carefully to the why. Here it is. For He's trying to keep thee from the evil woman, from the flattery of the tongue of the strange woman. So he's very concerned that his son Is going to be duped by the beauty and the smooth talk of a dangerous, adulterous woman But don't miss where he's going to go with this. Listen carefully to what he says. Because this really captures very well what Ecclesiastes 10:1 is talking about. Here's what it says. He says, Lust not after a beauty in thine heart, neither let her take thee with her eyelids, for by means of a whorish woman, the man is brought to a piece of bread. The adulterous will hunt for the precious life. Who can take fire, or can a man take fire into his bosom and his clothes not be burned? The answer is no, he can't. Simple little funny, I don't know if it's a funny illustration, but I got a call yesterday from my wife and she said, uh, we have a little problem. The burner was still hot and the sugar was sitting on the burner and now we have uh a burner that's got sugar and plastic on it. Okay. And uh yes, I I'm sure it'll happen again at some point, right? We've all done these kinds of things. If you put plastic on a burner, what happens? It melts. It's just like the laws of nature. If you pick up a hot coal with without a glove on, what happens? You get burned. The other day my daughter was standing next to the fire and the little thing, the uh the the the front, the cast iron front just kind of bumped her arm and it burned her arm. The point is that there's cause and effect in this world. And he says there are people that believe they can play with sin and get away with it. He says, it's not true. He then goes on to say this. He says, Can one go to hot coals and his feet not be burned? Of course not. He says, so is he that goeth to his neighbor's wife? Whosoever toucheth her shall not be innocent. He says, Men do not despise a thief if he steal to satisfy his soul. But he is but if he is hungry, but if he is found, he will restore sevenfold. He shall give all his substance of his house. He says, But whoso committeth adultery with a woman lacketh understanding, and he doeth it to destroy his own soul. But here is the part that really should stick with us. A wound and dishonor shall he get, and his reproach shall not be wiped away. You say, why go to that passage? The reason is because this is something that falls into the category of dead flies causing the ointment of the apothecary to Probably one of the most personal things. Because the reality is when someone is unfaithful to their spouse, the wound of that may never may never be fully recovered. And the extent to which it is, is going to be only by the grace of God, only by the kindness of that spouse who has forgiven, and it's because of the gospel. But the reality is you can't pay that back. You can't remove those details. And so what Solomon's trying to communicate is Before you get into the mess, lay a foundation that keeps you from the mess. Because once you're in the mess, you can't clean it up. You can never fully remove what has taken place. That's the point that he's making. So, why is there so much emphasis on listening to wisdom when you're young? It's because of the passage in front of us. The passage tells us: look, people don't easily forget folly. People don't easily forget the wounds that indiscretion can cause. People who are walking prudently will be slow to establish a new level of trust, and that trust will come with huge boundaries. You know, so when you get burned, do you just go back and trust somebody again? The answer is of course not. That would be complete folly. So even when a level of trust is re-established, it's slow. It's with boundaries. And so the point that he's making is: listen. Don't play with sin because when you play with sin, the consequences are huge and the destruction is massive. So the first thing that we see from this little little passage, I'll just read it again, is that indiscretion can set you back indefinitely. The second principle I'd like us to see from the passage is that respect and trust take years to build. Verse number one, he says, So doth a little folly him that is in reputation from wisdom and honor. The Bible puts a huge emphasis on the value of a good name. Now, when the Bible talks about the value of a good name, he's talking about the value of having a reputation That is honorable. In fact, it's interesting how when we read the Bible and we read Old Testament passages, we see that people's names are very significant. For instance, Jacob. Jacob's name means what? Trickster supplanter. So the day he was born, do you think that his mother's like, let's just call him the trickster The answer is no. Actually, once his reputation for that kind of a character began to get established, that's the name that stuck with the man. I think of another example, Nabal. Nabal's name means fool. Well, why in the world did people call him Nabal? It's because the name stuck, because that was his character. That was his reputation. The fact is that this idea of a person's name representing the character of the person tells us a lot about how they thought about when a person's name is mentioned, what it means. And the fact is, you could you can name any person in this room, and there will be some kind of uh impression that will pop in your head when you think of this person. You may go, that's a very honest person. That's a very A very trustworthy person. That's a very hard working person. The person's a little dicey. They're a little controversial. The fact is we're all like that. Okay? Our name has a reputation and it's based on well That's the way we live. It's the way we relate to people. Our names, having a good name, there's incredible value to that. Proverbs 22:1. A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches. You can make money, but you cannot restore a broken dame. At least not quickly, and at least not easily. It's very, very difficult. A good name is more valuable than great wealth. Loving favor than silver and gold. Now, when he talks about loving favor, he's saying you're received warmly and people work well with you. That's what he means by loving favor. So, you know, you have you have you have up you know bosses that are working with you know high school kids, college students, young adults, whatever the situation. Well That boss, he's human, and the reality is not everybody that he works on that works under him is equally received well. It's just the truth. If somebody is constantly late, guess what? As soon as it hits one minute late, they're going, here we go again. When they don't see the car come in, they're like, how many times is this going to happen? Okay? Or when somebody's a loafer and they're just sitting around on the side not doing their job, they go, here we go again But when somebody is diligent and they're on time and they work hard and they get along with people and they listen and they follow through, well, that boss looks favorably upon that person. Why is that? Because favor is consider is something that really is gained by the way a person works, the way they conduct themselves. So when he talks about a good name and loving favor, he's saying the way someone relates to you and the way they think about you, if it's good. It is a treasure that is beyond imagination. And if it's bad, it's your own fault. Ecclesiastes 7:1, he says, A good name is better than precious ointment, and the day of death and the day of one's birth. Now, this is not the way that we think in our culture. When a baby is born, we think potential. But in their cultural mindset, they didn't think potential, they thought question mark. You understand what I'm saying? A child has been born. I wonder what's going to happen here. We think, man, there's so many opportunities in the future. They go, we'll wait and see what happens. You know, even even in Ghana they didn't name kids right away. And you say, Well why is that? Well really a lot of it was because of the very high infant mortality And this is something that was common in the world when infants did not survive. In fact, some of our seniors might even remember a time when, you know, lots and lots of their siblings did not survive past childhood. And so in some cultures, they don't even give a name to a child until they're like, well, now they're going to make it. They're strong enough, they're going to survive. And so when a person thought about the joy of birth, they thought about the question mark: what will this person become? But at a funeral, guess what? You know what they were. You know, the number of people that come and the the ones that choose not to, and those who can say nice things and those who are just going to remain silent, why is that? It's because of the way a person lives their life. And so Solomon says the day of one's death is better than the day of one's birth because at that point you know what the person was. You know what they became. You know how they invested their time. What's he saying? Design a good name. When you die, you don't have time to mess up your name anymore. That's what he's saying. Anything that has value takes a tremendous amount of time to build. So if I want to put up a 10, it takes me Well, ten minutes, maybe twenty. I guess it depends on how much help I'm getting and if the help is good help or not. You don't understand what I'm saying. How much time does it take to build, you know, one of those prefab houses? Man, some some crews can knock those things out really fast. How much time does it take to build a custom $10 million home. I remember when I was working with Frank, there was a job we were on, I think we're on six months on that roof. Six months. Just on the roof. I don't know how many years it took him to build a house, but let me tell you when it was done, it was something. It was a thing of beauty. The point is, you want that kind of a quality home. It's going to take a lot of time. It's going to take a lot of planning. It's going to take a lot of work. It's going to take a lot of troubleshooting. And anything that you build that has value takes a lot of time. But you know how long it takes for that multimillion dollar home to burn to the ground? Just one incident in that house is all it takes. Years to build, burn to the ground in a night. It can happen. And the point is that anything that we have that has value takes It takes time to build. Patience, perseverance. It doesn't take much to destroy them. Things are always destroyed faster than they're built. You know, one of the reasons that men like to demo projects is because that's quick work. You know, it's true, it's quick work. All right? You go to demo that building, it's you know you're gonna get it done quick You go to build the same building, it's going to take years. I want to give you a small caveat here. He's not suggesting that we should have this infatuation with this selfish ambition. to build a reputation for our glory. When he's talking about a good name, he's not saying, here's a person that they want to be known. They want to be famous. It's like somebody that goes, If I can post that on social media, that'll go viral and I'll become well known. That's not what he's talking about. He's talking about a person who just faithfully applauds, does their job, makes good choices, and they do it consistently. Consistently for years and years and years, and then people around them go, that's a person of integrity, that's a person I can trust. That's what he's talking about. This isn't somebody putting up a dishonest facade that gives the appearance of something that it's not. The fact is, that's a form of vice. Where somebody is not who they present themselves to be, and they got to work overtime, and they're very dishonest, they got to cut corners and they got to manipulate so that people don't know who they are. That's not what we're talking about. We're talking about a person where their genuine their reputation is a genuine reflection of consistent, commendable behavior. Notice the word reputation. That's how people see you. Notice the word wisdom. The word wisdom is indicating that this is a person of experience, good character, they're worthy of trust. He uses the word honor. This is someone who's consistent. And that consistency causes people to feel compelled to ascribe honor to those who have a good reputation. You know, people look at this guy or this woman and they say, that person is an example. I feel compelled to show honor because of the consistency. This is what he's talking about. Well, you know, this entire message has really been focused on those who have not yet established a reputation. That they have destroyed. Is that fair? And so that's really the focus. The focus is let's help our kids. All the kids that are in the back there. We as parents. Need to be investing our time and our resources and our energy, and we need to be pleading with God that we have the wisdom to direct our children in the right way so that through consistency that's been established in their youth They will become people of integrity and honor. They will have a good name. That's the warning to those who are parents here. To some of our younger adults who haven't blown it yet in life, okay, the encouragement is don't Blow it in life. Well, to those of us that maybe look back and we go, I do have a lot of regrets. What do I do? So this is true. I have learned it the hard way. What do I do? Well once you realize that there actually is an encouragement to all of us Us. No matter where we fall when it comes to a relationship to this principle, the principle stands. If we have a good reputation and we make poor decisions, we can If we're going to live a consistent life over a period of time, eventually a reputation can develop. But what about when we stumble? What about when we are in the position where there is a sink? You understand what I'm saying? What does the apothecary do? He's got to throw out what's been wasted, and he's got to start back over again. And I want you to realize that we serve a God who's in the business of doing that. He absolutely is in the business of doing that. Now, the focus of this passage is not where I'm going next, but I think it's very important that we spend a moment to think about this. God's grace is our only hope we've stumbled. And there's no person in this room that has walked through life without stumbling on some level. We all are in need of the grace of God. When we have blown it, we shouldn't quit. Don't give up. Life is not over. The reality is God may give you another forty or fifty years for all you know. Some of you go, well, if he gives me another fifty, I'm gonna be a really old man or woman. Okay, I but some of you God may give you another thirty to fifty years. That's like a whole nother life. And the reality is you look at a person like the Apostle Paul, the man that he was before his conversion is not the man that he was after his conversion. And the reality is there is something about the first part of his life he never forgot, but there was a glory in what God did in him and through him after his conversion. God is a gracious God and He loves people. He doesn't throw us to the side. He wants to respect us Restore, and he wants to cleanse, and he wants to forgive, and he wants to give value to what has been lost by these very poor decisions that I'm sure we can all say there's been some. We need to honestly assess the situations that we're in. We need to realize the options that are available to us. They may not be ideal, but the reality is God can give us Some life in the years to follow, these kinds of things. That's something to be very thankful for. God is in the business of forgiving. God is in the business of cleansing. God is in the business of restoring. God is in the business of rebuilding when humanly speaking, that's an impossibility. And rebuilding is the word to use. When we've blown it and we've made terrible choices and we're eating the fruit of those choices. We need God to start over from scratch with us and rebuild us into the person we were not before those moments. He could do that. I think about what it says in Psalm 37, 23. It says that the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delighteth in his way. Now listen what it says next. Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down. For the Lord upholdeth him with his hand. The man fell, but God picked him up. And the reason he continued is not because of his strength. It's because of the grace of God and God's good hand on him. Proverbs 24, 16, a just man falleth seven times, but riseth up again. The wicked fall into mischief. Folks, it's always important that we keep a balance when we look at these things. It is true that if we have walked with the Lord and established a good name, we can destroy it in a moment. It's true that if we're not to that stage in life yet, we better give all of our time and attention to developing good patterns of life so that we can grow into the kind of people God wants us to be. It's also true that when we have fallen and we are in misery and we feel the pain and the weight of our decisions, God has not left us. God has not stopped loving us. The cross still stands for us. The empty tomb is still available to us. And God can forgive a humbled sinner. And God can restore a broken sinner. And God can rebuild a life that has been broken. And He loves to do that. And I want to encourage you with that. I want to encourage you that while we are not entitled to God's grace, we can often, and we see it over and over again, He is good and kind. He is so good, and he is so kind. And the Bible is full of examples of that. Look at David. David was a man who had an incredible name in his youth. And David destroyed that good name in his fifty But God didn't abandon this man. And David turned to the Lord in humility, and David sought the Lord's forgiveness. And God strengthened David. And yes, he experienced the scars of his past. And yes, he experienced heartache in his life. But God didn't leave him. And God restored him and God strengthened him. And when I look at the end of David's life, out of all the children that God chose to establish to be the king to follow him, it was Solomon, Bathsheba's son. That's a testimony of God's grace. It's a pretty incredible thing to think about. So, how do I conclude this? God wants us to establish consistent, well-ordered lives, and then by his power to maintain I hope that you encourage your young people, your kids. Pray for your kids. Pray for your grandkids. I know we have grandparents here, and those grandkids are young. It's like you're watching your kids grow up again, you know Pray for them, encourage them, strengthen them, invest in them. There is something very sweet for a child growing up in a good, solid home, being invested in and living a life of honor. Honor. That's a wonderful thing. And so invest in them. If you're in a position of honor, don't play with sin. And if you've miserably fallen, turn to the Lord and let Him strengthen you again. Have pure motives when you deal with other people. Be patient. Let time demonstrate that in fact your heart is genuine in these matters. Don't let your guard down. Don't make allowances for foolish behavior. You can't go back and quickly repair the damage that's done when it comes to issues of trust and respect. Realize it's very difficult for people to look past our flaws. To learn to trust us again. We need to be careful that we don't undermine those things. We need to deal with the little compromises that lead to the devastating moral failures and the shame now, not later. We need to flee to God for redemption, healing, and restoration. Stumbled. And I pray that that's what we'll do tonight. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father in heaven, we think about the scriptures before us. Man, it's a sober warning. But we're also reminded of how sweet the gospel is. If it wasn't for the gospel When we blew it, there'd be no hope. And so we thank you so much for your persistent love. We're so thankful for the cross of Christ. We're so thankful. We're so grateful for that empty tomb. We're so thankful for new life in Christ, regeneration. We place our faith in Christ. We're so grateful that the Holy Spirit does his sanctifying work in us. That he chastens us when we rebel, that he comes alongside and strengthens us when we're humbled. Father, help us to take the truths of this text and to apply them however we need to this evening. We ask it in Christ's save, Amen.