So I want to keep our minds focused on those three things. And what are the similar principles that undergird Old Testament and New Testament giving? You use God. If God says to do something, you need to do it. There there is a a practical and godly and right application, but because of our fallen nature, we're inclined to misuse what God has given us. The standard is the perfect righteousness of God Himself. being poor in spirit. of those things and and Jesus needed to restate what what the law actually taught on these issues. is because we fail to realize that the laws that are given are not just to give this one example and then kind of leave us hanging. that when Jesus is teaching in the Sermon on the Mount, I know this is in the New Testament, but if you want to talk about the the time before that he's teaching, he's teaching before the cross. Another way we could put it is have a biblical view of God. And we are serving, yes, the true God, but we are not serving him with a correct understanding of his character and ways. Matthew, or excuse me, Romans 1. And I think that this really is what Jesus is hitting really hard in these verses. Okay? That's the idea. and disciples are being made and people are walking with the Lord. Oh, you want to be healthy, wealthy and wise, just give the pastor as much money as you can and and the more you give, the more you're gonna get. Yeah, I guess we don't watch TV like we used to go to YouTube and see some of the the famous faith healers and people like that. you know, the the political environment of his day and how people were were basically using Christianity to get political power. Every time they're sending some bad, oh contact anchor, you know, here are all the churches in the mid-Atlantic. The truth hits the heart first. It was it was actually bringing them into bondage. All right. I pray that the text in front of us would minister richly to our hearts, that it would challenge us where we need to be challenged, it would instruct us where we need our thinking to be shaped. We ask all this in Christ's name, amen. I'm going to look at this passage of scripture that we're starting tonight in probably three parts, just to give you a heads up on that. Therefore, when thou doest thine alms, do not sound a trumpet before thee, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets. that they may have glory of men. Now as I always try to do, we begin with a summary statement of the passage in front of us, and here's what I wrote down as I looked at this text and thought about where it sits in the Sermon on the Mount. And I thought about using the word devotion because I think that that really does does capture what we're talking about. So basically what we see in these verses is that that Christ understands that even good things can be twisted because we are sinful people. In fact, when we talk about temptation, we could probably make an argument that pretty much any kind of temptation that we deal with is something that really The word lust, when we when we look at that Greek term in the New Testament, sometimes the word lust simply means a strong desire for something that's not necessarily bad. When we talk about the uh the qualifications of someone who is a pastor, one of those qualifications is it starts with if he desires But it's a godly desire. Three important statements that we find in the Sermon on the Mount that really should help us to remember where we've been and where we're going. And this is focusing on the standard that people are to make judgments about what is righteous and what is not righteous based on. The standard is not your neighbor. the office of bishop, he desireth a good work. Ye shall in no case enter the kingdom of heaven. that Jesus is going to address in the next several verses. And I say this a lot when we talk about Old Testament law. It's a case that could be applied in a lot of different ways as long as they still hold that same principle. which tramples out the corn. And then there's a principle underlying that case, and then it applies in a lot of different ways. And then he's going to move to verses 5 through 15, and he's going to talk about prayer. in the New Testament, and that is fasting. correctly and under the surface of his instruction, or we could say under the surface providing the support, the foundation for his instruction is this issue of motivation. But he takes those areas and we're not just trying to see what he teaches specifically about giving, but we're also asking What is the primary principle underlying all of that instruction? In those cases, there's a principle that's under the surface supporting those things. Okay? And so it's important for us to step back and say, okay, what did the Old Testament have to say about this issue of giving? And then question three. You know, I'm not leaving you hanging. Okay? This is what I think God should be like. And so people have this tendency to either one say, I don't want God's authority, I'm ungrateful, I reject it Number two, they say, I'm not just going to reject his authority, but I know I need to serve and worship something, so I'll take him, I'll replace him with a God that's made in my image, and then I'll serve him. That's an amazing statement, isn't it? And so he basically says, we are presenting to you the true God, Jesus Christ. communicating. before. were really, really bad guys, okay? had lived wicked lives, and they were going to die in the battle, and there was nothing that was going to stop that from taking place. Very well of me. Now, what he means by that is that if you want to get stuff, you use God. the word of God that people want and basically it presents this facade that is being used to get whatever they want I was listening to a sermon this morning while I was while I was doing some stuff. Think about our personal standards and convictions. Yeah, I got this little list. you know so and so. to do here. To worship God the way that we should. duties. I want to express it in obedience to God. Faith in Christ and new life in Christ. And I pray that you just help us to think biblically. that thine alms may be in secret, and thy father which seeth in secret himself shall reward thee openly. good things, he warned his disciples to be wary of several specific sins, sinful misuses of healthy religious practice. It says, I say unto you, except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees. I say unto you. He's saying the scribes are not the authority. Third is the word purpose, Matthew 5. And what Jesus is striving at is that what we should desire is to be conformed to the character of God. Then feed the ox. Why are people praying the way that they do? What is a Christian's duty regarding giving? And from what does the Old Testament have to say about this issue of giving? to minister to other people. wealthy and proud and self-reliant, he blessed you so that you could be a channel through which you are able to bless and encourage and help others also. We may go through the form of giving the right way, but in our heart, it's not being done the right way Or we may actually go through this in a way that it's very obviously not the right way, and we could say that our heart is being revealed by the way in which we go about this issue of giving. They did not glorify him as God. Another way is that people have a tendency to replace God with idols. He says, professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. But what is sad about this issue of giving is that while giving is a good thing and giving is a necessary thing, and the Bible has a lot to say about this issue of giving, sometimes in our hearts, when we go to actually do it, Why does Christ teach on this? We are prone to reject his authority because we're ungrateful. And their foolish heart was darkened. And then a third example is mischaracterizing God Himself. And I want you to see an example of this. And we are in him that is true even in his son Jesus Christ. He's saying don't accept a cheap substitute that you call Jesus. in the things that Christ is going to say in these verses. Now that word convenient, it's not like a convenience store. is that the nation of Israel decides that they're going to take the Ark of the Covenant into battle and for lack of a better way of putting it, it's almost like they're going to use it like it's a good luck charm. And so they could take the Ark of the Covenant into the battle, isn't changing anything. They could take him and they could use him however they wanted. That's exactly the mindset that these people had. Take heed that ye do not your alms before men. He talks about men who are false teachers, and he says, they are full of perverse disputings of men, of corrupt minds. Well, that's exactly what Paul's talking about. He says, that's not why you serve God. Wow, what an amazing statement. Guess what? They didn't want to lose followers. These were people who rejected Christ, but their mentality can be something that we grasp a hold of if we're not careful. I mean, he's addressing this issue for a reason. And this is one of those areas where Satan can get a little foothold and he can just get a hold of our hearts and he can use it And the fact is that you deal with all kinds of pressures. I'm willing to do things nobody else is willing to do. Beyond this issue of obedience, are there other motives? And I'm not encouraging us all to become so introspective that we're miserable and we think that we can't do anything the way that we should do it. Why am I doing this? Of what we could say is the complete opposite of the teaching of the rabbis. May the Lord help us to think right about these issues. Why was Jesus hitting this issue? To actually motivate people to have a genuine godly worship. What did the rabbis say? Our hearts would be knit together as a body, and as we uphold one another in prayer, I pray that our hearts would be burdened for the great needs that we have within our congregation and that we would see your hand at work in each of these places. And we wouldn't just say it only applies to giving, praying, and fasting. Question one, why does Christ give the teaching? And this is fascinating the way he puts it. And here is the root of their destitute of the truth, perverse, corrupted minds. And going to those different places, a lot of the Christianity that you see in those places sadly is not biblical Christianity where the gospel is preached. You're gonna sometimes be misunderstood. There are people that God blesses materially and he gives them strength and opportunity and he gives them exposure to situations where people have need, and he does that so that they will be able to Or another way to look at it is he's saying, don't serve a God that isn't consistent with the scriptures, even though you call him the God of Scripture. For us as Christians, that we could have a misguided view of God and we mischaracterize Him But then here is the last one. You know the story. It's almost like like taking a hammer and trying to use it as a screwdriver, okay? Crazy, isn't it? The scripture has so much to say about this misuse of the truth. Jesus warns against that. So there are people that their mindset is that if you want to get stuff, you use God. He says, through covetousness shall they with feigned words make merchandise of you. He's saying these are the kinds of mindsets that are in the Pharisees of the day. Third, will it bother me if what I'm doing is never appreciated or recognized by someone in authority? May we not treat them lightly. That nobody sees. And what I'm doing. Modesty is a serving thing. Okay? But there are other places where obviously the word is translated lust because it is a sinful, forbidden desire. is I want you to know the structure of where we're going in this section. Not from this text, but next time I'm preaching here, we'll go to question two and then question three. And we know that who the Savior is, and we we know a lot of things about God. You say that really happens to say, oh yeah, absolutely, all over the place. I'm not saying that because I want you to think that I'm miserable or something like that. Why we do them? It's true. Drive to our separate places as we go to bed at night and we reflect on these things. That nobody's gonna ever see them. We simply do things with a love for Christ. It's sad, but it's true, that even this area of our life can become a source of temptation. God wants us to be a grateful people, but one of the things that people do is when they see the authority of God, they say, I don't like this. He then goes on and says they changed the truth of God into a lie and worshipped and served the creature rather than the creator. The good gifts of God, and you are trying to use them in a way that's completely inconsistent with their purpose. Because God is not there as a genie in the bottle to just be used however he wants any time that he wants. Say, well, I thought they were religious teachers. The Pharisees of his day, okay? But we need to be careful that when we give the gospel, it's not about us. We need to ask the question, how do we sometimes develop these mindsets? I I I love that. It's going to fall apart really quick and it won't be pretty. So I want to leave you with a couple of questions to consider as we close out. Now listen, if God says do it or don't do it, it's not up for debate, folks. While the rabbis taught that where is the standard? That is how our heart will be positioned to worship the Lord. Good evening, everybody. It's it's called prosperity theology. So as we reflect on our position in Christ and we reflect on God's goodness and we reflect on the fact that we have no right to come into his presence save the righteousness of Christ. And so he is teaching to an Old Testament audience. And here's the answer. Now, it's really easy for us to sit here tonight and to say, well, I'm just glad we're not one of those Pharisees. Our associations. You know, when we use the word modesty, you know what modesty really is? It's almost like they're gonna take the ark and they're gonna say, We're gonna be victorious because we have this box with us. We have to be so careful that we hold a position that we do based on conviction and desire to honor the Lord and we love him, not because we're trying to establish ourselves in some kind of way. But does it bother us? Father, we're so grateful for the privilege that we have as your people to gather together. Take heed that ye do not your alms before men, to be seen of them. He says, you have heard that it hath or that it was said by them of old, but You recognize I need a righteousness that I don't have. Did you catch that? And so what do we see? And I've met Christians who will say things like that. People should have this callous attitude towards people service. And sometimes it's just about it's just about developing friendships with people, but sometimes it's about dropping that name because maybe I can make a connection right here so that I have an in-road down the road. And in those moments, it's the grace of God that brings us to those places and reminds us to ask that question. He's saying it is it is not consistent with the good purpose for which God designed it. Good things get corrupted because of the things that people do with them. Come to think of it, okay? A willingness to go into ministry. True worship starts with truth, and the truth, when properly understood, will shape what we desire and how we approach God. I want them to think well of me. God is all about ridding souls. In other words, I am giving in front of people because I want them to see what I'm doing and I want them to pat me on the back. His goodness toward us is something that we never will fully comprehend. You say, well they're Christians. In fact, we're going through the story of Eli and Samuel and Hapni and Phineas. Worship is knowing truth, and the knowing of the truth is going to impact my heart. Keep the law. And if you've been benefited from the the the teaching and the instruction from those who minister in the church, well then make sure that they don't starve. It shapes the thinking, and it presses us into the direction of worship. The personal sacrifices we're willing to make. He's not saying, well, ox and pastor are equivalent. They're making merchandise of those people through their covetousness. 28 he says, as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave them over to a reprobate mind to do those things which are not convenient. But that's what he's saying. What is Christ's specific teaching on this case? And you see him make this statement several times in that little section of the sermon. In 1 John 5, verse 20, this is the way that John closes out his book, his epistle. They didn't want to listen to what the scriptures have to say. And there are these qualifications that flow from that to make sure that this person's desire really is a godly desire. And I have learned that when we don't ask the question ourselves, God puts us in places where we end up having to ask that question. Something will happen, and all of a sudden you ask yourself the question, why am I doing this? Verily I say unto you, they have the reward. That's something that God does. It is it is like sweeping the globe, okay? And so the first question, why did he teach it? Modesty should really encapsulate all of our lives, that we're not living in a way that's trying to draw attention to ourselves to get the approval or to turn the eye of another person. I'm just telling you where we're going. Basically what he's saying is this. The Pharisees were guilty of this final example. I want to express it in service to others. The standard is not how you feel personally about your actions. That word desire is actually the same Greek term that is used for lust. This is what I imagine God to be. It's because we're prone to corrupt good things. By the way, at the beginning of the book, the way that he starts is he talks about how they have actually experienced firsthand interaction with the Lord Jesus Christ Become a parent. What does Jesus say? Well I'd probably use it as a dagger, right? They were they were they were terrible, the things that they were involved in. We have to be careful that we don't allow a root of pride to take a hold of our heart. And that's something we need to consider. Just give you a summary, and then we're going to dig into some introductory thoughts. Because human nature is prone to corrupt good things. Oh, it's not the last one. Especially when someone says, I want to go into missions. Uh kinda, yeah. And he's preaching in like 1948 or something like that. We should take great joy in leading people to Christ, but we need to be careful about that potentially getting a foothold into this issue. And you made the right decision, okay? Even if your motivation is not the way that it used to be, you need to get that in line too, okay? That's got what their message preached or it was bringing. Okay? Christians are going to be idolaters. I think that we should be people that have some spine. The fact is that, you know, pastors and missionaries, I mean, I get I get calls from missionaries from certain mission boards because once, you know, once we're on the radar, man. The authority is the scripture. It's using our relationship to God as a tool for some form of personal advancement. Paul talks about the same thing in 1 Timothy 6, verse 5. Let's bow for a word of prayer. And that's the way God wants it. And that thinking was complete, it was impossible for that kind of a thinking, that kind of a worldview, that kind of a theology. And by the way, when we talk about idolatry, you know the root of idolatry is what? May we not ignore them, but may they really grip our souls. Because these were people that preached a message that didn't bring people to repentance toward God. And uh we're excited about our study tonight. Okay, Matthew chapter 6 is where we are tonight, and we are working our way through the Sermon on the Mount, and we are 48. This is a part of the sermon. The mindset is: I can use God to become wealthy. I'll scrub those toilets. I'm doing it because I'm puffing myself up. It's using our relationship to God as a tool for some form of personal advancement. You'll make lots of sacrifices. And I pray that as we spend time together in prayer and we lift up these requests that From verse 1 all the way to verse 18, he's going to give us three cases that establish a basic principle regarding this issue of motive. He says, We know that the Son of God is come and hath given us an understanding that we may know him that is true. But it is this form of teaching that takes the elements of And if people are going into ministry because they want a name and a reputation, that's really dangerous. And so he's going to take giving, praying, and fasting, and he's going to talk about how to look at those three issues I need the righteousness of Christ. It's done. And so let's dig into question number one. They changed the truth of the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like to corruptible man. So my final thoughts are this. I'll give you one more after this one. A misuse of the good gifts of God. A lot of times when we read the Old Testament, one of the reasons that we get caught up and we we misunderstand what is there That's really what he's saying. The last question I have is this. He says, be therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect. And the fact is, giving is one of the most personal things that we do. What does Jesus say? Why are people approaching fasting the way that they do? And here's the key. If you have people that are covetous, and the way that you get them to come and listen to your teaching is to promise them they can get stuff through what you're saying. And it was it was Martin Louis Jones. That's really what he's saying. I really enjoy what I'm doing, okay? I want to express it in speaking of God's greatness, singing of God's greatness, but it hits the heart first. We're going to answer three questions. If you have financially prospered, God didn't just financially prosper you so that you could become And it came out in the way that they gave, it came out in the way that they prayed, and it came out in their religious practice. It's easy to go to the store and get something. Trying to poke a hole in something or a thing like that. That's one of the ones you need to contact. Man, I love it when someone says, I want to go into the ministry. That reflection of truth is what is going to press us So what is Jesus saying in these verses? We could go into a lot of different other areas, and I'll touch on some of those probably tonight. We don't want to miss that as well. And here's the key, to be seen of them. And I'm not going to suggest by this that, oh, you're a Pharisee because I hit on your topic there. Now listen, I'm not bringing these up to say we shouldn't do the things that are mentioned. I'm not saying it's good to do things for the wrong reason. It is finished. And he makes the argument in these verses that if you want to be a person who receives the kingdom, it starts with We are creating God in our own image rather than seeing ourselves as we're created in his image. Now, this is actually going to be something I'm going to expand a good bit, okay? And it's important for us to understand that because if we don't understand that, then we really will not understand really what Jesus is teaching. False teachers. Peter talks about it too, 2 Peter 2, verse 3. The second thing I want you to notice under the introduction are that there are three cases What is he talking about? Happens all over the place. They wanted to follow their own appetites. I'm not saying that, alright? They could literally say, I'll live however I want to live, I'll do whatever I want to do. It's not drawing attention to ourselves. So he's going to talk about giving as one of those situations. And we'll just break down all of what he has to say. I'll do this. Now this is really where it gets to be a little bit more complicated. Father, thank you for the word of God. So he emphasizes his authority and the authority of Scripture. What do we in the New Testament know we're supposed to be thinking about on this issue of giving? It's another case. Verse 1, they did it before men, to be seen of men, verse 2, that they might have the glory of men, that they would have their reward. It's because, well, people abuse good things. We wake up in the morning. And their interpretation has deviated from a sound exposition. That's not what he's saying. Let me give you some examples of how this works. I I've I've I've I've gone on missions trips uh Eastern Europe, I've been on missions trips to Latin America, and I was a missionary in West Africa for about seven years. God loves the lost. Being willing to serve in the lowly of areas. Well, they taught you are worthy. Your kids won't see it. Am I doing this in a way that's getting somebody's attention? Romans chapter 1, verse 21. Sometimes you make the wrong decision. We do what's right, okay? He wants it to be that way. Neither were what? Oh man, I got a little check off another one. I did it. Why does he give that teaching? It was bringing them into captivity And when thou doest alms, let not thy right hand know what thy left hand doeth. And we see this in the Romans 1 passage as well. But there's something about the mindset of those men that was exposed in those actions. That's what he's saying. I'll do that. God is the perfect standard of righteousness, and nobody meets that standard. Now this is something that is a great danger for the Christian. He's on Romans chapter 8. And I think that this one right here is a great danger So that's what we're going to talk about on the second one. Here's the question. Or a screwdriver and trying to use it as a hammer. And as we open up the Word of God, I pray that you'll speak to our hearts. That's kind of getting back to what I was just talking about, how there's this principle, there's a reason he talks about praying and fasting and giving. So you might be able to say that there is a little bit of an element of each of those pieces. They're literally taking that lustful passion and they're using it to take advantage of those people. So the standard is higher than the religious leaders. There was a reason they wanted to kill Jesus. And he was and he's like, the Pharisees of the day, they're not in the true church. And the truth is that, you know, sometimes a missionary will come in and the evangelists will come in like, oh, you know, so-and-so Let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer, and then we'll get back into the scriptures. And so that I wanted to make a point about. If you want to become wealthy, It's like a seed. I do. And she started going, he's a lot of eyes in that statement right there. And the greatest way that it's displayed is in the gospel. And then when they're older, then they start realizing, okay, these are the things that my parents did for me. The way we approach God is one of the most sacred and personal things we do. And Lord willing tonight we're going to answer question one. So here are the questions that I want us to answer as we work through this text. This is the true God and eternal life And I think that's the sense of what he's getting at. Therefore, we have to continually ask the Lord to help us to have a heart that is healthy in the way that we approach our sacred And this example here of giving, giving is a good thing. It's real clear May we think about these things. Don't take the real Jesus, the one that's presented in the scriptures, and substitute a cheap substitute. A misuse of the good gifts of God. Okay, that's not what the word convenient in this context is. And the way that this story tragically ends That's what he's saying. And that's exactly what they're teaching. I can use God to get power. The standard is Christ He's saying if you've benefited from the strength of the ox He wants them to be saved. And the reason for this is so that they would approach God with pure intent. It was really kind of interesting to listen to him talk about this. Jesus says in these verses, Matthew 6, 1 to 2, That's not the intent of that. But what I am saying is that there are a lot of things that you would that you do or that you're called to do. Tonight as we looked at these scriptures, I pray that you would speak to our hearts, not just in this moment, but as we go home, as we And we know that Hophani and Phineas were And Jesus confronted all those things. First question is this: Am I doing this because I know this is something God has commanded me to do? Am I doing this in a way that I know will draw attention to myself So we need to remind ourselves It's the grace of God. This is what he's talking about. And so this is at the heart of what Jesus is getting at. You just put it in the ground and it's gonna grow. But I tell you, we've got to be really careful how we press and encourage people to go into ministry. For instance, we talked about this issue of giving and your pastor and what does Paul say? Destitute of the truth. But there's something very dangerous about us in our mind saying, you know, I'm a really good Christian because I do boom and this and this and this. People just crushed you for it, okay? And then a third one, which is one that we don't probably talk about very much. Why are people approaching giving the way that they do? Okay? Well obviously he's not talking about a lustful, sinful passion. He's saying the standard is not the religious leaders. But the idea is you say you're taking the good gifts of God. And then the last one. The fact is that those young men Here's what he says. And uh and he's talking about But but we don't have these to say, well, you know, my motive's just not right, so I'm not going to do what God says That's really the idea of what he's saying. Supposing that gain is godliness. A theology that is aligned with the rabbi's teaching is in it's incapable of approaching God with a genuine heart You know what the Bible says? You've heard it said, but I say to you. We'll address that one tonight. But just because we use the right terms doesn't mean we're thinking right about those terms. I pray that you will take the word and really impress it on our hearts. It's just the truth, okay? That they may have the glory of man. So that's where we're going in this passage. Imagination. God said it's going to happen. Now, I'm not suggesting And the question is, does that bother us? And then the next statement's fascinating. Be a little careful if you're thinking that way, okay? Psalm 6, or excuse me, Psalm. We should have a burden for the lost. I think I've actually done that before. And by the way, it will become evident eventually if in fact that is the case. And when the knowing of the truth impacts my heart, I want to express it. And the topic that we find in these verses is a godly approach to So some areas where we have to be vigilant. Why does Christ give this teaching? They didn't want to lose their power. But if the scripture is clear, do it. Am I doing this for me? That should be the desire. It's to help us understand that that one example is teaching a principle. Thankful. One It really is. But here's the fact. And modesty is not just a dress thing, modesty is a giving thing. Otherwise ye have no reward of your Father which is in heaven You ever heard somebody say, I'm just a simple and humble man? I can use God to do whatever those things are that I want. Remember this passage, it says, when they knew God. And this is fascinating how he puts it. Man, I I led that guy to Christ. It's simply to say this: there are times that we need to pause and ask ourselves The first statement is found in Matthew 5. Verses 1 to 4. But when I want to use God for something, I'll pull him off the shelf and then I'll put into practice on what I want. The third thing I'm going to mention under this topic, our introduction. And the reason for that is I want us to understand That's really what temptation ultimately is. We're all unworthy. And one of the greatest areas where we find ourselves tempted is how we approach God So let's begin with a couple of introductory thoughts here. We can use God to get what we want. By grace are you saved through faith. Continuing on in verse 21, he says, they became vain in their imaginations. I'll give you an example of this in the Bible. They weren't thankful. I mean it Question two Okay? Folks, worship is not just emotions. They were willing to kill him because they didn't want to deal with those things. And it starts with being born again, obviously. Okay, that's what he's saying. And then Lord willing next week, well actually I won't be here. I mean you and you just take any example that you want. And he starts talking about I mean a long, long time ago from my perspective, okay Ministry is hard. Okay. Yeah, I'm just willing to do all those lowly things and you seem to talk a lot about it. Matthew 6 We have access to the Bible, we read the scriptures, we we know the name of Christ. That's what we're going to start on tonight. I want them to speak What I am saying is we have to be careful about why. Am I doing this because I love Christ and the conviction it's the right thing to do These are people that didn't believe in the gospel. Or don't do it. Little children, keep yourself from idols. They didn't want their their good position to be disrupted. The second thing that we saw emphasized was found in Matthew 5. What is shaping the way that people do those things? Obviously, the issue of giving. Let's pray. Okay? And we ask all this in Christ's name. Because Christ understands the human tendency to misuse For instance, Our righteousness is filthy rags. That's very dangerous. You know what that was? I'm not grateful. They don't really realize it when they're young. What's he talking about? So you see that there's this case You have to say things to people they don't want to hear Simple. Does it kind of rub us the wrong way? He's talking about this strong desire Even we think about something like the word lust. That's kind of the mindset. Not of yourselves, the gift of God. 20. Ministry is actually pretty challenging. They saw God as a tool. He says, don't muzzle muzzle the ox. Authority. You'll be doing uh next week's question. Second question. Amen. And it didn't work that way. Oh, I make all these sacrifices. Gotta be very careful. 27.