And that ministry role really is going to have something to do with the way that God has fitted you as an individual. And the fact is that we're able to do the work of the ministry far more effectively as a team, as a body, than we could as individuals. And so here's Timothy, this young man, functioning in a very uncomfortable, difficult, but vitally important role in the church at Ephesus. He's representing Paul, but he's really going to set in order a church that is full of problems. And if Paul sends Timothy, and Timothy is not faithful, it's going to affect the health and the long-term projection of the church at Ephesus. And ask the question, why did God tell him to do this? Well, you know, the Bible says that bodily exercise profits a little, but it profits. And the truth is that when we are ministering to folks, we can't remove ourselves from them and keep them at a distance. Mom and dad aren't going to be happy because of all the money it's going to cost us, and you're not going to be happy because you're going to hit and you're going to have a swollen mouth and it's not going to be fun. Take your Bibles and turn to 1 Timothy chapter 4. And so in the middle of our pandemic time we finished our our study through the book of Revelation and I thought, you know, on Wednesday nights or on Sunday nights, let's go back. And let's continue in that pastoral epistle study. who are pastors or who are deacons or who are evangelists or who are missionaries. We could be talking about aptitude in certain areas. And he really wants all of us to play each of our roles as faithfully as possible. This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation. Neglect not the gift that is in thee, which was given thee by prophecy, with the laying on of the hands of the presbytery. For in doing this thou shalt save both thyself and them that hear thee. Timothy was in a very interesting role. When we come to the book of 1 Timothy, we're seeing that these are folks that are teaching that you have to keep the Mosaic Law either to become a Christian, to stay a Christian, or to grow as a Christian. But he is emphasizing the fact that Paul is telling Timothy, you're going to stand before Christ one day, you're going to give an account for your ministry one day. The church had false teaching that was affecting it. They were qualified at the moment that God placed them into that position, but because of laziness, because of fear, because of an unwillingness to stand firm. because of a lack of consistency, whatever the situation, pride, greed, we don't know what it is, but a person can begin to get sidetracked and when they started well, they don't finish well are going to be blessed and benefited by it. or as a wife or as a deacon or as a pastor or as someone who's working in a certain place, whatever your role is, your function that God has for you, if you're not fulfilling that duty effectively If you don't have small children, you're past that season of life. I'm looking at the time. We teach them how to help our mom and help dad and how to do functions in the house. But just because you told them how to do it once doesn't mean they got it. God is the one who has given us the text and we just go one after another. Do you get weary of telling your child the same thing for the tenth time on the same day? By the way, when he talks about this particular matter, he is referring to the fact that a lot of the false teachers who were Judaizers were going to the Old Testament Now it's a little bit interesting the wording of this statement, rejecting what doesn't bear God's authority. And when they were teaching the Old Testament, the way that they were handling the Old Testament was they were going into these areas where they were basically making up fictitious stories and fables about what God had actually stated. Bodily exercise, profit is little. And let me move forward faithful in these areas. And in fact, he doesn't just say be an example, but he talks about the exact things that he's supposed to be an example of. The word conversation means the way that you live. When we talk about Timothy's character and we study all that we know about Timothy's life, it appears that Timothy was an extremely compassionate person. Some people have tremendous discernment. You can't see these gifts, the ability to teach and all those things, without it being in the context of a corporate assembly. You know, down the road. And all of a sudden you look at them and they're thirty years old and they're a man or a woman and you say, Where did where did that come from? In a very positive manner. And it's been quite a while since we've done that. One of the things that we did is we switched him to Wednesday night so that he could uh be preaching and then really this kind of went on hold. uh some of the messages that we had, but it's gonna have been like four or five months ago. The text that we're looking at today talks about being a good minister of Christ. Paul writes, if thou put the brethren in remembrance of these things, thou shalt be a good minister of Jesus Christ. For bodily exercise profiteth little, but godliness is profitable unto all things, having the promise of the life that it that now is, and of that which is to come. in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, and in purity. that he needed to be and the kinds of duties that he must perform in order to be a good minister of Jesus Christ. to be faithful in the same way. Timothy wasn't a pastor. Paul, Peter, Timothy. the big picture first. It has teachers. A description of a group that is causing tremendous hardship and trouble in the church. the false teachers that were in these churches were connected to false views about the Mosaic law. If you don't fulfill your responsibility, there's going to be a fallout of some kind. Not that you'll miss out on eternity in heaven, but there will be rebuke from God. You didn't fulfill it the way you're supposed to. What does that tell us? It's very important for us to recognize. God wants us to be good, faithful ministers of Christ, like Timothy was. What does he tell him he needs to do? The first duty we're going to talk about is this. Not just you need to brush your teeth. Because I have five. I mean, there are many things, but three things that I want to emphasize. He's not introducing to them a new way to grow and to mature and to become a disciple of Jesus Christ. In other words, they're adding all kinds of things to the scripture that was not actually there, and they were treating it as if it was truth, authoritative. In other words, reject teaching that's based on assumption, based on new ideas, or old ideas that people have accepted to be true, but are contrary to the facts of Scripture taking care of your body and and going to the gym and working out and all those things kind of determines how you go to this verse. And if your person says, ah, fitness, who cares? You need to follow their lead and you need to bring it into your walk with God. should have the same kinds of disciplines and the same kinds of rigors that people have who are athletes training for competition. He talked about wrestling. from their time period that they could identify with. They had to bring their body into subjection. Verse twelve is very interesting. Okay? Our dear friends, you know what, it was that interaction that was probably some of the most impactful interaction that we had with people He says, there's nobody that will care for you like I would, but Timothy. Some people are very discerning, spiritual gift, some people are very merciful, spiritual gift, some people are very good teachers, spiritual gift Well, the way that you're gifted has a lot to do with when you're given an opportunity to serve how you approach that issue. When I sent you to Ephesus, I sent you there, knowing you could do it by the power of God's Spirit. has specifically gifted us and fitted us for this church and for the function that we fit in a family and in society. It's interesting when he says don't neglect, the idea is this. Or you are a merciful person, but you're not interacting with people very much. their friendship. section of scripture, but we didn't get very far. And so, really, this passage is going to be challenging Timothy to be a good minister of Jesus Christ. Who is the Savior of all men, especially of those that believe. Give thyself wholly unto them, that thy profiting may appear to all. And so the question is, how do we do that? And so as Paul is addressing this issue at Ephesus, he's saying, don't be like those false teachers. And so there are three key statements in this section that I want us to notice that really set the tone for the duties that Paul tells Timothy he has. Thou. What does he mean by you're going to save yourself? They're not doing the work effectively. He says you need to be a good minister of Jesus Christ. don't take my responsibility seriously. There's going to be a fallout. When I say Paul calls Timothy to perform, Paul is not ultimately the one who's giving him these duties. He's speaking with the full weight and the full authority of his apostolic office. The brethren in remembrance. You will appreciate this on a different level when you get there. So you teach and you review, you teach and you demonstrate, you teach and you remind. Because that repetition over time will stick. How long does it take most animals in God's creation to come to physical maturity? And the reality is that whatever position God places you in serving other people, you're going to have that duty, that job. That some people elevate to the level of gospel truth. Paul tells Timothy, you need to put the brethren in remembrance. Old Wives Fables. You need to teach and you need to demonstrate and you need to remind people of God's authoritative scriptures, not of the traditions of other people. You need to treat those things as what they are. Now it's interesting. His point is this, just like an athlete trains his body, her body, Just like that athlete goes through the dimens the the difficulties and the rigors of training for the athletic games. How many of us take into our own walk with God the mentality of an athlete who says, I want to be number one in the world? Our walk with God involves discipline. The fourth duty he mentions is this, personally interact with those to whom you're ministering so that they can observe a good pattern of life. Because when you teach them and you instruct them and you say, Don't do this and do this, and here's what God says, they see in you that it's real. That this message is real, that this message has the power to change someone, that it's changing you, it's changed you, and it can be done In other words, your character must be on display. It's one of the one of the one of the most impactful things was able to do. In spirit, in faith, in purity. You know, it's interesting as a missionary, one of the, probably one of the best things that I was able to do as a missionary was have people that lived on our little compound facility with us. We've got to allow ourselves to be vulnerable so that they recognize this is true, this is powerful, this has impacted you. I'm going to mention one fifth and final duty. He was merciful. And if God were to say to you, develop, don't neglect the gift that's in you, would you even know what he's talking about? You absolutely can't. I know you like you are my own child. And so what happens? And so he's telling Timothy, look, I know you, Timothy. As you minister to people, what happens? What happens to your body when you don't exercise? I pray that as they serve you in a new home, in a new place, that they would get plugged in in those places just like they did here, that they would continue to serve and they would continue to grow, and that you would bless them mightily. as individual members in a body, so that we exercise those gifts and what happens? Nourished up in the word of faith, of good doctrine, whereunto thou hast attained, but refuse profane and old wives' fables, and exercise thyself rather unto godliness On the other side, if he's faithful, there's going to be a day that God will reward him for his faithfulness. Thou shalt save both thyself and them that hear thee. So we move to a second question. Biblical teaching. Thirdly, reminding your kids of those things. Anybody want to guess? Make your own personal growth into Christ's likeness a daily practice. Like people love football, which may or may not happen this year, and people love basketball and baseball and all these other sports. Having the busyness of a schedule and all the things that crowd into our minds, we open up our Bibles to read it, and the only thing we can think about it is those pressing issues of the day. So he says, Timothy, you must exercise yourself unto godliness, intents. In fact, you know, think about the issue of our families. It seems that Paul, when he says this to Timothy, Timothy understood what Paul was talking about. I think that I had the same spiritual gifts I have today. We get rusty. In fact, if he's not faithful, there's going to be a fallout in the church. I want you to realize that we must fulfill our duties because if we don't, there's going to be a fallout. And you're going to save those who hear you. Did you know that the thing that the pastor does more than anything else is not introduce new truths to the church, but remind the church of old things. It's an important part of their growth. That get elevated to the level of facts, gospel truth, and he says that isn't truth. That isn't authoritative, that's fiction. In the same way that they develop those physical disciplines that do profit them for a moment in a competition Does it take discipline to get up and to read our Bibles on a daily basis? And we're all made of the same stuff. Gets tired and discouraged, has all these issues, and they and they say, you know what, the prize is worth it. Well, what's the prize for the Christian? In verse 14, he says, neglect not the gift that is in thee. I hope that this passage will be a challenge to you. You're supposed to be the person God made you to be. Father, help us to exercise ourselves, ourselves into godliness. We thank you for bringing them into our congregation. You know, this morning I talked about how important the local church is, how we are the dwelling place of God. If thou, there's responsibility. We teach them just very basic skills. We have to train them. He says, you need to exercise yourself to godliness. The physical prize is worth it. I want to encourage you, don't quit on the disciplines of walking with the Lord. Really did. The same gifts. If you're an extremely giving person and you go through a season where you're really not involved in those things at all, guess what happens? That's really important. It's the truth. You'd have absolute problems. Because we need to be reminded. The mentality of an athlete who wants to be a champion. Consistent training. There's going to be a day where that conflict arises and we realize we've played the part of the hypocrite. Paul was telling Timothy, you've got to allow people to get into your life. Let's be faithful ministers of Jesus Christ. We thank you for the Perkins family, the blessing that they've been at Anchor. Thank you for the small part we've been able to play as a church and their continued growth into Christ-likeness. We have the opportunity to encourage them and bless them in this season of life, to rejoice with them, and to hopefully just be a wonderful blessing to them. Don't wallow in your failures. Help us to learn from the instructions given to Timothy. Then we come to the pastoral epistles, we see an example of so much instruction given to a young man who was serving in a church. I thank you for the opportunity we're going to have this evening to have fellowship together outside. Over and over and over again. So I never even thought about it. And the truth is you could have a teenager, 12-year-old, 14-year-old, 16-year-old, 18-year-old, they grow up in the church, and as they're maturing along the way, they have spiritual gifts, but you don't see them yet. I thank you for uniting them in marriage. Father, help us to have a sweet time of fellowship together. The second duty that's mentioned is this. The good, the bad, the ugly. When you have small kids and they their feet hit the floor before yours do every morning. I had no idea. It's only two words. Getting all those kids together in the car and bringing them to church is tough. It's going to say that bodily exercise profit is little, but godliness is great gain. And so I want to remind you of a simple summary of the purpose of the section that we're looking at this evening. God is telling Timothy, look, don't neglect the gift that God has given you. Timothy, let's get this right. Now, when I say that, please don't misunderstand me. I thank you for the opportunity we've been able to have to see their kids growing up. And so Paul's telling Timothy, look, Timothy, you need to teach people, but your life is going to demonstrate that this message is true. The reality is that that was part of the giftedness that God had given him. If we're on number three and it looks like we need to stop, we'll stop. He says this, he says, be thou an example of the believers. It was about rubbing shoulders with them, working out in our garden, and going out on visitation, sitting down and talking about the Bible, just having a conversation about things that we'd experienced, living in community with these folks. He says, don't neglect the gift. I pray that you help us to be the church that you want us to be, to be the persons in the church that you want us to be. Now people would tend to say he was a pastor, but the reality is he was not going to become a permanent pastor at the church at Ephesus. Okay. Now every single person in this congregation cannot or will not be in the same role that Timothy was. It's been around for a while. There are some people who are ministers of Jesus Christ who are good, who are faithful, who are doing the work effectively, and there are ministers of Jesus Christ who are not good. This is how you brush your teeth. We have to work with them. I'm the same person. I knew that God wanted us to go to the mission field and be missionaries. As we serve, those in leadership begin to see how we're fitted. Godliness is great gain. He talked about running. You can't see mercy without people. Except Dave, he could keep his kids in line. In fact, when we got into the pandemic time, uh, because Brother Chris was not doing the children's ministries, Reminding. It's knowing God. Some people have administrative skills, spiritual gifts. Let me say that again. The church has a future. It's the truth. Now I hope that nobody feels offended by that statement, okay? He was gentle. Well, the first thing I want to mention before we get into the content is that when we look at the beginning of chapter 4, he really talks about They're not being faithful. Before God. What are the duties that Paul calls Timothy to perform? And we know that several people in here have small children. So that's what we're going to do. Say, God, I know you want me to know you. In your word, that means the things that you talk about. We can talk about a person's personality. He was coming, very similar to the role that sometimes a missionary would play. Just because somebody is given a task and they have the opportunity to fulfill that task and God calls them to fulfill the task does not mean they'll be faithful. Why was that important? They saw it all. And so God won't command you. Or I as a husband don't take my responsibility seriously. They had to give themselves to the discipline and the rigor so that they could be successful in the games. So I'm going to give myself entirely to the discipline of preparation so that I can obtain the prize. There are others, but because of time, I'm going to stop here. You know what's interesting? But it tells us something very important about what Paul's telling Timothy to do. We're going to get into that a little bit later, either tonight or on another night. I want you to realize that it doesn't just work that way in our family life. Our body loses the strength and the vitality that it needs. You know why that was? How would I even know how I'm gifted? And so what I'm going to do is I'm going to read the passage. Timothy was not functioning as a deacon. Is he talking about going to heaven by being a faithful minister of Jesus Christ? His duty was to remind people of the truth through balanced As a pastor, it's my duty. And they understood that if a person was going to box in the Olympics, or they're going to wrestle in the Olympics, or they're going to run in the games, they had to be a disciplined person Like an athlete would do in preparation for competition. You go through situations and you begin to grow and you begin to be stretched in those areas and those gifts begin to begin to be expressed with a maturity rather than an immaturity. The church had leaders who were not supposed to be in those positions. If we tell our children, don't do this and we do it, there's going to be a day when they look at you and go, why am I going to do that? There are seven duties that he mentions. We teach them how to wash their dishes. All of us have these struggles. Don't get rusty. Thank you for Hansel joining the church this morning as well. And if you don't brush your teeth and you don't do it this way, here's what's going to happen. Thank God that your kid is not a full-blown adult in two years. I've invested in you. I'm going to live my life, enjoy my ice cream, and I'm not going to go out on a treadmill or do any of that stuff, you say, He says, allow people to rub shoulders with you, to know you personally, to watch your life. By the way, reminding people of things can get weary. You need to reject methods that do not bear God's authority. Make your personal growth into Christ's likeness a daily practice. Maybe some of us are feeling what happens to our bodies when we don't exercise. And God made you uniquely and gifted you and fitted you uniquely to function in a specific role in the place that He's put you. First Timothy chapter 4, and on Wednesday nights we were doing a series through the pastoral epistles. His duty was to remind people of the truth through balanced biblical teaching. Put the brethren in remembrance. Who cares about this issue of exercising yourself physically? He talked about sprinting. Reminding, okay? But it's so amazing how we'll go through one book of the Bible and we'll come into another one. The church will continue. What's going to happen if he doesn't do that? Do we need to read the Bible on a daily basis? I really believe that. In fact, this is what's so great about expositional preaching and teaching, because I'm not choosing what I'm reminding you of week in and week out. But it has people that should not be in leadership or need to be guided to be the kinds of leaders that they should be. The second aspect of this is that he's responsible to be a good minister of Jesus Christ. You are like my son. Guess what happens? I'm not suggesting that we develop spiritual disciplines to earn some favor with God or anything like that. When I came to Anchor back in 2008, I came as a preacher boy. God has called them out. Sink back some time ago to what it was like to be there. Number one, teaching things to your kids. Why was that important? Father, marriage is such a wonderful blessing, a gift from you. Because they lived with us and they saw and they heard everything that went on at our house. He was kind. Teaching, demonstrating, reminding. Tonight is going to kind of pick up in the middle of a sermon series. But those gifts develop in situations Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Myths. The reality is that every single person in this church, you're not Timothy. May you be the center of our focus. You've got to spend time with people. In fact, instead he will say, you were not faithful in this area. These things command and teach, let no man despise thy youth, but be thou an example of the believer in word And not just before God, but in the lives of the people that you are called to serve. You can't see administration without people. What is the role of a parent? And what's very interesting is we actually grow and we develop in these gifts as we use them. No, the reality is this. It's an important part of my helping you grow in the Lord. You get rusty in those areas. Help us to be faithful ministers of Jesus Christ, to not neglect the giftedness that you've given us We teach them how to put away their clothes. He talked about running long distances. Do I see it written in the sky somewhere or something like that? And what happens is we begin to actually really strengthen one another and exhort one another and encourage one another. For therefore we both labor and suffer reproach because we trust in the living God. Till I come, give attendance to reading, to exhortation, to doctrine. The church was in trouble. So you need to remember it profits. How many of us take into our own walk with God? Do not neglect the gift that's in you. And I want you to realize that being a minister of Christ is not just referring to people The reality is that every single person in the local church has a vital and important ministry role to play. And this is the last passage that we were dealing with. In other words, the work that he does is going to powerfully impact what God wants to do in that community through that church. So you're teaching things. We teach them how to sit in church. You understand what I'm saying? It's being found in Him as one who's been a faithful minister of the gospel. The reality is that the way that God has made you and fitted you, He has a role for you to play in the church. And Father, as you move them to a new place and new opportunities, I pray that you would bless them richly. It's the same old basic message. In charity, that means how you interact with people in a loving manner. But I guarantee you, the practice of those gifts, I sure hope they've changed. I'm going to kind of get you back into the context of what's being dealt with here in 1 Timothy 4. This season of your ministry, this opportunity that you had to minister and to serve So let's say that you're a person that loves fitness. He was compassionate. If you have the ability to teach and you don't teach for ten years, guess what happens? Take heed unto thyself and unto the doctrine. A group of false teachers. It doesn't stick quickly. That's fables God has wired you and fitted you in a very specific way for a purpose, a function, and a role. And then how does this have bearing on me and my own duties? But we're going to just move our way through these and we're going to reflect on each of these duties. I love what he says in verse 7. He walked by my side. Help us to allow people to into our lives so that they can see the growth and the maturing and it can encourage them and impact them. As we eat together and as we as we interact with one another, I pray that our fellowship would be sweet. He is speaking on behalf of God. Doesn't mean they got it then. He then comes to a third duty that he mentions Because it helped them to know if what we were saying was real or not. Well, the truth is that when I came to anchor We have a vibrant, healthy, serving local church. It's really tough. And that fifth duty is this: constantly develop your spiritual gifts. I thank you for their service. Timothy was a merciful person. In fact, later on he's going to say, if you're faithful, you will save yourself and those who hear you. God has placed them in an opportunity What does he mean by you're going to save yourself? We can be talking about spiritual giftedness. Timothy wasn't functioning as an apostle. And the third statement that really stands out to me is in verse 16, he says, in doing this. I know that you've given me everything that I need to know you and to walk in your ways. And you've got to be an example. Why does he say that? God's gifted given them those gifts. We may or might may not get through all seven, so don't get worried. Think about what it's like to deal with a small child. And so what I'm about to say is going to resonate with you because this is the season of life you're in. Or I as a pastor don't take my responsibility seriously. Yes, you do. But basically, this is what he's saying is this. Paul used illustrations Pray that you bless him as a young man who wants to serve you. He's not introducing to them a new gospel. And you know what's kind of interesting. Now when we deal with this passage of Scripture, it's always important to kind of get Paul is speaking as an apostle of Jesus Christ. We've got to allow them into our lives. Now it's really interesting. That you are well equipped to do this. You're teaching your kids so many things. In other words, your spiritual walk And you need to stir up those gifts again. A church that has been around for about ten years. Absolutely we do. Absolutely, it does. Why do I say that? Now we talk about the book of 1 John, we talk about the fact that there were folks that were teaching false views on the person and work of Christ. We're going to end up at the dentist. We teach them how to sit in school. That's how you take that passage. It's not easy. Traditions He says, refuse God calls not just Timothy, but He calls us to the same tasks. You can't see discernment without people. And not only do they begin to see how we are fitted, but we begin to see how we're fitted And so God gives us He's being sent by Paul The church had leaders who were good men, but they needed to be guided clearly. We teach them how to put their dairy clothes in a hamper. We have to constantly remind our kids they forget. Why did Paul use those analogies? Bless the food that we'll enjoy, and we ask these things in Christ's name. Well the role of a parent involves three things. Our Father in heaven, we are so grateful. God wants us He's saying, Timothy, you have a responsibility. The church was divided. Opportunity, potential, does not mean fulfillment of duty If he's faithful, the people that are under his ministry And we start seeing the same concepts repeated over and over and over again. And the same way the athlete who's training It would seem that when he's talking about this, he's talking about the fact that Timothy is a gifted teacher. Because he knows the heart of Timothy. And one of the things that we see in the New Testament is a lot of times I led your family to Christ. When you have administrative capabilities. I thank you for their ministry. What an incredible thing. He says, you must exercise yourself unto godliness. Just pause and think about that. You've got to be an example that encourages others You cannot see that. But the reality is there's a tremendous amount that is weighing on Timothy as he is being told to fulfill his duty. Teaching things to your kids. You'd have problems on your hands Alright? It's kind of interesting. Meditate upon these things. You need to have a character and you need to have a disposition that's very different than those people. The answer is no, he's not. If I as a dad It really can. Let me just say this. I'm so thankful that in the early days of their marriage, you've seen fit to plant them into our church family. He says, let no man despise your youth, but be an example of the believers in your conversation. He doesn't actually tell Timothy what the gift is We started getting into this The purpose of the section of the letter was to describe to Timothy the kind of man Okay? It actually works that way in every single area of life. Because of the way that he interacted with Paul. Father, we also thank for thank you for Sean and Hannah and thank you for bringing them to our congregation. However, you are in relation to this issue of athletics and If you love fitness, you're like That's his spiritual gift. That's why God gives you kids for so many years. A year? We've taught them well. And you've got to be faithful. These gifts are given to be exercised within Christian community. Because we've been locked up so long, we've not been able to do the things that we normally do. And over and over and over again, repeatedly, you teach your kids the same things. In fact, I would say that Timothy really is very difficult to define as far as his role in the church. And so if you want to kind of get caught back up in the pastoral epistles, I'd encourage you to go and look at And by the way, of those three, guess which one you get to do the most of? We teach them how to work. And by the way, it's interesting. Let's begin reading in verse number six, and we'll read down to verse 11. If you're not there yet, the day's coming. I had no idea I'd be a senior pastor. This is God's will for Timothy. There are challenges. And I'm encouraging you, don't neglect it. You're teaching them, hey, you need to brush your teeth They may not actually have understood what you're saying. You need to stoke up those flames in your soul again. When are you gonna read the Bible? Do you know how you're gifted? But the way that we develop those gifts is in service. You're the person God made you to be. The truth is this though, it's your duty. It's the same old gospel. You can't know how a person is gifted spiritually until you see them interact with people. There are traditions Paul tells Timothy, reject that. But he's going to remind them. The point is neither of those two issues. If you're not faithful, on that day there's going to be a problem for you Now I get to think about that a lot. Secondly, demonstrating those things to your kids I can do this. Continue in them Brush your teeth. He also refers to us as a body. Two years? That's not the point at all. It has functioning a pastoral team. In verse 6, he says this. We teach our kids so many things Paul loved to use athletic analogies. Because he was living in the ancient world where athletics was huge. Fight through those challenges. Timothy was a compassionate, godly young man. Help me to develop the disciplines that I need as a Christian. We've demonstrated in complete contradiction to what we've told them Or The athlete does that. Paul wasn't to or Peter was a The first statement is this. There's a lot writing on Timothy's ministry. We teach them something very simple like that. Why is that? You don't do it yourself. There's going to be a fallout. God wants us to be faithful, just like he wanted Timothy to be faithful. You as a husband They see that it's impacted you. You're not supposed to be Timothy. And he's going to remind them. You know, think about all areas of God's kingdom. Thank God that it takes kids a lot longer than that. But the point is this. When are you gonna get on your knees and pray? And then we're going to look at some very important details. I want to do this. God Amen. Don't be a victim of your circumstances. It has functioning deacons. And he's going to remind them. Paul talked about boxing. Why?