I got it all figured out. Because we need to be reminded. Is this where can there be room for pastoring then where a person given to administering whereas he might not be a good teacher but he Is this um the if thou, you know, I mean I think it's in Colossians where Paul said, if thou be risen with Christ, is this uh used as sin Some of them I'm going to dig into a little bit and some of them I'm going to not pass over, but I won't give you a lot of details in regard to those things. And let's keep in our minds what's going on. So the fact is that he had a lot that was going against him. is he's going to emphasize to him that even though he's a young man, and there are people that may look down on him because he doesn't have as much experience is to describe to Timothy the kind of man that he needed to be and the kind of duties that he must perform in order to be a good minister of Jesus Christ. But in the big picture, Paul is trying to encourage Timothy to be a good minister of Jesus Christ. And so let's talk a little bit about what it means to be a good minister of Jesus Christ. In verses 1 to 5, he describes the kind of false teacher that Timothy is going to encounter. Well, verses six down to verse sixteen is really a description of how Timothy needs to be as a person and how he needs to confront those issues and how he needs to deal with those issues. I know that there are people that are going to get saved even when I should have taken the gospel to them. that Timothy's going to do that. Later on he's going to say, if you do this, then you will save yourself and those who follow you. We totally drop the ball. The question is, what kind of salvation is Paul referring to when he talks to Timothy here? So let's move to a second section. And we can get to the place in our minds where we go, you know, I think I got all this stuff figured out pretty well. In other words, just like he needed to be a faithful minister as a dad, as a husband, as a wife, as someone who is maturing and eventually will be in those positions, how does this practically affect how I should look at those areas that God has placed me in? of the Christian minister. You know what's interesting. You'll have him talk about it for to the Colossians. Why is that? In other words, you can go to the gym and you can exercise and you can eat right, and you might be in better shape than everybody in your decade, but eventually you're all going to end up in the same place. You start realizing, you know, God has given me the tools to do this. It's something that really makes me thrive and I I want to do this more. you know, by yourself in your room. And then tell me if I'm right or wrong. And that's the person who's going to be the lead. Okay. 1 Timothy chapter 4, and we're going to be looking at verses 6 through 11, and we're also going to look at some of the content of verses 12 to 16 as well as we're dealing with this section. But refuse profane, old wise fables, and exercise thyself rather under godliness. For therefore we both labor and suffer reproach because we trust in the living God, who is the Savior of all men, especially of those that believe. These things command and teach, let no man despise thy youth, but be thou an example of the believers, in word, and conversation, and charity, and spirit, and faith, and purity. Till I come, give attendance to reading, to exhortation, to doctrine. Meditate upon these things, give thyself wholly to them, that thy profiting may appear to all. For in doing this thou shalt both save thyself and them that hear thee. That this young man had the integrity and he had the courage and he had the ministry gifts to be able to take care of the problems that were going on at Ephesus And so in spite of his position in life, in spite of his lack of years, we'll put it that way, Paul sends him there. That even though he's not an old man, he has a lot of maturity. Now you may be sitting here today going, well, then this is written for pastors. So he handpicks Timothy. He's not to let that bother that bother him. I'm a man at Anchor who I'm not a deacon, I'm not a pastor, I don't ever see myself being in one of those positions. And you say, this is not for me. But what we see is that the principles that are being taught to Timothy in this passage, they actually have tremendous impact on us and all kinds of relationships that we find ourselves in. The truth is, if you're a dad, then you have a relationship to young people that is very similar to that of a pastor with a congregation. You may very well find yourself in front of a Sunday school class. where we have a very similar role to that of the pastor. to be faithful in the same kind of way that he wanted Timothy to be faithful in the capacity that he placed him in. Judaizers, they're taking the Old Testament law and they're misapplying it to the Christians there in the church. Not get married. The reason that I draw your attention to that little phrase, if doubt, is because Timothy was responsible to fulfill his duties. Now I know that God is sovereign, okay? I know that when people are at key moments in their lives, there are times that maybe I should have spoken up and said something, or I should have handled something a certain way. God is sovereign. And those consequences can go on so many different levels. In other words, there's already problems at Ephesus because the people in leadership didn't handle things correctly. Okay? It's found also in verse 6. on this statement, God wants you to be a good minister. Statement number three, he also wanted Timothy to save himself and those who would hear him. You know what's interesting? He's going to save himself from something. And then you say, go set the table, and every time they did it that way, it doesn't work that way. That doesn't have God's authority on it. from one person to another and it doesn't bear God's authority, it's really something that is based upon assumption, a new idea. Yeah, as a pastor, I hear these things all the time. Now, where does that line of thinking come from? We worship together through song, we give, we pray, we do the Lord's table, we baptize those who have trusted Christ. And all of a sudden things are brought into the church to try to accommodate the culture. Well, it's not rooted in scripture. Look down in verse seven, he says this. But godliness is profitable unto all things, having the promise of the life that now is, and of that which is to come. Do the ordinances, preach the gospel, make disciples, worship God as he prescribes in his word. Now you know what's really interesting when Paul is writing this, he's not trying to dog on taking care of your body. to give you a strong, healthy body so that you live a little bit longer and so that you're able to do more things than you could have done otherwise. Or they're being cared for by their spouse. Yet they're growing in the Lord. You know, there was no room for the weak of heart or of body. In weightlifting, in wrestling, and boxing, they understood there was incredible, incredible discipline that was developed by people that were training for competition. And so when he talks about exercising ourselves unto godliness, he's saying, just like the just like the athlete gives all of his energy and all of their attention to developing their body for competition. Our own personal growth into Christ's likeness. You don't want to get close to people in the church or that you're ministering to. In other words, Timothy has to get shoulder to shoulder with the people that are in the church so that they can observe how he thinks and what he does and what he doesn't do. And that's what we find as his fourth duty. In fact, one of the things that Paul tells Timothy is that if someone is going to be a bishop, pastor, elder, then they have to be someone who's given to hospitality. No, it's so that when somebody needs compassion, you come alongside of them and you're compassionate. He's not going to handle the word of God like somebody who's a pastor. So when a guy is just learning how to preach and learning how to teach, yeah, we're gonna have to bear with that a little bit. Okay? If you have a leadership team and and they're and they're ordained pastors, then they have to all be truly gifted and they all have to function in the roles where they're uh where they're fitted. Yeah. Trying to fit in there. And you fit us for those those tasks. And all of a sudden, those gifts, it's like it's like there's rust there. an area of administration or whatever the area is. are more and and we're talking about a larger church, okay? Okay, if you could take your Bibles out, please. Thou shalt be a good minister of Jesus Christ, nourished up in the word of faith and of good doctrine, whereunto thou hast attained. having the promise of the life that is that now is, and of that which is to come. In a culture that put a huge weight on those who were older and seasoned, a person that was at his station in life. would have been considered a bit of a novice by a lot of folks in the culture. If you're a husband, you have a relationship with your kids, also with your spouse, where you have a relationship of spiritual oversight and spiritual authority and you need to be teaching God's word and be involved in a mentoring kind of relationship if you're a mother. Again, you find yourself in that kind of a position. So let's begin with the first section here. In verse 6, he says this, if thou. The question that we should ask ourselves and follow up to that is what balance does this passage indicate in relationship to church health and growth and spiritual maturity? the if prepositions. Okay? That we have tremendous opportunity. Thou shalt both save thyself and them that hear thee. He says this, put the brethren in remembrance. This duty is to remind people of the truth through balanced biblical teaching. But we have to continue to be reminded of the same things over and over and over again. We have to eat constantly. Okay? And you continue to get that nourishment from those things. But there's a day when all the exercise and all the nutrition isn't gonna matter. Well, they're not anymore. But godliness is different. You can visit somebody who is who's in a nursing home and they can't walk. He's saying you can give your energy to physical labor so that you become strong physically. I mean, let's remember that in the ancient world, when there was a conflict between nations or cities, all the men went to fight hand-to-hand combat. There was a huge emphasis on athletics, especially in Greek culture. They had a picture of people who were training to run, a marathon, to sprint. That means that you need to develop the discipline of getting on your knees and praying and I and everybody's minds what? We have to develop the disciplines of denying our flesh. But I will say this. He's saying you've got to allow them to get close to you, close enough that they can see how you live. In other words, how are you an example to somebody that you never really come in contact with? And you know what's interesting? Sometimes we get an opportunity to do something and it just it completely overwhelms us and we realize, you know what, the next time that opportunity comes, probably I shouldn't go down that road. He lets us suffer so that those who are mature and strong can teach those who are maturing and weak how to go through those things. But what I would have to assume is that he's talking about ministry gifts that God specifically gave to Timothy to fit him to do the work that he was going to do at Ephesus. Because that's not really the way I'm wired. And so God fits people for the purposes that he has for them. Or someone who has the ability to really administrate. But it hasn't been exercised. kind of area of expertise is. The gifts that God has given you. He puts people together who have the same giftedness but not the same level of maturity. You know, he talks about ordaining elders and deacons and churches and those kinds of things. will be a little bit different. need to be saved from something in a certain way. constantly be learning. Or as a parent, or as a Sunday school teacher, or as a teacher in a school, whatever your the area of spiritual oversight is, you are reminding people constantly of the truth. Now the word fable uh I think it kind of gives an idea of maybe something that uh You know, it's kind of interesting. It is true that Christianity as a culture, a part of our culture, is very much in decline. I mean, you know, people watch short video clips and you know if you're watching a show you have a commercial break every six, seven minutes. Exercise thyself unto godliness. He says, rather than refuse, he said, rather than following these old wise fables, exercise thyself unto godliness, for bodily exercise profiteth little. You know, every five, ten years, there's a different mentality on what to do, but the Bible's constant. It's profitable, but it's not profitable like godliness. That's just the way it works. They're continuing to bear the fruit of the Spirit. When we talk about the Isthian Games, we talk about the Olympics, they were huge in their culture. And there's going to be some pain and some suffering involved in that. In fact, I know in in some I when I was uh when I was in uh Bible college and I was in the ministerial class, that was actually kind of the the the way that we were taught. To fit the task that he calls them to within community, within the church. That's why the pastor meets with him and says, hey, let me tell you that illustration. And so this is the kind of thing that we need to see in the church. his forte is like, you know, I'm I'm just I'm good to go with what you guys think there. If, not since, if you do this, here's the consequence. The whole point of this section, all of the instructions and all of the conditions and all of the encouragements, and here are the things that will result if you do the right thing, it's all focused Not one. How are we supposed to see the church thrive and grow in those kinds of things? What is the responsibility of those in leadership? It's regulated by that. He says, reject old wives' fables. And the truth is, when we take those kinds of things, things that have no biblical authority, what we're beginning to do is we're beginning to build on a quicksand foundation. And that's the picture that Paul wanted Timothy to have. We have to develop our souls to grow into Christ's likeness. And if you're going to do that, you have to have good character. And so he's got to have good character because what people are going to see is going to be what's really there. And the truth is, one of the biggest things that this concept of example does is it encourages people who are discouraged thinking, I can't do this. And so it's not just that he's to teach and to remind, but he's to give a pattern. The gift that is in thee. Have you ever interacted with somebody and you're in a situation that you feel overwhelmed in and the closer that you got to them you began realizing they're dealing with the same kind of thing. You begin to go, you know what? These gifts are things that we have to use. Um but but the idea is that within that you're gonna have people that are gonna fit into certain categories of of aptitude and giftedness. You know, you could have a person that has been gifted, but you know, they go through a season of life where they kind of sit back and don't get involved anymore. And in almost every single context, it's in the plural. Almost always. that guy is much more fitted for that area of ministry as a deacon. Father, help us to see that the areas that you place us as ministers of the word and as spiritual overseers of people, those are all by your design. When I'm in a position to handle something a certain way and I don't handle it the correct way, there'll be consequences. In other words, people don't just hear it, but they see it. Reject methods that do not bear God's authority. The picture that comes to my mind is maybe a little different than what's intended here. In other words, as we draw from God's grace, we begin to be in a position to help others draw from God's grace too. I'll give you an example of getting some of our young guys to preach in other services. But it's not been exercised yet. And then I think I think Eric you're doing uh stuff with like IT and stuff. 1 Timothy chapter 4, verses 6 through 11. God works through means. So we want to see that there's a balance here. I mean think about when you had really small children, how many times you had to say the same things over and over and over again. And next week we're going to get into the sixth duty, which is developing a discipline of personal reflection. So he's saying if you do this, then you're going to be a good minister of Jesus Christ. That was the first duty that he mentioned. You can have a person whose body has failed them and they're still growing in the Lord. Over and over and over again, that repetition begins to enforce patterns. The truth is that that won't last. Observe. well are recruiting or dynamic with administration. All right. The third duty. Spiritual gifts are specific ways that God fits us to serve in the church. The second question is this. Because we constantly need to be reminded. Put the brethren in remembrance. So what does he mean by exercise thyself into godliness? That was one of the things that they're doing. What you eat, you're supposed to burn that energy. He may not teach as well or as as much as another, but he needs to have that ability. If he doesn't, then he's not going to save himself and those who are under his care. You know, there are some places where if you're in leadership, you kind of like you stay at a pretty significant distance from the people around you. And you see what they're doing and how they're handling it, and all of a sudden, you know what it does? No. He brings somebody else across the path of that person. You know what I'm talking about? I cannot think of one significant doctrinal matter in the Bible that isn't stated over and over and over again. And that's not spiritual giftedness, but that's a very practical thing. I'm good. And sometimes what's interesting is in the Greek construction it'll say if and the sense is, I'm not sure if you're going to, all right? In fact, we're going to look at several duties from this passage. Yeah, so when you're so whenever we look at whenever we look at uh the pastoral office in the New Testament Well let's go ahead and bow for a word of prayer and then we'll get our our prayer sheets out. Actually two. One of the things that we have to do as we get into the workplace, as we get into ministry opportunities, as we get into areas of life is we have to kind of learn like what we're fitted for. We can study the Bible and we can study it for decades upon decades Like we all there's a bell curve. If it's important, God says it over and over and over again. No, it's when people have need for sound instruction and wisdom and insight, they can talk to you and all of a sudden you begin to give them those things. And even within even within a group of deacons, quite honestly, you're gonna have areas where where Those three statements are very important. We need to be in church being fed. I guess I can just close my Bible, go home, because this isn't talking about the average person in the church. He says this, thou shalt be a good minister of Jesus Christ. The things that were trendy in the nineties, they're not anymore. It hasn't been worked. And so when you have that situation, you're gonna have people who are they're wired a little bit differently, and that means that the area where they're gonna serve in that leadership capacity And so if it's a if it's a healthy leadership, then you're gonna have, you know, some people that He says, there's nobody else that I am working with that I have more confidence in that's going to handle the situations that are in front of him the way that I would. I don't need to continue to learn. Clearly, Paul wants Timothy to personally interact with the people that he's ministering to. One of the things that we find, what we're now in the 21st century. And there are others that say, well, you know, it's it's a new time. They're doing it. It's so that you can teach people. Well, okay, so if can be in certain contexts. I've been there. He says, exercise thyself unto godliness. A good pattern to follow. That's not really what I'm what I'm gifted and fitted to do. Well, it comes from the Bible. I know that God can work in spite of my frailty and in spite of your frailty He didn't have to put us there. How does Timothy's good ministry have practical implications to my life You'll have him talk about it in Rome. Paul is writing to a young man, Timothy, and when we say that he was a young man, we really have no idea how old he was, but what we do know is this. We need to eat regularly. In other words, it's just a tradition that's passed down from mom to daughter, father to son. They're continuing to learn things about God. A fifth duty, constantly develop our spiritual gifts. There are a lot of different ways that they're misapplying the scripture. It's not it's not it's not rooted in anything that God said. We need to be reminded. You know, Mr. And he's going to save the people that are under his care from something. You can grow in godliness until the day that God takes you out of this world Okay, sometimes you gotta do a thing like that. There's E and and and A. He's going to be the one who's who's preaching regularly in the pulpit. God is sovereign and God rules, but God expects us to do what's right. I've done that. You get on social media and pastors talk about these things. They've not really developed in those areas yet. As that person is growing and maturing, that gift is developing and beginning to blossom. Not not a real small church, but where you where you really do have a a leadership team. The foremost responsibility of the Christian minister is to remind people of the truth. And it's amazing when when you talk about church culture trends, the things that were trendy in the eighties We're all gonna you know, we're gonna peak and then begin to decline. Well you say, well it didn't come from an old wife. In fact, he's not supposed to allow them to despise his youth, but he's to be an example and he's going to establish by his character and by the way that he lives Make your personal growth into Christ's likeness a daily practice. Jenny is the financial deacon, all right? And the truth is that Paul said to Timothy, you need to exercise your spiritual gifts. Let's turn to 1 Timothy, and we are now in chapter 4. The second duty is found in verse 7. When fleshly temptations come, we we deal with those things in a scriptural manner. Now it's interesting. I can do that. One of the things that God does in His grand wisdom for the church is He puts different people, different gifts, different aptitudes, He puts them all together You might say, well, I'm not married. You may find yourself teaching in the classroom. The first section is we want to look at three key statements that we find in the passage. He put us there by his grace. That means we have to teach. And physically they cannot do the things that they used to, not even close. Help us to trust you to do that and help us to be good ministers of Christ in those areas. The reality is as Christians, we also need to constantly be fed We need to be alone with the Lord in our own Bible study being fed. And so when he says, if you do this, Timothy, he's indicating something. They're continuing to invest in the lives of other people. He works through tools. We have the condition, we have the point. You've done that too. And we're going to talk about what that salvation is. In other words, we preach the word, we teach the word, we make disciples We see a fourth duty. You'll have him talk about a concept in First Timothy and Titus. Emphasis is in Greek is the Greek culture. Please don't ever get there. If he does, either he's amazing or the pastor's got problems. In fact, that's the phrase that I wanted to focus on. That means you might have to get up earlier than everybody else so that you can read your Bible. I mean he's a computer guy. It's sort of like you eat a huge meal one day, you're like, oh, I'm done for the rest of the month. Let's begin reading in verse 6. Neglect not the gift that is in thee, which was given thee by prophecy, with the laying on of the hands of the presbytery And so we're going to get into that a little bit as well, not so much tonight Okay? Another guy he's he's thinking it all out and he's working it all out. Not that we are pastors, but we're doing shepherding work. Let's change that. And when they see it, they go, oh, I get that. Look at verse number 12. They need to administrate something. This is the kind of thing that Paul is telling Timothy he needs to do. We have no indication that he was married, we have no indication that he had a family. You've got to keep a professional distance. The truth is, every single one of us, the closer you get to somebody, the more you see their flaws. We have to grow in them. Do you know how that really came across? And let's just do the basics. The things that were trendy when I was in college, when I got out of college, they're not trendy anymore. But one thing that was not against him was that Paul was absolutely confident That is true. And then you rest and your your body is, you know, goes through the process and all of a sudden you gotta eat again. That's the picture that God wants us to have. He doesn't ever talk about what the gift is that he has. And now now he is saying it in a way that he's assuming In other words, it's profitable for a moment. Yeah. You go into the battle and you're weak, guess what? What is that? The gift of mercy, is it so that you can just sit in your room and, you know, feel compassionate towards people? So he met with the elders at Ephesus. But the idea is if it's if it's a method They only know you in a truly professional sense. Verse 70 says, refuse old wives' fables. And guess what? You know, one of the reasons that God allows Christians to suffer, it's not because he's cruel and harsh and he wants to see us suffer. It's not being stretched and not being used. Yeah, another person is a better teacher, we might say Now that's just two words, but they're very important. It's not written for me. And there are some that would say, well, we need to go back to the basics and ask, what is a church? It came from a young pastor. Eventually it's gonna run out of time and your body won't continue to be able to do what it can do. For a 16-year-old or an 18-year-old or somebody that's 22 or 24, for the stage in life they're in, they have that giftedness. This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation. In fact, there are lots of times that God puts us in places We'll get into that later on in this study. And I think that that's what he's talking about. All right? So I mean we well, I guess a couple of you guys are computer guys, but but the idea is like we're But he describes those individuals and the kind of teaching and the kind of views that they have, and he's trying to help Timothy to be prepared to deal with that. They have to be cared for by nursing assistants. And especially as one who is ministering to other people, caring for their souls, it's so important that we don't neglect Opportunity. Verse 16. You know? It's understanding kind of how you're fitted. For bodily exercise profiteth little, but godliness is profitable on all things So we have different class conditions. And we'll ask the question, like, what does he mean by save himself? We're going to get into that. These gifts are given to be exercised within community. We're gonna have to give him a little bit of flex. You gotta do that. So in in almost all the situations that we find pastoral leadership, pastor, elder bishop, it's almost always a team of people. But basically in this situation he's saying We'll just go to the verse, we'll read the phrase, and then we'll talk about what that exactly means. Not constantly, regularly. And then you get another thing. I should have sat down with them. In fact, I really enjoy it He works through people. He wants him to be a good minister of Jesus Christ, and we have the result. And the truth is when you're in a position of spiritual oversight as a pastor, That is an example, in my opinion. He says this: Be thou an example of the believers. But you know what is also true? And we we seize those opportunities and we do very well with them. They're continuing to grow in a relationship with Him. And so he has somebody who's being mentored, maybe in an area like teaching or an And what about me? There are lots of different areas of life where God will place us for seasons, sometimes long seasons I understand salvation, I understand sanctification, I've studied eschatology, I've heard messages on the Sermon on the Mount, I've heard the teachings of Jesus. You know, just pick up the Wall Street Journal and people talk about this. But it's not just that we have these gifts. Good question. And it's interesting. That means we have to demonstrate what we teach Don't touch that. That word exercise was a very popular world word in their culture. But if someone is qualified to be a pastor, he has to be able to teach. And if we do the basics, God bless us. Personally interact with those to whom you're ministering so that they can observe Because he has a a background in that. It's interesting. God isn't blessed preaching like he used to You begin to draw strength from that. And and even you know, even within our deacons we've we've tried to do this where we have different areas kind of delegated to where people's Let me say that again. The fact is, it's not just that we need to continue to learn. This is an interesting statement. We can slow the decline physically, but we can't we can't stop the decline. It's the truth. My mind wanders, trust me. He's to give an encouragement. Now when we get to this passage of Scripture, there are actually quite a few very interesting interpretive discussions that we find in these verses. Because God wants us all And as we were talking about that, we saw that these are primarily He says, I want you to not fumble the ball when you take it. And guess what? We actually have to mature in them. In other words, God fits people with gifts and abilities. I'm a lady at anchor. Or I'm a deacon, but I'd never be a pastor. But there's a really serious weight on this responsibility that's there. He's a hipster It's based on some person's opinion and idea. And the point is that when he talks about exercising, they knew what that meant. Or if you're a teacher, you keep a professional distance. No, I have no idea. Alright, section number two. And that's what he's trying to say. But there's a very small profit there compared to exercising unto godliness. They can understand how you think. Anyone else? Yeah. They're also uh encouraging people to On the other side, if you don't do this, you will be a poor minister of Jesus Christ Put the brethren in remembrance. I mean, wouldn't it be great if you just told your child one time, like, okay, this is how you set the table? It's profitable In other words, we need to give careful attention to developing spiritual disciplines. Verse 14. Take heed unto thyself and unto the doctrine. God will bring somebody else across their path. The way that that Timothy was wired and the way that he was gifted was something that God fitted him for to do exactly what he was going to do. Well, one day you very well likely will be married. You need to be responsible. He expects us to be responsible, and we have to make right decisions. For in doing this Oh, they'll never touch it again. In other words, church life is focused on what the Bible says we're supposed to do. He needs to be a person who actually spends time with folks. You're terrified to do it. Now, this is the honest truth. In the 21st century, there's a lot of discussion about how in the United States churches are in the decline. But let me read the whole little section there and comment on it. Our Father, we ask that you'll help us to really grow in the Lord as a church and as individuals. If thou put the brethren in remembrance of these things, So first of all, I want to draw your attention to kind of a summary here of chapter 4, verses 1 to 5 It's the same, preach the word, get on your knees. He is saying people who are saved positionally Reject methods that do not bear God's authority. You're not coming home. But the idea is that a person may have the ability to teach. In fact, that's really what the purpose of the section is all about. It's a healthy thing for us to listen to preaching and teaching on a regular basis. Okay? A person has the gift of discernment, is it so that you can just philosophize and And I think that that will be a really interesting discussion. In fact you have to. It's to remind people of the truth through balanced biblical teaching. You'll have Paul talk about it in Ephesus. Good question. And the fact is that when I'm in a position to make a decision and I make the wrong decision, there are consequences. And so people ask the question, what are we supposed to do? So people don't have the ability to sit down for thirty or forty or fifty minutes and listen to a sermon anymore. You have another person who he is clear clearly the more gifted preacher. We're talking about the Greek if. Okay. Sometimes they're gonna say things they they they didn't think that through. When he says that it profits little, he's saying Fully dependent physically on other people. Huge emphasis. If they're sitting down and they're discussing, you know, a calendar, one guy that might not be his You'll have Peter talk about the same concept over and over and over again. And then we remind them again and again and again and again. And so Paul is telling Timothy, look, you need to not neglect And you'll find the first one in verse number six. The main duty Why is that? Well, it is true on one level that this is written primarily to someone who's in a pastoral role. You don't want to do it. Go back and watch the video. And one of the things that he's going to do in this passage No, it doesn't work that way. And yours does too. All right, that's it's one or the other. He needs to be able to communicate the word. Timothy, you might not. That's an example of what he's telling him not to do. You couldn't administrate a church of three hundred people with one person. They can see you respond in situations For the sake of our time, I'm going to stop on that one, spiritual gifts. He says, neglect not It's the way it goes. In other words, spiritual gift for instance the gift of teaching. And it also can be sense. If you're done for the rest of the month, you're done for the rest of the month. And in spite of the way that I fumbled the ball It's outside your comfort zone. It's not rooted in Scripture. But my my main purpose as we deal with this is to get the big picture Or, you know, I love being in Sunday school, but I don't want to teach Sunday school That means they spend time with people, they rub shoulders with them, they interact with them. There are other times Because your body's processing it A guy who's 18, who gets up to preach, You need to do what's right. Okay? Continue in them We're taking care of the souls of people that are under our care. I cannot think of one. We have to develop the disciplines of doing those things. The the fact is that the prevailing thought changes constantly Like That's just the way that it is. Yes? If he did not do it, there would be serious consequences. But especially when a church is larger, you have those situations. It's an interesting question, but we'll get into that. That's the second thing that he emphasizes here And if you don't do the right thing, there'll be problems But you get involved in that and all of a sudden you start seeing something. That is true. And so If he is The first duty we're going to find is found in verse 6 The point you have a question or yeah, what's your question? He's traject those things. All right. We ask these things in Christ's name. We have a second statement. An example. That's really how it goes But in this situation I think it's if Is the gift of teaching just so you can sit in a room and talk to yourself? Nobody would handle it like Timothy It's just it's not practical. You ever had a situation like that? But that's a good question, Bruce. Why is that? We've got to change things up a bit. Do you know what I'm talking about? Amen. As you do it Go ahead. It really isn't.