Okay, well the passage we're going to be addressing tonight is 1 Corinthians chapter 6, and we are looking at verses 12 through 20 tonight. And uh my plan is to tonight to basically be looking at the approach that Paul is taking to address a very unique topic, one that we probably wouldn't think about in our current context, but was actually a really big deal in their context. So tonight my goal is for us to actually look at how Paul addresses the issue Because I think it's very important for us to understand the way he goes about it. And then, Lord willing, after that, on other weeks, we're going to look at the actual doctrinal points that he makes as he addresses this issue. And so tonight the topic we're addressing is a gospel -centered approach to Christian ethics. A gospel Centered approach to Christian ethics. And the passage, again, is 1 Corinthians chapter 6. We'll begin in verse 12. Here's what it says. All things are lawful unto me. But All things are not expedient. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be brought under the power of any. Meats for the belly and belly for meats, but God shall destroy both it and them. Now, the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body. God had both raised up the Lord and will also raise up us by his own power. Know ye not that your bodies are the members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them the members of an harlot? God forbid! What know ye not that he which is joined to a harlot is one body? For two, saith he, shall be one flesh. But he that is joined unto the Lord is one spirit. Flee fornication. Every sin that a man doeth is without the body, but he that committeth fornication sinneth against his own body. But What know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you, which ye have of God, and ye are not your own For ye are bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit which are God's All right, the passage in front of us is addressing a topic that uh probably had never heard preached on in this uh place, at least not as a uh a topical study, I'll say that. But one of the great blessings about going through, or one of the great challenges, and one of the great importance of going through the Bible verse by verse, chapter by chapter, is that you cover everything that's there. You go right into every single topic that is addressed in the text. And you ask the question, why was that particular issue addressed? So in order for us to do this in a careful manner, I want to begin with some introductory thoughts that I think will be helpful to the topic tonight. A few observations about our general approach in our church to preaching and teaching. I'm going to tell you on the front side what we attempt to do. And then we're going to look at this passage, and I think what we're going to see in this passage is that it gives it a great pattern for how we're supposed to go about doing that. So a couple of distinctions about how we try to handle the word of God in our church. The first distinction is what we call expositional preaching. Now I think a lot of people think that expositional preaching is kind of like a running commentary. It's like we're talking about the Bible. That's not what expositional preaching is. What expositional preaching is, is taking a text of Scripture and digging into the actual details of the text within the context and asking the question: what was the divine intent that was moving Paul or Peter or whoever God was using to write the words of Scripture in that text, what was the intent for the people at the time. Why was this written? Okay? And as we understand that, then we go to explaining those details and then applying them in a very pointed manner. Preaching involves persuasion. Preaching involves compelling people to respond to the text of Scripture. So what we're saying is that what is in the text is going to determine what we're going to say to you. So, when I'm looking at a passage of scripture, if I'm If I'm explaining it and you're like, I don't see anything there that has anything to do with what you're saying, then that's not biblical preaching But when you're looking at the past and you're like, yeah, that seems to be following the logic of what is being laid out. That's the intent. That's the focus. That's what's being stated, then we're doing it the right way. The question is why? Well, because God's word is the final authority. It's the supreme authority, not men's opinions. It's supposed to be the Word of God that stands as the final authority for rule in the church. And so when we just pick a bunch of topics I'm the one who's coming up with it based on what I think people need to hear, or maybe what I want to say to somebody. But when the scriptures are just laid out before you week in and week out, then You hear things as regularly as the Bible addresses them. And you're hearing them framed in the way that the Bible addresses them. And they're being argued the way that the Bible addresses them. And this is going to be very important for us to look at this evening. The second detail is what we would say is distinctly Christian preaching. What I mean by that is that the gospel and our position in Christ are the central motivations that should drive us to application. We're not simply saying, don't do this because it's bad. Do this because it's good. We say do this because of who you are. There's a really big difference between those things. And you're going to see that as Paul works his way through this argument. He's going to argue from a distinctly Christian perspective. He could have simply said, prostitution's bad. Don't do it. Don't be involved on either side of those issues. He could have said that, and it's true. He could have said it's bad for your physical body and just left it at that. It's bad for society and just left it at that. But that's not the way that he argues. He says, do you not know that your body is the temple of the Spirit of God, and he dwells within you? Do you not realize that your body is the member of Christ? So he's going to make his argument in a distinctly Christian manner, not just a moral and ethical manner, but a distinctly Christian. gospel-oriented manner. And so when we preach expositionally, we should find a lot of gospel-oriented application because the gospel is at the heart of everything we see in the Bible. Third thing. It's not simply moralistic. What I mean by that is we do not approach the scripture like it's a rule book or a roadmap. And I know that those are analogies that sometimes we hear use. I'm not saying they're completely horrible. But the Bible is not meant to just be a rule book. Here is, you know, 10,000 things that you're supposed to either not do or do And that's the way the Bible's written. The Bible is written as a story. It's God's interaction with humanity, and it's driving from the promise of a Redeemer, to the fulfillment of a Redeemer, to the implications of the Redeemer. All of that is built in. And what we are seeing as we read the Bible is who God is. How he deals with people, how we can be reconciled to him. And so it's not just about being a good person. It's about being reconciled to God and walking in holiness because of who you are in Christ. not just some moralistic do's and don'ts. And then the fourth thing I want to mention here is there's a pastoral theology side to this. What I mean by that is that theology should drive us to a deeper love for God and a practical commitment to walk with Him. And what's really interesting to me about the way the Bible is written is the Bible is not written as a systematic theology. And that's how we tend to think. Like, okay, let's talk about the doctrine of the Bible. Let's break down all these truths about the Bible. And I'm not saying that's bad. I mean, in our Sunday school class, we're talking about new mythology, the doctrine of the Holy Spirit. But you do not see theology being presented in that way in the Bible. It is being given in a very pastoral way. You have problems, you have issues. And so what does Paul do? What does Peter do? He takes a biblical theology centered on the gospel, and he takes those truths and he expounds them in a very pastoral manner. And so when we read the Bible and when we work our way through the scriptures, that pastoral theology is something that should come out. So that's in the front side. That's an introduction. From that, I want you to see how those key pieces that we try to drive through or drive to are really the pattern I think that we see in the text in front of us. So now let's move to a couple of basic observations about this passage itself. First thing I want to say here is this. The section in front of us provides a hinge between two different themes. For instance, look down in your Bible at chapter 5, verse 1 and see how it starts. It says, it is reported commonly that there is fornication among you, and such fornication not so much as is named among the Gentiles. So what is Paul saying? I'm writing this to you because I've been told that this is going on in the church. All right? It's a report Then go to chapter 7, verse 1, and notice how he starts it. He says, Now, concerning the things whereof you wrote unto me, it is good for a man not to touch a woman Now that is stated differently. One is I've heard some things and I need to address them. The other is you have questions for me. I'm an apostle and you've written to me and now I'm going to answer your questions So you can see there's a very pastoral element here. There is the concern to confront those who are not doing right, and there is the concern to answer the questions of those who really do want good, solid biblical answers. This passage sits between the two of them because we really can't tell which of those two categories it actually fits into. The way that Paul handles this issue is slightly different than what he has said previously and what he will say later on. And so the first theme is, here's what he's heard. The second theme, here are the questions that you have written to me, here are your answers. So what is Paul's dominant concern in these verses? Well, look down in verses 13 through 15 and you'll get the answer. He says, now, the body is not for, and what's the word? Fornication, but rather for who? The Lord. You skip down a couple more verses there. He says, Know ye not your bodies are the members of Christ. Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them the members of a harlot, God forbid? What is the dominant concern that Paul is addressing? Why is it wrong for Christians to go to the temple and be engaged in the temple prostitution that everybody else in their city is involved in? Now everybody sitting here is going, I never thought about a question like that. We don't seem to have that problem here. We don't have idle temples to worry about. And uh I think Prostitution is still considered illegal. I'm not sure what the situation is here in Maryland. I know that people are pushing against this, but it doesn't seem like something that you would have brought up a lot in the church in context, does it? But that was a huge issue in Corinth Because you had a very permissive view when it came to sexual ethics. In fact, Corinth was known to be a very licentious city. And it was very common, it was very accepted that people were totally fine with their neighbors going into those temples. and being engaged with those who were involved in prostitution. Had absolutely no problem with it. And so Paul's going to address the issue. The dominant concern is why is it wrong for Christians to be involved in such an issue? So that leads me to his approach. How does he go at addressing this issue? Well, in some of the other cases that Paul has addressed, he's extremely direct about something that appears to be actively going on in the church. For instance, look down in verse chapter 5, verse 1. It is reported commonly there is fornication in the church. Obviously, it's happening when he writes the letter. Chapter 6, verse 5. He says, I speak this to your shame. It is so. Is there not a wise man among you? So the way that he's writing, it appears it's very clear that people are taking their neighbors, their brothers and sisters in Christ into the law court, and they're abusing them through the legal system. The corruption that was built in within the system there in Corinth. They were exploiting that to take advantage of people they wanted to ruin and they wanted to get even with. Verse 7. There is uh chapter 6, verse 7, there is utterly a fault among you. So in these situations, he's direct. In fact, when this letter was read, everybody in the church would have known exactly who he was talking about when they read the letter. Whoo, think about that. Paul has a letter to read to us for us to be read. And so the uh the elders get up there, the the the the man who handles the word every single week, he steps into the pulpit and he says, let's see what Paul has to say. It's reported commonly there's fornication among you. And everybody's like, there is? What's he gonna say about this? And he's he's real direct I speak this to your shame. Is there not a wise man among you that can help these people that are going to the law court? And it's like, well, you know who's doing that? What's the point? And most of these issues, there are people that were either getting angry or getting quite embarrassed because they knew exactly who they were and what was going on. But in this situation , we're not totally sure. There might have been some people doing this and nobody was talking about it. But Paul's going to address the issue. And so he says, now the body is not for fornication. Does not it does not indicate that I know there's some people doing this right now This is a general area that you need to be aware of. That's the idea. Another thing I want to mention here is that he could have very easily said, obviously it's sin, don't do it. End of story. But he takes a much more a much more helpful approach. I would say it's all encompassing. Paul is going to take this issue and he's going to break it down and say, let me show you how serious and how unchristian this particular behavior is. In fact, one of the things that I think would be helpful to us sometimes when it comes to this issue of sin As if we were to pause and we were to kind of break down and ask ourselves, what am I really doing here? This behavior That I can so easily involve myself in what am I actually doing here? What am I actually saying here? What is at the heart? What is at the root of this particular pattern of behavior? That's what Paul is doing. He's going to address excuses that are commonly being made in their culture and probably are a part of the thinking of the church itself. He's going to address the issue on the level of foundation. And he's going to make three basic arguments. The first one is in verse 15. Your body belongs to God. Simple. Your body belongs to God. Second argument, the sexual union is sacred and should never be treated lightly. Verses 16 through 18 Also in verses 16 through 18, your body is God's temple. So we're going to actually address those one by one at another time, but I want us to keep looking at his approach. So, I'll summarize the text in the following way. Christian ethics starts with our position in Christ, should be motivated by our understanding of that position. How do we see this play out in the passage in front of us? Well the first thing I want to draw your attention to is this issue of self-deception And how dangerous and how powerful a motivator self-deception is. The truth is, all of us come to the Bible with bias at times Especially if we're harboring within our hearts some kind of sinful behavior or pattern. If we have an affection for something that we should not There'll be times that we read the Bible , and we explain away what we don't want the Bible to point directly into our lives and say, why are you doing this? You know better. You know this is inconsistent with your position. Why are you thinking this way? And so because of our love, affection for what is wrong, We are unwilling to look objectively at what the scripture says. We are masters of creating excuses. I'm saying this in a very general sense. So we need to have a very clear-eyed view of human nature. Notice some of the things that Paul says here. Look down in your Bible at verse number 12. It says, all things are lawful for me. Why does Paul make that statement? The reason that Paul more than likely made that statement. Is that there are people in the church that had certain behaviors that they knew were wrong. And what they basically said is: since I am under grace , It really doesn't matter what I do. By the way, Paul makes the exact same, he deals with the exact same argument in Romans chapter 6. He says, shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? He says, God forbid. Why did he do that? Because there are some people that were like Well, if God's grace is magnified , when he forgives my sin, then the greater I sin, the more the grace of God is magnified. The more he's forgiven me of, well, it makes him look better, doesn't it? Now what a twisted viewpoint. Paul's saying, should a Christian ever think in such a way? You say, well this sounds like like a junior high boy that's trying to argue with his Bible teacher or something like that. Or his mom or his dad. Okay. Or you got you got a key a freshman in in college and they want to like get into an ethical discussion with somebody. And so they're gonna argue some point, you know, or Maybe maybe this would be something you see uh like on a reel or something. I don't know. But but but here is the statement. All things are lawful for me. I can do whatever I want because I'm under grace. Now, is the Christian under grace? Yeah, he is. Are his sins forgiven? Is he cleansed? Of course he is But how could we who are dead to sins live any longer therein? Do you see how he takes truth and he applies it to that terrible question? A very biased question. A question that's meant to justify sinful behavior. So someone can just appease their conscience Second question, look down in verse 13. This is a really interesting one. And by the way, this is and this statement right here is just as relevant in our culture today as it was thousands of years ago in Corinth. Meats for the belly and the belly for meats. What do you think he's saying there? Well, bodily desires are natural. And so if I have a natural bodily desire, how could it be wrong for me to satisfy that bodily desire? In our current cultural situation, maybe another way to put it is love is love. What's wrong with somebody loving who they want to love? What's wrong with somebody just following their desires, following their heart, doing what feels good to them? It's natural for them. So what's the problem? Bodily desires are natural, but bodily desires are also fallen. We, as fleshly people , have God given design , God created us with appetites, and those appetites get distorted so very, very quickly. You could talk about, I mean let's let's do a real safe one like like eating too much. Okay? Do we need to eat to survive? Of course we do. But we don't need to eat as much as maybe sometimes we do to survive. We don't need to eat all the things that we eat sometimes. In fact, a lot of people are destroying their bodies by what they put in because they have this hungering, this craving for it. That desire that is natural has been twisted. To be now something that's very detrimental. Obviously, in this particular passage, he's talking about sexual desire. God created men and God created women. And God created us with the natural sexual desires that we have. Why did he do that? Because he wanted there to be a man and a woman, and he wanted there to be a union, and he wanted there to be children in the context of covenant marriage. Okay? If we didn't have those desires, people wouldn't get married, they wouldn't have kids, and the human race wouldn't continue on So what did God do? He created us with those desires. But the bottom line is when you take a God-given natural desire and you pull it outside of the context for which he created it, then you do something very dangerous. Very detrimental, very damaging, very destructive to individuals, to society. You just continue on. And so the point is, these people were saying, well, you know, The the belly, you know, meets for the belly and the belly for me to have these desires. Why can't I satisfy them? A third example Verse 13, this is a really fascinating one. God will destroy both it and them. What are they saying here? Hey, this body is gonna it's gonna die one day. This body is going to be destroyed anyway. Why does it matter what I do with it? This body is going to be laid in a grave, and this body is going to turn back to dirt So if I sin in this body, who cares? It's the physical, not the spiritual. As long as I'm not doing anything in the spiritual realm, it's just the physical realm, I'm okay. He says, guess what? Very flawed thinking. Interestingly, this is kind of giving us a little bit of a precursor for what he's going to address in 1 Corinthians 15. Because he's going to talk about the fact that this corruptible must put on incorruption, this mortal must put on immortality, and then will be brought to pass as saying death is swallowed up in victory. And then he says, based on the resurrection For this reason, therefore, you should be steadfast and movable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. You know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. And so he really makes the argument that because this decaying body is going to die And we're going to receive a glorified body. We're supposed to live for God in this body now. It actually matters. God cares about the physical. If we didn't care about the physical, we wouldn't have bodies in eternity, but we're going to have bodies in eternity. That's what he wants. And so we see the flawed thinking. And then the fourth, verse 18. Every sin that a man doeth is outside the body. If it doesn't affect my inner man, then it doesn't matter. I'll give you another type of, we could say, justification that people will do. It's similar but slightly different. Well, I didn't take action on it. It was just something I thought about. I mean, yeah, I wanted to do it. Yeah, I thought about doing it. And yeah, I would do it if I had a chance, but you know I'm not gonna do it because I don't want to deal with the terrible consequences of actually acting on that. So I'm good. I didn't do it, right? And what does Jesus say? Well, you've heard it said, don't commit adultery, but I tell you, if you look on a woman and you lust after her, you committed adultery in your heart. You've heard it said, don't murder, but I tell you, if you hate your brother without a cause, you've committed murder in your heart. What's he saying? He's saying it's not just the physical act of sin, it's the internal as well. And so Paul brings up these issues because these are the justifications that are commonly being reported to him in the city of Corinth and within the context of the Corinthian church. By the way, if anyone ever says, I wish we were a first century church, whew, I'm glad I'm not pastoring that one. That would have been rough. Every time in history, every culture has had unique ways to justify sinful behavior through twisting what has partial truth. into something that is very, very dishonest. Our culture is not any different. Let me give you some examples. You've always, I'm sure we've all heard the phrase, follow your heart. The heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked who can know it. Now, there is a nugget of truth here, okay? I I think as a general rule Well honors God. If you want to do it, go do it. I'm serious. You know, people like, who should I marry? Let wisdom, biblical principle, and what you want dictate who you marry. I think that should just make good sense, all right? Don't don't marry somebody that you're not interested in, young men, all right? You might have to convince a young lady who's not interested you initially to marry you down the road. But uh you'll have to do the work down the road, guys, all right? Follow your heart. Be your authentic self. Now here here's what is positive. Should people be hypocrites? Of course not. Should they be genuine? Should they be consistent? Absolutely. But that kind of a statement will be used to justify, well, this is the real me. I'm a I'm a man and a woman's body The real me is the man inside the woman's body. You know, past generations would have listened to such a statement and gone, what? What are you talking about? Yet it seems to make sense to people in our culture today Because that's authenticity. Follow your own path. Don't worry about what others think. Hey, you know, the Bible does say the fear of man brings a snare It does. But it also says the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. The bottom line is that I should care about what God says. I shouldn't care what other people say, but I should be committed to doing what I know to be right in the eyes of a holy and righteous God. Stay true to yourself, do what feels right for you, things like that. My point is this, these statements. if taken in a certain direction, have elements of truth to them. But these very same statements can be used to justify clearly very destructive, very sinful Very serious behavior. Second truth, I don't think I'm going to get much further here, but that's okay. Ideas have to be critiqued and confronted with truth. There's got to be an absolute standard. There has to be an absolute standard. Your thoughts and your feelings are not an absolute standard. Public opinion is not an absolute standard. The scripture is the standard that we've got to submit ourselves to. And this is extremely important because what Paul's going to do as he addresses the big issue and as he addresses these excuses that people are using is he's going to take truth from Scripture He's going to lay it up right beside these statements that are not valid justifications for action. And he's going to say the standard has to be applied here. Standard has to be applied. He answered all these objections with statements of truth. And this is very similar to what Paul did in the Sermon on the Mount. You've heard it said, but I say to you, what is Jesus saying? Hey, you know, your rabbis are saying this about the scripture. They're interpreting it in this way. The predominant thinking of first century Judaism was not biblical. As people got up and they opened up the scriptures, Rolled it out. And they read those scriptures and then they began to explain them and apply them. They were not applying them as they were intended to be understood. Instead they were bringing in all these rabbinical traditions and they were arguing about all these little things that had nothing to do with the scriptures and they were creating ways to justify their sinful behavior. And there was no group that Christ was more aggressive with, more combative with, more, I even use the word angry with. and forceful than those who are leading people astray because they were teaching the doctrines of men as opposed to doctrines of Scripture. And so Jesus says, you've heard this said, but I'm going to tell you, this is the correct interpretation of those particular concepts. What is he saying? He's saying you need to understand this the way it was intended when God gave it through Moses and David and whoever he used. And I also add this. He's also saying, I have the right to make such applications because I'm God. That's what he's also saying. But Paul is doing something similar yet different. Similar in the sense that he's appealing to a higher standard. He's not the standard. Scripture is the standard And so I want you to notice some examples here. Chapter 6, verse 12. He says, All things are lawful for me, but not all things are expedient. But I will not be brought into the power of any. What's he doing? He's saying, here's a little saying that you're giving. So that you can justify your behavior. But I'm telling you, just because you can and just because you can justify it does not mean It is appropriate. Doesn't mean that you have, you could say, the right authorization to do what you're saying you are going to do. God says no. You say it's lawful, but guess what? This is going to dominate your life. This is going to become something that weighs down, and it's going to control you, and it's going to become something that That you are a slave to. And that's what he means when he says, I'll not be brought into the power of any. He says, I'm not going to be a slave that serves my flesh. Through these kinds of temptations, he says, no, I serve Christ. Do you see what he's saying? Here's your slogan. Here's truth. Verse 13, meats for the belly, belly for meats. Verse 13, God will destroy both in them. He says, But the body's not for fornication, but for the Lord. Your body is not your own, it's God's. But the Lord is for the body. This is a really interesting statement. It's not just that your physical body belongs to him. So these aren't your hands, these aren't my hands, these are his hands. This is his mind. He's entrusted it to you. You're to manage it. You're to use it for his glory. It doesn't belong to you. It's supposed to be submitted to him. He's redeemed you. This is all gospel-centered if you think about it. Because he's redeemed you, you belong to him, he's forgiven you, he has liberated you from being a slave to sin. Now you're a servant of Christ. Your body is not for fornication, the Lord is for your body. In other words, he's saying, God's actually for what is good for you. Kind of interesting to think of it that way. He's good. He designed everything. If God has created something And he has a design for that thing, and he has a purpose for that thing. Why in the world would I ignore him and what he has to say about it and go try something entirely different? Makes no sense. And so when he says the Lord is for the body, he's saying God is for you doing things his way because that's what's best for you. God will raise us up by his power. He says, don't forget there's a resurrection. I'm going to stop there because there's a lot more to say But I want you to notice this pattern. What is Paul ultimately doing here? What Paul is doing is he is taking the questions and the struggles and the issues of his time. And instead of just giving a very simple answer, don't do this. Yes, do this. It's good. Don't do this. No, it's bad. Paul says, I want you to step back. And I want you to develop real discernment. I want you to think like a Christian. I want you to think like a wise person. I want you to see the foundation and the root that is under the surface of that behavior and that pattern. And I want you to step back and I want you to see it as it is. I want you to see it as God sees it. And when you see it like he sees it, you'll want nothing to do with it. When you'll see it like he sees it, you'll say, I want to choose what is good and wholesome and righteous, and I want to reject what is destructive and enslaving and harmful. What's he saying? You need a good sense of sound doctrine. You need to interpret the scriptures accurately. You need to see human nature the way that it is. You need to make sure that you're not duped by the lies of society. Even Christians. I mean, we live in a culture. We're influenced by our culture. There are concepts and ideas that we wrestle with that other generations wrestled with quite differently than we do. If we could take someone who lived three hundred years ago and plop them in the United States right now and let them walk around and see what they see, they'd be like, what in the world has happened to humanity? They'd be blown away by what they see. They really would. And so there's a lot of things that we're blinded to because of the times that we live in. We need discernment. We need to richly apply scripture and sound doctrine. We need to live consistent with who we are in Christ. And so, Lord willing, next week we'll come back to this text, keep working our way through what's in front of us. But ultimately, what we want to do is we want to take the doctrines that Paul has given here. That are at the foundation and the root of what is right behavior. We want to understand that. And we want to recognize that these doctrines have application beyond This one issue. In fact, the applications go into so many different areas. Because foundation, foundation establishes this strong standard that can go here and here and here, all different ways. And that's what makes the Word of God so profound. It's so important for us. Let's bow for a word of prayer. Ask the Lord to help us to develop that discernment. Lord, I thank you for your word. Think about the way that Paul took this topic, this issue, that was a real-life first-century problem. And the way that he broke it down to the core issues. Our bodies don't belong to us. Our bodies are the members of Christ. Our body is the temple of the Spirit of God. Father, help us to recognize how serious it is. When we throw caution to the wind, we walk into sinful behavior without considering implication at all. Help us to be wise, discern. Help us to be deep lovers of you. Help us to be practical lovers of God. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.