You're going to go, oh yeah, I remember we talked about that because that was something that was addressed earlier in the book. And it's an interesting illustration. So the way that a spiritually matured person looks at Christian ministry is going to be shaped a certain way. Don't be puffed up. I heard this preacher. Well, Paul, you're just you're being a wimp of a minister. Let's just do church the way that God said to do it. Whether or not people agree with you, or whether or not people um honor what you're doing, or they or they think that you're wasting your time. We tend to think of the pastoral epistles, 1 Timothy, 2 Timothy, Titus. What they're basically saying is we're very concerned about our associations and who people identify us with as far as other people in ministry. The most important things are not how people perceive what we're doing or how people associate us with others. And that is how these people were moving. and how people perceive them, and they're very concerned about how worldly people think about what they are saying. Why didn't you pick Pharisees? So you see those things right there. Then the second topic is Christian ministry, how it is being compared to someone who works in the production of agriculture. And this is going to get into the issue of the judgment seat of Christ in verses 10 through 15. Therefore, Paul addressed four ministry topics to confront the church's flawed approach to this vital issue. It affects how they look at Christian doctrine. But rather, as unto carnal, he is not making the suggestion that he believes that the church is all full of unbelievers. So he actually talks about three kinds of individuals in the church. Everybody in the church knows about it. That's the way we're supposed to be as Christians. Let God work in them, you know? of like good judgment on some things, you know? I mean they may be like pretty brass or like they may say some kind of odd things and you're kinda like, ooh, I don't know about that. That's what Paul means when he says, I could not speak unto you as into spiritual. I mean he was kind of an evangelist. can flow right out of what we talked about tonight. 1 Timothy 3, not a striker, not greedy, a filthy lucre, patient, not a brawler, not covetousness. But may there always be a faithful congregation in this place. The gathering of the church is sing hymns, pray together as a congregation, preach the word, practice the ordinances. to go to a mission field or to come on staff at our church. From 1 Corinthians 3. Okay, tonight we are back in 1 Corinthians, and we are looking at chapter 3, and uh what I'm gonna do this evening is I'm going to read the entire section, which is a little bit lengthy, but we're really just going to focus our attention on the first part of it. And I want to kind of give you a little bit of an overview of this section, 1 Corinthians 3 verses 1 through 15, just so you can kind of understand what the main topic is and how those sub pieces all fit together and what Paul. And not with meat. For while one saith, I am of Paul, another I'm of Apollos, are ye not carnal? Even as the Lord gave to every man, I have planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the increase. four we are laborers together with God. But let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon. If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss, but he himself shall be saved, yet so as by fire. Now, like I said, this is a pretty lengthy passage. So the first thing that I wanted to mention is that the Corinthian church's view of ministry was extremely unhealthy. Some of the things you say. And when we talk about this topic of ministry, Paul is going to be very concerned about. Part of this unhealthy view of ministry was that they were consumed with perception, how people viewed them. Now you say, well, isn't that what a lot of Christians do? And I want you to kind of go back and think about some of the things that have already been talked about in the book. So when the world thinks about the cross, it says that the preaching of the cross is to those who are perishing foolishness. They're going to speak softly about the cross. good logical reasoning abilities. But that's not why God chooses people. And so he makes that point. Let's follow Paul because out of all the people we've ever had teach in the synagogue, he's the most educated, he's the most impressive, he's the most persuasive. And so that moves us to kind of the content of this section that we're looking at over the next several weeks. Lord willing, tonight we will get through the first of those four topics. So let's summarize it and then dig into the first topic. It says, and I, brethren, could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal. And it could be that a person has a flawed perspective and how they're leading in the congregation. Most certainly not everyone agrees with everything that they hear in a Sunday school class or in a sermon. I want to talk to you like you're spiritually mature, but you're not. They don't have spiritual maturity. carnal or we could say fleshly, that's what dominates their mentality, that's what dominates how they interact with people. The spiritually mature, the fleshly, and the immature. There is a fleshly attitude. If it works, I do it. I knew that there are all kinds of difficult situations that we can get ourselves involved in. We're supposed to extend grace and mercy and love to people. Not submission to the authority of Christ, not the work of the indwelling spirit. And we see this here. They're actually being discipled. Why is that? But but one of the people that you're dealing with is truly fleshly in the way they approach things. Hey, you know, you probably should swallow your pride and you should apologize. Because a person's mind is so self-centered that anything you do is wrong. They're equals in whatever area there is being addressed. is that there's a parallel between what Paul calls a babe or a child and what Solomon calls simple. Some of the qualities that are common to the immature are not necessarily rebellious. an ability to effectively handle scripture and spiritual maturity. Experience. 1 Timothy 5, 21, I charge thee before God and the Lord Jesus. or gifts to replace a humble dependence on God's empowerment and blessing. When you think right about it, because there are young people in this church that five, ten, or fifteen years from now, we may actually be evaluating whether or not we get behind sending them out to go plant a church or to go I pray that until Christ returns, this location would be a place where faithful congregations are meeting. A lot of churches are. It's kind of interesting. is presenting in this passage. Now he that watereth and he that he that planteth and he that watereth are one, and every man shall receive his own reward according to his own labor. Now, if any man build upon this foundation gold, silver, precious stone, wood, hay, and stubble, every man's work shall be made manifest, for the day shall declare it. Because it shall be revealed by fire. But there is a section here that's dealing with one main topic. And there are three words that I want you to remember when you think about the unhealthiness of the church. Second word is the word association, and the third is the word influence. in ministry because it is a very public kind of a labor, it's very easy to get caught up in whether or not people like you or And so I want to kind of step back and present a few things in introduction to help us think about why Paul is addressing this issue and why he's addressing it the way that he is. The second thing is the word association. So if we're very concerned about perception, we have to recognize that a lot of people who do not value God's wisdom are not going to have a very high view of what we're doing if what we're doing is holding fast to what God has said. God's wisdom and the world's values are in conflict. He's going to do his work in the world. He did choose fishermen to be his disciples. And uh probably drive some of our teachers crazy when we're going through that because of the things that are said in the way that they're said. He was trying not to impress people so that they thought, wow, Paul is a really educated man. Simplified the message so that you would not lift me up and you wouldn't think that I was something. And disdains God's truth unless the Spirit of God and his grace does a work in them. Receive the things of the Spirit of God. And we're involved in the work that He's doing. The way that a person leads affects the mentality of the people who follow. What he's saying is, when I address you as a congregation, I believe you're Christians, and I desire for you to be a certain kind of Christian, a spiritually matured Christian. And so to put it simply, God's desire is simply that we have a spiritually mature view of ministry. But as I observe your conduct, as I listen to your conversations, as I think about your interpersonal interactions, I believe that in fact you are not spiritually mature. That's pretty stinging. Okay, that's what he's saying. This is a person that Paul is lamenting over. That in fact these are people who are dominated by their fleshly passions. They wanted vengeance. And by the way, let's just remind ourselves again, Paul planted this church. He spent more time at Corinth than perhaps any other church, at least up to this point. And there will be a reason for that. So he's lamenting that they are not acting like matured people. People need to be spiritually mature. You are not a matured person, but you could be, and you should be. Well, because there's this new excitement. Lord willing, they continue to grow and they're spirit-filled, and now they begin to develop some discernment. And some resilience. Maturity, spiritual maturity. Or rather than them being, we could say, simple but growing, they are very fleshly in their approach. They're acting like little children when they have been saved a lot longer than that they should be by that point in their Christian life. But I want you to notice the specific areas of concern that he addresses. But if you have a person who is very spiritually immature and you say, you are wrong, they're going to say, what are you talking about? To kind of slowly open up their understanding by the grace of God to see where they're wrong, to see how to address the issue, and to be willing to take the action to actually resolve the issue. You can lay out, here's where you were wrong, you're right. And what's very interesting is when you're dealing with a person that is spiritually mature or very carnal, you have to adjust how you approach them. And so he lamented the need to be cautious in how he approached them. The idea is that he doubted that they could handle the full weight of what they needed to hear. Well, you know, you kind of favor my sister more than you favor me. He says, are you not carnal and walk as men? about any of those things, your motives and your actions are indistinguishable from the world around you. That's what Paul said. So if if someone was to sit down and say, hey, you know, I think you might be looking at this the wrong way, they look at you like you're from another planet There's nothing different in the way that you approach these issues than an unbeliever. A fool can't consider another perspective. He knows that they're going to be angry. We have to be cautious. It's not because they're rebellious. And so what does maturity do? But they're not also qualities that are always associated with rebellion. And so what is Paul's desire? What what is the the the the book of Proverbs about? To come and to listen and to learn and to grow and to become wise. Not a novice was being lifted up with pride, he fall into the condemnation of the devil. Do nothing by partiality. But if someone's going to approach this in a naive way, in a simple way, in an inexperienced way, in a fleshly way, these qualities will trouble them They will appear to be unnecessary. Like, what am I doing? Inexperience can lead to avoidable trouble created by a lack of experience. is experience-oriented. But the truth is this, Paul said this to the whole church. And is vindictive and harsh and cruel. None of us should have our faith built on a person. Do not emphasize what the world elevates as if the church is a business to be built by rugged determination. could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal, even as unto babes in Christ. But to we, the people who are saved, it's the power of God. Fourth thing, he emphasized, or third, he emphasizes that God chose people who do not have impressive credentials. You know, the world is is is very enamored with people that have very good people skills, very good speaking skills, uh people who are very persuasive, people have And so he actually refused to use techniques that elevated him. even as unto babes in Christ. And then the other is someone who is immature. Or when people were taking others to law court and they were destroying them in the law court, the reason you had to address that issue is because people were dominated by their fleshly passions. Stir in the pot, right? I mean, why was Paul saying things like, I want to say this to you, but I'm holding back? a very consistent throughout generations kind of a thing. Especially someone who we look up to. So we have to be cautious that we're not dismissive of other people who who their personality is different. We should be cautious about pragmatism. Doesn't mean in the long term you won't pay for it. And so when we talk about ministry, a lot of times people who are in ministry capacities are very concerned about perception, association, and influence. You know, when we're in Bible college and person goes to seminary, uh, we take a lot of homiletics classes where we learn how to preach, we learn how to teach. But the fact is that when Paul preached, he wasn't trying to be unclear in the way that he communicated, but he was trying not to impress the people with his logic. So if the pattern that is being presented is healthy, it doesn't guarantee that everyone's going to have a healthy perspective, but it is going to incentivize that, or it's going to encourage that. And then this issue of immaturity is also going to be a massive factor. Pragmatic means that there is a kind of sensible wisdom that is involved there. He also laments how easy it is for them to become offended and how quickly they seek vengeance. And so that's what we mean by carnal or fleshy. It's normal for new Christians to be immature, and we should be okay with that. He says for the time you ought to be teachers, but you need someone to come back and teach you the first principles of the oracles of God. And what's interesting is if you have conversations with someone, you see the zeal and the excitement and the energy, but sometimes you see like there's really a lack of He wanted them to be mature. In verse 1, he says that he could not speak unto them as unto spiritual. Now this is this is this is a true statement. Or one person is a little bit more, we could say, they they they're they're kind of in a middle ground. That what I'm saying to you is not going nearly as far as I really need to. So much fighting, so much bickering, so much anger, so much resentment, so much jealousy, so much division. Could say it about a lot of Christians. Not even a willingness to consider that maybe their perspective is kind of self-centered and kind of not considering the big picture and not a very Christian perspective. Doesn't mean that they're all wrong. And what they believe. Proverbs 18, too, a fool hath no delight in understanding, but that his heart may discover itself. Proverbs 23, verse 9, speak not in the ears of a fool. You know, a young person that doesn't have a lot of experience could be extremely self-confident, and unjustifiably so But impulsive, reactionary decision-making, rather than being steady, and rather than making decisions based on principle, it's reaction. In other words, don't be satisfied with being a spiritually immature person. The reason that these qualifications are there is so that a person who has desire can mature and then can take leadership roles at a time that is appropriate for their level of maturity. Have you ever sat in a church service and listened to someone preach and you're like, I didn't even know what they're talking about? Allow people who do not meet your personal preferences to demonstrate their faithfulness. Some people are very interpersonally relational, and some people are they're frankly they're they're really good in a public setting, but when it comes to interaction one-on-one, they're they're actually kind of awkward. And the fact is that the way one person does it versus another isn't necessarily right or wrong. Thirdly, self-promotion. Sometimes we have guest speakers that come in. He believes they're Christians. Secondly, he laments that they are very pragmatic. Immaturity isn't all bad, at least if they have been a young Christian. And they'll just like devour it. When somebody becomes a brand new Christian and you say something like, hey, you know, you probably should read your Bible, I mean, it'll amaze you how much so read their Bible. Like temper male about everything. Third thing I want you to notice is that there are parallels between what Paul calls carnal and what Solomon calls a fool. For instance, Proverbs 12. But the fact is that a wise person listens to things that people have to say about a situation. Proverbs 29:11 A fool uttereth all is mine, but a wise man keepeth it in till afterwards. You're a very approachable person. Some people are extremely motivated, extremely uh business-like in how they how they handle things, and some people are just kind of big picture. He says, when I came to you, I did not come with enticing words. But rather as unto carnal, that's a second kind of person, even as unto babes in Christ Someone who is spiritually immature and is a young Christian, that's not a bad thing. Paul is he's tired of it. Notice some of the qualities that are mentioned in the book of Proverbs when it comes to someone who is called foolish in mindset or character. So, two warnings about this. If Sabbath is true, if someone sits in a church and their pastor is clearly not a spirit-filled person, so that we are alert to ideas that are dangerous and ideas that are detrimental to the health and well-being of the church. Father, I thank you for the word. The minister is like a farmhand, okay? Proverbs 9, 4 Whoever is simple, let him turn in from him that wanteth understanding. The Corinthian church illustrated Paul's point. But that does not change the fact that we as Christians are not to be temperamental, sensitive people who are looking to seek vengeance with people. A difficult time listening to other people. The regular handling of Scripture, the mentality that's presented in the congregation, guess what? But what's interesting is you can have a person that does not have a lot of wisdom yet because they are a young Christian, but they're on fire for God. So, he brings those things up because his concern about how they view ministry is tied into the fact that rather than being spiritually matured, Well, I mean, this is what you said. They have good management skills. The second group is those who are spiritually immature. They want to tell people about Christ. Just because they're passionate or just because they have good leadership skills. Or young people tend to be impulsive and reactionary. Third thing, verse 3, he says, There is among you envying and strife and division. Titus 1. Because they're spiritually mature. God's purpose. Let's say you have two people that have a conflict with one another. Well, I talk to everybody. Nobody likes to be confronted, especially by someone who's younger than them, or someone who is not as experienced as they are, or maybe somebody who, in their minds What you're doing is wrong. It's going to shape how you do things. Why didn't you pick uh people who had royalty in their families? I mean it really is. If you're willing to listen to some people around you who love you enough to speak plainly to you about a situation, they could probably identify some things. We're going to look at that, Lord willing, next week. I pray that you would give grace as these things are presented. For hitherto ye were not able to bear it, neither yet now are ye able. We need to understand who we're dealing with when we deal with people. Those things are a reminder that Paul is very concerned about the attitude of the people as it relates to ministry. I'm not saying there's anything wrong with those things. They wanted to win every argument. So Paul is lamenting that. And they'll be like, ah, I came across this podcaster. He could probably get away with that, right? 7, a bishop should be blameless, the steward of God, not self-willed, not soon angry. Some men's sins are open beforehand, going before to judgment. That doesn't mean we can always resolve, but we've at least extended the offer and we're waiting for that opportunity. It could be the environment that they've been in. And if someone is going to approach this issue of ministry in a godly way, these qualifications make complete sense to them. Not all of them, but a lot are. If it doesn't work, I don't do it. So those could be some of the causes for someone continuing to be in a state of immaturity. They don't have the tools developed yet for good discernment. 15, here's what it says. And it's a very dangerous situation. Do not allow the church to become an identity builder. He refused to use techniques that would impress or endear people to himself. It affects how they relate to one another interpersonally. The church is given a very simple mission. He says, I have fed you with milk and not with meat, for hitherto you are not able to bear it, neither yet now are you able. Well you you see that that Paul has a very practical pastoral heart here. Pretty shocking. Hopefully not about us. And I hope that these things can be helpful to you. And as you walk through time with an individual like that, you see that through challenging situations, God tests them and they and they move through those those things and they develop You're someone that listens to godly counsel. He wanted them to be wise. Guess what? Even the lost people in your community are blushing over this. So, 1 Corinthians chapter 3, we'll begin in verse number 1. He doesn't choose people because he needs their skill sets. If you want to help them, come alongside and disciple them and pour your life into them and love them Like, why can't you just lay it on the lines and tell them what they need to hear and just walk away, whatever happens, happens. And they're like in the word and they're asking all these questions. Sometimes when people bring a criticism, a lot of what they say is wrong, but there is truth to what they're saying. It creates the ability to be able to sit down and think and plan and reason and consider before a decision is made. That does not necessarily mean that a person is called into ministry. And so he reminds them that God doesn't use people with the most impressive credentials many times. I mean, can you imagine getting a letter? Three kinds of people. That the church does not stay immature, but the church becomes wise and spiritually minded. Thank you for this text. Results do not automatically define the virtue of a practice or decision. And the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. Verse 6, Proverbs 14, 16, he says that a fool rageth and is confident. He knows that they're not going to have a heart for what he has to say. They'll be easily ignored. They're going to speak softly about the resurrection. They don't have wisdom, excitement, energy, passion, vitality, but it's real dangerous where it's going. Yeah God's husbandry, ye are God's building. It's a lot longer than what I typically read when we're dealing with a passage that we're preaching through. They are foolishness to him. There's a reason that people did that. They need to be spirit-filled. And that is what Paul wants to see. It may just be that they've not encountered situations in life that have revealed their limits. Or maybe somebody that's in the youth group today is going to be the senior pastor of this church down the road. They were comforted by association. But notice the kinds of people that are mentioned there. If someone cannot handle the word of God effectively, they're gonna frustrate people And so here are some warnings to close with in light of this text in front of us. He chose people that a lot of a lot of people in the Jewish first century would have said, why would you pick them? One is this. They're spirit-filled. It's about helping a person who is naive, who is young, who's inexperienced, who is simple We obviously go to conferences and we interact with people at camps. Yes, lots of Christians do that. Yeah, but you talk to them. Proverbs 17, 16, it says, Wherefore is there a price in the hand of a fool to get wisdom, seeing that he has no heart for it? Pragmatism. They wanted to uh to exploit people's weaknesses and vulnerabilities. Simple and right. So what does Paul do? Oh, you favored them. You favor my brother. The first topic is three distinct approaches to Christian ministry. These are people whose passions are driving them, not principles. He laments that this was the predominant state of the church. Not because I'm right, but they have a heart that says, if it's in the Word of God, I'm going to do it. Another way to put that is, why do you walk just like a lost person that doesn't know God at all? The way of a fool is right in his own eyes. This is a consuming factor for these people. That's what he means by a babe in Christ. People don't like being confronted. But we'd be naive to think that a person who stumbles doesn't affect us. And I think that we should try to develop as much as we can and our ability to speak and communicate and reason and all those things. Now, the first thing I want to mention about this is that when Paul makes this statement, I could not speak unto you as spiritual. And so I'm going to have to address you as someone who can't handle what I'm really needing to say to you. They don't necessarily think of guiding principles that they're supposed to submit to God over. We should extend that hand and say, if you will come, I will meet you and I will resolve with you. I'll summarize the passage this way: a healthy church culture is built on a correct view of ministry. And that's the way evangelists are. Scripture says we have a problem. He's not the guy who runs the field. And it's really commonplace in this church. They've not not heard good teaching. When you are dealing with a person who is immature, you can't just approach them anyway. But we should stop and ask the question, could he? We ask this in Christ's name. Guess what? Then his third topic is how Christian ministry is like a building project. And you're like, oh, tell me about it. But when people do not handle those roles correctly, it can be extremely destructive. Unfortunately, he could probably say it about a lot of churches. He will despise the wisdom of thy words. And the fourth topic is that God is going to be the ultimate judge of the quality of our labor. He wanted them to be spirit-filled. One person is spiritually mature, and the other person is very spiritually mature. Here's how you need to face it, you're right. A lack of self-control. First is this. And so we don't need to invent some like novel way to figure out how to bring people into here and get them excited about a movement or an event. And what is interesting about this is that these three kinds of people are affecting how they look at this issue of ministry. They may not be able to go about it in the best way The second thing is he says, I have fed you with milk and not with meat, for hitherto you were not able to bear it, neither yet now are ye able. Don't be a fool. And if a person understands this topic of ministry correctly, then what we see in these pastoral qualifications, they make complete sense. For other foundation can no man lay than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. That's the point of the book. It's amazing how God will bless it. He says, not many of you are the kinds of people that God would have chosen if it was not for his grace. I can't do that. Second, don't be dismissive of people that do not seem to have strong gifts. Who then is Paul, who is Apollos, but ministers by whom you have believed? It affects how they guide their homes. Thank you for the topics that we'll be addressing over the next several weeks. Please use them to strengthen and help us as your people. Second thing he addresses is that the world scoffs at the central component of the gospel, the cross. So get that in your mind. They are living according to the same kinds of values that they did before they became Christians. And that's the word a babe. Maybe you do, maybe you don't. Do you see this incredible contrast? Now, there's a difference between being pragmatic and being practical. And what's interesting is that as that person spends time in the Word, as they're disciple, as time goes on, what's going to happen is Where you see it in verse 1, verse 2, and verse 3. And this is something that I've observed in ministry. And that topic is a correct view of ministry. Neither can he know them because they are spiritually discerned. You know, you haven't seen somebody for uh for years and uh then they write this letter and they say Fourth thing. And we're not always at fault in these situations. And so this is kind of interesting. And so he's lamenting the fact. You can sit down with a spiritually mature person and you can say, let's talk about how you need to look at this issue. I say young people. That affects how they look at God. They're going to speak softly about sin. All of us need to think right about these issues. Why are you picking people from Nazareth, the Sea of Galilee, places that have absolutely no value to most people living in first century Israel? It's because they were not thinking like Christians. Move on from spiritual immaturity to spiritual maturity. A lot of trouble that people get into when they are in ministry roles So if you notice in these verses, one says they're of Paul, another says they're of Apollos, and some say they're of Cephas or Peter, some say they're of Christ. One individual is spiritually mature, one individual is carnal, and we'll talk about what that means. I know that this is primarily directed towards those who are in ministry or desire to go into ministry. Okay? And I'm talking to you right now. What does that show you? Some men they follow after. And thirdly, carnal leadership can irreversibly wound and undermine people's faith. Preach Christ, disciple people. But that's not healthy. Well, he very directly and very pointedly is going to confront this flawed view of ministry. Creativity and novelty do not attempt to manufacture results through new ideas and practices. And it doesn't guarantee that everybody in that church is going to have a flawed perspective. They blow in, they blow up, and they blow out. Observe these things without preferring one another. But this section of 1 Corinthians, in fact, it is a very important section when it comes to this issue of ministry. That would be everybody here, I'm sure of that. What do we know about these people? I think this is something that people in ministry are more prone to, but it's not just people in ministry. But a person that is practical also has certain principles that guide the way that they go about doing things. Sometimes it's just a lack of experience. According to the grace of God which is given unto me as a wise master builder, I have laid the foundation and another buildeth thereon Now, when we talk about perception, In fact, I think a lot of times when we talk about pastoral ministry, we talk about church government and the functioning of the church. The calling to ministry is not limited to passion and leadership skills. What is he saying? Oh, how'd you do that? Amen. I actually purposefully There are four basic topics that Paul is going to address. So with that in mind, let's look at what he says here. He laments their contentious spirit. For instance, the world does not value God's wisdom. He knew these people very well. And you start talking, you're like, yeah, that that podcaster might not be the best option for you at that moment. They're really good with people. For ye are yet carnal, for what for whereas there is among you envying and strife and division, are ye not carnal and walk as men And lastly, I'll mention that he emphasized that the natural man disdains scripture. He says, I could not speak unto you as unto spiritual. Fools would rather express themselves than learn from others. And Paul understood that as a pastoral consideration. Maybe I should say immature people. Ministry is a dangerous calling. So that kind of gives you an idea of where we're going to go, Lord willing, over the next several weeks, and I hope that each of these topics will be a help to you. It affects people. He chooses them because he's a gracious God. He's the guy that works in the field. They've not been around Christians who have challenged them to address certain issues. And it it's almost like like a child that longs to eat all the time, a new Christian, they want to learn, and they're just absorbing all this information. Fools are impulsive and say hurtful things without considering the implications or consequences of their words. Now I'm not going to cite them, but when I mention these these little topics, If I do that, then this is how they're gonna respond. It says this, and I brethren The third is they lusted for influence or power. You've got to actually stand up and address the issue. Now, if someone's been a believer for a very, very long time and they're spiritually immature, that is a problem. Some situations you can't win them He lamented their lack of distinction from the unconverted. That's human nature. So then neither is he that planteth anything, neither he that watereth, but God that giveth the increase. This is like someone who's a new Christian. And the way that a person who is He's saying, I see all kinds of problems, and I know if I just come straight to the point, you will just fall apart. I'm just picking off the battles that I think I can win. I mean if he knew us as as personally as he knew these people, could he actually say these things about us too? Some maturity And time and humility toward God in Scripture will move someone from spiritual immaturity to spiritual maturity Well, you don't understand why I said that. Don't be a fool. If any man's work abide, which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive a reward. I wanted you to follow Christ, not me. Three kinds of people that Paul is saying are potentially in the church. So if somebody becomes a brand new Christian, we shouldn't get all bent out of shape about something that they don't really know yet. So this is a little different. Because in his mind, these are the kinds of people he's dealing with. He knows that he's going to become the enemy very quickly. A lack of seeing the big picture. It affects so many areas. Now, there might be some folks here right now that are going, well. Whether you go on this side, it's wrong. Fools are self-confident and angry when challenged. Come and eat of my bread and drink of my my wine which I have mingled. And this is important for us to understand. Well, you talked to them after the service. The second is deal wisely with foolish people. The way they go about things is different than the way that we would. How did others see them when they did what they did? That's not the way that we should be looking at Christian ministry. And that's what he means when he says that the natural man does not There's a reason that he has to say when someone is involved in sexual immorality Time is not the only factor in developing spiritual maturity. Another way to put that is, fools cannot consider another person's perspective. Does that make sense? It's an internal desire that is accompanied with godly character. Likewise, also the good works of some are manifest before they that are otherwise cannot be hidden. And then you go to another service and you get another one of those and you go to another one, you get another one, and eventually you go, why am I here? And then overconfidence. Sometimes it's just an issue of temperament, personality. Spiritual maturity. So if someone's very concerned about their associations and their influence, And we know by the kinds of things that Paul addresses in this book. And he doesn't want that to be the case. There is nothing different about how you think about other people. Fools turn on the wisest advisors that are around them. The first word is the word perception, okay? And this was fascinating. We'll see that in verses 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. And what's interesting is that I think that in his illustration I've observed this when I'm dealing with a young Christian. But they're excited. People like them. They're going to try to accommodate Secondly, he lamented that though they had sufficient time to develop spiritual maturity, they had not And then the pastor has to deal with all the all the good stuff that they do. And this is an interesting point I just want to draw your attention to. And I think it's important for us to make this note as well. And um one of the things that is a danger for someone who is He understood that it takes time for people to mature. But Paul understands, hey, it takes time. And I think it's important to notice this. That affects how they look at the church. So if you're very consumed with perception, it's going to shape Guess what they're going to do? So he laments that this is the predominant situation. He's saying, I lament the fact that I have to be cautious in how I approach you. They are growing, but they're not they're not infants in the faith, but they're not necessarily spiritually mature. The fifth thing I want to mention tonight is some practical areas of caution that I think Here's what you probably should say, yep. Whether that's for the next 10 years, whether that's for another hundred years, I have no idea. Just because it worked, and just because it appears that you got away with it, doesn't mean it was right. Paul is a really scholarly guy. It affects how they look at God. Didn't mean that they weren't Christians. And there's value in that You don't have to be young to be immature. Well, first of all, the fleshly or the carnal. When he talks about an issue like them prop propping up certain teachers, there's a reason he addresses that because This is why they need to be discipled. A fool doesn't do that. And they start developing some wisdom, and they start developing some some strength. But all of us need to be willing to hear what people have to say. The first warning is this: let's be cautious about misplaced emphasis. You know, some pastors are super A-type personality people, and some are not. Help us to be faithful. Now He's like, you need to understand, folks. He says, when I look at what's going on in the church, people are so jealous. And so we need to have a properly focused kind of mentality about these issues. And that's what he means when he says spiritual. And then just talk and talk and talk and talk and talk around it. We have absolutely no idea. That's what dominates their motivations. See, how will I know? Like it says in Proverbs 1, that it was written to give subtlety to the simple and to the young man knowledge and discretion. And we will take it if in fact it happens And he's talking about the fact that God is the wise master builder. Or we could say that we're not primarily at fault in certain situations. I have fed you with milk. Weird stuff can happen when people start getting jealous. What does that show you? Whether you go on that side, it's wrong. Do not allow experience success. They're excited, but they don't have a lot of knowledge. We have someone who's been a Christian long enough. They are thinking like unbelievers, and Paul laments it. An inability to communicate sound doctrine effectively is going to frustrate people and stunt their growth The gathering of the church should be a very simple, a very organic They should be much more matured. Well, you don't know how they're gonna respond. He loved them dearly. Now, those things that I mentioned are not qualities that are necessarily good. But the fact is that the way that people conduct themselves And he laments their pragmatism. Why? And so Paul is very concerned with this topic. Why didn't you pick rabbis? Okay? May God help us to be faithful in this day. That's one kind of person. Okay? This is someone who has good character and some maturity. The church is a beautiful concept. That's what Paul's saying. The message because they're concerned about perception association influence This is why they need to be mentored, right? Fourth thing I want you to notice. Now this is an interesting statement. Help us to think biblically. They were not thinking like Christians. They get angry very quickly. Well And Paul looks at this and he says, all kinds of envying and all kinds of strife. It's impulsive. Just because somebody really wants to do the work of ministry doesn't mean that they should. For instance. You don't have to be old to be wise. He's not saying, I'm writing to a bunch of non-Christians. Pragmatic means you don't have principles. You have no idea, but why not just do the right thing We have missionaries that come through. Let's follow Paul. I mean Don't be proud. Maturity doesn't happen overnight. Or they'd say, you know what, you are a very wise person. Look down in your Bible at verse number one and notice what it says. And you could be very blunt with them. And it's important for us to recognize this. This reminds me a lot of what is stated in the book of Hebrews. But there's a second thing I want you to notice. There is nothing different about how you try to resolve conflicts. And you walk through, you know what they're gonna do? You're like, oh People in the church can too. I mean that's pretty blunt, but that's exactly what he did. It's God's Help us to honor you. That's going to influence how they look at ministry. We're supposed to be peaceable You can't Why? You need people to teach you the basics again because The idea is fools don't value wisdom. That's not the way that Paul handled the word They've never been in an environment where These people probably would fall into that category. Ah I came across this new study Bible You understand what I'm saying? Let's bow for prayer. Doesn't mean they're right. Because they do not want to be challenged. We consider partnering with them. But a pragmatic person says Not just these three different groups. I mean, just They're gonna listen to everything you have to say. That's what he's saying. For instance There is nothing different.