All right, we're going to open our service with our scripture reading in Matthew chapter 4, starting with verse 12. Let's really think about these songs as we sing them. We'll read the text, bow for a moment of prayer, and then really dig into what I think will be some very encouraging and practical thoughts for us as we think about missions and how God works in the lives of people. For we have heard him ourselves and know that this is indeed the Christ, the Savior of the world. I scroll through my phone. So shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth. And uh you you won't get help unless you uh unless you reach out. We want to help you. And that you are taking the gospel to very unlikely places and through very unlikely people, and you do it for the praise of your name. And we will sing the first and the last verses of this song. I'm thankful that we as a church get to be involved in work, work just like this all over the world. And it's just a blessing to see what God is doing through the faithfulness of his servants. I want to draw your attention to the songs that we're going to sing this morning. And if you'd like anyone from the staff to reach out to you in the coming week, take a moment to fill out a connection card and put it in the little box in the back there on the right side of the door when you head out. And just looking forward to a great service. If you're planning to go with us and you you don't typically do that, we leave at 6. We're thankful for every person that has come this morning. Those who would love to be here but are unable to for various circumstances, I pray that they'd be able to join us in the live stream and that this service would be a very rich blessing to them. We also think about those who have been affected by the terrible storms in the southeast, especially those in Tennessee and North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia. And that we would pray for them. I live with me. Great singing this evening. And it came upon this and upon this came his disciples, and marveled that he talked with the woman. And herein is that saying true. And he abode with them two days, and many more believed because of his word, and said unto the woman, Now we believe not because of thy saying And so in order for us to see that, I want to begin by kind of setting the stage for the passage that we're dealing with. and in unlikely places, and he desires for his people to partner with him in that work. There's a reason that he pauses for two days and he stays in that town and he ministers to the people. The second word is the word wisdom. And that's the way a lot of us live our lives. And she's currently living with someone who's not her husband. And I think that this is a massive point of the text in front of us. or that I would have picked, or the disciples would have picked, she would not have volunteered to lead this massive revival and attorney to God in a Samaritan town. They lived 2,000 years ago. And this is really the third event that is described after the baptism of Jesus by John the Baptist. And it was about the sixth hour, and there cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water. So we're talking about going all the way back to say the Magna Carta. up to Galilee was that they would actually cross over the Jordan River and they would travel up the Trans Jordan and then they would come back into Israel, having gone around the land of Samaria. Spiritual reformation, none of them are examples of godly people. That were a part of what Jesus desires to do to reach into the Samaritan community. And his patience and his wisdom and his power. Learn all we can learn from him, to have all of our internal debates amongst ourselves. This is a me problem. Verses 36 and 37 is interesting. Hey, this contact right here is a great potential contact. And he said unto the woman, they said and said unto the woman, Now we believe not because of thy saying, we've heard him ourselves, and know that this is indeed the Christ, the Savior of the world. We're going to go to Galilee and we've got to go through Samaria on the way. You walked according to the course of this world, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath, even as others. and to say, I think you're the Messiah. And we read about it in Luke chapter 8. And to open the seals thereof, for thou wast slain and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation. So that that scene comes to pass. In 1 Corinthians 3. If you had faith as a grain of mustard seed, you might say to this sycamine tree, be plucked up by the roots, be thou planted in the sea, it should obey you. And take the fire wheel. We thank you that we can meet on this beautiful day. And leaving Nazareth, he came and dwelt at Capernaum, which is upon the sea coast, in the borders of Zebulun and Neptalim that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Isaiah the prophet, saying, The land of Zebulon and the land of Neptilim by the way of the sea beyond Jordan Galilee of the Gentiles, to the people which sat in darkness Written by one of the Wesley brothers, and uh just some very impactful truths that we'll we'll sing about as we think about the fact that we're involved In a spiritual work, that is a spiritual battle. May you speak powerfully to our hearts. song before the preaching will be in the blue book number four hundred two for oh sorry this is in the rejoice book Let me praise for all we got some reason. And I'm really looking forward to next week we're going to have our choir sing. John chapter 4, verse 27. So the way we Yet no man said, What seekest thou, or why talkest thou with her? But he said unto them, I have meat to eat that you know not of. And he that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto life eternal, that both he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice together. Help me to communicate this passage in a way that is simple, accessible, and ultimately the Spirit of God will use And many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him for the saying of the woman, which testified, He told me all that I ever did. to impact needs in this room and on the live stream today. And he desires for his people to partner with him in that work. I think what we will see from the Word of God is that God wants us to seize the opportunities that He's put right in front of us right now, today. There are four characters in the text. There's a reason Jesus went to Samaria when he did. He doesn't ask unnecessary questions. These are ordinary men with the same kinds of thinking as the average person of their day. Serious biblical instruction apart from what they receive from the Lord Jesus Christ during the ministry that Jesus has with them These are people who were focused, like most people, on their daily needs. They did not have the ability, as Jesus begins talking to them, to see the significance of the moment in front of them. We also knew that she is spiritually confused because of the nature of the conversation in front of them. It's important when we read the book of John that we recognize most of the book of John is Jesus having discourses. where he turns the water into wine at the wedding feast at Cain of Galilee. It says, Jesus said to the disciples, I must needs go through Samaria. uh history going back that far when we think about something like the United States. So we're talking more than double the time that we would have in the history of this country, even before it becomes a colony and then an independent country, and then where we are today. They break away from Judah and they establish an independent group of people. One was faithful to the lineage of David, Solomon's son becomes the king, but the northern tribes this is most of the tribes of Israel thinking and systems and culture, these people are estranged from all of those covenant promises. Verse 38 he says, I sent you to reap, whereupon you bestowed no labor, other men labored, and you're entered into their labors With probably the deepest and darkest and most painful and most complicated aspect of her life. His consuming passion was to fulfill his duty. So what we're seeing here is that he accomplished a mighty work in this community called Sikar through the Samaritan woman and his disciples. And herein is that saying, one soweth, another reapeth. Let's talk about where we're going to go. Had Jesus sat down with his disciples before they took that trip up to Galilee and he said, all right guys, let's sit down and let's talk about ministry. They'd have never predicted that they would spend two days in the city. And his grace is moving when the Lord Jesus Christ takes on flesh and dwells amongst his people. And by the way, you and I living at this time in history, there's almost nothing that we can identify with where there has been a nine hundred year tension between groups of people. Hath quickened us together with Christ by grace you are saved. Jesus had done for him. Their preoccupation with temporal matters could not thwart his plan. presence. Someone who's going to raise up grandchildren who are one day going to be used by God. the next. like that. Jesus began to preach and to say, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. pastored by local men, and then uh they're able to, Lord willing, plant other churches either out of that church or partner with people within that church. to hear from you, to sing praise to you, and to get to know the people of God. because we'll be at the rescue mission. I pray for those who are in a dangerous position. And pray that you'll protect those who are going to be in harm's way in this storm that's going to hit Florida in the next couple days. The woman then left her water path, and went her way into the city, and saith unto the men, Come, see a man which told me all things that whatever I did And Jesus saith unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work. Behold, I say unto you, lift up your eyes and look on the fields, for they are white already to harvest. And he that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto life eternal, that both he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice together. And another reapeth. So the Samaritans were come unto him, and they besought him that he would tarry with them, and he abode there two days. pleasant and I really really enjoy leading to singing which is why I'm stubbornly clinging to these last two songs. Say not ye, there yet four months, and then cometh the harvest. Is not this the Christ? Father, as we look into your word this morning, I pray that the text of Scripture would deeply impact our hearts. You know every situation that is involved in every person's life in this room. And so, Father, as we lift up this text to this group of people today, I pray that the Holy Spirit would drive the word deep into our souls. You know the burdens, you know the fears, you know the anxieties, you know the guilt, you know the past, and you know what can be the questions that he asks, the way that he relates to all of the people in the passage, we're going to see three words that I think will describe Jesus' character. The third word is patience. moderately correct and there were things that she did not understand. And interestingly, those first two situations were private issues. You say, what was Jesus doing? He almost had to drag them into it. The first observation I have here is that Jesus was purposed to do a mighty work amongst a very unlikely people. Now, this this story actually goes back, believe it or not, 900 years. Maybe the early the early 1600s, if you're talking about the pilgrims coming, we're talking about being removed from that by only 400 years Well, let me give you a couple of things to think about. of a king that is recorded for us in the Old Testament that came from those northern tribes that was involved in any kind of rebel uh uh revival, any kind of These kings hated Elijah. and painful and disturbing things you will ever read in the Bible. Judah in the south, and then the northern kingdoms of Israel. They continued to live in the north. Establishing itself, you know what it would do? List up your eyes, look on the fields, they are white already to harvest Now, when we think about what Jesus is doing in the land of Samaria, there are two individuals or groups that we've talked about. To get that water. I want to have a conversation with you and your husband. Group is verses uh we also see in verses twenty eight and twenty-nine it says, the woman left her pot and went her way into the city, and then the men came and they said, What's going on here? Why is Jesus talking to her? By the way, there were reasons that these men were surprised that Jesus was talking to this woman. And you can see in the conversation between Jesus and the disciples some pieces to that. He wanted the disciples to immediately stop excusing their complacency. He's saying all of those things that you think about them and they think about you doesn't matter here. This work displays the goodness and the patience and the wisdom and the power of God, not the instruments through whom they worked. Many conversations with other missionaries, other pastors, who we sat down and we talked about ministry in a very strategic sense. So when the Samaritans were come unto him, they besought him that he would tarry with them, and he abode there two days, and many more believed because of their own words. Think about it this way. And so he stands out in these places and he screams in torment, and the townspeople are very, very, very afraid of this man. First Corinthians one, it says, God has chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. There's a passage that immediately comes to my mind, and this is from Romans chapter 11. Basically, what Paul is writing is how God's going to take the Gentiles, he's going to take the rejection of the gospel of the Jews. To turn his attention to the Gentiles and through him reaching into the lives of the Gentiles, he will provoke the Jewish people to himself so that he is able to save Gentiles who were outside of the kingdom promises. Can you imagine how encouraging that would have been to Ezekiel? Let me give you some final thoughts of application. That I think are very parallel to what we see in these verses. To everyone that believeth. And we'll sing it out. You talk about a person who's tried a lot of different things and they have just disappointed and disappointed and disappointed. Father, may this give us great encouragement as we recognize that your power is at work in this world. I am created on the greatest party, I can love you, I can call you enter the kingdom. It reminds us that we should celebrate the fact that we serve a Savior who is in the work of saving souls. Those who are injured would be helped, and I just pray that you would do a mighty work of mercy in that particular region. speaking up. And said unto the woman, Now we believe, not because of thy saying, for we have heard him ourselves, and know that this is indeed the Christ, the Saviour of all I'd summarize the passage in front of us in the following way. Living today, and that's it. of God's grace. Second thing I want us to notice this morning is the focus of John's narration of this example from the life of Christ. a disdain for the people that lived in this region. Now when we look in these verses, in verse number seven it gives us gives us a little bit of an indication of that. And to finish the work. In fact, this guy was so crazy that the people in the town tried to bind him with chains, and he literally was unchainable. First Corinthians fifteen ten. Who hath known the mind of the Lord, who has been his counselor, or who hath first given, and it shall be recompense, for of him and through him, and to him are all things to whom be glory forever and ever. But he will be preaching this evening and that portion will. My wife and I, so that we can be an encouragement to you. And may this convict us if we've become complacent and proud and we're unwilling to step out of our comfort zones? Well, I hope that you'll be able to join us again this evening as uh Brother Sandal will be uh presenting their ministry in greater detail. Saw great light, and to them which sat in the region in the shadow of death, light is sprung up. And read down, I mean for verse 4 start in verse 27 and read down to verse 42 But today we're going to get right into the text. Third group, or the third person, is the Samaritan woman. When you think about the fact that this is a person who'd been married five times and she lived through the breakdown of five marriages So let's work our way through a few observations about the passage as we think about what Jesus is desiring to accomplish. 900 years is where the story starts. And then 200 years later, after the survivors have been brought back as slaves into Assyria and their families have kind of assimilated into the Assyrian culture, there are people who are sent back, exiles who are sent back to And so there we are, 900 years later, a group of people who had intermarried with the people of the land who are not worshiping in Jerusalem, they are not involved in the same kinds of In fact, if we go to verses 16, 17, and 18, we see a little bit about Jesus' interaction with this woman. The disciples were typical first century Jewish men who thought politically and culturally like most men of their times. You're a minister of the gospel. Verse 38, he wanted them to approach their work very humbly. And to have conversations about regions and areas of need and how to approach those areas of need. We say things like, hey, you know what if we want to reach this area, that's the city that we need to go to. Guess what? Now just pause and let your mind process all of the massive obstacles to that coming to pass. Would be the tool God used to bring an entire community to them and they would just see massive numbers of people converted. There's no way that God could reach into that region. To go to that well at that time. Return to thine own house, and show how great things God hath done unto thee. So these people literally sent Jesus away and said, Don't come back. When Jesus comes back, massive numbers of people are ready to meet him. And this is what he writes. And basically the whole point of this vision was his way of saying, that is what I'm going to do to this dead nation. Who are going to be converted. Do you see the parallel? But there's a great parallel. We can actually have an active there are people who watch the our services every Sunday who live in in Europe. That our church is the one they follow because they don't have a church in their community, a place where they can gather and fellowship. Be faithful now. This is a missions focus. Thank you all for joining us for worship here at Anchor Baptist Church. Be strong in the Lord. John chapter four. I have meat to eat that ye know not of. And then after that 200-year period in 722, the Assyrians who were north of Israel came down and they laid siege on Samaria. Because she's a woman. Well, you know, we're doing this, and when the harvest comes and we can get involved, but now's not the time. Amazing thing. Why? He said, I know where we're going to go. We're gonna go there. Despite the painful entanglements of sin and five-failed marriages, he accomplished the work. Yet what does God do? Why do you think that way? Here are these guys like we want to serve Jesus. But guess what? Your brother, your dad, somebody in your family? And the Jews who were given those promises and rejected them, he's going to take the Gentiles and he's going to take the Jews and He's going to bring them to Himself. We're commanded to consider how we build on the foundation of Christ. If it wasn't for the grace of God, this church wouldn't exist. We might need to press out of our comfort zones a little bit. You need to open up your heart to God and say, what are you pointing at? places we shop. Our theme for worship today is let's be grit by the immense gospel opportunities that are before us. Is not this the Christ? And many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him for this saying of the woman, which testified, He told me all that I ever did. May the Lord add a bleed a blessing to the reading of His Word. For the sake of his name, we'll be singing all four verses. I love you, turn me my created glory, to the child is all glory of me. The third thing is that this is a woman who was extremely unlikely to be used of God to reach her community. And so this is a person that came with a tremendous amount of baggage into the conversation that she has with Christ. The fourth group would be the people in the town. And this is in spite of people like Elijah and Elisha preaching and having a personal interaction with each of these kings. John records him going to Samaria. This is what Jesus says. And we see insight into this in verses 16 to 18. Verse 27: Upon this came his disciples and they marveled that he talked with the woman. Yet there was a reason for all of this. This is the time to go out and talk to people about the Messiah. Of what is right in front of us. We're working with them. I know how missionaries think because I've been one, okay? That's the way missionaries think. I don't like it. Nobody who was amongst the twelfth would have ever predicted such an occurrence. You say, well, who is that fault? And that's how it starts. Would I have picked her? He doesn't just heal the man, but he literally frees the man from this bondage that he is in. It says, Now the man out of whom the devils were departed besought him that he might be with him. What is this? Or think about Matthew 16, where Jesus says, I will build my church and the gates of hell will not prevail against it. When you give the scriptures, guess what? If you believe them, do you act upon them or do you sit on them? And even when you and I stumble in the process of being involved in what God's doing, and all of us will, guess what? Our families are a stewardship. You know what your daughter's going to be in 20 years. This moment in history is a stewardship. You talk about spiritual confusion, that's me. And so I want to give you an opportunity to acknowledge that if that's you. But we want to be an encouragement to you if you don't know the Lord's or Savior. And Father, may this text of Scripture give us great encouragement if we have been deeply wounded in life and feel we cannot get up. Now that little interaction is a key component to the gospel being open to this woman. And what's fascinating about it is as you read this, you know what he's actually saying? What if they rejected and rejected and rejected and rejected and then they embrace it? Thirdly, he has proclaimed the power of his gospel. He didn't want them to be complacent. Now when Jesus had heard that John was cast into prison, he departed into Galilee As we turn over to hymn number 592, soldiers of Christ arise. Sing all three verses. And not only did he want to save this woman, but he wanted her to bring people from the community to him. There might be someone here who goes, you know, I look at this land, I look at this town, I look at this community, I look at what's going on around the world, and there's absolutely no way that God can reach into that community. Second truth. Fourth and final truth, this grace overcomes what is presumed to be immovable. Dry dead men's bones. We might need to think a little bigger than what's right in front of us. Lots of people say God could never do anything in my life, and I say, Well, why don't you get involved in what he's doing right now? Our scripture reading for this morning is in the Gospel of John, chapter 4. We can all be grand, come on, we don't run. I am the Messiah. We're gonna just travel through Samaria. And then in this passage, what God does is he gives Ezekiel a vision of the bones coming back to life. And so I leave you with this last thought. We are not the apostles. You might say, Pastor, I'm not going to raise my hand, but I need to talk to you. Let's bow for prayer. Please stand, open your hymn books to hymn number five hundred thirty-seven. Verses 39 through 42 it says, And many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him, for the saying of the woman which testified, he told me all things that I ever did. Every crowd wheel, every crowd wheel, everyone is one we have. By the people living in Judea. Part number three, there's some truths I want you to notice in the text. That's a you problem. We cannot. And I will make sure that you have someone to speak with. If God was waiting for Peter to get a heart for the Samaritans, it would have never happened. Thou hast well said, I have no husband, for thou hast had five husbands, and he whom thou hast is not thy husband, in that thou saidst truly. This is the way God works. Where God is talking to Ezekiel and he has him look out over this valley of bones. Please let's take our hymn books and turn to 391. I do just ordinary things on a day-by-day basis. 9, we see that we are laborers together with God. Third thing to notice here. The answer is absolutely. We ask for your blessing on this time in Christ's name. Because really, you do not have the eyes to see what's in front of you. This moment in history is a stewardship. And it came to pass that when Jesus was returned, the people gladly received him, for they were all waiting for him. Let's go ahead and bow together for prayer. One soweth, another reapeth. Help us to take your word and to give it to those who need it. It would uproot a group of people, put them in a new location, uproot people from another location, plant them there. There's a reason that that divine appointment took place, even beyond the fact that Jesus wants to reach this woman and use her to reach into this community. Our Father, we thank you for the Word of God, its power to transform broken and hurting people Morning. Why are you talking with her? That's an us problem. Despite all the prejudices on both sides, okay, Jews did Jews hated Samaritans, Samaritans hated Jews. Will you come to our town and talk to us about how you're going to fulfill all those promises? Romans 10, 17, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. Be involved in what he's doing right now. The truth is that a lot of what we do on a day in and day out basis is just I go to work, I drive there, I put in my time, I drive back, I eat my meal, I have conversations with my family. They had the same kinds of struggles that we have, the same kind of burdens, the same kind of anxieties, fears, conviction, all of those things. They intermarried with the people that had been laid into that region who were displaced because as as this empire is We can learn something here. His grace consistently selects the most unlikely instruments. Every interaction that we see of our Savior is one that is filled with wisdom. So out of all the people in the story, she's the absolute last person you would think that Jesus is going to use to reach this community. Let's talk about how we're going to do it. And he'd tell them and the other guy, yeah, yeah, I like that idea. He moves in his grace long before. We dealt with it a long, long time ago. I sent you to reap, but whereon ye bestowed no labor, other men labored, and ye are entered into their labors. He almost had to force them into it because of the things that they were seeing and the baggage that they brought into this discussion. They hated Elisha. The grace of God moves long before we have any heart for it. By the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain. Thank you for your word that is always perfect, holy, and right. We have heard the noiseful sound, see the face, see the face, spread the sides all around We'll sing all three verses. You know what, Pastor Lenner? And so I wanted to start with us noticing the people that we're talking about. We overlook it. We're not going to talk to anybody there. And Jesus didn't bother to say, and let me tell you how we're gonna reach the people there. God is amazing in how He works in history. You have an opportunity to have a part in this. And they're going to be around the throne of God for all of eternity. The uh the video that you just saw really encouraged you and challenged you. Jesus is very patient in the text in front of us. It's human nature, they're by their fault. It says, He that reapeth receiveth wages and gathereth fruit, that both he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice together. One day this man meets Jesus. It shall not return unto me void. Say not, there are yet four months, and then cometh the harvest. And to see that man sitting there at that time, and he says, Hey, can I get some water? How big is your God? Our labor is not in vain in the Lord. We've got a lot of families in this church with little children. Our scripture reading will be found in the Gospel of John, chapter 4. So if you have your Bible, let's turn to John chapter 4, and we're reading verses 27 through 42 together. The first one is Jesus, the Savior. He doesn't make statements just because he likes to hear himself talk. We pause for a moment. If anyone needs to reach out, please don't hesitate to do that. So it's primarily for the believer. If you're visiting with us today for the first time or the first time in a long time, I hope that you'll feel very warmly welcomed. It is by your providential plan that you brought them here for whatever purpose, to whatever circumstances they are here. Well recently were kind of really like that. That's a them problem. That's the way pastors think. Oh, the depths of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out. The Samaritans had a very difficult history that set them at odds with those first-century Jews who were trying to conscientiously follow the law. 900 years of history. First, nobody in this room is an apostle, but we do have some promises from Scripture Also, don't forget that this uh Tuesday is the week that we go to the rescue mission. And I pray that your spirit would really move in our midst and in our hearts. Then they went out of the city and came unto him. He was desiring to do the work that God wanted him to do. They're like, what? How do we apply it? And then we see that these are people who were absolutely unaware of how significant this moment was in the ministry of Christ. This is how God works. The first promise is this God has promised a glorious end to his church. And in 945, the nation of Israel split into two kingdoms. Jesus desired to reach into the Samaritan community, and he wanted to do it through that lady's testimony. They'd have never predicted that that woman who had had such a complicated life There's no way that God could reach those people over there. Romans 1. Go and call your husband and come hither. Because she's a Samaritan woman. He says, I sent you to reap that whereon you bestowed no labors. Truth number three. Secondly, he has promised that his word will not return void. We are not in a position to plant ourselves and say, I'm Paul and I'm Peter and everything that Peter did, I can do, and everything that Paul did, I can do. But I hope that you'll be able to join us for that if you're visiting. If you're a lady, we'll have you speak with a lady. There are areas where Jesus had to take her worldview and he had to kind of untangle everything and he had to put it all together in a way that was going to help her to understand the truths of scripture Not a chance. We all face resistance. Is there anybody here like that? And upon this came his disciples, and marveled that he talked with the woman. And the grace of God was moving when this woman just happened in the middle of the day, and by the way, the Middle East is hot in the middle of the day You don't know how God's going to fit them to do the work that He's called them to do. Ask the Lord to bless our service. The words will be on the screen four hundred two Second thing I want you to notice is that he purposed to accomplish a work through very unlikely people. His work in all their lives is a powerful testimony to his goodness. And they don't even know what they're talking about. God does something in people's lives. We'll sing the last verse, a cappella Pray that thus we require. Okay, well our children who are in junior church can be dismissed to their class in the back. I sent you to reap that whereupon ye bestowed no labor. And verse 35 he says, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me. This is like taking the cultural norms and just blowing them apart. Hey, let's try to get to know this person and see where it goes. You talk about a person who carries a lot of guilt in life, that's me. And then the third is going to be be strong in the Lord. And this is where Jesus goes. And so I want to encourage you with that. Come on up and read it. Then they went out of the city and came unto him. We look past it. First Corinthians three. So before we close in prayer, is there anyone that would quietly raise up your hand and say, Pastor, I don't know the Lord is my savior? May you be praised, and we ask it all in Christ's name. This is a woman who'd experienced tremendous pain and grief, and she'd probably cause some injustice, and she'd experience some injustice over the course of her life. I mean, this is a long, long time ago. Like the apostles, we need to look at the opportunities that God has put right in front of us. Therefore said his disciples one to another, Hath any man brought him aught to eat? The reason is because it describes in very vivid detail the immense suffering of those people at that time. But during that time, the northern kingdoms never came back and reunited with Judea And this is what the woman says. We're not going to interact with anybody there. And there was a demon-possessed man who was absolutely crazy. But God in his mercy and his kindness, you know what he's done? 30 and it might be helpful. In Sunday school we are in Psalm 147. God is doing his work in remarkable ways and in unlikely places. And I can give you living water so that you never thirst again. You know what Jesus wanted? He looked at the absolute tragedy of the time he was living in, and God says, I will do something that no man can do. 16. Let's bow for prayer. Uh we're gonna sing some songs today. In fact, the next three Sundays our choir will be singing. There's a reason that he encounters this person at the well at the time of day that he did. What city should we target with a gospel witness? And I'm not saying it's all bad. 391, I am resolved. Amen. We all find ourselves in such a place There are opportunities right in front of us that God wants us to seize. Let me say that again. All of them are terrible kings if we're talking about the spiritual state of the nation. Yeah, that's the guy. Our families are stewardship. Just quietly raise up your hand. Send an email to the church office. These are also ordinary people stumbling in spiritual darkness. And in verse number 90 it says, How is it that thou being a Jew hastest drink of me, which is a woman of Samaria? Samaria? It is not greater than I am. There might be someone here this morning that does not know the Lord Jesus as your Savior. I pray that they would get the supplies and the things that they need. That's the way these people live. These prophets were a thorn in their sides. And he asked the prophet, he says, can these bones live? He says, You are laborers together with God. Well, there are ways that God has blessed us, and we are to steward those things. And let Him do it. Our closing hymn is I am resolved I mean we we we look at American history, we're going back to the 1700s. Who were these Samaritans? Their inability to see the urgency of the moment was not able to thwart his plan. 1 Corinthians 15. Therefore, said the disciples one to another, Have any man brought him aught to eat? Fourth thing I notice here is that despite the massive obstacles, he did exactly what he purposed to do. It will accomplish that which I please, and it shall prosper in the thing whereunto I sent it. You and I can communicate with people in Asia, people in Europe, people in South America, through the internet. I was kidding. The second is the conversation that he has with Nicodemus. And for the next 200 years, there is not one example As Jesus is having this conversation with this woman, he comes to this point where they have this discussion about the Messiah. Secondly, in verse 35, he says, Say not, there yet four months, and then cometh the harvest. The first song is Jesus Saves and Behold, I say unto you, lift up your eyes, and look on the fields, for they are white already to harvest. Out of all the people that Jesus could have talked to on that morning or in the middle of that day, she was the last one that you would have picked Secondly, despite the 900 years of painful historic tensions. The first truth is this, God's grace moves way before our hearts are moved. His grace was moving when he sent Elijah and Elisha. I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. The woman then left her water pot, and went her way into the city, and saith to the man, Come see a man which told me all things that I ever did. What do I eat? In verses 28 to 30 gives us a little bit of an indication. Would he not say it to us too? We don't have the eyes to see it. And I know what it's like to sit down with other missionaries. And it's not because they knew all of her her past and all the situation that she was living through. These people are literally coming to you. They were not well-educated people. The truth is we don't know a lot about this woman, but what we do know is this. We don't see many, many people coming to faith in Christ embracing the Messiah. And Jesus says, no, that's not the time for this. You are working with her. Let's pray. The very first person that is mentioned is the woman. Yeah, we're gonna we're gonna go through there You know what this reminds me of? The grace of God is magnified. According to the grace of God which was given unto me as a wise master builder, I laid the foundation and other builds on. I'd like to ask Brother Eric Mahaffey if you could come and close us in prayer, please, and then uh we'll be dismissed. And just pray that you'll give us safety. And so I pray that you'll bless our service. Please stand. Why does it make the point that those things happen? So we go, I don't know about that one. And the man says, Can I go with you? We might need to think a little bit further out than what's going to happen today or tomorrow. And just thankful to be a part of that We will start in verse 12. Let me draw your attention to them. What does he do? Is he confined by your plans and your wisdom and mine? And we see this grace in the lives of the Samaritans. And as we look at this passage of Scripture, we see the things that Jesus says. And they give all their reasons why that's the worst place they could ever go. They have no idea where the ministry is going to take them. And he's chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things that are mighty, the base things and things that are despised, that no flesh should glory in his presence. The story of his work in people's lives demonstrates his greatness. And what that tells me is that God is sending people to the uttermost parts of the world in every single generation. I'm not going to point you out. There were things that she understood that were And if they knew the rest of the story, they go, why are you talking to her? Five thirty-seven, we have heard the joyful sound. In the meanwhile, his disciples prayed him, saying, Master, eat. He's saying, you have this little saying between yourselves. He wanted the disciples to joyfully embrace the role that he had given them to do in this work. We really do want to help you any way that we can. But it's possible that there's someone who's listening to this message and you go, you know, I'm not the Samaritan woman, but there's a lot of lot of similarities to us. Our missionaries that we are partnered with, their goal is to plant churches that ultimately will become God is doing his work in remarkable ways. That's the region that we need to go to. Not with the scrolling of the phones, of course. And when this man meets Jesus, you know what happens? And amazingly, when we think about the summation of the Romans chapter 11 discussion, How you're raising your kids right now really matters. Just let us know you're planning to go. Now, the typical thing that the Jewish people of the day would have done if they were traveling from Jerusalem Behold, I say unto you, lift up your eyes and look on the fields, they are white already to harvest. Pray that you'll be with us as we go into our different places you've put us in life, our neighborhoods, our jobs. We're talking about going all the way back into the Middle Ages. If you're a man, we'll have you speak with a man Let's stand together, please. I will be relying heavily on you. This is a this is a human problem. Father, we're so very grateful for your word, the power of the gospel. And the grace of God is moving when Jesus says, Be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. What do I wear? Now's the time to kick back, listen to Jesus. We might need to toughen up a little bit. You will never know what God can do through your life until you step into the work he's doing right now. I mean, you and I can't even fathom He accomplishes the work. God works for unlikely people. I hope that you'll stop by and just greet. You know the struggles. He's talking to people throughout the book of John. Labors together. Look down or think about this passage for just a moment. Do you believe these promises? She said, I have no husband. They're souls. And let me tell you how many days we're gonna spend there. You are God's husbandry, you are God's building. There are people all over the world. With every head bowed and every eye closed, before we close in prayer, I want to ask a very simple question. I'm just going to take notes so that I can make sure I connect with you. If you look down in verses 3 through 7, this is some of the stuff that you're going to see in your Bible. Secondly, we're not the apostles, but we've been given a great duty to invest our lives faithfully. This church body is a stewardship. Our great Father in heaven, we are so thankful for what a mighty, sovereign, and powerful God you are And in order to do that, I think we need to kind of understand the characters that we find in this passage. Then we come to his disciples, and I know that this is actually a group of twelve, but they work as a unit in the passage in front of us. These are real people. And he wanted the disciples who didn't understand the significance of that moment, he wanted them to be a part of it. And there's a lot of strategizing that's involved in the ministry work. They never believed that. Why are you talking to me? Go back to your family and tell them what God's done in your life Send it to my personal uh church, uh, my church email, Pastor Porsche. We talked about today how singing to the Lord is appropriate, it is beautiful. Why does this part of Christ's ministry seem so astonishing if we understand a little bit about the history of that moment? The first one is verse 34. Never That's me. She is confronted But let me say this It is the power of God unto salvation. I just pray that we would remember those who are dealing with great affliction. Peter, you're always getting ahead of the curve. Revelation 5. He does not allow his word to fall flat. We've gotten emails from them. Please stand. Amen. So the first example is a secret miracle, if you want to call it that. Isn't that an amazing thing to think about? The second If God was waiting for the Samaritan woman to come to Jesus, In Ephesians 2, it says, in times past, you The Apostle Paul was the most unlikely person you could ever imagine that would be converted, that God would use to reach the Gentile peoples. Or think about Luke 17. He has preserved and he has built this church and he just continues to do it. And so He doesn't ask dumb questions. He knows exactly what he's doing and he knows exactly what needs to happen for that work to be accomplished. A lot of them were fishermen. They're estranged from the prophets. Jesus zeroes in on it. And he went his way and published throughout the whole city how great things And he says, No. You talk about a person who's been hurt a lot in life, that's me. Do you have a great week? If somebody asks a question, do you see the opportunity in front of you? If he was waiting on that, nothing was going to happen. There's another story of a massive revival in a predominantly Gentile region Guess what? He's gonna do it. May it be very Christ-centered. Yet no man said, Why seekest thou, or why talkest thou with her? So when the Samaritans were come unto him, they besought him that he would tarry with them. It says later on, Jesus being wearied with his journey, sat thus on the well. They would do that so they could essentially eliminate the cultures of the people that they had conquered. They're asking, why are you talking to her? And I asked the question, where's your faith? Compassion This was their history. You're not going to them. As we work our way through this passage of Scripture, They need Jesus. Isaiah 55 In the meanwhile his disciples prayed him, saying, Master, eat. And really looking forward to some powerful pieces about missions. Other men labored, and ye are entered into their labors. What do I do today? We ask these things in Christ's name. And then after that, we're going to sing an old hymn, Soldiers of Christ Arise. This isn't just a disciple's problem. Despite the disciples' distraction and complacency, he accomplished the work. You don't know what he's gonna do down the road. So And uh because we have inst uh we will not have Bible Institute this Tuesday as we did last Be with those who are sick, those who have traveled. Say not ye, There are yet four months, and then cometh harvest? 538. Why did Jesus do that? Their prejudices could not thwart his plan. I am on the mend from a cold, so I won't be able to sing quite as loud, so you'll have to make up for it, please. And I I have sat in many a conversation. Peter raised his hand. But God, who is rich in mercy for his great lover with he loved us, even when we were dead. 9. But this is the part that I want you to really zero in on. And the fact is there was a reason that she came in the heat of the day by herself. Did you catch that? But Jesus sent him away, saying, I think about a passage in Ezekiel 37 God's word will never return void. But they were a people who just lived in the moment They are separated from God's covenant people. He says, My meet is to do the will of him that sent me and to finish his work. It really is. From that time Let's bow for prayer. The third is this encounter right here Other men labored, and you are entered into their labors. It was a mutual problem, okay? What's the point? And it's not my job today to tell you what your situations are. How many of us have absolutely no sense Okay? Not that we we don't have a huge footprint if you want to call it that, but there are people from outside this community that God's using this church for. Jesus saith unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work. They never envisioned that. They sang a new song saying, Thou art worthy to take up the book. And so I pray that we would be strengthened today as we reflect on these things. And many more believed because of his own word. Maybe as a pastor, maybe as a missionary, maybe as somebody who just faithfully gives to support the work, someone who faithfully prays. That will not be live streamed, that portion of the service. Despite the religious confusion and the apostasy, he accomplished the work. We see it in the Samaritan woman. I will come up to me Do you see the parallel to what we read there in that text in John chapter 4? Second thing I want you to notice is the disciples here. Hey, if you knew who I was, you'd ask me to give you water. We just dealt with this text recently. 592. And Jesus said, It's true. They're coming to you. And when this man is freed, this is what it says at the end of the little section here. A lot of them were guys that had never been in any kind of She was troubled. And Jesus said, no, we're going to go there. The answer is of course not. They were terrified of the man. God is going to have this innumerable multitude of people from every people group. You say, well, how is that reaching the nations? They're estranged from the law. Because it was unlikely that Jesus would work through this woman. I want you just to step back for a moment and think about this. Anybody like May it be very rich Go tell your family. We see his grace demonstrated in this text. I need to talk to someone I love to tell the story. And really this will ultimately be fulfilled during that tribulation time period. If God can use her, could he use me? El Ministro que puede ser en el aire que no puede caer. I'm glory. That is the focus of these people. And when we read about it in the Old Testament, these are some of the most graphic He probably wouldn't even raise his hand. And herein is that saying true One soweth. The first word is compassion. Out of all the places that he could have started. And this is what Ezekiel says, Lord, you know. If God has a will to do a thing, nothing can stop it. There's a reason that he talks to the disciples the way that he did. Behold, I say unto you, lift up your eyes, look on the fields, they are white already unto harvest. Jesus heals the man. They would have never been comfortable with such a plan. And had they known on the front side, they wouldn't have signed up. That that's not for you to conc concern yourself with. This one is completely different than the other ones that are given. Because he wanted to save this woman. Amen. And Jesus says, well Great singing. And by the end of the conversation, this is what he says. It was the simple fact that she was It's not like it was just on one side. And you need to talk to somebody so that they can take a Bible and show you how to be saved. And we'll make sure that we reach out to you and try to connect with you. We even see it in the disciples. Amen. They're estranged from the temple worship. This is an amazing passage. They're normal, ordinary people. Would you have picked this lady? Oh well, but y'all learn on the air that you're not going to be doing. You'd say, Of course I do. When we stick with the scripture and give it accurately, God uses it. These are very unlikely objects. Could you imagine that was your uncle? You say, what if they choose to reject it? Please be seated. Now that'd be totally chaotic to interpret the Bible in such a way. Well, you don't know what your son's going to be in 20 years We'll turn back to hymn number five seventy-seven. And you have an opportunity to speak with them The Jews have no dealings with the Samaritan. And I pray till the day he comes, he builds it from one generation to the next. Ordinary guys. Your labor is not in vain in the Lord. In verse number 35, he says, I say unto you, Amen. You and I, living today, cannot even begin to understand. It's to simply say, you need to think. And then they ask you questions about, and you can't answer any. Let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon. We ask it in Christ's name, amen. And the question is, why did they have such There are practical reasons for this. Both sides despised one another. Be faithful here. So how do we apply it? But he said unto them, These are a people who are despised. Our last What? They had opportunity. Stop.