Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And today we're back in Luke chapter 6. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to invite you to take it and let's turn together. to Luke chapter 6 and we're looking at verse 30 today. Again, that's Luke chapter 6, verse 30. I'm also going to read the cross reference in Matthew chapter 5, verse 42, so that we'll kind of get the sense of what this section is talking about. Here's what the verse says, give to every man that asketh of thee, and of him that taketh away thy goods, ask them not again. Then if you go to Matthew 5 verse 42, it says, give to him that asketh thee, from him that would borrow of thee, turn not that away. Now the reason that I'm reading the cross reference in Matthew is I want you to understand that when he talks about taking away in verse 30 of Luke chapter 6, he's talking about somebody that's going They're borrowing from another person and they're not able to pay it back for whatever reason. So that's the scenario that he's talking about. So let's go ahead and first of all summarize this verse and then kind of dig into the content of what's here A summary is this love the destitute more than your right to material possessions. You know, as Westerners we tend to to put a heavy emphasis on the things that we own. And I I don't think it's wrong for us to value the things that we have on some level. The fact is that we should invest in our homes, we should take care of them, we should make sure that when we take care of our family, we're giving them the things that they need. So it's it's not wrong for a person to own a piece of property, to own a home, to own clothes that are nice, those kinds of things. That's not what Jesus is talking about here In fact, when we read the Old Testament, we see that families were allotted pieces of property, and they were meant to manage those pieces of property. So property ownership is not an issue in the Bible, but how we view our wealth and the the amount of value that we put on it in comparison to the people that we're interacting with on a daily basis, that's really where the Bible is focusing its attention here. And so in this scenario, we have a person who is destitute. When we see the word poor in the Bible, we need to think of people who are truly destitute. They don't have the means to take care of themselves. They don't have the ability to feed themselves, to clothe themselves, to house themselves, to take care of the people that are under their rule. They're destitute. And then we also need to realize that we're reading a passage from a time period when there was incredible disparity between the rich and the poor. Now this is something that we talk about a lot in our in our current context, the disparity between the rich and the poor. Well what we need to understand is that when we talk about the kind of poverty that people had in those days We're talking about a poverty that goes beyond your typical American Western thinking of poverty. We think of someone under the poverty line who maybe receives a certain amount of income or less. In those days it was a person who they were so destitute that oftentimes they would literally join themselves to a powerful, rich person, and they would become a servant in a house. And the reason that they did that is because by becoming a servant in that house, they wouldn't have to pay bills, they wouldn't have to buy their own piece of property, they wouldn't have to purchase their own food, they would be taken care of by the master of the house. but they would also lose many of their rights. And so some people, because of how destitute they were, they actually saw that as a better situation. There were also people that didn't want to go that route. Instead they would beg in the streets. In fact, maybe they were even in a place where they had some kind of physical infirmity. And because of that physical infirmity, if they wanted to join themselves to someone and they wanted to work in someone's house, they would not have been accepted because they were blind, they were lame, they had some kind of illness that made it impossible for them to do that. And so they literally begged on the streets. We need to realize that that was the scenario that Jesus is talking about. People who are destitute and people who have means. And so he's talking about the way that those who have means should view their own rights, their own material possessions, and the value of the people that are around them. The first fact I'd like us to see is that the following statement is really a proverbial statement. It's meant to make us think. It's meant to make us digest what is being said before we fully understand it. And a lot of times this is the way that Jesus taught. He taught in parables. He gave proverbs. Why did he do that? He made statements that would sometimes be very provocative. And he would make them so that people would stop, they would think, they would digest, and they would obey what he was saying. So in order for us to understand this passage of Scripture, we need to think of it In the light of the Old Testament context, and I'm going to talk about a couple of passages in the Old Testament, the current context that the people were living in, the people that Jesus was talking to, okay, his audience. And we need to think about other passages in the Old and New Testament that would shed light on this. I don't believe that this passage of Scripture was meant to be directed to the poor. It was meant to be directed to the person who had means. Not necessarily extravagantly wealthy, but they had the means to take care of themselves. And they were in a position that someone who was truly destitute would have realized they could come to them and they would come to them with need. This person could have been a family member, could have been like a brother, it could have been a nephew, it could have been a grandchild, it could have been a neighbor. But the person who is coming to them is destitute, they're in deep trouble, and they believe that the person they're going to can help them. And so it's not meant to encourage the destitute to go and beg for money. It's meant for those who have money and means and financial ability to help others. It's meant for them to think about the way they view those individuals. The second thing I wanted to remind you of is the terrible disparity in the ancient world. This is written in the first century, and during that time period, most of the people were either very wealthy. or they were servants, slaves with no rights in the Roman Empire. In fact, when we study ancient history, we'll find that the disparities were incredible. The kinds of rights that people had or didn't have, the disparity between those things was incredible. And so we're talking about people who had nothing versus people who were totally fine, very powerful, very influential. Many of these poor people were beggars. In fact, we see a lot of examples in Christ's ministry where he interacts with people who are begging on the streets. He interacts with people that are servants, that are slaves in households. And so we need to recognize that there are people that they really just thought about survival on a day-by-day basis. This is the kind of person that Jesus is talking about coming to a person who means That person is a beggar. That person is a servant. That person has no ability to defend themselves, to clothe themselves, to feed themselves, to house themselves. He then said, then we also need to recognize that the passage really is not meant to encourage an entitlement attitude with those who are poor or destitute. He's not directing it to the poor. He's directing it to those who have means. And so ultimately what Jesus is doing is confronting the attitude that a person has toward their own rights and toward their tendency to ignore the destitute or to demand full payment of a debt that was owed to them. Now, in order to kind of understand or appreciate what Jesus is saying here, I think it's helpful for us to go to the Old Testament and to kind of look at some of the passages that talk about money, the rich, the poor. By the way, this is just going to give you a couple of passages. There's so much that is written, particularly in the Old Testament law, regarding these issues. But let's see what the Bible has to say about loans. For instance, in Leviticus 25, 36, here's what the Old Testament taught about loans. Take no usury of him of or increase. For but fear thy God that thy brother may live with thee. It's kind of an interesting statement. The Jewish people were not allowed to charge interest on loans that they gave the people. The question is why? Well, the reason is because the purpose of the loan was not to enrich the person who already had means. It was simply to help the person that was destitute. And so it was forbidden to charge usury interest on loans in the ancient Israel Israeli culture. Now this is totally different than what we do. If you have a credit card today, what do you do? You have to pay interest if you don't pay off that balance every single month like you're supposed to. If you're going to buy a house, you pay interest. In fact, in some situations, depending on the interest rate, you may pay more in interest than the actual value of the home by the time you've paid it off. In our culture, we accept loans on the basis of interest, but that was forbidden under the Jewish law. The purpose of a loan was not to enrich the person and means. It was to help the destitute. A second very interesting statement we find in Exodus 21, verse 2, it says, If thou buy a Hebrew servant six years he shall serve, and the seventh he shall go out free for nothing. So we talk about the service of paying off of debts. And by the way, when he talks about buying a Hebrew servant in this context, the idea is this is the person who owes a debt, they're trying to pay off the debt, and so the way they're paying off the debt is they are becoming a servant to you to pay off the debt. In fact, in Proverbs it talked about the borrower bringing a servant to the lender. That's the situation we're talking about. Well what's interesting is you could only owe that debt and work off that debt for a total of seven years. Now if you're in the middle of that seven seven-year period, let's say you're in year three, then really you only have four years to pay it off. Well let's say you're in year five, you only have two years to pay it off. The idea is that you could not be paying off a debt the rest of your life. There would be a time when you would be forgiven the rest of what you owed Why was that? It's because God valued people. Yes, he valued material property. It's true that if someone owed something to another person, they were responsible to pay it back. But there was going to come a point where their loan, their debt would be forgiven. And so we see that in the Jewish law. Another passage that's very interesting is in Deuteronomy 15. 9, and he talks about the attitude of those who have means, who can employ to pay off debt, who can loan to a person that is in need. And he says this, listen carefully. It's interesting. Beware that there be not a thought in thy wicked heart saying, The seventh year, the year of release, is at hand. And then I be evil against thy poor brother, and thou givest him not, and he cry unto the Lord against thee, and if he sin unto thee So basically what the section of Deuteronomy is saying is, you know that every seventh year you have to release people from their debts. You know that you're within a few months of that. And a person comes to you. They are destitute. They have nothing. And they say, can you help me? Can you can you give me a loan? And you sit down and you go Forget it. I'm only gonna get paid back six months or eight months or ten months or one year. I'm not gonna give out this loan because I don't want to have to forgive you in a in a couple months. He said, don't do that Care about that person. Love that person. Love them more than stuff. That's the point of what the Old Testament law was teaching. By the way, this these would have been radical thoughts. When we think about the ancient world and the way that people thought, these would be radical thoughts today. Can you imagine if these kinds of principles were actually applied in our society today? People wouldn't like it at all. Imagine if you were to establish a political party that made this the platform. It would not fly with a lot of people. There's another passage I want to mention. That's in Proverbs. In fact, the book of Proverbs says a lot about these, these concepts of lending, borrowing, paying back debts, our attitude towards people. who are poor and destitute. Let me read to you a couple of them. Proverbs 14, 21 says, He that despiseth the poor sinneth. He that hath mercy on the poor happy is. And when he talks about having mercy, he's talking about you're looking out for the destitute. You're willing to lend to them in their time of need. You're willing to give to them in their time of need. Proverbs 19, 17 says, He that hath pity on the poor lendeth unto the Lord, and that which he hath given, will he repay him again? Who's going to repay the person who lends in mercy and has pity on the poor? It's God. God is going to be the one who settles the debt on behalf of the person who's poor. God is sovereign and he has ways of taking care of us when we show kindness to others. That's what the Proverb is communicating. Proverbs 28-27 says, He that giveth unto the poor shall not lack. But he that hideth his eye shall have many a curse. It's really an interesting proverb with a very descriptive picture. You have a person who gives with open hand, and you have a person who hides his eyes. What's he doing? He turns away. He sees the person coming. He says, I don't want to talk to this person. I do not want to help them out in this situation. I've done this enough times. That's the attitude that he's addressing there. And so he says the person that gives to the poor will not lack. God will take care of him. And the person that hides his eyes will have many occurs. What's the point of the passages that we've looked at this morning? It's to show us that those who have means need to have compassion on those who don't. Those who have the ability to help out the destitute need to do it when the destitute come to them with need. This is not suggesting that people should it work or that people should have an attitude of entitlement. This is not encouraging us to basically take care of people who are being uh encouraged in in very bad behavior. That's not what he's suggesting. We know that because we have the rest of the New Testament where Paul deals with taking care of widows and he says we only take care of widows indeed. And if someone has children, their children need to take care of them. They have family members, they need to take care of them. If that widow is a certain age and she's young enough to take care of herself, she needs to do that. The Bible talks about that. If you have a person who's unwilling to work and they have the ability to work, then you shouldn't take care of them. They need to take care of themselves by the works of their own labors. But then there are also people that are truly destitute. They do not have the ability to work. If you were a blind man begging on the streets, you were there because no one would have employed you. If you were lame, how are you going to work on a farm? The reality is there are people who are truly destitute, and we need to have compassion on them. We need to love them. We need to care about them more than the stuff that we're giving to them. And so what Jesus is ultimately saying in this passage of Scripture is, look, when you are a person of means, and a person who is destitute comes to you, have compassion on them. Have pity on them. Love them. Meet the need. If they don't have the ability to pay you back, don't hang over their head saying, you owe me this money. Forget about it. Release it. Let God bless you back in his own time and in his own way. Now that's not encouraging a person to get debt and then not to pay it back. That's not the point of the passage. The point of the passage is how we are to look at those who live around us who are truly destitute when we are the person who's in a position of means. So let me kind of practically summarize this for us this morning. God expects us to be truly generous to those who are truly destitute. So I want to encourage you this morning, look out for those who are needy. It's really easy for us to kind of insulate ourselves from the people around us and to not recognize the fact that you know what? There are people around us who are really hurting, who have real needs, and we should look out for them and care for them and love them A second thing is this. Think about the absolute best way to help them in the long run. Just giving someone money is not necessarily going to help them in the long run. He's not encouraging us to encourage bad behavior. He's encouraging us not to love stuff more than people who really cannot bless us back in return. people who are destitute and people who cannot help themselves. Don't be harsh or demanding when you have helped someone who's in need. The fact that you could help them and the fact that they needed the help means that they may not be able to pay you back in the end. That's okay. We're not encouraging bad behavior, but we're recognizing that when people are destitute, they may stay that way for a very long time. So Jesus is saying, don't be harsh and don't be demanding of those who are destitute. Have compassion. The last thing I'm going to mention is this. Let God be the one who pays you back. In the end, God is sovereign. He sees when we are generous with others, when we are compassionate, when we are loving, when we are kind. And you know what God's going to do? He's going to take care of us. If we're ever in the position where we are in need, guess what? God is going to, through his own means, make sure that we are taken care of in those situations as well. This morning, as we think about the statement of Christ, I want to encourage you, let's have a godly attitude towards those who are destitute. Hope you have a great rest of your morning, and Lord willing, we'll continue our study tomorrow. Bye now.