Hope that you'll take a moment to fill out one of our visitor connection cards and put that in the little box in the back. And also want to remind you that today is our sacrificial Sunday offering, and so all gifts that are given, unless they are designated for general funds. And it'll give us all the same information that would for a normal teen rally. You've got to make wise choices. And the advisors that were around him, and there's a reason that when Nebuchadnezzar saw Daniel, he says, that man tells me the truth. And all of a sudden we go, that's me. And as he's confronting and as he's warning, guess what? It's not as if this was something that only happened these seven times but nowhere else. And repentance says you can't earn your way to God. Like it doesn't help you very much. And they don't know where to turn, and they don't know what the answers are, but they do know there's a problem. Doesn't God have the right to show compassion with his children when he wants to do that? Don't stop. Did I do that? And I will take a moment to speak with you. And it's not uh it does it's not designated for missions or for general fund. Just if you come out here, just take a left down the hall, there's a sign-up for each of those. That might be the way he worked in some of your lives. or for missions are going to go directly to our sacrificial Sunday offering for the refresh of the back bathrooms, which are uh pretty old, haven't been touched in a while in that way. There are flyers in or at the welcome desk talking more about it, times, everything. And so we really should pray for our lands, uh pray for wisdom of our leaders, uh pray that God will move in this country, especially in his people, and that we as his people will be faithful, and that uh he will use us to And just especially pray for our country. and opposition from our government. And it is because of your grace. And that we would be a godly influence in this time. Now just a few pages back to page 411. Thank you all are getting all primed for the big Fourth of July coming up here. Bless the Lord for his mercies. Bless the Lord of my soul with singing. I want to give you three Proverbs, and one would be a New Testament application that I think would fall into the line of those three Proverbs. That have been lying a long time. who we know is set in a way that is foolish, it is unwise, their life is built on lies, but we have to engage the situation sometimes for their own goods. But sometimes he steps in, not just on the justice side, but also to warn people who are entertaining such folly. They will tell someone what they want to hear because they're going to get something in return. Truth matters. is that Luke's gospel has a very distinct structure to it. And so in chapters 13 and 14, Jesus has been teaching in cities and villages all around Jerusalem, and he laments the hardness of the rejection of what he's going to receive. They brought him in to watch him. Well, I think it's pretty obvious. And I tell you, whether you feel good about the lie or you hate the lie, it's a lie and it hurts you. So they've learned how to kind of control their passions in front of people. He tells the man, verse number four, he took him, healed him, and let him go. I'm not going to dig into them. Luke chapter 6, verses 1 through 11, he healed a man with a withered hand on the Sabbath day. Whom Satan hath bound these eighteen years be loose from this bond on the Sabbath day? Hey, do you think you have the right to go to heaven? You know, Hosanna, save us. And he says, well, I did. We should. Twisted. To consider conclusions and say, what I believe here is wrong because it's inconsistent. They're guarded. Realize that? Christians. Anybody like that? If you need to speak with someone about that. Looking forward to what the Lord provides through that, but I want to make that reminder before we have our announcements. beginning the week is going to be pretty warm. With that going on is also a teen rally. We are an evangelist in, um Brother Brent Gellis. On a couple Sundays we'll have the Teen Sing Spiration and then later that week we'll have the luncheon, college and career, men's breakfast, and then churchwide visitation. She crieth in the chief places of concourse, in the openings of the gates, in the city she uttereth her words, saying, How long, ye simple ones, will ye love simplicity? But we also recognize that as your people, we do impact our generation. Help us to be faithful in our families. I pray that we would be a godly influence and that we would take every opportunity that you might give us to share about what Christ has done. As we begin our services this morning, we're going to start off on page 374. Go ahead and have a seat. Wonderful in my coming, wonderful when my head on me. You are working. Sets my guilty corn chance free when I face the hopeless brave His grace. Our children who are junior church aged can be dismissed to the back for your class with some help from mom or dad. and will not straightway pull him out on the Sabbath day. And gentle mercies toward us as your people. And we are believers because in your great mercy you brought the gospel to us. We were gloriously saved. Especially when we think about the example that is in front of us. to get our attention, to shake us in whatever way necessary so that we would know what is true and embrace what is true. Lest he be wise in his own conceits. These are people who are speaking lies. and resisting and ignoring. And he does it in a way that is objectively so clear that nobody can turn away and say, that didn't just happen. And so I know this is going to sound like a little bit of an overkill, but I'm going to move quickly just so you can kind of see where this is set in the ministry of Christ and in the storyline that's being told in the book of Luke. That are the evidences that are to validate that in fact what chapters 1, 2, 3, and 4 are saying is true. are giving stunning example after stunning example of those who were the religious leaders of the day rejecting Christ teaching and are embracing his teaching and believe he's Messiah, the temperature in the room is really, really getting hot. There had to be a synagogue that was a certain distance from everybody's home so that they could walk there without violating the traditions of the elders there. Don't you feed and water your animals on the Sabbath day? The passage is in front of us. Notice carefully the way the text is worded. kind of size them up or do you just walk them into your home and have a conversation with them? He he probably had some major health issues that were causing him to have an abundance of fluid in his legs. And was he like an older family member who just happened to be at the dinner table? It was. Now this morning in our Sunday school class we have it was like seven questions from Romans chapter eight. But Paul asks lots and lots of questions in that chapter because he wants people to think. We were all there at one time, right? And by the way, it happened more than what was recorded, probably, because there were selected examples that were used in each of the gospel accounts. On the Sabbath day in Mark chapter 1, they're coming from the synagogue. on the Sabbath day. We see this statement. The answer is God. rested on the seventh day and he sanctified it and he hallowed it. And so the question was, well, doesn't God have the right to tell you what's acceptable on the day he created and set aside? If the Son of Man can perform such unmistakable miracles, why don't you accept him? That you see as righteous and God is unrighteous, there's a problem. Like we're watching a sports competition and we see that our teams come tohead and we're just like, yeah, this is good. In Matthew 18, 11 it says, The Son of Man has come to save that which was lost. They're trusting in something that cannot save. You sound a little like that guy in the temple who said, well, look at me, I fast twice in the week, I give alms, and I'm not like this guy over here. If people are going to get saved, they have to believe in the message. I can't save anybody. He went to them. I'm not saying if they are thinking rationally and they're living consistent with rational thinking. Don't do that. True. So why do you have a problem with what I'm doing? the truth. That tell you? Tired. It's funny how God works in the most amazing of ways. Hymn 84, let's sing it out with passion. I'd like us to sing all of the verses because I just don't know which one to leave off. Uh it might be a little hot to play volleyball, but some of you may not care. Behold, I will pour out my spirit unto you, and will make known my words unto you, because I have called, and ye refused. I have stretched out my hand, and no man regarded. We'll be celebrating the 4th of July, and so I really want us to remember to pray for one another as folks may be traveling, being with family. We are so grateful for every single blessing that we are currently enjoying in Christ and those blessings that are yet in the future that are absolutely certain because of your power that has guaranteed to give us all these things. things. A land that has given so many opportunities, that has provided so much richness of blessing We recognize that righteousness is a result of position and righteous living is a result of a new heart. Lift up your voices and sing. Yes, my neighbor all the way. This is a good day. And they could not answer him again to these things. I stand amazed in the present. For me, not in the card, we pray the God, we have no days for the power, please God for the power. My devil I love for my women to pray. Say the life say you are worthy. God in mercy pardons me glam sends us forgiven fall. God in Marcy rescued me. When I number all God's gifts, and let must be pouring down. Then I know instead that love rests upon me like our crowd Bless my Lord for his peace. Let me never forget his Luke chapter 14, and the topic that we're going to address that really is the focus of the text in front of us. confronts religious pride. on several different events. And hopefully it'll help us to understand how to apply what's in front of us. to eat bread on the Sabbath day, that they watched him. And he took him and healed him and let him go. You persistently and you graciously and you mercifully pressed the issue on our soul. We are broken in our hearts over the truth. And the way that we think is not consistent with the purposes and the designs that God has for us. What is better for you, for God to allow you to continue to go down a path in your thinking that is in fact contrary to his purposes? Contrary to his design and ultimately leading to the detriment of your soul and the souls of all those that you influence, or it would it be better for him to confront you? The fact is it's obvious it's the second of those examples. Got to stand on the side of truth. A fool in their folly. Very destructive, very painful. He says we must hold fast the faithful word, that's truth, that he may be able to, with sound doctrine, both to exhort and to convince the gamesayers. There are many unruly and vain talkers and deceivers, especially they of the circumcision, whose mouths must be stopped, who subvert whole houses teaching things which they ought not for filthy lucre sake And then the next five chapters, so if we go from chapter one essentially to the end of chapter nine, what we have is numerous examples and details from the ministry of Christ. into the synagogue, Jesus is reading the scriptures and he stops everybody and he makes a point to address this issue. But here are the similarities. Public thing. He is very pointed. The statement was made, does not each of you, or question should I say, does not each of you on the Sabbath day loose your ox from the stall and lead him away to be watering? To to take a person on the Sabbath day and heal them and tell them they can take up their bed and walk or whatever the situation. Hey, don't you go and pull your animal out of the ditch? To rise to the occasion and to go directly to the point of what was going on. Jesus is asking a question because he wants people to think about the implications of what they believe. Verse number five, what does he do? And he heals her on the Sabbath day. John 9, 1 to 6, he healed a man who was born blind on the Sabbath day. Right? He is making a point. And so the reason that Jesus says and does what he does in these verses is all about the fact he came to seek and to save those who are lost. Well, saying the reason you can be saved is because the Lord Jesus Christ took on flesh. My righteous servant shall justify many because he will bear their iniquities, and his soul will be made an offering for sin. So if there's no cross and there's no resurrection and there's no righteousness in Christ to be imputed to our account, there is no salvation because we're not good enough. I'm the standard. By the deeds of law, no flesh will be justified in his sight. We preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord. So Christ actively confronted the pride and the self-righteousness and the theological errors of these people because truth matters and people's lives are in the balances and eternity is at stake. He spoke to them. I mean, Jesus was walking into the home of somebody who knew hated him, who was trying to set him up, who had brought all of his friends and his legal scholars so they could sit down, they could trash him. He walked in. And so what does Jesus do? it. But he does it over and over and over again. They took their bodies, they burned them, and they threw their ashes in the Thames River because they had such an incredible animosity for these people. Him as my savior, and I I'd like to talk to somebody about that. Eighty four, Eternal Father, strong to safe. Help us not to be fearful. calm but direct manner, help us to do the same. We read in the scripture, Wisdom crieth without. Shall they eat of the fruit of their own way and be filled with their own devices? To be a godly influence in our country that desperately needs that. Father, as we gather this morning, we are so thankful that we can gather as believers, that we have a Savior who died and rose from the dead, and we stand righteous in Him and in His sacrifice alone. And here is the simple explanation. Such a fascinating statement. One was in someone's home. It's a very direct confrontation. We don't know exactly what this was, but it it had something to do with the swelling of his legs, and it means that the man probably couldn't walk and move. If the Father and the Son are equal, doesn't that make him God in flesh? A basis that God says is acceptable. And he went to the cross, and he was nailed to the cross, and he shed his blood, and the Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. And the timing of it was perfect. I'm just here to tell you before he does it. Third thing I want you to notice is how we can learn from his action. And there are certain things that whether whether they read in God's word that's wrong, they know it's wrong. That are there because of the circumstances that they have witnessed in the last week or two. And I mean I gave you seven examples where Jesus has confrontations where he's asking things like, well, doesn't God have the right to tell you what to do on the Sabbath day if he made it? That. We need to have a knowledge base that you can do these things. There are some people in this room, you have been praying for someone's salvation for 40 years. It's on the website. For me to I feel they were here and also I commend you. And it came to pass as he went into the house of one of the chief Pharisees to eat bread on the Sabbath day, that they watched him. And, behold, there was a certain man before him which had the dropsy. Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath day? 143. I think we've done something to the sound in here, but you all are really sounding out. Page forty-one, all three verses, a cappello on the third instruments, please set that up. Is that a good God confronts religious pride? And so I pray that you'll speak to our hearts in whatever capacity we need it this morning. People's pride. And to draw you to see truth. And then it moves into this section where Jesus is talking about the warnings that are associated with rejecting what's right in front of you. And that's an important thing for God to do in our lives. You don't think twice about helping an animal that falls in a ditch. Why does that matter? Zero. And as he is suffering on that cross, the sins of all humanity are placed on his shoulders, and God is pouring out his justice against his son. And so that's a confrontation. We're simply there to deliver the news. And how can they believe in him of whom they've not heard? And so if people are going to get saved, it starts with a basis, confrontation, and people to do it. Confrontation. They see the troubled decisions that people make and they say something's not right there. And this pattern is true whether someone is saved or lost. We must engage this generation at this time after the example of Christ. Guess what? Father, help us to be willing to engage in these situations with patience, realizing it takes time for you to work in hearts. Being a light to those around us, please help us to remember how you were able to confront those around you in a Good morning. And the scorners delight in their scornings and fools hate knowledge. Then shall he call upon me, but I will not answer. Father, we pray for our nation and we recognize that we as your people are citizens of an amazing land. Page four hundred and sixteen. and let him go. Can y'all believe it? Whenever I'll be my joy. The very simple fact is, as we sit here this morning, it is likely that in some of our hearts, in fact in all of our hearts, there would be some areas where the way that we think is not consistent with reality. And so he basically says, if someone is in leadership and the people around them are unwise or the people around them are dubious, or the people around them have evil intentions, they will tell that person whatever they want to hear. The second proverb is found in Proverbs chapter 26, verse 5. The third proverb is Proverbs 21, verse 11. It's not just that God punishes evil because he's yes, he does that. Now, what is Paul saying to Titus in these verses? He didn't just do it for the sake of the people he was confronting, but he was also doing it for the sake of the people who watched what was going on. In other words, doesn't this woman have more value than the animals that you take care of in your home? They watched him. Don't miss that. He said, every single one of you who holds these hard and fast, strong rules that are overbearing on the people that you teach, that treat them as if they have no dignity and no value. Jesus put it in techmate, to put it the other way. He came into the world to save sinners. Well, we affirm what we believe about ourselves. The second is the word reasoning. There are times when somebody has made it clear I don't want to talk about this anymore, and I think you would be wise to give them some space, okay? Which ones of you would take an animal that falls in the ditch and just leave them there? What does that tell you? We all have them. I am shocked how many times after a sermon someone will come to me and they'll say, Pastor, you hit on this little issue, and I can't tell you how that really got got a hold of my attention. I also will laugh at your calamity, and will mock when your fear cometh. Almighty God master and voy, King of Kings and King. And Jesus answering spake unto the lawyers and Pharisees, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath day? Let's bow for just a moment and ask God to help us to understand what we're looking at this morning. When we lift up ourselves in pride and we hold on to lies and we live in a way that is so contrary to your good purposes for us. If a ruler hearken to lies, all his servants are wicked. Jesus is not giving people what they want to hear. It was supposed to be a time that people didn't work, they rested from their labors, they worshipped God in the synagogue, and then that was kind of the end of it. Both were performed in a, let's just say, confrontational manner. Or we also see this question. That this was a setup by the religious leaders. There's no sound reason in the positions that they hold at all. There was no rational answer that could actually be coupled with what they believed and be sound in its logic. And you just follow common sense. Because it really draws attention to who he is and his right to do what is in his will on the day that he has created. And so that is really what is going on in these verses: a confrontation. We are guilty. But there's a second reality. That calls us to repent and believe. The God of this world hath blinded the minds of those who believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ should shine unto them. Oh, good. The second word is the word reasoning. The third word is persistence. Don't worry about that. The pride and self-righteousness of our generation, and that's not just ours, I mean every generation, is not an excuse to shrink back. Courage. Do you know the gospel? The last word is the word confidence. Good morning. There is an if you would like to register your team, that's also done on the BBS website. Why does he ask that follow-up question? As Christians, we should be gentle, gracious, kind, merciful. But as long as God gives you opportunity and you can see it's there, don't in fear step away from it. Maybe you're not the one who leads someone to Christ. Please let's take our hymn books out and turn to hymn 84. Calvation by the way, I think. The simple fact is that there are times in life that we are pushing in a certain direction, we don't understand the full implications of it, we're entertaining folly, and we are headed down a path that's going to be very hard. You say, well, what does that have to do with Luke chapter 14? Then the next ten chapters in the middle section here of the book of Luke, the next ten chapters. In other words, when we look at the confrontation, the religious leaders were pretty straightforward. Would not answer his question. He does, right? Was Christ's point that he wanted to just make people cry or he wanted somebody to go, yeah, we got 'em. This is what's going on. But it leads me to a second thought. His wrath was literally poured out on him. And he appealed to their consciences. For they for that they hated knowledge and did not choose the fear of the Lord. We are in my own. Especially when it's an issue of their souls in eternity. Excuse me. That's what we talked about last week. Or John 5. There's got to be a confrontation. Sentimentality doesn't save anybody. Second, third, cool, I'm glad nobody's asking me those questions. Can't the conscience become dull and hardened? And he starts the work through the questions. Father, I pray that this morning as the Word of God is opened and as the truths of the text in front of us are laid in front of us, that we would understand your word, that we would apply your word, that we would live in the light of the truths of Scripture. This passage of Scripture, Luke 13 and 14, is caught right in the middle of that section. And so we see some similarities between these two events. And again, they did not answer a word. So I want you to notice what's consistent about these things. He hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. People don't get saved because they hear the gospel one time, many times. I'm thankful that I'm not living in the first century when people who didn't like Christians could actually like hang them on poles and burn them and eat food in their garden while they lit up their I believe it. I'm glad that that's not happening in our country. Bless the Lord for his own. It was a total setup. And so, the gospel confronts us and calls us to repent and believe. In Romans chapter 10 verse 14 he says, how can they call on him in whom they've not believed? He says, so then faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. He's reasoning with them. Faith involves reason. He softens the heart, and one day there's repentance in faith. God is persistent. I'm serious. What's interesting about that proverb is that it comes with the expectation that if you're in authority We should ask questions. As we sit here today, there are people all over this world, all over this community, all over this country, that right now there are questions in their head. It says, that the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath. Hebrews 12, 6, whom the Lord loves, he chastens, and scourges every son whom he receives. Like, you made that statement. If you keep that up, I'll let you stay seated for the next couple signs. I'm just going to state them just so that you get the sense that this is not something that only happened one time, two times, four times. He confronted the error that was in the heart of those who rejected salvation. I may be a little introverted in that moment. With eyes closed, head bowed, before we close in prayer, I just want to ask a simple question. Healing every head and heart, turning pain to bleed, really, really, really, really In chapters 13 and 14, we're going to see that Jesus has a confrontation with these religious leaders on the Sabbath day. We're going to come to that a little later. You know where they are? And Christ's actions give us a pattern to follow. All right. Some of the people that God used to translate the Word of God into the English language, they were killed as martyrs. So the fact is that we actually serve in a much gentler time and we should be thankful for that. So you've got to surround yourself with wise people who are going to tell you bluntly what is true, not just what you want to hear, and not what you expect to hear, what is actually true. He's very direct. I don't have the power to do that. People you work with, they know who you are. You might say, I'm not raising my hand, but I do need to speak with you. Now, when I use the word grace and confront, most of us go, they don't seem to go together, but they do. Overcome the apprehensions that we feel emotionally. And if God gives you an opportunity, don't be afraid. Go there. And so what does Jesus do? Luke 14, he healed a man with dropsy on the Sabbath day. They didn't come to him. He sat down. You say, well, I'm not a pastor, I'm not an evangelist, I'm not a missionary, I don't need to do that. We're going to open our service with a scripture reading, and we're going to start in Proverbs chapter 1 and verse 20. I tried for me, for the three of one is green through. We're going to look at a couple of those this morning to just get the sense of that, why he had these kinds of situations. Because there was no logical answer for the question that did not indict their belief system. Why why is it the timing of that so important? God's heart is for people to be saved. Let's bow for prayer. I'd like to welcome you to our service today. On the cross a challeng. So what was the significance of this confrontation? I'm the righteous and holy one. I'm going to rest in it. I mean, in this room, I I know for a fact, because I know many of your testimonies, that that is how God worked in your life In fact, that is an incredible blessing, and that is not the norm in human history. That's why Christ came. It really doesn't. Help us to be courageous. It is not because we are a good people. It's already end of August. And people's souls are in the balances. John 9. Confrontation. He reasoned with them, they say, you say, but they didn't want to talk to him. I mean I'm a pastor, but guess what? Let's read the text together. I mean read Genesis 1 and 2, and what do you have? He was willing to walk into their house. That's not your concern. I'm God in flesh. Sometimes it calls us to uncomfortable positions. The idea is that when God allows the wicked to fall flat on their face, he does it because he's just, one, and because, too, he wants to warn those who are toying with folly. Thirdly, the reasoning on both sides of the Sabbath debate were almost identical. So these are, you know, austere, strong men who can hold their feelings in, and they're just boiling inside. Jesus likes to make points on the Sabbath day, is apparently what it is. And they can all give you reasons that they may say are conclusions of why they should be allowed into heaven. What is it? Send something to the office. This week nothing much is going on. Help us to be faithful as we raise our children. We're into chapter 14 now. And even if we weren't going to meet and greet on this one, we'd have to stand anyway. Is there anyone in this room that would raise your hand and say, that's me, Pastor? But next Sunday we have our VBS meeting in the morning. We don't see the implications of it at the time. He says, ought not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan hath bound these eighteen years, be loosed from this bond on the Sabbath day? He asks a follow-up question. Father, I pray that as we look at this text this morning, you would help us to understand that it is actually your mercy and grace that continues to confront us. And what does Jesus do? They brought him into the house, they watched him, and they brought somebody in as bait. That's just really what you're doing. The law wasn't given to bring you to God and say, now you're acceptable. My faith has found a resting place. Verse number four, it says they held their peace. Somebody has to say, what you believe is wrong. That's not faith. And answered them, saying, Which of you shall have an ass or an ox fallen into a pit, and will not straightway pull him out of on the Sabbath day? Let his friend this place. And sometimes when people are direct about something, people misunderstand. Everybody in this room, we all fall into this category. Number one, there has to be a basis to grant salvation. We talk about faith in the gospel. Help us to remember to be that salt and light to the world. When they see somebody who goes and embraces the truth and says Jesus is Messiah, they are already angry with Jesus, and now they're angry that people have left them and left their teachers. He says, Which of you shall have an ox fall into a pit and will not straightway pull him out on the Sabbath day? God's word will not return void. He's gonna be talking in the morning, we'll be doing some games, um, just a lot of very similar to like a VVS, but a teen rally during the mornings. Therefore the Jews sought the more to kill him because he not only had broken the Sabbath, but said also that God was his father, making himself equal with God. Can you open up your Bible to Romans chapters 3, 4, and 5 and just talk with a person through all those passages of scripture, answer their questions, point them to the truth, reason with them out of the word of God. The fact is that the liberties that we enjoy, the fact that we're able to assemble this morning and do what we do, preaching the Word of God without fear. It was in a sort of private kind of interaction. Both were miracles performed on the Sabbath day. He knows what's in their hearts. It happened in Paul's time. Our Father, thank you for the word. So in the morning from 10 to 12, there is going to be an opportunity for teens to come. Good morning, Anchor Baptist Church and Steam Guests. Now what do you do when you invite somebody to your house? Maybe it's not in the next six months. Please be seated. You know, they're not like, you know, junior high boys who are just chomping at the bit to say something, but sorry, junior high boys are not trying to hurt your feelings or anything. As it says in Isaiah 53, it says, he will look on the travail, the agony of his soul, and be satisfied. And so reality number one is there has to be an acceptable basis to grant salvation. They were watching him. It was exposed. Jesus came into the world to save sinners. You realize it happened literally on the Passover. So you have an opportunity to be made right with God through the sacrifice of Christ. He had a meal. I can do what I want to do. Please stand with me. And we turn to you like little children, having nothing to trust in but the finished work of Christ and his righteousness. No joke. In verse number one, he says, He went into the house of one of the chief priests to eat bread on the Sabbath day, and then it says this. Repentance, faith. That's why he died. But I'm responsible to give the message. He continued to confront and reason them while there was a point of contact. So that leads me to this final question. I'm like, ah, I'm sure I did. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord. While contending with foolish people is frustrating and generally a waste of time, there are times that we must engage I'm moving in that direction right now. These are people who are subverting households. He's persistent with you before you're saved, he's persistent with you after you're saved, in a different way. The kids don't seem to care. We ask that you'll bless this service. The temperature in the room is getting hotter and hotter and hotter and hotter. Most people, you ask them, are you a good person or a bad person? Of course it can become dull and hardened. And then to lay before you a right and good solution. I read again, answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own conceits. And Jesus knew exactly what was going on. Since the world began, was it not heard that any man opened the eyes of one that was born blind? Reasoning. I'm going to give them a try and see what happens. No one gets saved without three basic realities taking place. We should recognize, even if somebody says, I don't believe the Bible, that in their heart there is an awareness of right and wrong. Not contrary reason. Let me get Bill for you. I mean, when truth is in the balances and eternity is in the balances, we would want God They walk into his house. Now that word repent means something. You plant the seed today in the opportunity God gives you today and you let God work through the deed. Send it through Facebook Messenger. God graciously and masterfully confronts people's pride because the truth matters and souls are in the balances. And so there is no one who gets saved without there being a basis of salvation. God commanded the light to shine out of darkness and hath shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. And the third reality is there's no repentance and faith without people who are willing to actually do that. Help us to be knowledgeable so we can reason from the Word of God. Please let's bow together for a word of prayer. So, Luke 14, verse 1. It says, When the scorner is punished, the simple is made wise. So both the miracles that were performed, both of the miracles that we see in this text of Scripture You know, lots and lots of people, they hold viewpoints that, to be totally frank, they are completely irrational. You're not considering the implications. And this is the one that might make us uncomfortable. If they're going to believe in the message, they have to hear about it. Well, I hope you'll be able to join us again this evening as we uh have our evening service and He's basically saying this. That's very important to notice that. Compassion is meaningless without righteous action. And so I might say I love the lost. Not confrontation all, confrontation. It has a lot to do with Luke chapter 14. He confronts them once again. The first four chapters of Luke are introducing Christ as the Son of Man. Over half of these situations lead to confrontations, and they are recorded for us in the Gospels. Well, because they were all coming to celebrate the Passover, and there he was. I don't feel like engaging, but God's pricking my heart said, You need to talk to this guy. You know, hey, would you like to eat this? The second thing we see is that the legal scholars who just happened to be there, surprise, surprise. He didn't say, hey, hey guys, I didn't hear your answer again. You don't think twice about it. Now, if a person can think rationally And you know, over the course of people's lives, you never know what God will bring into their lives to provoke questions. And it sounds very familiar to several of the events that we witness in the life and ministry of Christ because he had this confrontation, this kind of a confrontation. I think that was said a couple times. In other words, Jesus says, if you're not going to answer my question, I'm going to perform the miracle and I'm going to press it a little bit harder and see what you have to say. The word reasoning means that he reasoned with them from a point of authority, being what was actually true, and the scriptures themselves. Third word is patience. I mean we have the 4th of July, so hope you guys are getting out, staying safe, hopefully staying a little cool. So if you are interested in the teen rally, I would say talk to Pastor Josh, talk to Pastor, see me. So we can kind of get a good number for make sure there's food and everything necessary for that. It is a very exhausting thing to have to engage an individual Mark chapter 1, verse 21 through 28. That's why he rose from the dead. God desires people to be saved. They know your values. I'm not going to make you stand up or walk forward or anything like that. There's no question about it. He's telling them what they need to hear. And so when the text says that Jesus is the Son, uh the Son of Man is the Lord of the Sabbath, he's saying he's the creator. The law brings the knowledge of sin. Don't forget, today is sacrificial Sunday, so if you put money in the box Why did Jesus ask the question? Well, this is a human person. He knows they don't want to say it. And make this simple statement. I made the Sabbath. And if you're visiting with us today for the first time or the first time in a long time, we'd like to warmly welcome you and if you'd like us to reach out to you. Well, there are seven examples in the Gospels of Jesus performing miracles on the Sabbath day. He asked them a question. That's the way it works. This is something that Jesus did often. And so what do we see? They were trying to set him up. I know there's a problem. There's some people it's hard for me to start a conversation with them. The second word is knowledge. It will go to Sacrificial Sunday. Father, we're reminded that we are here today as believers simply because there is a gospel. Confrontation. Faith in the gospel isn't like, oh I really hope this is true, so I'm just going to jump out and see what happens. It's not because we're a wise people. Page 411, the Solid Rock. And they held their peace. Six months have gone by. It says, in six days the Lord made the heavens, the earth, seeing all that in them is, and he I'm saying if they can, then we should appeal to conscience. And if the father and son are equal, doesn't that make him God in flesh? But um we do still have that available after if you're interested. And if someone persists in teaching a lie and people embrace it, they get hurt by that lie. And he wasn't doing it just to be nasty or cruel. I mean, you could ask a thousand people in our communities Question. Three words I want you to remember today. That's not faith. It involves reason. 1 Timothy 2, 4. So let's bow together for prayer, ask the Lord's blessing on our service, and also for our country. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. And he answered them, saying, Which of you shall have an ass or an ox fallen into a pit? Why do you think you're better than God? So the first thing I want us to notice from the text in front of us is I want us to understand this event in Christ's ministry in the context in which it's given. So let's remember the words. Come on up here. Foolish leaders are surrounded by wicked advisors. It's also important for us to notice this. By the way, Peter was married. You wouldn't do that. But God used you to plant a seed at that moment. I need to re-evaluate what's going on here. I need to speak with you about the sister of salvation. I just really don't. Independence Day. And he says in the ministry, you can't put up with that. Which of you shall have an ass or an ox fall into a pit and not straightway pull him out on the Sabbath day? It doesn't matter. So we're going to read the first six verses of chapter 14 of the book of Luke. You know every heart, every situation. The text in front of us is fascinating. Verse 6, they could not answer him again of these things. No, no, no, no. How do you apply this? So have confidence that He works through His Word. Thank you for this example from the life of Christ. She uttereth her voice in the streets. Help us to be faithful in the communities that we live in, where we work. And God allows us to see a person who's walking down the same path farther along than we are, and they fall flat on their face and it hurts. Well, what was the big deal about the Sabbath? You know how many times we look at somebody like me and I I'm not going to go sit in their house and have a conversation with them because I don't know how that's going to go down. The man who ordered Paul's execution did that to Christians. You do not know how what you say will grab a hold of somebody. May you be glorified in it, and may we be lifted up and encouraged. And so we see this confrontation. He wants them to consider the implications of what they believe. There is no critical basis for what they believe, but they believe it because they feel it and they want it to be true. So he says, why do you have a problem with this when you don't have a problem with that? Do you see these confrontations? I don't have it in front of me, right? They know, because they see what happens when you get angry and when everything's good and what's going on when people talk about different issues. Don't stop. There's a sign-up online if you want to pre-register your child. He has pain redemption. They could not answer him again to these things. That's not a joke. Do you do you watch them? And then the next statement's fascinating too. They watch how you live. You're a Christian who has children, many of you, grandchildren, some of you, neighbors. Can you testify of the same? After the third verse, meet and grieve. Would you like to eat that? No exceptions. It is not the will of your Father which is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish. You say, well, how dare you judge me? Where is the truth really lie? And they cannot shake them. I'm the Lord of the Sabbath. When your fear cometh as desolation, and your destruction cometh as a whirlwind, when distression and anguish come upon you, When I'm burning by my sin You've got to hold on to what is true, and sometimes you have to confront what is not true because the stakes are very high. It should have been like you know eight questions from Romans chapter eight or something like that, right? Now, when I when I hear that statement, they held their peace. They say, Well, I'm a generally pretty good person. He says, have they not heard? It doesn't matter. Doesn't God have the right to show compassion to his children whenever he chooses? Salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. Verse 3, Jesus answering spake to the lawyers and the Pharisees. Why is that? We need a good working knowledge of Scripture. And behold, there was a certain man before him which had the dropsy. I ask you, who created the week? Is that what's going on? Repentance says you're a sinner I desire them to be saved. Reasoning. It involves arguments that drive us Close in prayer. And all of a sudden it shakes us and our simplicity becomes wisdom. And he does it in a very visible manner. This is a person who has great needs. Or was he brought there for a reason? And then this one in front of us. Sentimentality doesn't save anybody. Confrontation. Let me look at the transcript, right? Send me an email. Turn you at my reproof But ye have said it not all my counsel, and would none of my reproof. Going to the blue book today, page 41. Let the Lord of my soul with singing let his rate in the door. So that leads me to a second thought. He asks them the questions. Please keep us safe as we go home this afternoon in Christ's name. Then all of next week we'll have our VBS. It says, answer a fool according to his folly. But God's also very patient, he's very merciful, he's very long-suffering with people, and he allows them to persist sometimes for a long time. Why? And so sentimentality, compassion without action is just, it's a waste. That's not faith. When I live you hear my cry, oh God in my grief. It's not a nasty confrontation. They said, we think it's sin for you to And Jesus says, Well, don't you take care of your animals on the Sabbath day? They did want to make a confrontation, but they didn't say anything. And um in our Sunday school time, I I took a little bit of time just to pray for our country. Page 374 with Be Thou My Vision, please stand with me And wherever we were at that moment or for those seasons, He knows what they're thinking. Thank you for joining us this morning live and on live stream. That did happen. You say, well, how do you know that? Why? We need to endure the frustrations and disappointments we most certainly encounter. Let's stand together, please. And when you do that, we'll reach out to you at some point in the week. And it came to pass as he went into the house of one of the chief Pharisees. And so repentance is addressing whatever it is that keeps me from trusting in Christ alone. That's the way God works. There's a selection actually for a team there. How shall they believe in him of whom they've heard? There's a difference. I'm just being honest, okay He desires all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. A good God And so Jesus is causing them to consider the implications of what they believe. The law was there to say, you can't do it. It's called a conscience. It'll get to me. And if you need to reach out to me, please don't hesitate to do that. They shall seek me early, but shall not find me Page 416. And Jesus, answering, spake unto the lawyers and Pharisees, saying, It's about fellowship, right? Luke chapter 13, he healed a crippled woman. Third word is persistence. It's in their hearts. It's because you're a gracious God. And so, Father, I pray that you will help us as your people to be faithful. Here we go, word. Father, thank you for that beautiful song that was just sung that reminds us of your rich. So I want to begin with a couple of introductory thoughts that I think will help to prepare us to look at the text in front of us. And he lived the perfect and sinless and holy and righteous life because he is God in flesh. And that really is what Jesus is doing here. Faith is convictional. Let his praise and adorn his place. They are teaching things that are not true, and their motivation is nothing more than greed. Well, it's his way of saying, well, there are certain things that you do on the Sabbath day, even though it is a day of rest. Do you analyze them? John 5, 1-18, he healed a layman at the pool of Bethesda on the Sabbath day. You almost get the impression Jesus likes healing people on the Sabbath day Confrontation, reasoning, and persistence. Can you tell me? The first word is courage. Step in there and have that conversation. He was crippled. And they've got to hear about it from somebody. I want people to know about Jesus. But God starts the work through the word. That's what it is. Pastor Porsche, ABC, Gmail. Which would be better? The other was in the synagogue. But Christ is not being nasty, he's not being vindictive. Because your rules don't address that issue. That's what's in front of us in this text. And this is one of the most unremarkable, or one of the most remarkable ways that he could do it. This is going on. The first is the word confrontation. Because you have a conscience And he took him and healed him. Because that's what Jesus is doing. In verse number two, it says: Behold, there was a certain man before him which had the drop C. It happened many times. That's what Jesus is saying. 2 Corinthians 4: If our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost. Verily they have. I just hope it works out for me. Let's pray. All the way, nothing called. And we're still having fun. Let me never forget his praise. He casts out an evil spirit on the Sabbath day. There has to be a confrontation. Say, well, I don't have a whole lot of hope that that's going to change. Hey, can't be doors, start making your way back to your seat. Let me never forget. Well, the Sabbath day was a day of rest. Most Christians throughout history have had to face persecution on some level. And if that's the case, I ask this question. He says He was doing it to make a point. Or Luke chapter 13, the question is, ought not this woman being a daughter of Abraham Do you see the point of what's going on? We are sinners saved by grace. What is describing the way you go about one is what what it is. It really is. You know, I don't know. Is there someone in this room that might say, Pastor, I'm not a Christian. What is that saying? You've proved yourself in that situation. And God just threw seed planted here, seed planted here, and here and here. Well, we need to have a sense of the inescapable importance of what's in front of us. I just want to take a note that you need to speak with me I'll reach out to you. Page 143. Say your hands for love are marking down. For instance, in chapter 13, verses 15 and 16 There's no exceptions to this. And so Jesus came to do that. It means that the way you and I think by nature is wrong. You say, why is it? All right. Sing out! You are working I asked myself the question: how did we see that? You've got to address those issues. He heals Peter's mother-in-law. He did have a mother-in-law, that's how it works. And not just a basis that you and I think is acceptable. And they know something is off and they know something is wrong. He makes the statements. He's reasoning with them. Song is Eternal Father Strong to Save. Hey man Worthy and wonderful worthy of worship and But wasn't that a beautiful song? There are people that have been pushing and pushing and pushing and pushing and pushing. We're in chapter 14, verses 5 and 6. And then we begin to realize we have no hope unless God does something for us. That's what it's all about. Now Jesus isn't doing this because he just thrives on this. Persistence. Because these people are not happy with what Christ is saying. And I asked this question, why was that man there? And not only did he know exactly what was going on, but he took that moment And he asks them a question that considers, again, the implications of what they believe. He was coming into Jerusalem as they cried out. I'm not judging you. Courage, knowledge, patience, confidence. Help us to learn the lessons that are in front of us. Amen. And the fact that this text is before us on this day at this time is no mistake. It is showing us that God graciously and masterfully confronts And as Jesus is teaching, No, that's just not what's going on. And God says, well, that's not the standard. You say, by whose standards? But we need to be willing to speak the truth when we're called to do it. They live their life and they see the inconsistencies of their worldview. But if it's not what God says, it doesn't hold water. Their sound went into all the world, and their words unto the end of the world. Now I am not suggesting And God desires his children to grow. I don't know, or I know I'm not a Christian. Father, help us to have confidence that we know your word will not return void. We finally came to a point where we understood the truth And so we see an application of these Proverbs in Titus chapter 1. Christ knew exactly what was happening, and he confronted the challenge directly. Which of you shall have an ox fall in a pit? Be willing to engage it. It's kind of crazy to think about. This morning our focus of worship will be on the importance of sound doctrine. That man tells me things straight. Do you In my mind, I could I could see them. He afterwards yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto those who are exercise thereby. What did I say that? And so I pray that you would help us as your people to be a diligent and faithful people. All right, page one hundred and forty-three. The first one, it's a really interesting proverb. Isn't that what you do? He became sin for us, though he knew no sin. Invite him to church. I can tell you I feel bad for you, but unless I'm actually gonna do something about it. So what's the first word? He played his violin and he ate his food while Christians burned. We need to understand what Christ's ultimate concern was in these verses. That's a question. Because they're con they have a conscience. The rest of you would like to ask you to take your Bibles and turn together with me to Luke chapter 14. That's what he's saying. The one that all those Passover lambs represented. But if I'm just going to sit in a bunker and just say, well, I hope they all figure it out out there. If somebody's gonna get saved, those things have to have to happen. They were spineless And uh Mr. Independence Day. So Jesus asks in verse number three, is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath? That's sounding good. Don't hesitate. Word work And the reason they're wicked is because they will tell the leader what they want to hear, not what they need to hear. We're just messengers, we're just conduit, we're not the judges. And there is also no one who gets saved. And how should they hear without a preacher? We need to overcome our emotional apprehension. There are several sign-up for these down the hall. They would none of my counsel. Literally, this woman walked Don't say a word. This is true. Like I've heard preachers say things like, well just give God a try and see if it works for you. And he's reasoning with those who are observing what is in front of them. I mean I believe that, right? Bless the Lord O my song with You know when I thought about this proverb, it was on Thursday night. You show more compassion on the animals than you do the people around you. They say, Well, well, look at my neighbor. That's not faith. And it may not be because I'm scared of them. We ask all this in Christ's name. I mean I hope that's what you do. There was none. God is judging you. What does that tell you? Not just, okay, let me give you three verses that you can ram down somebody's throat when you talk to them. They weren't even allowed to walk a certain distance. You're guilty. Can you say that? What you believe and what you do is built on a fallacy. You say, Well, I'm only going to get to this level. He does the work. Don't you rescue your vulnerable animals on the Sabbath day? But seven questions from Romans chapter eight, and then we have like, I think it's like eleven affirmations after that. Amen. Um Pastor Josh? If this man were not of God, he could not do this Like here's the disciples are on the side and go, yeah, get him, get him, get him. I'm like, Jenny, Bill Jenny in the back. And we must be willing to recognize we've got to learn from the example of Christ. That's what it's all about. In Christ's name, amen. And there were some differences between these two events. Well, this is a person That's what Jesus is doing. For instance, in Luke 6 verse 5. He's asking these questions what? Don't pretend like you're not a pastor. I stand in the presence. It's not a sinful interaction. They're like, these are older men. He wants people to be saved. I know it's But we're going to folks, we got out of Luke 13. That man is somebody I need near me. It didn't say that they didn't, it says they could not And she was sick. You're undone. One to point you to the gospel, and one to remind you of who you are in Christ. And when the wise is instructed, he receiveth knowledge. And the reason that he did it is because church 2 Peter 3:9. If you want to register, it'd be on the VBS website. It doesn't accomplish anything. But I don't remember from planning to say that or And such a powerful message. I know that this week Will he not straightway pull him out on the Sabbath day? I I don't think anybody in this room should thrive on being confrontational. And they know that there are things that they are seeing that they can't make sense of. You say, well, can't the conscience be twisted? That's what we need to take away from the text today. So Well, let me read to you this scripture. And they have to think about it. I don't do this, I don't do that. Amen. They despised all my reproof. So the setting In other words, And this is what the Proverbs says. That's the key. Right? That word preach there is this the proclaiming of the gospel. There he was. Amen. His desire is that people be saved. He is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to rep. Just tell him what you do. I I've never trusted Christ. So It doesn't matter. A little at a time, what does he do? And I need to be saved. They held their peace. That's why they were there. Can you close us in prayer? And so we see that proverb, don't miss that one. You know? Persistence They know who you are. But it is very direct. This is what Paul is basically saying. I mean I'm not helping them at all Because there are a lot of people In verse number three, he asked a question. It isn't going to give them anything. I'm not going to get to the point where this person becomes That's what Jesus is saying. Coming to do it once and for all. That is why he did what he did. It might just be that I'm tired. That's not what they did What is that That's not a problem. Let's bow for prayer And we see the contrast with Daniel. Of course it could be twisted. Proverbs 29, 12 says this. Why don't you see your actions? He begins to point them to He's God. Is that what's going on? I don't know. If you can't, you need to be able to do Can he hear me? It is very much a direct. Therefore No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Water Commissioner. I