And then we'll look at the second part, which I think will be very, very helpful to us as we think about it. And it really kind of has the idea of someone who is just working on a farm. And then the fourth is how God is the ultimate judge of the quality of our labor. That's a great passage of scripture dealing with ministry and discipleship and mentoring. And he says, when I was preaching, I was preaching a message that the world mocked. They were puffing up individuals or trying to puff up individuals or attracting people who wanted to puff themselves up. Well let's go ahead and pull out our Bibles and turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 3 tonight and the passage that we're dealing with. in a godly, matured manner. Now he that planteth and he that watereth are one. Now this evening, what we're going to do is we're going to focus on the last section of what we just read, and that is that little statement, ye are God's husbandry. I'm talking about anybody who's involved in Christian ministry. When someone is saved out of a very dark lifestyle, when they are saved and they live in a very difficult environment, a lot of things about a culture will affect how they look at things. And then we talk about areas in the church where we are involved in ministry. And so Paul introduced four basic topics. He says in verse 1, I could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal, even as unto babes in Christ. Or we could say carnality. I think it's a fair question for us to ask ourselves. They hold back because they think we can't handle that? You know what's interesting? Before we go into the spring, I'm going to go in there and I'm going to cut out everything that's dead. And I'm going to go a couple of buds up from the main, the main stem, that main little trellis, and I'm going to cut it, and I'm going to go all the way down and I'm going to selectively cut out pieces. He that planteth and he that waters are one, and every man shall receive his own reward according to his own labor, for we are laborers together with God. There could be times that people misunderstand the things that they do and they misrepresent. where he says that we are to preach and teach the word. embroiled in. and never feel inadequate. He doesn't say Apollos gave the increase. Paul is not just telling the people, don't do this, don't do this, don't do this, do this, do this, do this. I want to see people grow as Christians, but you and I don't have the power to make any of that happen. It's our skills, our ability to communicate the message in a persuasive way, that perfect illustration, that that's what clicks in a person's heart. I have fed you with milk and not with meat, for hitherto you are not able to bear it, neither yet now are ye able. For while one saith, I am of Paul, and another I am of Apollos, are you not carnal? I have planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the increase. We are laborers together with God. Uh found anywhere else in the New Testament. sort of the full range of meaning of a word, we don't have that ability with this word. And so he says, we who are Christian ministers, and when I use the term Christian ministers, I don't mean just pastors. And also it it's some of the baggage of the backgrounds that they came from when they were converted. They cared more about what people thought about what they were doing and why they were doing it and how they were doing it than what they actually did for the Lord. They were very concerned about who they were identified with, not as in identified with Christ. And Christian ministry on some level. the situation with this church at Corinth. And so when we say that we're Christians, we're saying we are identified with Christ. who was kind of the guy that they followed. And a lot of those people were gravitating towards one of those individuals based on some of their personality, some of their ministry gifts. They idolized that and that's how they followed a person. Association was a big deal to them. They want to be influential. And I'll mention that uh in just a minute. The third topic is how Christian ministry is like building a project and uh a building project. So we gave you this summary statement. He wants us to be mature about how we look at this issue. receive it. Verse 2 he says, I have fed you with milk, not with meat, for hitherto were ye not able to bear it, neither yet now are ye able. Now that word cultivating is an important word because it has the idea of care and the Bible uses a lot of illustrations when it talks about how people are to care for one another. If you want the stuff to be big enough when you put it out in your yard. Who is Apollos? And I know this is not the time to think about farming. Because when that plant goes into that part of the season where it where it starts growing, then if that wood is not cut back, it will not produce as well. That is kind of built on what he's already talked about before. You know, the greatest example of faithfulness you know is maybe the same stuff you are. It's because of the grace of God working in the hearts of people. So that I came to a point of repentance toward God and I placed my faith in Christ. It's God's working through them. And Apollos watered. Because he doesn't want all of the gifts to be in one person's lap. And he uh he spoke to a Christian apologist. If a person like that comes to faith in Christ, it will be the result of lots and lots and lots of seeds that were planted over many, many years. Don't know what don't let your right hand know what your left hand is doing in your life. Don't let yourself think too much about your giving. Extravagant, benevolent, kind, giving, and just be filled with pride. And people are very much impressed by it. Great note in those things. Just just being really honest. On that day. But in those things, he just states it so clearly that the heart of Cyrus was in God's hands. said, you're gonna do this, and he did it, and he did it willingly, and he went behind it. This is for them. And I, brethren, could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal, even as unto babes in Christ Their ministers, I mean, technically that's true if we want to talk about church offices, but we are all involved or we are all to be involved. We were reminded that the Christian, the Corinthian church had an extremely unhealthy view of ministry And part of this was because they were not healthy as individuals. Their backgrounds are going to affect how they look at things. This church had a ministry mindset problem because of three words that were a part of their thinking on this issue. Perception was a really big deal to them. And so those issues were coming out in all kinds of areas and how the people were relating to one another on this issue of ministry. He lamented his need to be cautious in how he approached them. Thirdly, he lamented their contentious spirit. I mean, do we actually think and act different than the world when it comes to how we deal with pain and suffering and conflict, forgiveness, forbearance? Not assuming that they're lost. So that was his first concern. Shepherding the flock, that is pastoring, okay? But that was not the typical term that would have been used. The dead wood, he cuts it out. Why? It's a big deal when it comes to how we interact with one another in the church context. It can't produce anything. So then neither is he that planteth anything, neither he that watereth, but God that giveth the increase. Paul directly confronted their wrong attitude about ministers. And who is Apollos? So Paul is emphasizing the fact that the way he did ministry was not to lift himself up, not to draw attention to himself, but simply to be as as basic as possible to point people to Christ. And so based on that, he says, since all that is true, who is Paul? But but there's no it's like well you know Peter, these are the people that you led to Christ, and these are the people that John led to Christ. And how shall they preach unless someone is sent? But that ministry is not supposed to go to our head. We're not supposed to be the ones who are elevated. He says, I was a miserable, arrogant, nasty, sinful man. They're made of the same stuff you are. is without flaw. Verse 6. In the vast majority of cases that I have observed over the course of my ministry life, it is not one individual that is the primary cause of another person coming to faith in Christ. But Paul is highlighting something here. I wonder if my ministry matters. But God knows not just the what we're doing, but the why we're doing it. And what's funny is God sees those little things. Done with a genuine desire to minister and love someone. And God sees those labors, and they have great value to him. ruined and I'm gonna go ahead and I'm gonna pay back these people and I'm gonna send a whole group and I'm gonna protect them and I'm gonna fund the work and they're gonna rebuild what was destroyed by the people before me. Like who does that? So how do we apply this? And those theological concepts have massive practical implications. If we go too far to this side, we're going to have a problem, we go too far to this side, we have a problem. So we think about the church context. Perhaps he addressed the men because sometimes we as men put the burden on our wives. to raise our kids well. I pray for every dad here, every mom here, every grandfather, grandmother, every church member who has some area of ministry in this church. They run into in the grocery store. Well, let me tell you how many people I led to Christ this past year. De-emphasizes it, not to say it's irrelevant, but to say don't put all the uh pressure on that or all the emphasis on that. It is the grace of God that causes ministry to be effective. Next in verse 8 he says, every man will receive his own reward according to his own labor. God, the Lord Jesus Christ condemned them more than any other group. We need to partner with our spouses as we raise our kids. Is this lust for influence? But that word pastor has the idea of a caring for someone in a in a shepherding kind of a way. And so this is something that's been done for thousands and thousands of years as people cultivate grapes. Every branch in me that beareth not fruit, he taketh away. Now there are several really important truths that I want to draw your attention to from these statements. You say, Paul was like maybe the greatest Christian that ever lived. It's like John the Baptist. God sends people out. The idea is he's saying, let me tell you how people really grow and let me tell you how people really get saved. They're going to have people that they pour into, they invest in, they love them, they pray for them, they have made sacrifices for the person, and they just walk away. And so what we see in these verses is that while Paul is saying that it's not about the minister, he's putting that down, he's lifting up, it's about God's grace. It's about how God sustained the minister. In other words, the reason that these people were converted isn't because of one man's ministry. Could have been a coworker, I watched my coworker, could have been a doctor that I interacted with, could have been somebody who put a track on my door. It's kind of interesting. And so his point is, do not use the ministering of the word to become a means through which you puff yourself up to draw attention to what you're doing and to get the praise of men. You gotta eliminate that thinking altogether. He understands if we're doing this out of jealousy or rivalry or some other wrong attitude. And their hearts through the preaching and teaching of the gospel. Fathers, do not provoke your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. There's no formula you can plug in that's going to make all your kids be what you want them to be. Our Father, as we think about your word, I pray that you would take it and press it on our hearts. And the question is, is there anything different about the way that we approach our differences with people than other people that don't know the Lord? Anybody ever tried growing grapes in here? The deprivation, the mocking, the beating. And so he's establishing the fact that we're not supposed to be the center of attention. I can tell you that Christian ministry, while it is a tremendous blessing, is not easy. There are people that they long to see them get saved and they pray that for them for years and years and years and years and years and they don't. You have no hope. He says he gives spiritual gifts to whomever he wills by his grace, and they're all different in the church. So then neither is he that planteth anything, neither he that watereth, but God that giveth the increase. Even in the church context, there are things that I will notice get done, and I'll kind of probably I'm the only one who knows they get done. Last thing in verse 9 he says, yeah, God's husbandry. Day labors, working in a field. Is the emphasis properly balanced between human responsibility and God's grace? There's a little book that I was given when I came here in 2008. They're powerless to make people embrace the truth. What does that say? Because if there's not, that's a huge problem. So, with that in mind, let's look at some of the details here. Could I do what Paul did? Does he ever tell us? What he's really trying to do is he's trying to re-establish a healthy balance for the church. He says we're just simply ministers by whom you believe. So while he takes the role of the preacher and the pastor, the mentor, the missionary, the evangelist, whatever you want to call them, while he takes their role and he He said, it's the grace of God that sustained me through all of these things. The most vibrant, kindest people I know are devoted Christians. But that all of our lives are connected together in this body, and God reaches people through the body. And this is pretty I don't know if this person would consider himself I don't think he would consider himself an atheist. And verse 80 says, we should not seek glory for ourselves. And this is something that I've really thought about over the years. They may have had a lot of praise from people. Christ is your master. They're our children too. You, right? We have the opportunity to be rewarded on that day. Every person who has opportunity to reach into the lives of some unbeliever in their life, it could be a family member, it could be a neighbor, it could be a co-worker, it could be somebody that But the entire section here is talking about the topic of Christian ministry and the importance of looking at Christian ministry. Not saying you aren't a Christian if you don't act like one, but it's a fair question sometimes for people to ask themselves. Reminds me of John 15. And what does John say? In fact, if we go back to Romans chapter 10, he says, how can they believe on him who they've not heard? And so Paul highlights this. He does. And the bottom line is that God gives opportunity for very well-known people, people who are very secular and very hardened and very proud. to to Jerusalem to rebuild the temple. If they don't receive it, it's going to be contentious. In fact, when we read it, when we read the scriptures carefully, what we begin to recognize is the reason that people get saved, the reason that people grow, the reason that people actually have any kind of impact. I'm not going to use the word never. But he made a statement that I thought was very interesting. Not everybody's story is the same, but that's how it reaches many people. I was reading the story today in Ezra of how Cyrus goes to build or Cyrus sends the people back. The grace of God. Who these people are. It's an amazing statement, isn't it? It was grace that taught my heart to fear. Sometimes they have to confront people. He's saying, I planted the seed and that's the person God saved. You will start to discover lots of seeds being planted along with lots of seeds. It's sad, but it's true. He says, we're nothing. We need to guard our hearts against self-promotion and self-perful fulfillment in ministry. So that will be fruitful. It's a fascinating thing to think about. Someone might say, well, I don't have a very prominent role in the church. And the fact is, it's the grace of God that enables people to stay faithful. And grace, my fears release. Simple question, right? The fact is God's working that man for I have no idea like where but that that podcast is going to be it's already been heard by millions of people and it's going to continue Secondly, we need to be team players. There is no example in the Bible of somebody being called a pastor. Even as the Lord gave to every man. He says, I have planted, verse 6, Apollos watered, verse 6, but God gave the increase. But he chooses to work through us. Ministry isn't about our status. It might be that you are part of the problem. You could read 20 books on parenting, get all these skills, but um there's no formula that gives you perfect kids. How do we apply it personally? Lastly, we need to be motivated by the judgment seat of Christ. And nobody in this room is is going to stay the course on every single situation and never deviate, never depart, never stumble. By the way, that is kind of like stating what I just stated about God's grace. I was listening to a podcast today. Well immediately in the text I think we see a couple things. Be faithful, and you'll see what God does. It says something about our character, our mindset. He doesn't say Apollos planted. He gives them opportunities to sit down with with with people that are that are that are gifted in certain fields to to to observe how people live, just interacting one-on-one. They want to have the power of influence. It's dead. This is a very secular person. Nobody in this room is ever going to find themselves in such a place. Me, right? Jesus said, there is nobody that's been born of woman that is greater than John the Baptist. We call it a haphak spagamina. The second part I want us to look at tonight is the issue of cultivating vibrant, fruitful lives. They're simply conduit. But there were three words that I mentioned last week that I think were really important to introduce the topic. He reaches the world through the church. Sometimes they're going to be confronted. I mean, there are there are people that are generous. I'll be walking down the hallway and I'll go, somebody did something over here. He says Paul planted. So some followed Apollos and some followed Paul and some followed Peter 2 Timothy 2. Verse 9, we are labors together with God. And so the topic is the godly view of ministry. And I hate to say it, but perception is something we all struggle with as well. Those were both indications of a very shallow view of ministry. The second, which is the one we're going to talk about tonight, is how Christian ministry is like cultivating produce. And so he lifts up the grace of God. Well, that guy was a great preacher. What you believe about that determines how you look at ministry. But ministers by whom you have believed. It's cold, there's ice, there's snow, but the truth is it w if you if you're gonna have a garden this summer, you're gonna have to start planting stuff in your uh in your in your house probably in the next two months. But ministers by whom you have believed. The first one that we talked about last week was the topic of different approaches to Christian ministry. So he assumes that in fact they are believers, but they are not living and acting like it. But I don't want you to get the impression that he thinks it's irrelevant for people to work for God. Not only that, he de-emphasizes the role of the minister and lifts up, highlighting the grace of God, but he emphasizes the fact that we don't do this alone. But when they stand before Christ at the judgment seat, there'll be nothing for that labor. Ye are God's husbandry. The second was he doubted that they could handle the full weight of what they needed to hear. I'm going to get rid of it. Heart of the king is in the hands of the Lord. This is a great place for us to do the right thing in these areas. So this is a very important topic for us to consider. And sometimes we could use the word power, okay, but in our culture we have this term influencer, okay, real common term. It's not about them. Those little times where we we took the time to sit down with someone and pray with them and talk to them. Well, in the local church context, let me give you a couple of thoughts. Sometimes he prunes you so that you'll be more fruitful. Or someone was very logical in the way that they presented things. And if it's contentious, then I'm going to feel bad. Are there people that have to walk Kyptoe around us because they're afraid to confront us about things? Does Jesus ever boast of how many converts he had? God's grace enables ministers. The bottom line is, God doesn't say, well, here are the good gifts and here are the bad gifts. Secondly, the minister is a servant, not a professional. Jesus says, I am the true vine, and my father is the husbandman. He must increase, I must decrease. That's the idea. Father, I pray that we would have a godly view of these issues and that we would be strengthened to be faithful in your service. And he says, if peradventure God will grant them repentance and the acknowledging of the truth. Everybody's important. And it's one of the most fascinating chapters in the Bible. Or you could buy it at Walmart, right? And he's talked about the fact that God God calls the foolish of this world to himself, the the the base, the people that the world does not value. God notices those things. Nothing real glorious about it. So their greatest concern should be faithfulness to the work, not results. He said, The kindest, most vibrant, nicest people I know, and I'm probably putting it in my own words, he said, there are Christians who are devoted Christians. He knows what's going on in our hearts. We need to be diligent and faithful, but remember it is God who will bring fruit in its season. So I mean I am a Christian minister as a father. Paul's concerned that the church be healthy, so he addresses their view of ministry, because their approach is very flawed. And so last week when he talks about the concern of approach That is more of a description of the nature of the work of the office that we call the pastor. Do not use ministry as something that lifts you up to serve God sacrificially and humbly. There is among you envying and strife and division. And I know when we go to the Old Testament, we talk about Jeremiah. And by the way, this should be bring a lot of comfort to us. He says Paul planted, Apollos watered. I'm not going to mention the name, but when I say some things about it, some people might know who I'm talking about. Every man shall receive his own reward according to his own labor. We can grow a long way and still have a long way to go. 6, he says, the husbandman that laboreth must be first partakers of the fruits. It's about his grace. Some of the most profound ministries are ministries that nobody ever sees. When the scripture talks about the the rearing of children in Ephesians chapter 6, who does he address? That means it's only used one time. Verse 1. Or are we contentious with people? They're not her children. So when we talk about Christian ministry and this topic, don't just think in terms of, oh, those who are in pastoral office. And then he says, God has sent them. Isn't that an amazing thing? To say a word to our dads, and I'll include myself in this. How precious did that grace appear the hour I first believed? Sometimes they misstep and they have to resolve issues. We shouldn't allow what we do to get to our heads. We are simple farmhands. First of all, healthy practice flows out of healthy theology. He works through faithful servants. Look down in your Bible at verse 5. Anybody? So while he's de-emphasizing the fact of Paul's greatness or Apollo's greatness, he's not saying it's irrelevant that people go out and minister. It was the mercy and grace of God, the Holy Spirit, who opened my eyes to sin, righteousness, and judgment, who humbled my heart. Fascinating thing to think about. Now he that planteth and he that watereth are one. It's a big deal when we talk about how we relate to our children or how we relate to someone who's a young Christian. But you know what I'm also going to do? The preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. Man, I couldn't imagine the kind of life that Paul lived, the kind of suffering that Paul experienced. Or we think about the fact that God is not willing that any should perish, but also should come to repentance. He used a lot of language I wouldn't necessarily be very happy about. That's how we should look at it. I want to kind of burrow down just say this. We're just a part of what God's doing. But it's rare. It is not about them at all. Think about the song Amazing Grace. And it was just put out there. They're both there. Every branch that beareth fruit, he purges it, that it may bring forth more fruit. Paul was a pretty amazing guy, and he says, I'm nobody. He doesn't say Paul planted and Paul watered him. Where is the mind of my right hand versus my left hand? When I talk about health, I don't mean like physical health. That person was a great soul winner. So then neither is he that planteth anything, neither he that watereth, but God that giveth the increase. Could not speak into you as under spiritual. Notice the verse 5. Maybe somebody that may you look up to them because they uh they're they're a lot older than you, they're a lot wiser than you, they mentored you. And we're going to kind of touch on that a little bit tonight, but we're not going to go into it as fully as we will, Lord willing, either next week or the week after. And so there is that sense. And so that's the idea. And so what does this tell us? That's what he did. Who then is Paul? And he uses that term, husbandmen, so he likes these farming analogies. Fourthly, he applied these truths in some really practical ways. I'm not asked to pray. So let's be motivated. Maybe you could say like a farmhand or a farmer. Alright, alright, good, we got one. There are going to be theological controversies that they have to get You could have a situation where someone is doing something that looks really good. Father, our desire is to be faithful Christians, is to think biblically about these issues I'm a nobody. He doesn't want one person to be some like superstar Christian. He is drawing their attention to some very significant theological concepts. Why? And when we're trying to do a word study, it's kind of helpful to be able to look at other passages of scripture so that you can see That's a huge deficiency, either either in the way that we think or in something about our character, maybe even, are we truly Christians? God will appropriately recognize or recognize the true value of our work. Well, that is not the way we as Christians should be thinking. It's like I think it's called like Have We No Rights or something like that. I think that the motivation of the judgment seat of Christ should be more positive than negative. And so I'd rather just leave it alone rather than get into the middle of this issue. It's some of the background or the baggage of the culture that they were a part of. Now that word then is telling us that he is making a statement, or he's really asking a question that is making a statement. Their balance was off He raises them up. It's not about how effective they are in their gifts They're our children. Ye are God's building Like sometimes someone says, I don't understand. I'm going to remind you of a couple of things we talked about last week. Now, Paul does talk about, or Peter does talk about I mean, yeah, he probably was. I mean, does Paul ever tell us how many converts he had in any place? So our ministry is important. And there are a lot of people that they're generous because, frankly, they're doing it for themselves. And it's it's an amazing thing. But that's what we are. Be a faithful parent, love the Lord, love your kids, pray for them, and watch God work through your faithfulness. Just saying it might be, right? As a parent you won't, and and whatever ministry you're involved in, whoever you are being involved in reaching, and if it's not for the grace of God. Thirdly, he highlights the interdependent nature of ministry. He can do what he wants Don't diminish the responsibility that people have to respond to the gospel and the importance of people going out and ministering the word. Okay? Everybody's role is significant. People are responsible to repent and believe. So the word is an agrarian term. I would say he's probably agnostic, based on the way that he talked about the uh the atheist mindset. He includes us in his work. First of all, we need a sound theological foundation that properly weights these tensions. 1 Corinthians chapter 3, we're going to begin reading in verse 1. And so what does Jesus do? Ministry isn't about status. Who is Apollos? But they were very concerned about which one of Christ's disciples, who was a a teacher, an influential influential teacher in the church But this idea of cultivation is a really big deal. Isn't there a big difference between those two things? They're extremely generous. It says: hey, what really matters is not what people say or don't say, but what he says. What we do have the power to do is be faithful. He does the work as a minister under the authority of Christ. Once I get rid of all that dead stuff, I'm going to go to stuff that's not dead. It's a pretty amazing story. A healthy practice flows out of healthy theology. Because they used religion to puff themselves up. He doesn't even address the mother there. He talks about the shepherds of Israel who were not good examples. Why is that? So I think about some of the statements that we read of in Scripture. God gave the increase. You say, why does that matter? Sometimes we as men don't do the work the way that we should. Don't think much of it. Who is Apollos? So what we realize is that it's important that people go out and preach the gospel. Not by God picking the best of the best, but by God through his grace working through all kinds of different people. And there's really two senses that I think are here. And some of those people that were involved in that process were inadvertently involved in the process, didn't even realize that they were. I don't stand up and teach. The hard things, raising small children, is not an easy task. Even as the Lord gave to every man, I have planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the increase. And he knows if we're doing this because we're trying to draw attention to ourselves. Let's be faithful. Are there people that they feel like they need to put something out there? God raises up people and God strengthens them. It's very rare. And I listened while I was driving, all different kinds of things. It's actually from chapter 3 all the way to chapter 5. And so he says the preaching of the cross is to those who perish? If the scales are tipped in one direction, which way do you think they should tip? So Paul addresses all those issues, and let's remind ourselves that Paul addresses these issues believing that they are Christians. There are going to be lots and lots of challenges that people are going to deal with when they're in ministry. This reminds me of some of the teachings that we see in the scripture on spiritual gifts. And I want to remind you again of what we talked about last week when we introduced this topic. He sustains them. That person, man, they knew you had a disciple individual. They liked their philosophical approach and so they were kind of aligning themselves with those individuals. Nobody even knew there's a problem. Building a building project I grow grapes all over my my fences. We're not the focus. We need to be slow to take offenses. The second word is the word association. Who then is Paul? The closest example we have to to knowing how many people were converted was at Pentecost. It doesn't matter. Second thing, he highlights God's grace, and this is very important. Just like it's possible to do the work of Christian ministry with such a mindset. I'm a Christian minister as a husband. And Paul really emphasizes this. What is Newton saying? Christian ministry has its challenges. And then there may be people that they have served very quietly along the side. But ministers by whom you've believed, even as the Lord gave to every man. But a lot of times when people do Christian ministry, they get really entitled in their attitude about it. For ye are yet carnal, and whereas there is among you envying and strife and division, are ye not carnal and walk as men? And Paul would say the same thing. Because nobody in this room We're his servants. And fourthly, he lamented their lack of distinction from the unconverted. He uses this as an illustration. Now He states very simply, we should not seek the glory and praise of men. And then there are people that are very stingy about themselves too. It's almost as if Cyrus was like, you know, there's there's people that are that have been wronged, there's cities that have been destroyed, there's temples that have been For And then God gave it. I love this. I mean their spiritual health. We are Christians. It's like a person who you're like, ah, I don't think I can say this to them because if I do, they're not going to respond. And God Think about it that way. They could take great comfort in the fact that God will reward their faithful endurance. We men should not put the burden of responsibility on our wives to raise our children. Like, I'm always surrounded by difficult people He doesn't say Paul gave the increase. I'll give you an illustration from the Sermon on the Mount. And so that was part of what's going into Because We're nobody's. And Paul said, no, no, no, we can't do that. And it may not have seemed like a massive thing, but it was a small thing that was And the question is, who did God make the head of the house? Okay. Beautiful illustration. I mean, God chooses to work through people. When they fall down, he picks them back up. There were other people involved in this. And these are the ones you guys should really, really lift up. But also think about our families. And this is really being hammered in this text. It's like being a farmhand, it's like working in a field. This illustration of farming is a really good one. He's like a farmer. He says, who then is Paul? This is what I think he's saying. Um we're going to be dealing with it in at least three parts, potentially four parts. Maybe a person was rhetorically gifted, so Twas grace that taught my heart to fear. Let's ask the Lord to help us to apply what we've heard tonight He says, when I came to you, I did not come with enticing words. I never sing specials. I mean, think about the Pharisees, think about the Sadducees, think about those religious leaders. Ye are God's husbandry. And how can they hear without a preacher? He says, Paul planted. There's lots and lots of situations. And then the third, which I think is a really big one when we talk about Christian ministry. The first one The reason that it matters is that Paul didn't sit down and go, that's the person that I led to Christ. Because the fact is, when you start talking to somebody about how they became a Christian, And you go, why does God do that? Very, very well-known man who does a podcast. I'll say that, as a pastor. He says, God does that with you. Paul is de-emphasizing That's a great illustration. Would would you be able to do what Paul did? He says, who are we? And then we go to that 2 Timothy passage. Now, don't get me wrong. It's the grace of God. Not to say a mother's role is extremely important. That's kind of the idea. The first is the sense that it is the grace of God that enables people to minister. God is fully capable of doing what he wants without us. What he does elevate is the grace of God He wants the church to be the church and the church to reach people as a body. That's the way God reaches people. We should be thinking about lifting up Christ, not about lifting up ourselves. And when they I mean everybody's made of the same stuff. They were an amazing teacher. Just it just got done It's actually several chapters. They were not healthy, vibrant, mature Christians. And the only explanation to me becoming a Christian is God's grace interrupting my life. These are applications Getting our hands dirty, doing the work. They will not do it unless God works. My wife, uh, we could say has Christian ministry as a wife and as a mother. Nothing. It's a book that just it just reminds you, you're a servant. It takes mom and dad working together as a team. And Paul's like, I kind of feel that way with you guys. I think it's kind of an idiomatic way of saying He says, by the grace of God that I am who I am. And so It says things like, God opened the hearts of these people to believe. Foolishness. He encourages them. He addresses fathers. Pretty amazing statement, isn't it? Is salvation a work of man or is salvation a work of God? I want to see people get saved in 2025. We're nobodies And this is a really fascinating concept. And I would say that Your wife or you? It's the truth. And so right now is not the time to do this, but in a in a couple of months I'm not in the choir. Ministry is about serving God as one who has no rights. But but it is possible to be extremely Notice what he says in verse 7. It's a very challenging season of life. So for instance, people call me Pastor Joel. Somebody that I had conversations with over and over and over again When Jesus talks about giving, he says, it's such an interesting statement, he says, If anything, you know what he says? I mean, look at the emphasis of the passage. The first word is the word perception. It's important that people minister. And that word husbandry, in fact, the Greek term that's used there isn't But He continues to motivate them. And nobody notices it. Is there any difference? You are yet carnal and walk as men. We ask it in Christ's name. Why? This is what he said. He gives them opportunities to interact with lots of Christian people. Okay? We need ministers. They were moralists. He says It's because of your spiritual maturity. And do not, do not, do not think that it's 3,000 people were saved. That's what he did But there's a second sense. Nobody says anything about it. So perception was a big deal to them. What is that? I'll put it that way. Amen That's who we are. The grace of God. That's somebody who wants to be known. That was his goal. But God takes credit.