Well, we are in the book of First Corinthians again tonight, so if you have your Bible, I'd like to ask you to turn there and we're going to look at verses 14 through 21 together tonight. And uh the passage that we're dealing with is a fascinating passage because it gives us a lot of insight into what a healthy culture where people are making disciples looks like. And what's fascinating about it is the point of the text was not so much to teach us how to make disciples, but what it actually does is it gives us insight into how someone who is involved in discipleship and is really doing it the right way, how they think about the kinds of things that they're going to interact with in the ministry. So let's go ahead and we'll pick up in verse 14. 1 Corinthians chapter 4, verse number 14, it says this. I write not these things to shame you, but as my beloved sons, I warn you. For though you have 10,000 instructors in Christ, yet have ye not many fathers, for in Christ Jesus I have begotten you through the gospel Wherefore I beseech you, be ye followers of me. For this cause have I sent unto you Timotheus, who is my beloved son, and faithful in the Lord, who shall bring you into remembrance of my ways, which be in Christ. As I teach everywhere in every church. Now, some are puffed up as though I would not come to you, but I will come to you shortly, if the Lord will. And will know not the speech of them which are puffed up, but the power. For the kingdom of God is not in word, but in power. What will ye? Shall I come unto you with a rod or in love and in the spirit of meekness? Alright, well when we read this passage of scripture, I think it's important for us to start out with a couple of thoughts that are very pertinent to the discussion of discipleship. So the first thing I want to mention here in the introduction is that we know that discipleship is a non-negotiable part of the local church. And that doesn't mean that we're necessarily doing it well or we're doing it effectively, but we know that as a church, we are responsible to make disciples. And there's a lot of different ways that we do this. One of the obviously prominent ways that we do discipleship is through the preaching and teaching of God's Word. And, you know, each of the different settings that we have the emphasis is unique. So in a Sunday morning message, it's a very focused sermon. There's not any kind of discussion back and forth in the middle of sermon. I mean, not to say that I haven't had people say things to me in a sermon before. Uh but it's it's pretty much one directional and most of the feedback comes after the sermon or maybe you could see it in people's faces by their body language like, ooh, that did not get through, or ooh, there's some tension right there Wow, that's really sinking in. You kind of see that. Well, in a Sunday school setting, we have a lot more interactive discussion. And so uh I'm gonna ask questions, whoever's teaching Sunday school, they ask a lot of questions. And we get a lot of discussion. And it's very helpful because those questions are going to help you understand what people are thinking themselves and what the questions are that they have. It allows you to go down some hopefully practical rabbit trails, not just, let's see if we can get the the teacher to chase a squirrel. Okay, not those kinds of rabbit trails like we used to send our teachers on in junior high. And then when we come to Wednesday night, Wednesday night is a lot more of a teaching-oriented setting. Sunday night is more focused on our families and especially trying to incorporate our young people um into the worship service. Each of those situations, there is something unique about it, something that we are trying to do in those various services. And that's why they're important. But when we talk about discipleship, discipleship happens in all those different places. We know we're supposed to be involved in discipleship because this is the commission that Christ gave to the church. Matthew 28. Go ye therefore and teach. That word teach means Make disciples. Okay? In fact, the way it's written is, as you are going out, you need to make disciples everywhere you go. That's really the sense of what we're looking at here. So go teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Ghost. Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you. So discipleship starts with preaching the gospel, and then from preaching the gospel it goes into teaching everything that Christ has emphasized in his ministry. And obviously the Apostles as well. And then we come to the example of Paul and Timothy. And I could have gotten a lot of scripture to put in front of you tonight. This is more introduction just to kind of make us realize this is so important. But there are two passages that really came to my mind as I thought about Paul and Timothy and this issue of making disciples. The first one is 2 Timothy 1. 13. He says, hold fast that form of sound words. And another way to put that is, hold fast to the doctrine that I have taught you, sound doctrine. Which thou hast heard of me in faith and love which is in Christ Jesus. Now not everything that Paul's talking about was Hey, you heard me preach a sermon. That's not necessarily what's going on. A lot of this is Paul is talking to somebody in their home This is Paul preaching in the synagogue. This is Paul having interactions with people in very ordinary circumstances. Timothy had access to those kinds of situations. And so he's constantly hearing the things that are being taught. And Paul said, you've got to teach that. You've got to teach that. That's discipleship. Or 2 Timothy 2, 2, the things thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men who shall be able to teach others also. Now this is taking it even a step further. So this is not just you've heard me teach, but now he's kind of helping Timothy to realize my ministry is coming to a close, and that means I'm going to leave a void. You have to step into that void. And stepping into that void is not just you're like pastoring a church. But you are thinking in terms of equipping another generation. So we see that there's the passing on of the baton from one generation to the next generation and to the next generation. This is critically important. If you do not have this happen in a church, that church will die. What will eventually happen is that church will probably get absorbed into another ministry or it'll just die and then whoever's left are going to go into other places. But if this is done well, what's going to happen is you're going to see all of these different age groups, all these different maturity levels in that congregation. And as people are getting older, you're going to see younger ones coming up behind them. And Some of those kids that were growing up in the church, some of those young people that were going to camp and they go off to college and they get into their careers and they get married and they start having children, you see that they're starting to come into those positions of leadership. And they're stepping into the same roles. that their grandparents or their parents were involved in. That's how churches don't just survive, but they actually thrive. And when you have generations that build on the shoulders of the ones before, you actually see the potential for very strong churches. And there have been times in church history, even in this country, where that's been the case. But it doesn't tend to last more than maybe 50, 75 , maybe 100 years. Because at some point, a generation isn't gonna give it and a generation isn't gonna grasp it. And so discipleship is hugely important. One more thing, I know this is like a very lengthy introduction. Don't worry, I will move once I get into the text here. Discipleship starts in the family Discipleship starts in the family. If you want to disciple someone and you're a parent, disciple your kids first. Now, I'm not saying that you shouldn't have other people involved in the discipleship of your children. That's why we have Sunday school classes. That's why We want the children in the services as much as possible. Like like tonight we have, you know, teenagers are in here tonight. You're not off in your own little uh service but you're here you're hearing the same thing that your mom and dad's hearing your grandparents are hearing other people are hearing but but the idea is that discipleship starts in the family If you are a second generation Christian, hopefully you have been taught the Word of God from the time you were a little child from mom and dad. Ephesians 6, fathers provoke not your children to wrath. Bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Interesting. That word Nurture and that word admonition, that in fact interestingly the word nurture is the same word that's translated chastening in a lot of other places. And what it's saying is that the entirety of the shaping process of our children is what parents are supposed to do. But that verse is not really focusing on discipline as much as it is on Guiding them in the faith. That is discipleship. Nurture, admonition of the Lord. Discipleship's huge. And then Deuteronomy 6, I know it's an Old Testament text, but if you want to know what Paul's thinking as a Jewish rabbi who's now a New Testament Christian, what is he thinking when he says You know, bring your children up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Here's what he's thinking. Deuteronomy six, the words which I command thee this day shall be in thine heart Teach them diligently unto thy children. Thou shalt talk of them when thou sittest down in thy house, when thou walkest by the way, when thou liest down, when thou risest up. And so discipleship is not a program. Discipleship is not a class. Discipleship is a way of life. where older Christians who love younger Christians work with them and teach them and they allow them into their lives and they interact with their questions. And they don't say, what a dumb question. And they blow them off to the side. No, they really get into those questions and they work through those things. We need those kinds of relationships on every level of the church. So, how are we to establish a healthy disciple-making culture? This passage gives us some really good insight. Paul's heart as a disciple maker comes through the passage, ironically, in the face of criticism. And I want you to notice a couple things that are stayed in the text. For instance, one of the statements that Paul says makes is, I write not these things to shame you. Why do you think he wrote that? Well, because people said, Oh, the reason that you're writing these things is because you want us to be ashamed and you don't you don't really value us as people. And so his motives were being doubted. They're being doubted. A second statement. Though you have 10,000 instructors in Christ, ye have yet not many fathers. They treated their relationship with Paul lightly. Could you imagine if Paul led you to Christ? That'd be pretty awesome, wouldn't it? These people, a lot of them had. That was their story. The Apostle Paul sat down with them and showed them the gospel and how they could be saved from their sins. Some are puffed up as though I would not come to you. They spoke poorly about him behind his back. They said, oh, you know what? Paul writes these letters. He's not man enough to come and talk to me. to us about it. He said, well I sure am man enough to talk to you about it and I'm going to do it. And they're like, oh you're so busy. You don't have time for us. And Paul says, I I do have time for you. And I'm going to be there out of all the cares and all the burdens that I carry as an apostle, all these churches that I love and I've worked with. Your church matters to me. I'm going to be there. And the last one, I warn you, excuse me, the kingdom of God is not in word but in power. The idea is that there were a lot of big talkers, but they weren't following through with what they said. We'll come to that in just a minute. So the context of this passage of Scripture is not, hey, let me help you understand how to be a disciple. It's more like those who are involved in discipleship, this is how they respond. when they get the pushback. And it gives you insight into how they think, what they love, what makes them tick, how they go about doing the things that they do. Alright, so with that in mind, let's work our way. Through this passage of scripture. First truth I want you to notice is this. Discipleship is built on a genuine love for people. Verse number 14, I write not these things to shame you, but as my beloved sons, I warn you. Now, this is a really, really important thing for us to grasp. I think it is really easy for us as Christians To begin to develop a mentality of us against them. It's really easy. I mean, we live in a very politically divided period in our history as a nation. And a lot of times Christians kind of get into the political mindset. It's them, it's us. We have our divisions. And they're wrong and I'm right. And this is a really dangerous thing for us to do not saying that there isn't right and wrong. There's clearly right and wrong. And we absolutely need to stand on the side of right. But when it comes to our temperament, our mentality, our attitude towards people It is very, very dangerous for us to develop this attitude of arrogance toward other people. Well, I don't understand why this Christian can't grow up and Mature and why these younger people are the way they are. Don't, don't, don't you ever forget that there were older people saying the same thing about you When you were their age. Every single one of us, the generation before, is always complaining about the younger generation coming behind them. And so this little statement's important. I write not to shame you. As my beloved, I warn you. Paul deeply loved the church. Now they didn't understand that. And sometimes when we are working with people that we really care about and we have to speak difficult things to them, sometimes they don't understand that. This is true of our children. You know, sometimes as our kids get a little bit older when they get out of the house and then it comes full circle and they're raising their own children and they have their own marriage. They're buying their own house. They're going through a lot of the different things that are just a part of establishing your independence, they start realizing, you know, mom and dad, they weren't perfect, but there were a lot of things they got right. There were a lot of things that they taught us. And so our perspective can be very skewed. He understood that sometimes he needed to show tough love, but it wasn't going to be understood well. And so here are some things I want you to notice here. This love required a careful balance of three things. And this ought to distinguish how we relate to people when we have to say hard things to them. The first is this. Refuse to be personally demeaning to people. Do not call people stupid. Idiots, fools, ignorant, including your own children. That should never happen in our homes. Absolutely should never happen. We should not demean our children. We should not demean other people in the church. We shouldn't demean our politicians, to be very honest with you. We shouldn't gloat when our politicians demean other people. We as Christians should not be personally demeaning of other people. When he says, I write not these things to shame you, what he's basically saying is, I value you as a person, and what I'm saying to you while it is hard , And you may not quite understand what I'm saying. I'm not saying it because I don't value you as a person. We have to be so careful that the way that we communicate hard things is with dignity and grace and respect towards the people we're talking to. And by the way, these people did not afford that kind of grace to Paul. They demeaned him. They mocked him. They said a lot of horrible things about him. But he didn't return blow for blow. He treated them with grace. Secondly, we need to reaffirm the value of the relationship that we have with them. And this is interesting. He says, I did not write to shame you, but rather as my beloved sons. So he is encouraging them to recognize you are related to me like a father to a son. And I know when we think father-son, we tend to think biology in our context. as Americans. But that's not the way a lot of people throughout church history, human history, a lot of other parts of the world, when somebody says that's my father, they're not necessarily saying like That's my biological dad. Okay? That's not necessarily what they're saying. This is someone who cares for me. They feel the weight of this relationship. They love me. They are for me. This is a person who has been a very influential person in my life. And so when he says that you are my son and that you are my beloved son, he is affirming this value of the relationship that is between them. So negatively, he doesn't mock them, scorn them, treat them like jerk, like dirt, but on the others, on the opposite side, he affirms his love for them, his affection for them. And the third is this, and this is important. He confronted the flaws that were very detrimental to them. He says, I warn you. Now, we do not need to address every issue between us and other people. Wisdom is to know when to let a thing go. Wisdom is to know when it's not necessary to address an issue. If in our heads we get this mindset that every time we see a person is wrong in our thinking, we have to address that to them. They will run from us because they don't want to hear it. I would even say most people, unless they ask you for your opinion, they don't really want it. It's just the truth. So if you're going to go to somebody, you better make sure that it is necessary. You say, well, how do I know if it's necessary? Well, is this something that is becoming very detrimental to them, that that they need someone to speak to them, and you actually have the biblical responsibility to do it. Okay? So if you're a a child, probably it's not your biblical duty to go and tell your dad how to do things right now or your mom. But if you're a parent, your job is to tell your children. Or as a pastor, my job is to warn and to challenge and to encourage you to do what is right. You know, we have to consider the relationship we have to the person. We have to ask how serious is the matter. There are a lot of things that are involved. But what it shows you is that sometimes you have to show tough love in situations. But when you do it, you don't demean You reaffirm your love and the relationship you have for this person, and you confront simply out of a duty to God and out of a love for them. Second truth, discipleship requires accessibility. Verses 15 and 16 say this, though ye have 10,000 instructors in Christ, Yet have ye not many fathers, for in Christ Jesus I have begotten you through the gospel. Wherefore I beseech you, be ye followers of me. This is a really interesting statement. Notice that Paul is drawing a contrast between what he calls many instructors and a father and you can't really see this in your Iquist translation, but that word instructor actually is a term that would have been used for someone in the first century in Rome who was basically like a pedagogue, a teacher who would teach small children. And this teacher who would teach small children was usually a household servant, a slave. That was actually their relationship. So they were a part of the household and they were to teach the children. And so the parents would leave that duty, that responsibility for that individual, and they would probably have many people over the course of that child's growing up who they would assign to teach them certain things. And so that pedagogue, that teacher, that master is not dad, is not mom, is assigned to a duty, has no responsibility or authority beyond what is delegated to them by the parent. By the way, I think we could probably learn something here when we talk about schooling and stuff. We are giving the teacher the opportunity to teach our kids. They're not the parent. We're the parent. It's true when we talk about Sunday school. It's true in all kinds of different areas. But the idea is that this is a person who is not your biological relationship. This is not someone who's going to carry the lifelong attachment to you. This is simply a person who has a temporary relationship to you to teach you basic things for a period of time in life. This is your first grade teacher. God bless the first grade teachers, alright? But that's not your parent, unless that's mom, okay, homeschoolers. We got something like that, alright? You know, God bless the second grade teacher Some of us can't even remember our second, third grade teachers' names, unfortunately, all right? So Paul says you got lots of teachers, lots of instructors, 10,000 instructors in Christ. In other words, God uses all kinds of people in our lives at different times. Some people have been under a lot of different pastures over the course of their lives. Some people had a lot of different Sunday school teachers over the course of their lives. People that God used in their life for a very short time. You know, some in the military you had a a chaplain that was a A Bible believer, loved the Lord, was an encouragement to you while you're on a deployment or something like that, or you know, a person that you went to college with who uh maybe they led you to Christ and you you had this relationship with them for a short time and you haven't talked to them in ages. But God uses all kinds of people in our lives. But Paul says, I'm different. I have begotten you in the gospel. That's a pretty amazing statement. Now, we know that Paul's view is not that he has the power to save people. So this is not so much a theological like, oh, I'm the one who made you alive in Christ. That's not what he's saying. He's saying out of all the people that God has used in your growth, I am the first one. I am the one that led you to the feet of Christ and showed you what the cross is all about and the resurrection of Christ. And so I have a very unique relationship to you. That's what he's saying. He felt that their progress or their regression was something that would he would bear on his soul. In fact, in in the book of 2 Corinthians, I believe it is, Paul talks about his suffering. And one of the things that he describes is he says One of the great sufferings that I have is the weight of the churches. It's kind of an amazing statement. What he's basically saying is, I care deeply for all of these people that I have led to the Lord. All of these pastors that I have worked with, all of these deacons, all of these church plants, I know the names of these people, I know their stories, I know their struggles, they weigh on me. That's what Paul is saying. He felt the weight of that. Discipleship involves that kind of engagement with people. The church is a body where we should actually bear one another's burdens. We should really know each other. We should know what's going on in our lives. Not in the gossipy kind of a sense, but in the bearing burdens kind of a sense. When we get together and we pray. And one of the things that's great about Wednesday night prayer is when we we get together, usually we know we talk a little bit about how the day's going, how the week's going, some of the different things. Maybe we didn't put it out in the main group, but we talk about it amongst ourselves, and that's a great opportunity for us to actually encourage one another in that communal sense. Paul understood this. He felt a sense of duty, he held deep affection for them, and he lived his life with these people. He invited them into their lives. You know, my my wife's been talking about hospitality on uh the uh ladies' meetings. And a lot of times when people think of hospitality, they think of entertaining. That is not hospitality. Hospitality is not throwing a banquet in your house. Hospitality is not trying to impress people with what you got at the house. Hospitality is doing life with people. It might be just having lunch with someone at a restaurant. It might be something as simple as hanging out after church, eating donuts. I know those are killing us as church. Certainly kill your carpets. Eating donuts back there, playing playing table tennis or whatever. But enjoying fellowship with one another on Sunday nights after the services. We're gonna we're gonna get the volleyball net going up here. I talked to Scott about this just the other day. You know, so we're gonna we're gonna get that going again. And you know what, you know what, you know what that hospitality is? It's sitting down with somebody and just talking to them about life Interacting with it. This is a very organic thing. We don't need to plan and pay for activities. We need to spend time together. That's what it is. And so when Paul says follow me, he said, you lived life with me. You made tents with me. I mean, Paul's a tent maker at Corinth. That's how he got to know Aquila and Priscilla. And so Paul can say, you knew what it was like to have me have a conversation with somebody at work, and you saw how I engaged with that person. You saw how he answered their questions. When there was a tension in the church, you saw how I dealt with that issue. When it came to how I taught a passage of scripture, you heard that, you saw that, you understood that. And so they're picking up all of those kinds of things. That's what discipleship is. But guess what? You gotta interact with people. You gotta actually rub shoulders with them. Maybe not literally, physically, okay, but but you gotta actually interact with them. Community, very, very important. Thirdly, discipleship is not a one-man show. Verses 17 through 19. For this cause Have I sent unto you Timotheus, who is my beloved son, and faithful in the Lord, who shall bring you into remembrance of my ways which be in Christ, as I teach everywhere in every church. Now Some are puffed up as though I would not come to you, but I will come to you shortly, if the Lord will, and will know not the speech of them which are puffed up, but the power. Now, Paul had limitations. And obviously the fact that he's sending somebody out on his behalf is an indication of limitation. Paul doesn't have the power to be in two churches at the same time. Now if he had you know Zoom he could have like spoken to you know two different churches at the same time on a Zoom call, but he didn't have that ability, right? He's not the Lord. He's not a sinless example. He can't be everywhere at one time There were things he had to do in the location where he was ministering, but he was concerned about what was going on at Corinth, so he sent Timothy there. By the way, he did the exact same thing at Ephesus. He sent Timothy to Ephesus to set in order things that were lacking in that church. Well, what that tells you is that Paul believed that it wasn't just his job to do it all himself. And if he was willing to send Timothy, he was willing to send Timothy because he trusted him. The truth is that there are some people we don't trust. Because we shouldn't. They have let us down. They have demonstrated that they're not very faithful, that they're not skillful in doing those things. They're going to create a bigger problem than actually help the situation. And so we have to be very selective about maybe who we send into a certain situation. You know, even if we have a church discipline issue in our church, We don't have all the deacons like gang up on that guy or whoever it is. I'll look at who amongst this group What man or two would be the best position to really appeal to this person in a way that would help them to see how serious this issue is and help them to do what's right. And so just because someone's a deacon doesn't mean they're gonna go in that conversation. There would be a carefulness in that. Or maybe somebody's not a deacon, but they're very mature, they're very wise, they would handle that conversation extremely well, and that person might be selected for that. But the idea is this, Paul knew he needed co-laborers who he could trust. And the way that he knew he could trust them was he did ministry with them. He knew what they were capable of. He saw how they responded to people. He saw how they responded when they were hurt, when they were weary, how they talked, how they answered questions. When they prayed, he could see what was on their heart. He could tell what was motivating them. Paul wasn't going to just send somebody who was going to go there and be a little tired and say, Well, I've got the authority of the apostle Paul, so you better better listen to what I have to say. He wasn't going to send somebody Somebody like that. No, he was setting a very humble man. He thought exactly the way that he did and would handle it exactly how he knew it should be handled. And so notice the way he describes it. He's my beloved son. He personally trained Timothy. Faithful in the Lord, he had an established pattern of faithfulness. And by the way, when he says this, the church at Corinth knew. They weren't like, ah, I got questions about Timothy. They knew him. They knew what kind of a guy he was. Thirdly, he says To bring you into remembrance of the ways, of my ways, which be in Christ. He would call them to a higher standard. Notice Paul didn't just say, what I want you to do, my ways in Christ. That little statement's important. So Paul was to be followed to the extent that what he said and what he did conform to what the Scripture said. And so it's not just Paul's got this authority in himself. No, Paul is a minister of the gospel that was delivered to him. He was a minister of the truth that was delivered to him. And so when Timothy tells the people this is what we're to do, they would say that is Paul's instruction under the authority of Christ. Very important. You know, we talk about expositional preaching and teaching. I mean the whole point of exposition is to say, you know, I'm not just going to hopefully get up here and just say whatever comes in my head. What's being stated is what the Word of God's teaching. That 's the authority. I mean, if somebody gets up here and just says a bunch of crazy stuff, they don't have no authority. Maybe they need to be taken down. Shouldn't be in that role. They shouldn't be in that position because they don't take it seriously. So Paul isn't just doing whatever he wants to do, saying whatever he wants to say. Timothy is going back to Paul's authority in Christ. And then lastly, he mentions them, he says, as I teach everywhere in every church, this standard was consistent everywhere Paul went. He didn't go to one church and be like, well, you know, I'm going to cater to their wishes. I'm going to tell them what they want to hear. And then he goes to another place and like, yeah, I'm going to tell them what they want to hear too. I know this is a little bit more of a Jewish oriented congregation. This is a little more Gentile oriented congregation. I know the culture in this place and uh they're not gonna be able to handle this, so I'm not gonna talk about this issue. That's not what Paul did. He was the same guy every single place that he went. Why? Because the standard is not culture. It's not Paul. It's Christ. It's the Word of God. And so we see this in Timothy. But what's the point? The point is that Timothy was a co-laborer. Paul wasn't doing it himself. He had people he worked with, people that he could send with confidence, people who did the work, and it didn't happen by accident. Truth 4. Discipleship may demand contending for truth Now, as I said earlier, I don't think it's healthy for Christians to have this us versus them mindset where I'm always fighting, you know? Like sometimes people like There's a lot of pride in the fact that we fight and nobody else does, kind of a thing. Okay? It's like fighting for the sake of fighting. But there are times you have to contend. And when you have to do it, you need to have backbone. And you may have to, you know, get hit pretty hard, and you're just gonna have to bear through it And this kind of comes out here in verses 20 and 21. He says, for the kingdom of God is not word, but in power. What will ye? Shall I come unto you with a rod or in love? And in the spirit of meekness? Now, a couple things I want I want to just point out here. The first observation is this: real Christianity is not cheap talk Paul's detractors had a lot to say about him. When he says not in word , it's a little hard to know exactly what the text is saying, but if you if you look at it a couple different translations, And you look at it in the Greek text, what you're going to see is the idea is that Christianity is not about big talk. Okay? The most spiritual and godly person isn't the one who speaks the most swelling words. Or is the loudest voice in the room? These people had a lot to say about Paul. Oh, he's not man enough to come talk to us. Oh, he doesn't really care about us. He's going to send Timothy, his son in the face, this young man. He's going to come instead of Paul. He's going to do all the dirty work for Paul. Big talk. Well, guess what? That's not real Christianity. Because when he says it's in power, the idea is this: real Christianity comes from a vibrant life rooted in new life in Christ. That comes through the Word of God taking root in our hearts. Paul's detractors talked big, but their lives did not demonstrate the power of the gospel and sound doctrine. Second observation is this, sound doctrine produces real Christianity. The influential teachers in the church were not leading to real Christianity. This disconnect was the result of false teaching. Now, I'm not saying that everyone who is uh maybe not the strongest teacher is a false teacher in the sense that they're preaching a false gospel. You can be weak but still be speaking the truth, okay? Or you could be timid and still be speaking the truth. If you're not speaking the truth, you're going contrary. That's false teaching, unquestionably. But you could have a person who knows the truth, but they're unwilling to speak it for whatever reason. And the result of that is that those people are going to have downstream of them very weak, very deficient Christians. Not strong, not vibrant. Why? Because truth causes growth and a lack of truth causes deterioration But if somebody is teaching falsely, then the end result is going to be huge. Paul was forced out of duty and love for these young Christians to confront the false teaching that was in the church. I mean he talks about the preaching of the cross, foolishness to those uh who are not saved, and he talks about glorying in the cross, and so it it appears that a lot of what Paul's talking about in this in this book or this letter is is more on the side of the attitude that people have when they're teaching, their overall demeanor when it comes to how they're doing the work of ministry, but not always. Sometimes it was truly false teaching. And he's warning them about this. The third thing is this. Paul's approach when it came to addressing those issues was restrained and incremental. He says, Shall I come unto you with a rod or in love? And the spirit of meekness? Now, what is Paul saying here? What Paul is saying is that the way that you respond to correction will determine the way that I come to you on the next level. And I'll give you a great example. When our kids have done wrong, I would say most of the time, we should start with the most gentle approach possible to make that issue get corrected. Let's say that your child's not even being honest with you. You got a little child and they're being dishonest. Give them an opportunity to fess up. Give them an opportunity to say, you know, I wasn't speaking the truth. And when and when you come and you ask them some questions. And you know what? If your child who has just lied to you, who has just done something wrong, but they admit it, guess what? You don't need to come down and slam that kid. I mean, did they do wrong? Of course they did. But the fact that they have humbled themselves quickly and they're willing to resolve the issue the right way, then you work with them on that level. You say, well, you know, lying's a big deal, and I think they really need to get it. Do you know how patient God is with us? Do you have any concept of how patient God? Do you know how much God puts up with us? And so what Paul's basically saying is, if you're gonna harden your heart to the truth, you're gonna meet me with force. But if you humble yourself, I will be so gentle with you. Because that's the way God is with his children. He resists the proud and he gives grace to the humble. And he gives us opportunity. Even look at the very first sin in the Bible, Adam and Eve. God goes to Adam and he asks him questions. He says, why are you hiding? Did you eat the fruits? He asked him all these questions. Why did he do that? He's given him opportunity to fess up. He's given him opportunity to resolve the issue properly And so when it comes to these issues of correction, we have to be careful that the way that we go into these issues is in a godly, Christ-like way, that we meet force that is appropriate to what is going on here. I mean, rebellion needs to be dealt with. When people sin, give them an opportunity to make things right. You say, well, they're going to take advantage of it. Well It's incremental, folks. You know, if my kid keeps lying to me, well, they're going to face it at some point, all right? Because I know what's going on and we're going to address the issue. But that's the idea here. His approach was restrained and incremental. Shall I come to you with a rod or in love and a spirit of meekness? It depends on how you respond to what I say to you. you. Well how do we apply the passage? Let me give you some final thoughts quickly. First is this. We must actively and deliberately shape the culture of our homes and churches to be making disciples. What comes out of our home is directly proportionate to what we're putting into it. What comes out of our churches Is a result of the culture and the mindset and the teaching and the temperament and the attitudes of the people that are in that congregation. It's really true. You see this stuff come out as time goes on. We've got to really work hard to shape our homes and church in a godly way. Second, discipleship is commanded by God. And so we need to be involved in it. But we need to be doing it in a healthy way. How do we do this? We've got to develop a vibrant love for other Christians, especially young Christians. You know, in ministry, it's not natural to love people. Especially when they do really crazy stuff. It's just not. But it's godly to love people. And if you are in the Word of God and you are looking at people the way that God looks at them, you'll love them. Second, we need to be patient with potentially frustrating behavior. People will always frustrate. This afternoon I was having a conversation with a guy. It was a secular context. And he just went on this rant about how frustrating people are. And I said, I'm a pastor. I know what people can do. I got six children. But you know what? God loves people. And we need to love them too. Thirdly, we need to be willing to allow people into our lives. Don't isolate yourself. Don't insulate yourself from other people. That is so unhealthy. We need to rub shoulders with one another. We need to think about our future and work to invest in the next generation. Fifth, we need to be prepared to contend for the truth if it's necessary. Lastly, when we contend, we need to be measured in the way that we go about contending. May God help us to do that. Let's bow for prayer. Lord, we thank you for your word. Thank you for the time we've spent in it. I pray that the things that have been presented would have been a tremendous encouragement and help. Give us wisdom as we work with our children. Give us wisdom as we invest in our relationships, in our marriages, in our relationship with other Christians, family members who are extended, bosses, people that work under us. Lord, give us wisdom and grace as we work with others. Help us to be a church. Help us to have families. where healthy disciple making is a normal part of life. Bless our time of fellowship together as we lift up these requests to you. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.