Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for this week. And if you've been joining us for each of these lessons, I hope that you've been encouraged by it and challenged. The things that we're talking about, they require a need for tremendous precision. And out of all of the things that we've talked about this week, this last section is going to be the most critical because what we're doing is we're taking all the pieces that we've discussed throughout the week and we're putting them all together in a very practical way. And so what we're doing is we're showing what it means to get it right at the heart level. We know that it's important for Christians to be involved in some some level or degree of ministry service. The question is, what is supposed to drive us? What is the correct order? It's like we're going all the way back to the beginning and we're asking the question, how do we align things properly? And so let's read through the text one more time, and then I'd like us to answer that question, what does it mean to get it right at the heart level? Here's what it says, Luke chapter 10, verse 38. Now it came to pass as they went that he entered into a certain village, and a certain woman named Martha received him into her house. And she had a sister called Mary, which also sat at Jesus' feet and heard his word. And Martha was cumbered about with much serving, and came to him and said, Lord, Dost thou not care that my sister hath left me alone? Bid her therefore that she help me. Jesus answered and said unto her, Martha, Martha , Thou art careful and troubled about many things, but one thing is needful, and Mary hath chosen that good part which shall not be taken away from her. The simple principle that we're going to close out our week with is that healthy Christians serve, but their service is neither the goal nor is it their identity. Let me say this again, because it is so very important. Healthy Christians serve, but their service is neither the goal nor their identity. In verses 41 and 42 it says, Jesus answered and said unto her, Martha, Martha, thou art careful and troubled about many things But one thing is needful, and Mary hath chosen that good part which shall not be taken away from her. The simplest way to put it is that the focus of the Christian needs to be on one thing. And that one thing is what Jesus is driving at here. The Christian's focus is to be on a fellowship or a communion with the Lord Jesus Christ. And so he says one thing is needful. and it shall not be taken away. Now, I think this is very different in the way that a lot of Christians live the Christian life A lot of Christians live the Christian life by a list of rules. I do this, I don't do this, and they they keep almost like a checklist of the things that they're supposed to do or not supposed to do. For instance, they they they ask the question, well, how many hours have I been in the Word? How many hours have I been in prayer? Is that enough? Is God happy with that? Or, you know, how many tracts did I distribute? Or how many gospel conversations did I get into? Did I handle that conversation perfectly? Or did I fumble and drop the ball when I was in that conversation? How many hours of religious service do I spend each week? Am I serving the right amount of time in my local church? What percentage of my income have I given to the church over the last month? And, you know, have I checked all the boxes? This is the way that a lot of Christians live the Christian life. And if I was to look back at a younger version of myself, I'd have to say that that's probably the way that I thought. um without even realizing that. And a person can think this way and completely understand the gospel. They they recognize that Christ died for their sins and He rose from the dead and it's by faith alone and his finished work that they're saved. Yet the way that they think when it comes to sanctification, growth into Christ-likeness, spiritual maturity, the way that they think on this issue of of service. is inconsistent with what they believe theologically about how we're saved and how we're to grow. Now, I don't want to be misunderstood by what I'm saying here. And what I've said could very easily be misunderstood. You may say, well, hold on a second. Are you saying that reading the Bible in prayer doesn't matter? and and going out and giving the gospel to people is irrelevant and I shouldn't do those things. No, no, no, no, no. That's not what I'm saying. We do need to be in the scriptures daily. We absolutely need to We need to be reaching people with the gospel. We have a biblical responsibility to be giving the gospel to the lost around us. We need to be faithfully connected in the context of our local church and we need to be bearing one another's burdens and we need to be shouldering the load and ministering to one another in the local church. We need to be faithful because the Lord Jesus commands us to be faithful. We should be faithfully giving to the local church as God has commanded us to be, doing those things So the question is not should we be doing those things? The question really is why should we be doing those things? What is the ultimate goal? And the simple fact is this. While we're supposed to be doing these things They are not the goal. They are the byproduct of a healthy Christianity. You don't have to guilt trip Christians who are healthy into being in the scriptures And the reason for that is because they have a desire to commune with God. Because their highest delight is in Him. So I don't have to browbeat a person into getting into the scriptures. If they are a healthy Christian, that's where they go naturally. That's where they want to be. It's like it says in Hebrews, as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word that you may grow thereby. The idea is that a a a new child is is hungry and wants to eat all the time. And so a young Christian who wants to grow is a Christian who wants to be in the Word or an issue like sharing the gospel. I don't have to browbeat people and go and give the gospel. If they're a healthy Christian. Why is that? Well, because they believe that heaven is real and so is hell. And they love the people around them and their burden for their souls. And they don't want to see those people spend eternity separated from God. And so their heart is moved with compassion towards those people, but that is the byproduct of healthy Christianity. I had to browbeat a healthy Christian into wanting to be connected with the local church. Well the reason is because they love the church. They love the people who God has brought into their life who they are to grow together into Christ's likeness with. They are committed to bearing one another's burdens, and it's because they love those people. I don't have to browbeat a healthy Christian into obeying God in the area of their finances, what they prioritize, how much they give to the local church. whether or not they even do give, what they spend their money on, what they refuse to spend their money on. I don't have to browb beat people on those issues. And the reason is because they know what the Bible teaches about, that they're committed to the authority, the lordship of Christ in their life And they're willing to financially support the Lord's work. They're willing to invest wisely in things that actually matter. They're willing to forgo things that they don't actually need. The idea is that healthy Christians Do what is right. And an unhealthy Christian, you could beat them over the head all day with their responsibilities, but if their heart's in the wrong place, they will never ever be motivated to do the right thing because it starts in the heart. The engine of ministry is a healthy, vibrant communion with God. And the way that we serve is ultimately a byproduct of the health of our souls when it comes to this issue of our walk. And so I conclude with this simple thought God wants our hearts before he wants our hands. Now I'm not suggesting that God doesn't want our hands and our feet. He wants our hearts first. Because if we have given our heart to the Lord, then our hands will follow and our feet will follow And that is really the entire focus of the passage in front of us. The problem with Martha was that she didn't give her heart first. Her ministry was the goal. Her ministry was her identity. Rather than her love for Jesus drove her to serve him faithfully And so I want to conclude with the passage of scripture that I mentioned at the closing of our service a week ago. In 1 John 4, verse 7, I think John captures this concept so very, very well when he says the following. Beloved, let us love one another. This is what we're supposed to do. For love is of God. Everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God Now that little statement is so important. They are born again and they know God. That word know means they're growing in communion with God. They're growing in an experiential knowledge. So people who love God or who are responsible to love their neighbor are going to love their neighbor when their heart is in the right place as it relates to their relationship with the Lord. He then goes on to say this, Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought to love one another. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us. Hereby know we that we dwell in him. And those words dwell and the concept of his love being perfected in us and us knowing God, these are all different ways of expressing a healthy communion or fellowship with God. And so I want to ask the very simple question this morning to you as we go into the weekend. Is your service for God your goal Or is it flowing from a proper motivation of a simple love for Christ? That is the encouragement. I think lots and lots of Christians are overwhelmed and they're burdened and they're they're bouncing back and forth between all these things they've got to do, they've got to do, they've got to do, and they need to simplify. And get back to the basics and say, Lord, help me to just love you and to enjoy you and to walk with you. And as I'm growing, my heart is going to be pressing me in the right directions. as it relates to this issue of service. That's the encouragement this weekend. Hope that you have a wonderful weekend and Lord willing, we will meet again on Sunday as we look into the scriptures. And then Lord willing, the next week on Monday. Uh we'll be doing another anchor in the word study. Have a blessed day and a blessed weekend by now.