Good morning, welcome back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I hope you've been enjoying this study. I hope it's been a challenge to you. It's made you think a little bit about this issue. And I think by the end of this week, uh we will have discovered or been reminded of some very, very important truths. that are at the heart of how we're supposed to live as Christians. And we want our practice to be consistent with our position and we want our practice to be consistent with our theological viewpoint. And so The desire here is to strive for consistency and to set to show that it's not just what we do, but it's why we do it, what motivates us. And the long-term effects of something are really to be judged by not just an action in a moment, but how that action is going to influence the long term. the future and where it comes from, what motivates it. So that's where we've been going this this week. If you are joining us for the first time, we've been in Luke chapter 10. So let's turn there and we're looking at verses 38 through 42 and it's the story of Mary and Martha. It says, Now it came to pass as they went that he entered into a certain village, and a certain woman named Martha received him into her house. And she had a sister called Mary, which also sat at Jesus' feet and heard his word. But Martha was cumbered about much serving, and came to him and said, Lord Dost thou not care that my sister hath left me to serve alone? Bid her therefore that she help me. And Jesus answered and said unto her, Martha, Martha, thou art careful and troubled about many things But one thing is needful, and Mary hath chosen that good part which shall not be taken away from her. Now, the first day we talked about an important principle. And that principle is that order matters. And so when we talk about uh conversion and faith and works, those things have to be laid out in the proper order. If we believe that uh works play a part in how we get saved, then we are looking at a false gospel. If we believe that salvation is by grace alone, faith alone, Christ alone, but our works don't matter at all, then what may happen is we may end up in an antinomian position. Well then we can go to the other extreme and we can begin to have a very legalistic viewpoint where we say I know I'm saved by grace alone, faith alone, Christ alone, but if I want to stay in God's good favor, if I want Him to love me, if I want Him to to accept me. I've got to strive to do these things so that I can maintain that position. And what we saw is that that works are the caboose and the engine is regeneration, new life in Christ. And so when a person is growing in their walk with God, then the natural consequence and the byproduct of a healthy walk is going to be their service to the Lord being what it should be. And that's where we're moving as we m as a as we work our way through this text of scripture. But this morning what I want us to notice is a continuation of what we talked about yesterday. And what we're going to see today in the text is that our motive is something that will ultimately be exposed as we are serving. Because as we are serving, what's going to happen is we're going to experience pressure and discouragement and frustration and uh misplaced expectations. And when those things happen, then what's under the surface is going to get squeezed out, and we're going to see that that's exactly what happened with Martha in Luke chapter 10. So in verse 40 it says this, and it came to pass that he that she said, Lord, dost thou not care that my sister hath left me to serve alone? Bid her therefore that she help me Now, what Martha is saying seemed very reasonable to her, but when we read it removed from this text by several thousand years , It seems very condescending. It seems very arrogant. It seems very self-centered. And in fact, it was. Martha was doing a good thing. But under the surface, there was a problem. And when a person is serving with a pure motive, then what will happen is as they're squeezed we'll see that that motivation that is right is going to keep them in line. And when a person is not serving purely, when they're squeezed It's going to cause them to move off , center and begin to respond in a fleshly, self-centered manner. That's exactly what happened here with Martha And when we talk about people getting squeezed in ministry and squeezed in service, there are lots of biblical examples that show us that a person's motive was ultimately revealed as they were squeezed in ministry. The first example that I'm going to mention is Paul. The Apostle Paul was a man who endured the difficulties of ministry. with tremendous endurance and tremendous faithfulness. And the reason that he stayed on course and didn't get knocked off center is because his motivation was continually being stirred up in a spirit-filled, Christ-centered manner. He says this in 2 Timothy 4 verse 6. He says, watch thou in all things, endure affliction. Do the work of an evangelist make full proof of thy ministry, for I am now ready to be offered. The time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which the Lord the righteous judge shall give me in that day, and not to me only, but unto all them that love his appearing That little statement at the end, not unto me only, but unto all them that love his appearing, is telling us that the endurance in ministry has to be rooted in a love for Christ. And the reason that Paul endured all things, and the reason that he encouraged Timothy to endure all things, and the reason that Paul at the end of his ministry could look back and say, I fought a good fight. I finished my course. I've kept the faith. And he says, Timothy, that's what I want your legacy to be as well. The reason that they could do that is because of the motivation under the surface. But there are other people in Paul's ministry life that were not like Timothy. They were not like him. On the surface, what they did was the same, but under the surface, the motive was different. The first example I'll mention is Demas. Demas is talked about in several passages of Scripture as a close associate to the Apostle Paul But here in 2 Timothy 4, just right after Paul has made these statements about his own ministry and his encouragement to Timothy, he writes the following. Demas hath forsaken me, having loved this present world. Did you catch that? So in verse number eight, he says that that the crown of life is not not only laid up for those uh who are who not only for the Apostle Paul, but for all those who love his appearing, the Lord Jesus Christ's appearance. But in verse number 10 he says, Demons has forsaken me because he loved this present world. And we could say, rather than the appearing of the Lord Jesus Christ. That means that Demas had a different motivation than the Apostle Paul did. And when Paul was pressed, he endured. When Demas was pressed, he left. There's another example of someone who actually the Apostle Paul was very critical of early on in his ministry, and that is Mark. John Mark. John Mark was related to Barnabas. Paul and Barnabas and John Mark traveled together and after the first missionary journey, Paul did not want Barnabas to bring John Mark with him again because he believed he was unprofitable. We don't know all the details as to why he believed that, but that's what he believed. And so the Apostle Paul and Barnabas actually split directions as they had a contention over whether or not to include John Mark. But I love the statement that Paul makes in verse 11 of 2 Timothy chapter 4. He says, only Luke is with me, take Mark And bring him with thee, for he is profitable to me for the ministry. This is what we can glean from these verses. That when a person is squeezed, the person who is not properly motivated is going to be they're going to be inclined to quit. They're going to give up. They're going to respond in a fleshly manner. They will not endure hardness. But the person who we may even doubt and question They will endure. They will stay at it. They will be faithful. And the Apostle Paul says, Demas, who was close to me, he's gone. John Mark, who I didn't believe was profitable for the ministry, he is profitable for the ministry. And Timothy, you need to take him and you need to work with him. He's a good man. You can trust him That's the difference. And so what we see is that motivation is exposed as we serve. Well, the exact same principle is demonstrated in the life of Mary. She says, Lord, dost thou not care that my sister hath left me to serve alone? Bid her that she may help me. Now, the pressure that Mary experienced was squeezing her and it exposed her motives. You say, well, how did it expose it? Well, she accused Christ of being disinterested. She said, Lord. Do you care? I mean she's saying, I don't believe that you care that I'm here by myself. That's what she's saying. Her view of Christ was wrong. The second thing is she felt like she was the only person being faithful there. She says, my sister hath left me to serve alone. So she's having a pity party. She's working there in the kitchen and getting everything to re ready and she's doing the right thing but in her heart she's like, I can't believe my sister, she's not helping me, she's not working with me, what's the problem with her? And so the idea is that she's thinking, I'm the only person that's being faithful. I'm the last person standing and doing what's right. What's wrong with these other people? That's the mindset. Third thing is she demanded that Christ meet her expectations. Bid her, therefore, that she helped me. She's telling Jesus, you need to do what I want you to do. Now, it's easy for us to look at Martha and say, well , Look at you. You believe Jesus is disinterested and you believe you're the only faithful person. You're having a pity party and you're demanding that he meets your expectations. We don't do things like that. Well, that might not be true. I have found myself at times in doing the work of ministry that I've been exactly like Martha. That my mindset was, God, do you even care what I'm doing? God, I'm the only person being faithful in this moment. Look at all these other people around me. They're not being faithful. And why don't you meet my expectations? I I've been in those places And if you're honest, you probably have been too. And the fact is that what's happening is that God in his grace is allowing us to be squeezed So that our motive that we are oblivious to, we can't see it, it gets squeezed to the surface, and all of a sudden we realize I have a problem. I need to reorient my thinking on truth. I need to get my heart back into the right place so that I am serving out of a pure motivation, out of a love for my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And so we see that pressure not only refines us, but it ultimately reveals what's driving us. And James says this in James 1. He says, the trying of your faith worketh patience. Let patience have her perfect work, that you may be perfect in entire wanting-nothing. He says you want to be spiritually mature, you've got to let pressure squeeze out of you those areas where you're not properly motivated. And then he says in verse 12, Blessed is the man that endureth temptation, for when he is tried he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that love him. Notice the consistency here. Those who love him, those who love his appearing. This is a consistent pattern in Scripture. Proper service begins with a love for Jesus. And so I want to encourage you this morning to recognize that if you are serving the Lord and you're feeling pressure, it's going to reveal something about what's in your heart. And my prayer is that if the Lord begins to show us that there's something in our heart that's not right, that we will humble ourselves with repentance before the Lord to say, God, forgive me, cleanse me, help me to think clearly about this again. Help me to be properly motivated. May the Lord help us to do that. Lord willing, tomorrow we're going to finish out our series as we look at the last piece. to what is going on in the life of Martha as she's serving the Lord. Have a blessed day. Talk to you later by now.