Good morning. Welcome back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And we are in Luke chapter 10 again, and we're looking at verses 38 through 42, the story of Mary and Martha. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to invite you to turn with me to this passage. And let's dig into the text this morning. We looked at an introduction yesterday. And today we're going to look at the value of Martha's service. Here's what it says, verse 38. Now it came to pass as they went that he entered into a certain village. And a certain woman named Martha received him into her house, and she had a sister called Mary, which also sat at Jesus' feet and heard his word. But Martha was cumbered about with much serving, and came to him and said, Lord, dost thou not care that my sister hath left me to serve alone? Bid her therefore that she may help me. And Jesus answered and said unto her, Martha, Martha, thou art careful and troubled about many things, but one thing is needful, and Mary hath chosen that good part which shall not be taken away from her. Now I know that as we look at this passage of scripture, there are often a lot of negative things that will be stated about Martha. And I'm going to have to say some things about the way that Martha's serving that are negative because clearly Christ When I say he rebuked her, it was a very gentle rebuke, but he reminds her of what is most important because she is not thinking correctly about this issue of her service and about her sister's service as well. But before we get into the negative, I think it's extremely important that we state that it is not only negative. Martha was serving and her service was good. It had value. Now it was problematic, but it was also valuable in another sense. And so I want you to notice verse 38. He says that when he came, he entered into a village, and a certain woman named Martha received him into her house. Now that word received is the same word that is used of Zechar of Zacchaeus. When Zacchaeus is up in a sycamore tree and he sees Jesus down below him and Jesus says, Zacchaeus, come down. I'm coming to your house. And so Zacchaeus invites the Lord Jesus to his house, and when he received him, the idea is that he showed him hospitality. He opened up his home, he spread a feast for him, he made him feel welcome, he made him feel Uh like he was an honored guest, and that's exactly what Martha was doing. And and that would have been the most natural and normal thing for a person to do, not just because He's the Messiah and he is that. But it it would have been a common practice for uh a a lady in Martha's position to make sure that whoever came to her house would be received and would feel honored as a guest in their home. And so what she's doing is a good thing. It's an appropriate thing. It's what was supposed to take place. And I want to mention this important principle. Hospitality is both a good and a necessary part of healthy community. So if we're talking about the local church context, when we're talking about believers in the first century, the importance of hospitality cannot be overstated. And if a person is going to be hospitable, that means they're going to have to do a lot of work. They're going to have to give of themselves, of their time, and of their energy. And there are lots of scriptures, numerous scriptures that talk about this concept. For instance, Romans 12. 10 says this, be kindly affectioned one to another with brotherly love, in honor, preferring one another. Not slothful in business, fervent in spirit, serving the Lord. Rejoice in hope, patient in tribulation, continuing instant in prayer, distributing to the necessity of the saints And the next statement given to hospitality. I'm going to go back and kind of draw our attention to a few of those statements after we read this next passage, 1 Peter 4, verse 9. He says, use hospitality one of another without grudging. As every man hath received the gift. even so minister the same one to another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. Another example of the importance of hospitality is stated in 1 Timothy chapter 3 verse 2. Now these are the pastoral qualifications, and he says that a bishop must be blameless. And then he mentions the husband of one wife. That's a moral qualification. Vigilant, that's talking about the fact that he is a cautious person. He understands what's around him. He's a discerning person. He is sober. He's not flippant or careless about life. He has of good behavior. This is talking about the fact that he has good discipline and the way that he lives his life is in a clearly ordered manner. But then the next statement is given to hospitality. It literally means a person who loves people. It's a person who's willing to bring people into their home. They're willing to do exactly what Zacchaeus did. They're willing to do exactly what Martha did. So we can see from the Romans passage and the 1 Peter passage and the 1 Timothy 3 passage. That this issue of hospitality and serving other of the people is an important part of Christian community And hospitality does not happen without sacrificial service and hard work. Think of statements like, not slaughter in business. distributing to the necessity of the saints, given to hospitality. As every one has received the gift, even so minister the same one to another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. I'm going to pause here and state it this way. While we are going to say some negative things about Martha, and when it comes to this issue of her motivation, We need to recognize that what she was doing in her service was right. It was good for her to open up her house It was good for her to desire to honor the Lord Jesus Christ. It was good for her to be hospitable. The question is not in what she did. The question is in why she did it. And so I want to challenge you this morning, before we get into the rest of this series throughout the rest of the week, to ask this question, are you a hospitable person? It would be easy for us to say, well, I don't need to serve other people. I don't need to be hospitable. I just love Jesus and I just want to spend time in his presence and I'm going to spend all my time in the Word and in prayer. And those people who are less spiritual than me They're the ones who are going to do all the work. That should not be what we walk away with when we look at this passage of Scripture. Rather, what we will see is those who walk with Jesus are in a great position to serve people the way that he would have them to serve. And so I want to leave you with this challenge. Let's be of hospitable people, willing to be vulnerable, willing to open our homes, willing to do the work and service to others, willing to allow people into our lives so that we can minister to them and they can minister to us. Lord willing tomorrow we're going to dig a little bit deeper into this and see where the true problem was below the surface in Bartha's heart. Have a blessed morning. If this has been an encouragement to you, please take a moment to share that. Perhaps share it along with someone else who could be encouraged by it. And Lord willing tomorrow we'll continue our series. Bye now.