Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And as we work our way through this passage on prayer, we looked yesterday at the importance of prayer being uh persistent and that we continually come to the Lord with our requests and our needs. And I think it's important for us to look at uh we could say a little bit of a shaping of why we are persistent And we're going to talk about that this morning as we continue looking at these two parables. Let's read the passage together again. It's Luke chapter 11, verses 5 through 13, and then we will kind of look at those pieces. Here's what it says And he said unto them, Which of you shall have a friend? Shall go unto him at midnight, and say unto him, Friend, Lend me three loaves, for a friend of mine is on his journey and has come to me, and I have nothing to set before him He from within shall answer and say, trouble me not. The door is now shut. My children are with me in bed. I cannot rise and give you. I say unto you, though he will not rise and give him, because he is his friend, yet because of his importunity, he will rise and give him as much as he needeth. And I say unto you, ask and it shall be given you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock, it shall be opened unto you. For every one that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be opened If a son shall ask bread of you, that is a father, will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he give for a fish a serpent? Or if he ask an egg, will he offer a scorpion? If ye then being evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more shall your heavenly father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him? Now, it's important when we look at this passage and we see the example of a person who was persistent and that's why he gets the answer from his friend that we recognize that Jesus is not teaching that our persistence is because of God's lack of care or goodness. And so this second parable set beside the first parable is meant to help us to understand that the reason that we are persistent is not that God stands off to the side and is aloof or that he's reluctant in some way, but in fact that persistence is motivated differently. So we look at a third truth from this text this week. And the third truth is that prayer should be shaped by the conviction that God is good. The scriptures are full of examples that are supposed to compel us to see the goodness of God. I think about James chapter 1, where he talks about desiring wisdom. And he says, if anyone lacks wisdom, let him ask of God who giveth to all men. liberally and upbraideth not. He's emphasizing the fact that God is generous and that God is kind and that we should ask God for his wisdom because he is good. And then he goes on to say, of his own will, he begat us through the word of truth. The idea is that one of the greatest examples to prove to us that God is great. good is what he has done for us so that we could be reconciled to him. And so this passage of scripture is going to set us set the tone to recognize that in fact God is good. We see that in verses 11 to 13. He says, if a son asks bread of any of you that is a father, will he give him a stone? Well the answer is, of course not. Well, because a father is good, and the father recognizes that if his son needs food, he's going to give him something that can nourish him. Or he says, if he asked for a fish, another type of uh of food, is he going to give him a serpent, something that could harm him? Or if he asked for an egg, would he give him a scorpion, something that could could injure him? The answer is of course not. Well then he says, if you who are evil, meaning we're sinful, we're sometimes not motivated properly. If we would not do this, well, how much more would God in heaven not do this? So this leads us to examine these parables a second time. These two parables are meant to be set together. And when they're set together, then we can understand the full intent. So the first parable is emphasizing the need for persistence. There's no question about that. And we see that because of the way that Jesus applied it. But if we look at the parable a second time, we will notice that there is something else that is being subtly communicated. And we see it this way. He asks a question. He says, which of you shall have a friend who would do this? Now the idea is he's saying Would a friend really act like this? A person who feels this obligation to you and you feel this obligation to them? A person who would not want his friend to be humiliated or to do something that was socially unacceptable, he's going to bail at his friend because he cares about his friend. So when Jesus asks the question, he's basically indicating that this is not a typical scenario. A friend would help a friend out in this situation. Because culturally that would have been expected. But then we see it even further emphasized in the second parable. This is emphasizing that not only are we to be persistent, But this persistence is not necessary because God is reluctant, or because God is evil, or because he is disconnected from our true needs. No, God is good. And that's why he says, if you be evil would give these things, how much more your heavenly Father The implication is God is very good. God is far better than you and I are to our own children. There are times that we are reluctant. There are times that we are self-centered. There are times that we don't get things right, but God is not like that. God's perceived reluctance is never motivated in the kinds of ways that we would be reluctant. Sometimes we're tired, God's never tired. Sometimes we are pragmatic in our calculations. God is never pragmatic in his calculations. Sometimes we have to shame people into doing what we ask them to do. Or sometimes people feel compelled to manipulate another person. because they think if they just ask them straightforward and they come to them uh in in a in a gentle way this person is not going to hear the request. But God's never like that. He's not shamed into an answer. He's not manipulated into an answer. No, God's motivation, his apparent reluctance is not like ours. He does not give us evil things that are ultimately going to hurt us. And so these are the things that are emphasized by this passage of Scripture. God's reasons, though unknown to us at the time, are always considering the full picture They're always considering what is best. They're always considering all of these things in the light of God's eternal wisdom that is far higher and far deeper and far richer and far more expansive. than our own. He is always good. He knows everything. He's infinitely wise. And he tenderly loves us. And so as we think about this passage of Scripture, I want to encourage you in just a final summation, that though you are to be persistent with God , Do not be persistent with God because you think you have to manipulate him or because you think you have to somehow shame him into answering you We don't command God. We appeal to Him. And that persistence is because the kinds of things that we need from Him are the kinds of things that we need every single day. And the reason we persistently come to him is because we are convinced of his wisdom, convinced of his goodness, convinced of his kindness, and convinced that he will do what is ultimately best for us. And so I hope that this leaves you with something to think about this morning. When you come to God, come continually, and come with an attitude that is shaped by the fact that you are convinced that He is good. May God help us to come to Him in prayer in such a way. Lord willing, tomorrow we'll close out our study. And as we go into the weekend, I hope that you'll be very encouraged by these teachings. Have a blessed day. Bye now.