Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection, and uh looking forward to a new week of study. And if you were with us this past Sunday, you know that the passage that we dealt with was the story of Mary Martha. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to invite you to turn with me to Luke chapter 10. We're going to look at verses 38 through 42 together, and then we're going to dig into this passage. This morning, my plan is just to deal with a couple of introductory thoughts I think are very, very important. for us to consider as we look at this passage. Here's what it says. Now it came to pass as they went that they entered into a certain village, and a certain woman named Martha received him into her house. She had a sister called Mary, which also sat at Jesus' feet and heard his word. But Martha was cumbered about with much serving, and came to him and said, Lord. Dost thou not care that my sister hath left me to serve alone? Bid her therefore that she help me. Jesus answered and said unto her, Martha, Martha, thou art careful and troubled about many things But one thing is needful, and Mary hath chosen that good part which shall not be taken away from her. Now, as we dig into this passage of Scripture throughout the week, I want to start with a focus on a principle that we find in Scripture. And that principle is that the order in which we place certain pieces when it comes to the Christian life is extremely important. We talk about things like faith and works and salvation. The order that we put those pieces in together are are very, very important. And so it does have bearing on what we're talking about this week. So let me first of all give you a summary statement for the text in front of us, the passage we're dealing with, and then look at a couple of these pieces and and and hopefully we'll see how they fit into what we'll be talking about throughout the rest of the week. So a simple summary of this of this passage is sacrificial service is an essential component in healthy community. However, it is ultimately a byproduct rather than the goal of a walk with God. As we look at this scripture, we're going to see that God wants our heart before he wants our hands. That's not to diminish the fact that we should be a serving people. But it's to ask the question, what should our service flow out of? What is the engine and what is the caboose when we talk about the Christian life and service? So let's look at this concept of how order is a very important matter when it comes to the Christian life. The first thing I'm going to mention is the wrong view of the gospel that is so common in church history. And it's something that is is constantly a problem when we're dealing with a context where people are religious but they don't necessarily understand the gospel. And that wrong view of the gospel could be described by what Paul says in Romans chapter 10, verse 1. He says, Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved. For I bear them record that they have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge. For they being ignorant of God's righteousness and going about to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted themselves to the righteousness of God. For Christ is the end of the law to everyone that believeth. Now, this first misunderstanding of the gospel takes works and puts it before justification. The idea is that a person through striving can build up religious credentials that give them a standing with God. And so this wrong view of salvation is that we are saved by works of righteousness that we do. Like God declares us righteous on the basis of our righteousness rather than the basis of something else. The second that I'll mention is what would be a correct understanding of the gospel. And this is described in Ephesians 2. 8. 9. It says, By grace we are saved through faith. And this is not of ourselves, it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Then verse 10 says, For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. Notice the order of the verses. We are saved by grace, through faith, not of ourselves. It's a gift. For we are his workmanship. You see that he starts with a repentance toward God, recognizing that we are spiritually bankrupt. Faith alone in the gospel, in the finished work of Christ, and his righteousness, and his resurrection. And then we see that a person at faith is regenerated. They have new life in Christ. And then they go on to spiritual maturity. Growth in the Christ-likeness is not the engine, it's the caboose Ministry, growth, and meaningful service to the Lord is not the engine, it's the caboose. And so we see that order is very important when it comes to this issue of how we become a Christian. But there's another area that it is also very important in, and that is how we grow as a Christian or why we minister as a Christian. And so we can look at two misguided views of how we grow and how we mature and how we are to serve, and then we look at a healthy biblical view of service. So the first extreme that I'll mention is what I'd call an antinomian type approach to the Christian life. Since I've been saved by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, how I live doesn't matter at all. an antinomian view. I am saved and my life doesn't matter. Now, the scripture clearly addresses this issue. In Romans chapter 6 verse 1, Paul says, What shall we say then? And he's asking this question because he knows that when people understand that salvation is a gift, It is free. It is by grace alone, through the work of Christ alone, and it's not through it their works in any part. Then they ask the question, does it matter how we live? What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin? That grace may abound Paul's answer is, God forbid. How shall we who are dead to sins live any longer therein? So Paul makes the the argument that the reason that a Christian is supposed to walk different than they did before their conversion was not because this is how you stay a Christian, or this is how you maintain a Christian position It's because you are a Christian, how shall someone who is positionally dead to sin continue to live as if they're not? That is his argument. And so the antinomian says, well, I'm saved by grace, so it doesn't matter how I live. And Paul says, that's not the way that we should look at living for God in the Christian life. But then someone can go to the other extreme. And they could say, well, I know that. How I live is important. And so they take a legalistic approach. And this is what Paul addresses in Galatians chapter 3. He also addresses this in Colossians chapter 3. The argument would go this way. Since I know that how I live actually does matter, I've got to work hard to continue to enjoy God's favor and his blessings. And I think that legalism can be a harsh legalism in a false gospel, or it could be a soft legalism where I understand how I'm saved, but I live as if there's a different principle that actually accomplishes our salvation. In other words, the way that I'm living is inconsistent with what I know to be true about the nature of salvation. And so Paul addresses it this way in Colossians 3. Oh foolish Galatians. who hath bewitched you, that ye should not obey the truth. Received ye the Spirit by the works of the law or by hearing faith? Are you so foolish? Having begun in the Spirit, are you now made perfect by the flesh Paul saying, you understand how you got saved, right? It's through faith alone in Christ, regeneration, new birth, the Holy Spirit gave you life So if that's how you became a Christian, well, how do you grow into Christ's likeness? Well, it's by the power of the Spirit. It's not through a different principle. Or in Colossians chapter 3, verses 20 to 23. He says, if ye are dead with Christ from the rudiments of the world, why, as though living in the world, are ye subject to ordinances? after the commandments of and doctrines of men, which things indeed have a show of wisdom in will-worship and humility and neglecting of the body, not in any honor to the satisfying of the flesh. What Paul is saying is that keeping the law does not have the power to make you holy. In the same way that keeping the law did not have the power to make you righteous and forgiven, keeping the law and striving to follow man-made ordinances and rules does not have the power to grow you into Christ's likeness. Salvation comes by the Spirit's work in your heart, by graceful and faithful in Christ alone. And growth into Christ's likeness comes again to the Spirit's work in the heart of someone who is spiritually alive. So you say, well, Joel, what's a healthy view of this issue of service and holiness? Well, here's what it is. Since I have been saved by grace alone, through faith alone, and in Christ alone, there's nothing that I can do or nothing that I must do to earn or to keep my salvation. I've been freed to love God purely and to serve Him passionately as an expression of love. And John 15, 5 articulates this so beautifully. Jesus says, I am the vine and you're the branches. He that abideth in me, and that is a statement about having a close and intimate communion with God, he that abideth in me, and I in him The same bringeth forth much fruit, for without me ye can do nothing. And so I wanted to start with this introduction because it's going to have a lot of practical implications on the rest of the things we'll talk about. As we look at Martha's service and how she had a problem on the heart level when it came to this issue. I hope that you'll join us this week, perhaps share this with someone who could be encouraged by it. And Lord willing, by the end of the week, we'll have a lot to chew on and hopefully a lot, a lot to live in the light of. Have a blessed morning and Lord willing, we'll talk again tomorrow. Bye now.