Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our morning service and hope that you've had a really great weekend and looking forward to our service this morning. Got a couple of announcements, then we'll have our scripture reading and get started. Good morning. I guess the starting, I mean school's not too far away. Some of the kids scream. and the parents are celebrating. But with August starting and school restarting, we are also starting this Tuesday the ABBI. We're going to restart those classes. It'll be in the Fellowship Hall at 7 p. m. Next Sunday we'll have Teen Synxpiration. Pastor Josh will meet in the back. And then the following Tuesday, we'll have the Baltimore Rescue Mission. And then that week we'll have our regular senior luncheon. College and career, and then there's a back to school bash for teens on that Friday and a men's breakfast. So if there are some signups in the hall, if you guys like to go look and see what's going on in the future, but welcome. Glad to see you guys. Our opening scripture reading is found in Psalm 96, starting with verse 1. O sing unto the Lord a new song. Sing unto the Lord all the earth Sing unto the Lord, bless his name, show forth his salvation from day to day, declare his glory among the heathen, his wonders among all people. For the Lord is great and greatly to be praised. He is to be feared above all gods, for all gods of the nations are idols But the Lord made the heavens. Honor and majesty are before him. Strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. Our theme of worship today is for us to focus on the need to passionately declare the gospel wherever his name is not worshiped. I'd like to mention that this morning our focus is going to be a missions focus, and the reason for that though we normally start our missions month in October. This Sunday and next Sunday we will have folks with us who are either on the field or planning to go to the field. And so we have one family with us today, and I'm looking forward to having them this evening as they'll be giving a presentation. answering questions during our Sunday night service. I did want to mention we will not live stream tonight because they are going to a sensitive region. And so um We will not have any live streams, so if you want to be able to be aware of what's going on, you've got to be here in person. And also after the service, I want to encourage you to go by their display and spend some time just getting to know them, be an encouragement, blessing. to them and I think that uh you'll find it to be very, very encouraging. Let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer. Ask the Lord to bless our service and just to really speak to our hearts today as we dig into His Word. Father, we're so grateful for the text that we just read, and we recognize that our great need as your people is to proclaim the gospel amongst all nations. And Father, I pray that you'd help us this morning to be gripped with a godly passion to see the gospel get to the uttermost parts of the world. And Father, I pray that as we think about the great needs of the world, as we think about the emptiness of false religion, as we think about the greatness of our God. And what is available to us in Christ, I pray that our hearts would be strengthened and encouraged. And I pray that we would have a great desire to be faithful in this issue of worldwide missions. I pray that the service would really uplift us and encourage us and that the exposure that we have today would be Extremely encouraging to us as well. Father, help us to have sweet fellowship with one another, help Christ to be the center of that. I pray that if we have anyone with us this morning that does not know the Lord Jesus as their Savior, That through the preaching of your word and through hearing the things that are sung and read in the scriptures, that you would help them to understand their need, to repent and believe, to turn to Christ. and place their faith in his finished work. Pray for those in our congregation who carry heavy burdens today. You know all those burdens, you know the cares that are in their lives, and I pray that You would be be a tremendous comfort and encouragement to those who are in great need. And help us as we minister to those who are hurting. Help us to do it faithfully. Help us to do it compassionately. Help us to do it biblically. And I just pray for your blessing on this. time. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, all right. All right, good morning, Anchor Baptist Church. Thank you for joining us in person and uh joining us online as it may be. As we begin the morning service, we're going to start off with song, making a joyful noise unto the Lord. So please stand with me. Turn to page one. Wow, that's a big number. Number one in the song, Follow With Me. In a book, page one, rejoice, the Lord is king. Sing out all four verses Don't you just love the flow of that music? You just can't help but lift up your voice as we're going up that scale. Amen. Page 12. Page 12. Right after page 11, but before page 14. There we go. All hail. The power of Jesus' name, all four verses. How do you think that's the same? Amen. Now that we got you warmed up, please have a seat. Now we're going to go almost to the back of the book, page 592. Page 592. Oh shoot. I wasn't thinking. Can't stay seated on this one. Soldiers of Christ arise. Please stand back with me. I wasn't thinking. Had a senior moment going there, huh? I've been trying to think of a good dad joke, but they're just not coming. Amen now. Please be seated for reading of the scriptures. Going back to Psalm 96. And we're going to pick up where Pastor Josh left off. We're going to start on verse 7 and read to the end of the chapter. Psalm 96, verse 7 through 13. Give unto the Lord, O ye kindred of the people, give unto the Lord glory and strength. Give unto the Lord the glory due unto his name. Bring an offering and come into his courts. O, worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. Fear before him, all the earth. Say among the heathen that the Lord reigneth The world also shall be established that it shall not be moved. He shall judge the people righteously. Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad. Let the sea roar, and the fullness thereof. Let the field be joyful and all that is therein. Then shall all the trees of the wood rejoice. Before the Lord, before he cometh, for he cometh to judge the earth. He shall judge the world with righteousness and the people with his truth. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. They are Amen. Alright, for their next song, we're going to be in the back of the book, page 530 this time. Page 530. And you've had a chance to sit down for a moment, but I'm going to have to ask you to stand again between verses 3 and 4. We're going to sing all four verses. Between verses 3 and 4. And now listen, folks, I saw you fellowshipping before service, right before the message. So this is a meet and greet. This isn't a uh uh a time where you sit there and talk for 30 minutes because we got the rest of the service to get going. So in between the third and the fourth verses, turn around, shake somebody's hand, wave at them. But you got to come back quick because I want to sing some more, okay? All right, page 530, rescue the parish. Memory is a Okay, I'm back to the colour. Okay, now you gotta watch me on the chorus. Watch me on the chorus. Y'all were listening. I'm proud. of you very good okay last song is going to be up on the screen it's in our blue hymnal rejoice hymnal it's for the sake of his name new song For the month of August, for the sake of his name, all four verses. And on the last verse, a cappello? Second. Second Lez. On the third verse, a cappello. Okay, very good. Wanted to make sure. I like we 're straight, sweet brothers. We pray I look like You're dying. Please be seated. We must go, and we must show. Giving us the cross for everywhere. See thy other wisdom for his cross Till the whole world we must go. Do you see on me, will you take hot To give up the news, to let your light shine, people everywhere need to know the truth. That God loves them, share the news. We must go and we must share Giving house a custom everywhere. See thy need of a loss in them for Jesus. Till the whole world know we must go. Don 't tell the world that Jesus is the way. Too young and old the truth remains the same. He changes lives for me no proclaim. Easy as well, yes, she doesn't We must go, we must share, we must share the gospel every way See the need of the Lord with them for his cause, till the whole world knows we make them leave God Till the whole world knows we must go. All right, well our children who are junior church age can be dismissed to the back for your class. With the help of a parent and the rest of you, I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to the 96th Psalm this morning. The 96th Psalm. And before we read the text, I want to kind of remind you of where we have been this morning in our worship to the Lord. And I want to remind you of the songs that we sang because they are presenting a storyline. And it's a storyline that will be very helpful to us as we look at Psalm 96. The first song that we sang this morning was Rejoice, the Lord is king, and that is a declaration. Of who Jesus is. He is king over all the earth, and we are to rejoice in him The second hymn that we sing is all hail the power of Jesus' name and what we did as we proclaimed what we know to be true about Jesus. That all praise and honor and glory goes to Him because He is the all-powerful, Almighty God And the third hymn that we sang was Soldiers of Christ Arise. And I love this song. It's one that isn't sung very often. It was written by one of the Wesley brothers, and it reminds us that we are in a spiritual struggle, a battle. And this is both a personal struggle, one that we are dealing with internally, within our own soul. But also we see that there is a struggle between light and darkness. And this is why there is such a tremendous need for the gospel to go to the uttermost parts of the earth. And then the fourth hymn we sang, Rescue the Perishing. That takes a little bit more of a compassion tone. I know the first couple were really emphasizing the majesty and the power. And the glory of God. But this is emphasizing the plight of the world. The fact is that these people that we need to take the gospel to, we should have compassion. And our souls, because these are people who stumble in darkness. And many of them don't even understand that their disposition toward God is one of rebellion and their end will be destruction if they don't turn. to the Lord Jesus. And then I love this hymn for the sake of his name. This is what it's all about. It's all about praise and honor and glory to the one for whom And so we think about these hymns that we sung. I hope that when you sing these hymns, you don't sing them in a very casual way. That you forget that you don't forget the the intent for which these things were written. The fact is each of these hymns was picked with a storyline that's being presented. The question we should ask this morning is why? Why that storyline? Why that order? Why are we going about it in such a way? And the answer is Psalm 96. So let's go ahead and let's read the Psalm together, and then we'll ask the Lord to help us to understand. Understand this text very thoroughly this morning. Oh, sing unto the Lord a new song. Sing unto the Lord all the earth. Sing unto the Lord, bless his name, show forth his salvation from day to day. Declare his glory among the heathen, his wonders among all people. For the Lord is great and greatly to be praised. He is to be feared above all gods. For all the gods of the nations are idols, but the Lord made the heavens. Honor and majesty are before him. Strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. Give unto the Lord, O ye kindred of the people, give unto the Lord glory and strength. Give unto the Lord the glory due unto his name. Bring an offering and come into his courts. O worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. Fear before him all the earth. Say among the heathen that the Lord reigneth The world also shall be established that it shall not be moved. He shall judge the people righteously. Let the heavens rejoice, let the earth be glad. Let the sea roar the fullness thereof. Let the field be joyful in all that is therein. Then shall all the trees of the wood rejoice. before the Lord, for he cometh, for he cometh to judge the earth. He shall judge the world with righteousness and the people with his Truth. Let's bow before the Lord and ask Him to help us to understand this passage very well and how we should apply it. Father, I thank you so much for the wonderful truths. That are being expressed in Psalm 96. Truths that should leave us with a deep-seated conviction in our soul that every kindred, tribe, and nation needs to hear the gospel. And we have a duty in this generation to participate in that advance of the gospel to every single people group. And Father, I pray that as we consider these truths, our hearts would be gripped by the greatness of our God. And the weight of his sacrifice on our behalf as Jesus hung on that cross and as he triumphed over death, I pray that we would recognize that that gospel message Is the only hope for a fallen and broken and miserable world. And so I pray that this morning, as we think about these truths, we would be humbled. We would rejoice, we would worship, and we would have a purposed resolve to be obedient to you in these areas. And so I ask for your assistance. I pray that you will work through the word this morning in our hearts. And we ask Ask it in Christ's name. Amen. I would summarize Psalm 96. Talk about a tough statement there. Summarize Psalm 96 with this simple statement. Psalm 96 calls all creation to conform to God's created purpose. If God made us, he made us for a reason. And if God made us for a reason, that reason is good. And if God made us for a good reason, then we have an obligation to live in accordance with that good purpose. And if we know the truth, and there are those who don't, we have a duty to take it to them. That's really the sense of Psalm 96. Simply put, God's desire is for us to passionately declare the gospel wherever the name of Christ is not worshipped. And that's all over the world. That's all over this community right here. There are many, many people this morning that when they got up on a Sunday morning, they never thought once about the need to be be in a local church where the gospel is preached and they would hear the word of God being read. Sunda Never thought about it once. Why is that? It's not on their minds. They've never been confronted with these truths. There may be some people that it's never even crossed their mind that there's a God in heaven who sent his son to die for their sins. And they can be reconciled to that God through the finished work of Christ. It's never crossed their mind. But they know something in their soul is not right. And they know it's not right, but they don't know what it is, and they don't know how to resolve the issue. And they go to lots and lots of different places to try to find the answers to those problems, and if they just had the truth of the gospel. The light would come on, and they would be gloriously converted. When we think about this issue of missions, we need to think clearly about it. I want you to think about what we talked about on Wednesday night. Because I think there's a lot of parallel to the application of Matthew 7 and what we will talk about this morning. In Matthew 7, it says, Judge not that ye be not judged. And then he goes on to say this: First, cast out the beam out of thine own eye, then thou shalt see clearly to cast out the moat in thy brother's eye. You know why a lot of people are not involved in missions? It's because they have beams in their eye. And there are a lot of people that are involved in missions that are trying to do missions with beams in their eye and they don't have the ability to actually help people because The way that they're going at this issue of missions is entirely wrong. When we were talking about this text on Wednesday, we talked about the concept of concern, a genuine consideration of the needs and struggles of people that we value. This is a quality every single Christian should have. I talked about the concept of discernment, the ability to determine what is right and wrong, what is best according to God's standard in tough, complex, complicated situations. Every Christian needs to be discerning. We talked about the concept of a critical spirit, a condescending preoccupation with others that does not consider our own faults first. Our struggles objectively looks down on others. This is a fleshly response that the scriptures condemn aggressively. And I think there are a lot of Christians that, to be very transparent, they don't have true concern for other people. That's why they're not involved in this thing called missions. They don't have the discernment to be able to go about it in the best way possible because they are not biblically grounded. There are also a lot of people that go into missions with a very critical spirit. And in their mind, they say the American way is the best way. And they go into a foreign context with an arrogance that is very destructive. And the question is, how can we be a people who are able to apply the Matthew 7 passage The way that we should in the area of missions. And the answer is we need Psalm 96. The applications that we that we gave on that Wednesday night were that God wants us to develop discernment and a compassionate heart. He wants us to walk conscientiously considering our thoughts, motives, actions, patterns. He wants discernment to shape when we address situations. What we say in those situations, why we are motivated in those situations, and how we approach them. Psalm 96 is going to give us the right foundation. And so let's dig into the text verse by verse as we consider how this passage of Scripture is going to inform us so that when and what and why and how will be properly aligned when it comes to this issue of mission. The first truth I want you to notice from the text Is that God commands all people to worship him? This is not a suggestion. This is not his way of saying, hey, if you want to follow my path, Go forward. If you want to choose another path, go for it. He commands all men everywhere to repent. That's what the text of Scripture says. And notice what he says in Psalm 96, verses 1 and following. He says, sing unto the Lord a new song. Sing unto the Lord all the earth. That is a command. Okay? He says, sing unto the Lord, bless his name. Show forth his salvation from day to day. Declare his glory among the heathen, and that's a word that nobody wants to use anymore, but it basically means the Gentiles who don't know God. You know who that is? That's us. To be very frank, from the Old Testament mindset, that's anybody who didn't have access to the Old Testament scriptures and the Mosaic Law and the sacrificial feasts and all those things that were to point to the Messiah. He's basically saying everybody in the world needs to know these things. Declare his glory among the heathen, his wonders to all people. There are three commands we see here. The first is sing to God. Sing unto the Lord all the earth. The second is ascribe greatness to him. Bless his name all the earth. The third is preach the gospel. Show forth his salvation among the heathen. These are commands for every living person. And the problem is that there are people in the world today that are not doing this because they do not know that this text commands them to do such a thing. Now there are a lot of people that they know that this is something they are to do and they ignore it. That is true. But there are also many people around the world that do not know the truths of the gospel. They do not sing to their Creator because they don't know him. They don't ascribe his greatness because they don't know him. They don't proclaim the gospel because they don't know what he's done for them. And so the context of these commands is very important for us to remember. He says, sing to the Lord all the earth. Declare his glory among all people. In other words, this is a universal command for all of us. And this is why Missions Month is so very, very important. It's taking this concept that's always in the Bible, but we often don't think about it, and it's putting it in front of us every single year around a certain time. It's giving us an opportunity to be uh to get some awareness of some of the situations that are going on in the world around us. I also want to lay beside this command something that's very comforting. God says in his word, one day this is going to actually happen. Listen to what it says in Revelation 5. 9. They sung a new song saying thou art worthy to take up the book And open the seals thereof, for thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred. and tongue and people and nation and has made us unto our God kings and priests and we shall rain on the earth. Now what is that saying? This is going to happen. So, what Psalm 96 is telling us to do is actually going to take place in the end times. And so what that tells us is that we can take great comfort in the fact that God is going to accomplish What he tells us we are to do. He's going to do it by his power, and he's going to do it by his spirit's work through the Word of God. But I want us to consider a couple of reasons why this command is so important. One of those reasons is because every single one of us exists, uh owes our existence to God. Think about Colossians 1. Here's what it says. By him, and that is speaking of Jesus, by him were all things created that are in heaven and that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones. or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by him and for him. And he is before all things and by him all things could be What does that text mean? I mean it deals with a lot of things. It deals with the deity of Christ, the preeminence of Christ. The fact that everything that is created owes his existence to him. But the point I want you to really notice is that every one of us owes our existence to God. If it wasn't for him giving us life, we wouldn't be If it wasn't for him upholding our lives by his merciful hand, we wouldn't be here. The second thing I want to mention from that text is that we were created for a purpose, and that is to bring glory to Him. He says all things were created by Him and for. Did you catch that? For Him. Some would even argue that this is a discussion within the Godhead where the Father creates the world through the Son and for the Son, and that's why in Revelation 5 he says that you are worthy to take up this book and to open it and you're going to be having these people as a kingdom of priests before him. We will reign with him on the earth. This is his world. And so we were created by him. We exist entirely because of him, for him, and we are to bring glory to him. That's the way we're supposed to live our lives. But there's a problem. And that problem is that we have a nature that is bent in rebellion against him. Listen to what Paul writes in Romans 1. He says that men hold the truth and in righteousness. And that phrase hold the truth isn't like I'm holding it, I'm looking at it, and seeing what it looks like. It's holding it and suppressing it. It 's pushing it down. It's saying, I don't want this. I'll use an illustration. How many of you have ever been swimming in a pool and you had a five-gallon bucket with you in the pool? And that five-gallon bucket is you could you could do two things with the five-gallon bucket. You could uh you could fill it with water and let it sink to the bottom, or you could do whatever you smart young man who's you know ten or eleven years old wants to do they're gonna take that bucket turn it upside down so all the air is trapped in it and they're gonna try to press that thing down under the water. Anybody ever done this Maybe you're not a tenor. Oh, there's a lot of kids here and there's some not kids here anymore. I see that hand in the back. Okay. So you know what's going on is you have this bucket filled with air and you're pushing it down and and then you know what happens? It just goes like that and then it falls. You empty it out, you try it again, you try it again. That's what people do with the knowledge of God. That truth that is available to them, they take it and they press it down. They say, I don't want it That's absolutely tragic. And the end result of that is misery. He says because that when they knew God, they Glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, they became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. And change the glory of the uncorruptible God unto an image made like unto corruptible man. You are a modern world last at Christians. It says, you actually believe that God created the world out of nothing? How laughable That's true. A lot of people think that. You believe that God took on flesh and he went to the cross and he rose from the dead. You believe all those miracles and all those things, and they mock at that. Yet have you ever stopped to Maybe ask the same person, well, how do you believe the world got here? Oh, that's a great question. Lots and lots of different theories and they start giving you those theories and you're like, is that not like a pretty laughable solution? Like, do you not hear what you're saying? You start asking people some very fundamental questions and you'll recognize the world doesn't have as great answers as they propose. And they act as if they have. What is this passage saying? It's saying that when people have access to the truth instead of bowing the knee and saying, You're God, and I need to know what you created me for, and I want to be right with you and I want to do what is right, instead people go I don't want to hear it. I don't want to hear it. Here is my my theory. And what is it? Suppressing the truth. In unrighteousness. There's a bias against God. So why does the gospel need to go to the other most parts of the world? It's because we are created by God, created for God, and we are pushing him away, and people need to be confronted. with the truth of the gospel. Truth number two. His command is pressing because his greatness has no comparison. I love what he says in verses 4 to 9. Look down in your Bibles at these statements. They are amazing statements about the character of God. It says, for the Lord is great and greatly to be praised. He is to be feared above all gods. For all the gods of the nations are idols. But the Lord made the heavens. Honor and majesty are before him. Strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. Give unto the Lord glory and strength. Give unto the Lord the glory due unto his name. Bring an offering and come into his courts and worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. Fear before him all the earth. Now these these verses are giving one of two logical reasons that are given in this psalm for why we should be motivated to take the gospel to people who don't know him. The first four talks about who he is. And notice what he says. He says, the Lord is great. That's talking about his character, his nature, his perfection. Psalm 86, 8. Among the gods there is none like unto thee, O Lord. Neither is there any work like unto thy work. Or Jeremiah 10, 6, there is none like unto the Lord our God. Thou art great, and thy name is mighty. Think about David. We learned about David and Goliath just a couple of weeks ago on a Sunday night. And the really the key between David and Goliath was a worldview struggle. One person stands up there and they say, I'm a big massive man, I'm going to kill you, and you're just a little, a little puppy that's coming out to fight me. And he says, I come to you in the name of the Lord. The God who you mock, He's going to deliver you into my hands. What is David saying? I don't care how big you are. You mock the creator of the universe, and he upholds both of our lives in his hands. And if you're in conflict with him and I'm on his side, you're in trouble. That's what he's saying. He's without legitimate rival. He says in the text, he says he is to be feared above all gods. This is talking about God's power. Psalm 95, verse 3, the Lord is great and is a great king above all gods. Psalm 97, 9, thou Lord art high. above all the earth, thou art exalted far above all gods. Psalm 135, 5, I know that the Lord is great. and that our Lord is above all gods, wherefore the Lord pleased, that did he in heaven and in earth and in the seas and all deep places. I mean, we could sit here all day talking about texts of scripture that talk about the greatness and the power and the majesty of God. And one of the reasons we're not very motivated about missions is because we're really not taken in by the reality of these truths. We don't see him as great a God as he really is. We don't see that he's to be feared above all gods like he really is. We've actually kind of gotten walled into this complacency where we don't believe what the world around us believes. But we don't exactly hold the truths of Scripture with the fervor that we should, with the passion that we should, with the intensity and the conviction that we should. Thirdly, he is the creator and sustainer of a well-ordered and beautiful creation. He says, the Lord made the heavens. Now I know this is a fallen world, but aren't there some pretty amazing things out there to behold? Anybody seen one of those little lantern flies you know I'm talking about? We're supposed to kill 'em, right? That's what they're telling us. We're supposed to kill 'em because they have no rivals around here. But but here's the truth. That little bug, it's a really neat looking creature. Like I got these grapevines growing out in my yard, and I walk out there and they look kind of like a little weevil or Like a sink bug they're black and they got little red spots and they're so beautiful and they are so destructive And you know what's really interesting is what you're seeing is the beauty of God's creation with the fall right next to it You really are. You're looking at this animal, this bug, that is very beautiful. And it's designed with all these intricate abilities. It's a fascinating creature. And it's going to decimate your crops if you're a farmer What do we see? The goodness of creation and the curse of the fall. All in those pieces. And you walk out to the beach on a Uh well I guess here if you want to look at the sunrise you'd have to look at the sunrise, not the sunset. But you walk out there and you see the sun coming up and and you just you behold the beauty of that sunrise. And then you go out and you play in the ocean and you get stung by a jellyfish You know, you see the beauty of God's creation, but you also see the disorder of it being a fallen world. What is he saying? He's saying, you need to remember who made this. Who designed all those intricate systems? Who has this desire to proclaim his wisdom and his love for beauty in the things that he's made? Psalm 19:1. The heavens declare the glory of God. The firmament showeth his handiwork. Day unto day uttereth speech. Night unto night showeth knowledge. There is no speech nor language where their voice is not heard. When you examine something that has been designed well, not a Tesla truck. I've seen some of those driving around. When you see something that's designed well, you go, man , some pretty smart people put that thing together. Some people with some weird ideas put that one together. But when you look at that thing, you start you start looking at all these little gadgets and all these little things that this vehicle can do or this thing that's been designed. And you know what it does? It tells you there's some really smart people that sat in a room and they had conversations about how are we going to have that window go up and go down How are we going to improve this GPS thing and and and how can we design this so that we can get a little bit better fuel efficiency by the aerodynamics of it, not like making it all out of plastic, something like that. So we see the wisdom That comes out in the handiwork. You know what's amazing? There are people that look at the creation and they say that it wasn't designed. Like what are they thinking? When mankind knew God, he glorified him not as God, became vain in his imagination, and his foolish heart was darkened. Professing himself to be wise, he became a fool And you worship the creature instead of the creator. And what creature are they worshiping? They themselves? That's really what they're doing. He's the creator and the sustainer of a well-ordered creation. Next, he is the majestic and he is full of splendor. He says, honor and majesty are before him. Psalm 29, 4. The voice of the Lord is powerful. The voice of the Lord is full of majesty. Psalm 93. 1, the Lord reigneth. He is clothed with majesty. He is clothed with strength, whereof he hath girded himself. The world also established cannot be moved. Psalm 104, verse 1. Bless the Lord, O my soul. O Lord my God, thou art great. Thou art clothed with honor and majesty. Are you gripped with the greatness of God? Are you gripped with how good he is, how powerful he is, how wise he is? And the last thing he mentions is his strength and beauty have no limit. Strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. If you get close to the Lord, his immediate presence, you know what you'll discover he is strong and he is beautiful. I think about 1 Chronicles 29. It says, Riches and honor come from him. He reigns over all, and in his hand is power and might, and to give strength. And to give st to make great and to give strength unto all. Those who draw close to this great God, who know him, who walk with him, they can't help but love him. Because of his beauty and his strength and his wisdom. So why do people need to take the gospel to the othermost parts of the world? Because they need to know this God Who made them? But there's a third reason that his command is pressing, and that is the emptiness of every type of false religion. And it's not just the emptiness of it, but it's also the evil of it. In verse number five, he says, for, that's the second for, all the gods of the nations are idols. But the Lord made the heavens. These verses are a second logical reason we should be motivated to worship God. People are worshiping empty idols. The gods of the nations are idols. And what's interesting about idolatry in the Bible is it's presented as two potential problems, okay? One of those problems is that it is an empty belief system. So in Psalm 135, verse 15, he says, The idols of the heathen are silver and gold, the work of men's hands. They have mouths, but they speak not, eyes, but they see not, ears, but they hear not, neither is there any breath in their mouth. And this next statement is fascinating. They that make them are like unto them, so is everyone that trusteth in them. We say, what does that mean? People design idols in their own image. That's what it means. When a person makes an idol, they craft it. They build it. They make it They talk about how they're to approach it. And so what does that show you? It shows you the absolute self-centeredness of humanity People create an idol in their own image to worship, and it has no power to give them anything. And so he emphasizes the emptiness of idolatry. But the scripture also talks about another aspect of idolatry. It's not just empty, it's evil. Listen to some of these scriptures. Psalm 106. They serve their idols, which were a snare unto them. Listen to the next statement. Yes, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters unto devils. Did you catch that? In other words, they gave their own children to their idols. Can you get more evil than that? Killing your own child to give to an idol you created? That's what our culture is doing today. So our culture is doing by the millions. You realize in this next election, that is one of the primary presentations of one of the parties. The right to kill your child? Up to the point of birth? What's going on in this country? Idolatry is evil. And it's not just that they were sacrificing their sons and their daughters, but he says they did it to devils. Did you catch that? To devils In other words, it's not just that idolatry is empty, it's evil. Revelation 9. 20, it says, the rest of the men which were not killed by these plagues repented not of the work of their hands. That they should worship devils and idols of gold and silver and brass and stone and of wood, which can neither see or hear nor walk. In other words, their idolatrous practices that, yes, it is true that they are worshiping a block of wood that can't hear their prayers, that has eyes that can't see them, has no power at all, but they're worshiping. The forces of evil through that image. If you've ever lived in a portion of the world for a period of time where idolatry is genuinely practiced, You will recognize that in those places, it is more than just empty. It is evil. Folks, we as Christians need to recognize that the occult isn't a joke. There are people who actually worship the realm of darkness. And the scripture speaks quite a bit of it. People have replaced the true God for false gods that enslave them and destroy what is good. There are a lot of scriptures I can mention, but you know one of the great idols that stands between people and God is their own appetites. We use the word hedonism Ephesians chapter 2, it says, In times past you walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air that worketh in the spirit of disobedience. Now listen to carefully to how he describes this. He says, whom you had your conversation in times past, fulfilling the lust of the flesh. And the desires of the flesh and of the mind and were by nature children of wrath. You know what that's saying? You know how the world lives for itself. I'm just that it's all about it's all about me. It's all about my pleasures. It's all about what makes me feel good in the moment. Doesn't care what God that doesn't matter what God says. It doesn't matter how this hurts other people. It's all about satisfying me Philippians 3. 18 he says, Many walk of whom I have told you often, and now tell you weeping, they are enemies of the cross, whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly. whose glory is their shame, who mind earthly things. That little statement, whose God is their belly, what it means is this. They live according to appetite. One of the great gods that has gripped our own society is the God of self. Hedonism It's a huge problem in our culture. It's a huge problem all over the Western world. It's a human problem, not just in Western societies, but it's also true in non-Western societies. Another is an idolatrous substitute of God. Jeremiah 2. 11, he says, Hath a nation changed their gods, which are yet no gods? But my people have changed their glory for that which doth not profit. Be astonished, so ye heavens at this. Be horribly afraid. Be ye desolate, saith the Lord. My people have committed two evils. They have forsaken me, the fountain of living water, and have hewed out cisterns, broken cisterns, which can hold no water Now, this isn't about people pursuing their own self-interest. This is about them taking God and replacing him with a system of idolatry. I could even add in Christian cults, 1 John 5. 20. We know the Son of God has come and hath given us understanding that we may know him that is true. We are in him, and that is true. Even his son Jesus Christ. This is the true God. And eternal life, little children, keep yourselves from idols. Now what's he saying? Don't serve other Jesuses. That's really what he's saying. Serve the one true God. I have defined who he is. I've explained to you who this person is. Embrace him. Not a substance. We talk about idolatry, it can come in so many different shapes and sizes. But the fact is the world needs the gospel because people worship idols. Fourthly and lastly, the command is pressing because he's going to judge the world. In Psalm 96, verse 10, it says, Say among the heathen that the Lord reigneth. The world also shall be established, that it shall not be moved. He shall judge the people righteously. Let the heavens rejoice, let the earth be glad, let the sea roar, and the fullness thereof, let the field be joyful, and all that is therein Then shall all the trees of the wood rejoice. The Lord he cometh, for he cometh to judge the earth. He shall judge the world in righteousness and the people with his truth. What is he saying? He's telling us exactly what we're to proclaim. Number one, God is sovereign. He's the king. Not some political leader, not me and you. He's the king. Say that the Lord reigneth. This is God's world. Not Satan's world, not your world, not some political figures' world, not Welder 's world. This is God's world. He is the sovereign. Number two, he is coming to judge. It says the world shall be established, that it shall not be moved When we read the book of Revelation, one of the things that should comfort us is this. Between now and those things, God's going to preserve the world. What ought to scare people is that he's also going to judge the world. And he gives us all this information so that we recognize this is how it ends. He is coming to judge. He is going to keep this world till that day. When that day happens, he will deal with the world in perfect righteousness. Truth three. His judgment is inescapable and eternal. He shall judge the people righteously. This is an important thing for us to understand. God's judgment is a fierce thing, but his judgment is good. His judgment is holy. His judgment is righteous. If the world were in the position to judge God, they would say he's an evil God. He has no right to say don't do this. He has no right to say do this. He has no right to cast a person into eternal destruction. And God says, no, that's called holiness, righteousness, and justice. And I extend you opportunity after opportunity after opportunity. What do you do with that opportunity? He reigns, he's coming, he's going to judge. The fourth thing is that his timetable is imminent. He cometh to judge the world with righteousness. What does that mean? He is already working toward that end. Well, he doesn't give us a timetable in these verses. You know, he never gives us a timetable. Do you realize that? The way that the scripture presents the coming of Christ as something that is imminent. It is going to happen. We need to be ready for it. And so act on the truth right now. That is the message that we are to proclaim. God is sovereign. He is the judge who is coming. You cannot escape his judgment. His timetable is imminent. You say, well, where's the good news? The good news is this: those who repent and believe will be saved. And they have the opportunity to know this great God. And so I conclude with this thought. God wants us to compassionately and passionately declare the gospel wherever his name is not worshipped. Don't settle for a cheap and short-sighted substitute. To real conversion produced by the preaching of the gospel. Let's never seek God's work by the power of our flesh. Folks, we don't sit back in rooms and say, let's let's plan how we can build the church. That's not my job. That's not your job. Our job is to be faithful. God builds a church in his own time, in his own way, and when we're faithful, it's amazing what he does. But our strategies are worthless, they don't matter. Our ability to figure out how to bring people into this place is pointless. Just be faithful. Just tell people about Christ when you have opportunity. There's a lot to worry about just in the preaching and the proclaiming of the The truths of Scripture, trying to live them out in our personal lives. Christian. Don't seek to do God's work by your power. Let's get a bigger, grander view of God's greatness. One of the reasons that the church is very deficient, I don't mean this church, I mean the church in a general sense, is very deficient in these areas, is because our view of God is very small. We do not see him as he is. We don't see him in his greatness. We don't see him in his power. We don't see him in his goodness. We don't see him in his righteousness. We see him as our pe That we can just kind of command around and he'll do whatever we want. Our genie in the bottle. That is not our God. We need to be gripped with a bigger, grander view of him. We need to be gripped by the inescapable command in front of us. Ascribe his greatness, live a God-centered life. And so my encouragement is this: let's be fully invested and diligent in what God has for us in this area. You say, am I supposed to go to the mission field? You should consider it. Well, how will I know? If you want to have a conversation, let's have a conversation. God can work that into your heart. Not everyone who feels compelled is going to end up on the field. There are some that don't feel compelled, they probably should. You say, how much am I supposed to give? It's a conscience matter. Get before the Lord and ask him what is appropriate and right, based on how he has entrusted resources into your hands. We need to be fully invested in what God is doing. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, as we think about these truths, I pray that they would grip our souls. In a very profound way. Father, help us to love you above all else and to think of you correctly Help us to glory in how great you are, and how good you are and how wise you are. Help us to glory in your grace. Help us to marvel in how gracious you are. You were to bring us to faith in Christ Whether it was through a parent, through a Sunday school teacher, through a bus ministry, through someone knocking on our door, through a piece of paper, we found at a football game, whatever the reason, whatever the tool you used, We just marvel in your grace. And Father, help us to be genuinely moved with compassion for the world around us. Us. Help us to love them as you love them. Help us to recognize it is your word alone that draws them to yourself. Help us to have a conviction about these things. And help us to be invested appropriately in these things. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. I'd like you to turn in your hymn books to hymn number four hundred. And as you're turning there. The purpose of this message wasn't really to give the gospel in an evangelistic way. But if you're here and you don't know the Lord as you're saved, you don't have a confidence that if you were to die today, you'd spend eternity with the Lord. Please reach out to me. Come by, shake my hand, send me an email. You could send the email to the church office. There's lots of different ways. I'd be glad to speak with you And help you to know what the scripture says about these issues so you can have a firm understanding of what Christ has done for you and how you are to respond to it So if you need to reach out, please don't hesitate to do that. If you wonder if God's calling you to the mission field, set up an appointment. Let's I say set up an appointment. Reach out to me and we'll set up a time. We'll talk about it. I would be very happy to have such a conversation. Does it mean by the end of it that you'll be uh ready to go to the mission field? Doesn't mean you won't either. Who knows? We'll have to have the conversation. Let God work in your heart. Let's stand together as we sing this hymn. 400 Take my life, let it be Take my life and it Consecrate more to thee. Take my hands and my semus of thy love. And the force of thy love Take my beast and be sweat that news and for me. Seit my voice and merity, always me, always all me for my. Take my letters and let them be filled with grace and for me. Take my silver at my Oh Nada with both Nada Mike Moe, my love. Or take myself and thy helping. For thee, ever for me for thee. Well it's been good to be in the Lord's house. I hope that you can come back this evening as we will have a presentation. Obviously, as I mentioned, we will not live stream that because uh it will be a sensitive area where uh this family will be going. And so hope that you can join us for that and uh also enjoy the fellowship after. Uh glad to have my parents here with us this uh past week. So I'm gonna ask my dad if he can close us in prayer. Hope I didn't catch us catch him off guard. Uh but uh It's good to see you all today and hope we'll be able to see you later on. Just pray right up there. He'll have the mic on for you Heavenly Father, we thank thee for this message and we thank you for your salvation. I know many times in the Old Testament it was deliverance from daily struggles that David and Hezekiah and all those men experienced. But we look forward to heaven and you know we know you are coming to judge And Lord, help us to be faithful. Those of us that know you, we know that there's the judgment seat of Christ and the dreadful great white throne for those who do not know thee. Lord, help us to honor you. I pray that you'll bless the service tonight. Thank you for your goodness. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.