Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection, and I hope that you're enjoying our series that we're doing. And uh as we introduced this passage yesterday, I hope that gave you some things to think about, especially how how centrally important prayer is to a healthy walk with God. Well what I'd like to do this morning is I'd like to dig a little bit further into the content of this text. And notice the first of two parables that are mentioned in the passage and what these uh this these these parables, but specifically the first of the parables. is teaching us about prayer. So Luke chapter 11, we're looking at verses 5 down to verse 13. Here's what it says. And he said unto them, Which of you shall have a friend, and shall go unto him at midnight and say unto him, Friend Lend me three loaves. For a friend of mine in his journey is come to me. I have nothing to set before him. And he from within shall answer and say, Trouble me not. The door is now shut. My children are with me in bed, I cannot rise and give thee. I say unto you, though he will not rise and give him, because he is his friend, yet because of his importunity, he will rise and give him as many as he needeth. I say unto you, Ask, it shall be given you. Seek, ye shall find, knock, it shall be opened unto you. For every one that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be opened If a son shall ask bread of any of you, that is a father, will he give him a stone? If he ask a fish, will he give him will he for a fish give him a serpent? Or if he should ask an egg, will he offer him a scorpion? If ye then, being evil, know how to give good things unto your children, how much more shall your heavenly Father give this Holy Spirit to them that ask him? Now, the the parable that we're going to look at this morning, and then Lord willing, tomorrow we'll uh we'll we'll continue with this theme. is a parable that I think sometimes it's misunderstood. Or maybe it's understood to some extent, but not fully. What we're going to see in these verses is that God's goodness is far higher than that of our closest companion. And so in this parable, what we see is that God, our Heavenly Father is being compared to a friend. Now when he uses the word friend, he means someone that truly is a friend, someone that cares about us, someone that we have a mutual connection with. He said, a good friend is nowhere near as good as God. And that is the emphasis really of this parable. And we see that where he says in verse number number six. He says , Which of you should have a friend and shall go into him at midnight and say unto him, Friend, lend me three loaves? And a friend of mine on his journey has come, and I have nothing to set before him. And he from within shall answer, trouble me not, the door is now shut, my children are with me in bed. I cannot rise and give thee. I say Though he will not rise and give him because he's a friend, yet because of his importunity, he will rise and give him as much as he needeth. Now, I think that when we read this parable, we tend to focus on the fact that here is this friend who has asked his other friend to do something that's completely unreasonable. And because it's completely unreasonable, it's very logical that he would not help his neighbor who came and disturbed him in the middle of the night. uh midnight to to help him out with such a trivial matter as as getting bread for a friend. I mean it's everybody's sleeping. Why would why would this be an issue? And it's almost like because he has asked and asked and asked and asked, he finally says, I'm just going to get you off my chest. Go ahead and take the bread. And we kind of look at it, we go, well, this must be teaching us that we're supposed to beg and plead with God. And the longer we persist, at some point it's like God feels obligated, he's got to answer our prayer. If that's the way that we look at this passage, then we really are missing the point of what Jesus is teaching. First of all, this is a real-life scenario. Jesus is contrasting the response of a friend with the response of our Heavenly Father. And we need to look at this thinking like a first-century Jew would have thought about this. There is a roadblock to us understanding the text because of the way that we think in our culture. You know, first of all, we don't tend to have people come to our house at midnight. And if they do come, we know they're coming at that time. So we're ready for them. And when they come, we would probably not expect them to stay up in fellowship with us. Because they're tired, we're tired, we just say, here's your room, go to sleep. But that's not the way that people in the ancient world would have thought. First of all, they didn't have cell phones, text messaging, and Send you an email and give you a call, hey, I'm on my way. I'm gonna be there in six hours. That's not the way it worked. Someone just shows up. And when they show up, You are obligated to make sure that they feel welcome. And part of that obligation is food and water. And we see this all throughout the Old Testament where someone would come, they were uninvited guests. and immediately this person would would go into hosting mode. Well, there's another side to this. If you don't have the ability to do that and you choose not to do it, then you have done something very shameful. In some ways you have dishonored your guest. And so when someone comes to your house, if you don't have the resources to to feed them, then you've got to figure out how to save face. And so when you go to your friend's house, even though it's in the middle of the night, it's one of the most logical things that you could do. Because as your friend, most certainly, they don't want you to do something that is shameful and dishonorable. They're going to help you out even if it's putting them out. But then he says that your friend is reluctant. And they're reluctant because their children are sleeping, they're in one room. If he goes and he opens the latch , uh of that door he's gonna wake up his whole household if he goes and he looks for bread in the darkness of the night uh he's gonna have to light a candle and he's gonna have to figure out where the food is And it's going to disturb the whole household. And so he's reluctant. Even though he's your friend, and even though he cares about your situation, and he doesn't want you to be shamed in this situation, he he's not going to dis uh basically mess up his whole his home family situation. Now, when Jesus tells a story, there's a sense in which someone living at that time would have said, How in the world could your friend not be a good friend? Wake up his family and give you the bread that you need so that you don't shame your guest and you don't dishonor your guest. What he's basically saying is this is a shameful thing for your friend to do. But then Jesus adds this out a little detail. Because of your persistence, the word is importunity. Because of your persistence, because you don't want to shame your guest and do something dishonorable, and your friend realizes that your situation is very dire They will recognize they've got to help you because this situation the only appropriate thing to do is to help. And why does Jesus do that? Well, he gives this parable really to kind of show two pieces. One is that when people are persistent, they get their request. But they get the request because the person is tired of dealing with them. That's the way that it works in the world around us. The question though is this, is that the way we should view God? The answer is the that it's not. We don't shame God into giving us what we request. But we should be persistent with our request in certain cases. And by the end of this this section where he gives a second parable and he talks about the Holy Spirit, I think this will kind of put it together very nicely. But the idea is that he's saying, God isn't like your friend. He's far better than your friend. He gives you what you need because of his goodness. But on the other side, you need to persist and you request when those requests are right So the implication is several pieces here. There are several pieces to implication here. One is that if we would persist with another human who's not always motivated by what is best , Why would we not be motivated to persist in prayer with God, who we know is good? We know that he does what is right And we also know that in some situations, the kinds of prayers that we are requesting are things that take tremendous time to unfold. I'll get into that not this morning, but another morning. The second is this. God's perceived reluctance When he does not answer our prayer immediately, is not motivated in the same way as the reluctance of your neighbor who says, I don't want to wake up my children. I don't want to have to get up out of my my warm bed and find food to give to you. God isn't like that. His uh the the slowness to answer from our perspective is not because he's tired or because he's pragmatic or because he's put out. His reluctance from our perspective is something that is different. God's reasons, though unknown to us at the time that we are asking Him to work, will always be according to what is the best. when all factors are considered from the mind of a perfect God who is outside of time and outside of space He is good. He knows everything. He knows what will be. He knows what could have been. He knows the potential outcomes. He chooses to work in the best way possible that is consistent with his character, his goodness, his wisdom, his love for us. And so it's important for us as we read this parable that we see the contrast between the person who is asking a friend and the person who is coming to God. We should be persistent, but the motivation for the persistence is not that we shame God, or not because we have to convince him. The motivation is different. And I want to touch on that, Lord willing, tomorrow. Hopefully this gives you something to think about. I hope it gives you something to shape your perspective so that it is more consistent with the way that God would want it to be. B. Have a blessed morning, and Lord willing tomorrow we will continue this series looking at this issue of prayer by now