Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I'd like to also welcome you to a new week. And I'm very excited about the text that we're going to be dealing with this week. We're in Luke chapter 11. verses 5 through 13 and we have taken a pause from our Luke study for over a month now and um it's going to be easy for us to forget where we were in that study. We've lost a little bit of continuity. So I'm going to kind of pick up with a few introductory thoughts in this first Anchored of the Word study. And I also hope that as you looked at this on Sunday, as we looked at this text on Sunday, that it was a tremendous encouragement to you. With that introduction, let's open up our Bibles, turn to Luke chapter 11. We're looking at verses 5 through 13. I'll read it, and then we will dig into some introductory thoughts as we look at the first piece. to this very important uh text dealing with prayer. It says, And he said unto them, Which of you shall have a friend? And shall go unto him at midnight, and say unto him, Friend, lend me three loaves. For a friend of mine in his journey is come to me. I have nothing to set before him. And he from within shall answer and say, Trouble me not. Doors now shut, my children are with me in bed. I cannot rise and give thee. I say unto you, that he will not rise and give him, because he is his friend, yet because of his importunity. He will rise and give him as many as he needeth. And I say unto you, Ask, it shall be given you. Seek, and ye shall find. Knock, it shall be opened unto you. For every one that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. If a son shall ask bread of any of you, that is a father, will he give him a stone? Or if ye ask a fish, will he give him a serpent? Or if ye ask an egg, will he offer him a scorpion? If ye then being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your heavenly father give the Holy Spirit? to them that ask him. Now, the first thing I'd like to mention about this text of Scripture, and I know that last week on Saturday we spent some time giving introductory thoughts, is that this passage of Scripture begins with an assumption. And the assumption is that a person understands that an integral part of a healthy walk with God is a prayer life. And our prayer life is something that really talks a lot, or it really reveals a lot about the way that we think about God and the way that we think about ourselves. And so a person that does not pray is a person that's saying something about their view of God. Maybe they view him as aloof Maybe they view him as a tyrant, a dictator, uh someone who just leaves life to fate. That could be the possibility, or maybe They're bitter against him and they don't want to talk to him because they're angry at the way that he has dealt them in life. It may say something about the fact that they feel like they don't need a God. And so they feel like they're a very self-reliant person. I don't need God's assistance. I'm just going to do things my own way. And it's all about the choices that I make. The truth is that if a person does not pray, it says something about their mindset. It says something about their attitude towards God. Their view of self, and the way that they see that life works. And so these verses presuppose that we believe prayer is an important part of a walk with God. So let me give you a summary statement as we dig into this concept. In response to the disciples' request, teach us to pray, Christ shares the different kinds of things that they should pray for. Those were the verses 1 to 5. Well, picking up in verse 5. . He goes on to shape how they view God Himself. . And we're supposed to see God as our Father. And so a healthy view of God is what we need when we pray. So notice what he says in verses 1 and 2. It says, it came to pass as they were praying in a certain place, when he ceased, one of his disciples said, Lord, teach us to pray, even as John also taught his disciples. He said unto them, When ye pray, say our Father. Now, these verses are telling us that a person who is uh believes that they're right with God, believes that he is their father. They're going to be praying. And there are a lot of different pieces to our walk with the Lord. For instance, part of our Christian experience is learning. We do not become Christians until we learn the gospel. We have to understand that the Bible teaches that we are separated from God. We are sinners by birth and by choice. and that we are under God's wrath, and unless we embrace the Lord Jesus as our Savior, we will not be accepted by God. We will be condemned to eternal judgment. And we're supposed to grow beyond the basics of the gospel. 2 Peter chapter 3 says that we're to grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. The Christian life is one of learning. It's learning in our personal lives as we're in the Word. It's learning in the corporate context through the preaching and teaching of God's Word. It's by learning from other believers as we rub shoulders with them through maybe one-on-one discipleship, small group teachings, just developing a friendship with a Christian who is a strong believer. and uh has a lot to share with you and has a lot that you can learn from them just by observation, by conversation. The Christian life is one of learning, learning from God through those different avenues. There's also a sense in which it's a life of growing. Ephesians 3. 17. He says, I pray that you would be rooted and grounded in love. That is a maturing of character. He says that you will be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and the length and the depth and the height. This is a growth in knowledge And to know the love of God. This is an experiential thing, which passeth all knowledge, that you may be filled with the fullness of God. That's talking about growth into maturity. So as the word takes root in our hearts, it changes how we think, we call that repentance, or Romans 12, be transformed through the renewing of your mind, it shapes us as people. And ultimately the Holy Spirit takes the word and the experiences of life, and he uses the word and those experiences to shape us and to mold us in our thinking, in our character, in our disposition, in all those areas The Christian life is a learning life. It's a growing life. It's also a communing life. And this is where prayer really comes in. Because a major part of communing with God is meditating on the word, and then as we meditate on the word and reflect on the word, it begins to motivate us to ask God for certain things. Or to ask God to do certain things. to ask God to shape us in certain ways, to ask God to shape others in certain ways, to ask God to work in people's lives. Part of communing with God is praying. It's talking to God. It's sharing our hearts. It's pouring out our burdens. And so in Psalm 143, verse 8, he says, cause me to hear thy loving kindness in the morning. Now what is the psalmist saying? He's saying, God, as I read the word, speak to my heart, shape my thinking, take the truth and press it upon my heart. Cause me to hear your loving kindness. In thee do I trust. Cause me to know the way wherein I should walk. I lift up my soul unto thee. So the psalmist is asking God to work in his life. You see the concept of prayer being an essential part of that. So part of learning is going to the Lord in prayer, and part of growing is going to the Lord in prayer. And part of communing with God is going to the Lord in prayer. And so as we reflect on the word, we communicate with God. This is prayer. And then there's a fourth element, and that is one of serving or being a channel through which God works in our life. Romans 12, 9. It says, let love be without dissimulation, abhor what is evil, cleave to what is good. Be kindly affectioned one to another, and honor preferring one another, not slothful in business, fervent in spirit, serving the Lord, distributing to the necessity of the saints, rejoicing in hope, being given to hospitality And so as we learn and as we grow and as we commune with God, we serve Him. And a major part of serving is stewarding our resources, asking God to give us wisdom. and to strengthen us and give us opportunity. At the heart of every single one of those components of a healthy walk with God is a prayerfulness. And so the text in front of us just assumes that as people who walk with God and care about walking with God, we are a praying people. The next thing I'll mention about this is there are some themes that are really built into the text in front of us. For instance, one of those themes. is that prayer is just a natural part of our relationship to God. He says, as you pray, when you pray, say our Father. Those things are just built into the text. A second theme that I think is very much a part of this text is that the way that people view God is going to be reflected in the way that they pray to God. He is setting this contrast between the way that the people around us relate and the way that God relates to us. So he talks about a friend. And a friend is someone who loves us. It's a friend as someone who we have mutually intertwined connections in life. Maybe it's where we live, maybe it's what we do for work, maybe it's our interests, but our lives have become intertwined and we feel some level of commitment to one another. Yet in verses 5 to 8 he says, which of you shall have a friend who would not rise up and give you bread when you're in a time of need? But because you beg with him to do it, he ultimately gives it to you. In other words, he says, does anyone have a friend who has to be shamed into helping them from a difficult situation? He says, this is not the way that friends Act. Or why does he draw this contrast? Well it's to say, well, God's not like that. He's better than your best friend. Even one who's put out when you come to them with request. Or another example. Is in verses of verse 13, he says, If you then being evil know how to give good gifts to your children, well how much more shall your heavenly father give to you? Well, the idea is that we know that our parents are not perfect people, but they love us enough that they would not give us something evil when we ask for something that we need. And so he sets this contrast to say, you know, God's better than your closest friend. He's not put out by your request. And God's better than a good father who is a sinful person Because a good father, even a father who's not really a good person, feels an obligation to their children. And then there's a third element to this. We see that as we look at this issue of prayer, there's a need for persistence. And in this persistence, we learn about God as we pray. He says, how much more your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them who ask? As we see how God works, what happens? Well, our view of God, if it's correct, is solidified. Whereas we see how he works, our view of God, which may be wrong, is going to be shaped through experience and the word. And our knowledge of God becomes experiential. And so that is really the sense of this first piece to Luke chapter 11. Prayer is an integral part of a healthy walk with God. And that prayer is going to teach us about God's character. It's going to solidify what we know to be true about God that is correct. And it's going to cause us to have an experiential knowledge of God, not just a superficial knowledge of God, or not just some uh, we could say, academic knowledge of God. We know him personally. And part of that is because we pray and we see how he works in our life as a result of that prayer. I hope this has given you some things to think about this morning. Lord willing, we will continue this study tomorrow as we dig deeper into this text. Have a blessed morning. Forty spine out