Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I hope you've been enjoying our study as we've been working our way through this text dealing with prayer. And so we are in Luke chapter 11, looking at verses 5 through 13 together. And uh yesterday we talked about the fact that there are two parables. that were found in this passage description, what I'd like to do is I'd like to kind of focus in on some of the details of that first parable and the main principle that's being established in that parable. So here's what it says. It says he said unto them, Which of you shall have a friend? Shall go unto him at midnight, and say unto him, Friend, Lend me three loaves. For a friend of mine is on his journey, and he has come to me, and I have nothing to set before him And he from within shall answer and say, Trouble me not. The door is now shut. My children are with me in bed. I cannot rise and give thee. I say unto thee, though he will not rise and give him, because he is his friend, yet because of his importunity, he will rise and give him as many as he needeth. I say unto you Ask, and it shall be given you. Seek, and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened unto you. For every one that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and him that knocketh it shall be opened If a son shall ask bread of any of you that is a father, will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he for a fish give him a serpent? Or if ye shall ask an egg, will he offer him a scorpion? If ye then being evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more shall your heavenly father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him? Now, this passage of scripture, as I mentioned earlier, has two parables. Each of those two parables really are meant to be looked at together, yet they also emphasize something that is a little bit unique. And this first parable is emphasizing the fact that prayer should be persistent. And we see a statement in verse number eight. Because of his importunity , He will rise and give him as much as he needeth. That word importunity is not a word that we commonly use, but the idea is a person is asking persistently. In fact, this persistence is almost so much that it 's troubling, it's wearisome to the person who's receiving this this persistent request. That is the idea of the word. And the parable is emphasizing that persistence is something that it's ultimately going to pay off. Notice the way he puts it. He says, who has a friend who will go unto him at midnight and say, I need three loaves? And his friend says, I don't, I I I have everyone in the house, we're sleeping, don't trouble us. And it says he's not going to get up because this is his friend, but because he's persisted, because of his importunity, he is going to respond and give him the bread that he wants. The implications of the parable really are that when people are desperate, what they do is they are persistent. So the the person in our in our parable He didn't want to be shamed. He had a friend who had come to stay with him. He didn't have the food that he needed. And so he goes and he knocks on the door and he knocks on the door and he knocks on the door and he asks and he asks and he asks because he wants this person to give him something. Well, the reason that he's persistent is because he is desperate. He doesn't have other options. He uh doesn't think that uh anyone else can help him and he does not want to uh shame the person who's come to stay with him. So he wants this request to be answered. That's why the persistence is there. Secondly, when a person is in desperation, they know who is the most likely person to go to, and that's the person they will ask. Now, he's not going to a person that it has no relationship to him. He goes to a friend. And he goes to a friend who is close enough that it would be his most likely friend, more than likely, to give him that. So that that kind of comes out in these verses. The third thing is that that really this parable is saying, look, if a person would be persistent with another person, How much more should a person who knows the character of God be motivated to pray persistently to Him? That's really where this parable is going. Not just the sense of the desperation and not just the sense that this is a person that can help, but he's making this comparison. If you would do this with another human, how much more God? Now, we know that this parable is meant to teach the issue or be applied in the way of being persistent of prayer because of what we see in verse 9. It says, I say unto you, ask, and it will be given you. Seek, you shall find, knock, it shall be opened unto you. The most immediate way that Jesus is going to apply this parable is that a person needs to ask and to seek and to knock. Now, those three terms, ask, seek, and knock, are written in the present tense. It's not just that I am going to ask once and that's the end of it. I'm going to seek for a very short time and be done with it. I'm going to knock once and then I'm done. The idea is that you are asking and you are persistent in that asking. And you are knocking and you are persistent in that knocking. And you are seeking and you are persistent in that seeking. That's what Jesus says we are supposed to be like when we pray. And so we are to be persistent as we petition God with requests. We are to be persistent, to do the duty as much as it relates to our request, we are to do that persistently. We are to continue as long as God's answer is not clear. Now, God can answer us with a resounding no, and God can answer us in a way that we understand that He's not going to to do what we've requested, but in fact uh he has heard her requests and he has answered her request. But until that is clear We need to keep knocking. That's the sense of this parable. And we see this same statement made in Matthew 7. In fact, there's a lot of similarity between the Sermon on the Mount and the things that we read about here. in Luke chapter 11. And it could be that he's talking about a teaching that he would have taught many, many times in different different context. But in the Matthew 7 passage where he talks about asking and seeking and knocking, there's a very specific kind of context that is found in the Matthew passage. And he's asking for wisdom. This is a person who needs discernment. And so he says if you want discernment from God, then you need to petition him persistently. You need to ask him for wisdom. You need to seek that wisdom. You need to knock until you get the wisdom. That's the sense of it. And so the idea is that if we want wisdom, we've got to be persistent. And if we want wisdom, we have to faithfully pursue that wisdom through the tools that God has made available to us, reading the Word, looking for godly counsel, those kinds of things. And we don't stop pursuing wisdom until we're in the position that we actually have it. And you can even make an argument that a person really doesn't have godly wisdom uh in its fullest extent until the day that they die. Over the course of our entire lives. We continue to grow in wisdom, we continue to go in knowledge, we continue to grow in these areas. And so we continue to ask and we continue to seek and we continue to knock. all the way through our lives. Now, what we've just talked about here is something that we also see in the Old Testament, in the book of Proverbs, Proverbs chapter 2. This is right at the beginning of a book that's dedicated entirely to wisdom. Solomon uh writes the following words. He says, if you if you will receive wisdom and hide my commandments with you. So that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom, and apply thy heart unto understanding, if thou criest after knowledge, and liftest up thy voice unto understanding. If thou seekest her as silver and searchest for her as for a hidden treasure, then shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. For the Lord giveth wisdom. Out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding. He layeth sound wisdom up for the righteous. He is a buckler to them that walk uprightly. Now what you see consistent between the Luke passage, the Matthew passage, and the Proverbs passage is the word ask. And the word seek and the word not. Asking is consistent in all those passages. Seeking is consistent in all those passages. Knocking is persistent in all those consistent in all those passages. And the end result of the asking and the seeking and the knocking is that God grants what we need, and that is wisdom. God is the one who is going to respond, and so he tells us to do it this way. So you may say, well, well, Joel, what do we take away from this? We know we're supposed to be persistent in prayer. How do we practically apply this? Well, let me give you some final thoughts. The first is this. This persistent persistence has a lot to do with the fact that we continually need certain things from God, and those are the things that should be the most prominent pieces of our prayer list. For instance, something like protection or wisdom or daily strength, knowledge, things like interpersonal uh disputes being resolved, the salvation of other people. Those things are things that we don't just pray for once and that's the end of it. But they're things that we continually ask God for. The need for provision and the need for protection, the need for strength. Those are things that we will constantly need throughout the course of our lives. And so we should be continually asking God for those things. We also recognize that things like needing to grow and and needing others, the desire for others to grow into Christ's likeness, is something that takes a tremendous amount of time. It's something that involves a process. It's something that's never truly completed on this side of eternity. And so this concept of persistence in prayer has a lot to do with the nature of the things that we are requesting from God. And so I want to challenge you very simply. Let's be committed to a continual attitude of prayer. Let's be a persistent people when it comes to this issue of prayer. prayer. If this has been an encouragement to you, I hope you'll take a moment to share that. And if you think it would be an encouragement to someone else, perhaps take a minute to share that with them as well. And Lord willing we'll continue this study tomorrow. Bye now.