Well, good evening and happy resurrection evening. You can open your Bibles to 1 Peter chapter 1. And while you're doing that, I just wanna want to just remind us of some things. this day, particularly for Bible-believing blood bot born-again believers, it is very unique than any other world system out there. You can talk to people out go about God and they could be okay with that, and they'll give wiggle room for having a God or some kind of superior being. But when it comes to Jesus Christ, specifically his deity, and especially death, burial, and his resurrection for who he is and what he came to do. Then that's where you start running into a little more challenges. That's where you run into more issues with Christ Himself. And today is what sets us apart from any other system out there. As I will mention more specifically later in the message, but We serve a risen Savior. He is not dead. He is not, you can't go visit him in a grave somewhere. But he is alive. That sets us apart. Because of what he has done, we just need to believe in what he's done. for us. And so our religious system, if you want to call it that, it's not really a religious system. We don't believe in something that we have to do. We believe in what's already been done. So this sets us, this day really sets us apart from a lot of other systems out there. And so we're going to touch on that just briefly here. As we look at a hope like no other. A hope like no other. In 1 Peter chapter 1, we'll read verses 3 and 4. It said, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope. By the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead to inheritance incorruptible and undefiled and that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven. For you. Father, we come before you, thanking you for this day, for who Christ is, what he accomplished, and that he rose again. And Father, we will be eternally grateful. And we can rejoice this day. And we can have a great hope of the future because of what you have done for us. And we can have Assurance we can have hope today because of what your son has done for us over 2,000 years ago. And not just us, but what he has done. For the whole world. So we come to you with grateful, thankful hearts that we can praise you, worship you, and have this special day when we celebrate the fact that He has risen. And that we too are not going to be bound and separated from you for all eternity because of what Christ has accomplished. So we thank you, we praise you, and we come to you through Christ's name Amen. So 1 Peter, I really enjoy this book. We've been studying it in Bible quizzing. for the past many months. And 1 Peter here, he's actually encouraging a lot of believers here when going through difficulties and challenges. Another thing that sets us apart, as I mentioned a little bit earlier in the introduction, is what to do during difficulties and challenges in life. When things don't go your way, when you hear the word cancer or hospice, you have financial, emotional strains, things aren't going well, what do we cling to? What kind of hope do we have in these situations? Do we struggle with things from the past? Are we afraid for the future? Well, Peter was one who had some of these struggles, especially at the end when he openly denied Christ three times, as we were minded of this morning. But I will remind us in Luke 22, 32, which I think is very helpful for us to understand even going into the epistles that Peter has written. But in Luke 22, 32 it says, But I have prayed for thee, this is Christ speaking to Peter, that thy faith fail not. When thou art converted , Strengthen thy brethren. And this converted has the idea of to turn around or to return. And in the context of when this is said, what's about to happen shortly thereafter. Peter was going to deny Christ and then feel as if he couldn't be around Christ. He just returned to fishing. And God uses that to encourage him to recognize the love and the forgiveness and the calling that God has on his life to go and do that, to strengthen and encourage others. So with that being said, in the midst of difficulties and trials and challenges of life, Peter here is encouraging believers that are having a very difficult time, and he's going to encourage them with some wonderful hope. But we're going to see a hope revived in verse number three of 1 Peter. A hope, a revived hope in verse 3. So just I'll read the first part of the verse again, but we're going to focus on the last part of the verse. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which, according to his abundant mercy, hath begotten us again. Unto a lively hope. A lively hope. A hope that is not dead. In fact, on a day like this, we get it truly is alive. Our faith is not in some bones or in a grave. It is in a living God, a lively hope. This is the same word that's used in Matthew 4, 4. He says, but he answered and said, It is written, man shall not live by bread alone. But by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. We are to live by the very word of God. And when we think of these words, God's word, that is how we are to live our life. Believing in what he has said as true. It's alive. It's not just dead words. It's not just empty words. They have value. Living words from a living Savior It's also the same word that we see in John 4. 10. Jesus answered and said unto her, this is the woman at the world. Well, if thou knowest the gift of God, and who is it that saith to thee, give me to drink? Would thou have asked of him, and he would have given thee Living water, it's alive that has eternal value, not just for the moment But living a life of great value with eternity in mind. Same word there, that living water. And we see this in 1 Corinthians 15. And so it is written, verse 45. The first man Adam was made a living soul. The last Adam was made a quickening spirit. Do you feel like sometimes that your hope is low, exhausted, or dead? Sometimes I think that happens because we put our hope in a circumstance. We put it in ourselves and not in Christ or His Word. Our hope seems like it has depleted. And actually, I'd like us to turn to that 1 Corinthians 15. We're going to look at that a little bit. bit in 1 Corinthians 15. Not all that, but I'm just gonna hit some summary of that since it's a great chapter dealing with the resurrection. We'll hit the beginning later in the message. But in 1 Corinthians 15, verse 45, is what I just read, but I want to go read a couple verses later in that chapter. Because he's talking about a change. He's talking about a difference and something that our hope can be in through the resurrection. And by verse 53, he's reminding us. He says, For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. So when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, and this mortal shall have put on immortality. Then shall be brought to pass the saying there's written, Death is swallowed up in victory We do not have a dead hope. There's a drastic change. And we see this going back. Go back with me to verse 35. There's a question that leads to some of this change. In this hope that we have, it's not a change of more the same. It's a change in something that is different. A hope that is alive, that is real, that it's in something not yourself. This living hope, go back to the question verse 35, he says, but some man will say. . . How are the dead raised up? And with what body do they come? It's a good question to ask what kind of resurrection is this? What kind of body is this? What kind of hope do you have that you're putting this in? Skip down to verse 39 of 1 Corinthians 15. I think this is very important, especially in our world today. when people have different ideas of where man has come from, what kind of r resurrection is there? Are we really that different than some of the animals that we see? I mean, I think there's some similarities there. Some of us have more hard hair than others. But what he's saying here in verse 39, all flesh is not the same. Because he's talking about a change. And then he continues on. But there is one kind of flesh of men, another flesh of beasts. I think that would include monkeys. Another of fish and another of birds. There are also celestial bodies and bodies terrestrial. By the glory of the celestial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial is another. He's talking about the differences of the body and of the flesh. There there's differences. That's not even the point necessarily of a difference between man and animal and all these other things. And but what he's saying is there is a change. When we and it was great, we were discussing this in Sunday school. this morning. And they were discussing the change and the differences between now and basically our glorified bodies in heaven. And we had some interesting, great discussion. And so the these verses came to my mind even in our discussion, but they're is a clear difference. It's not the same. When we get to heaven, if heaven is like earth, that's not a change I would vote for or be have such an excitement about. Yay, I get to go to Another earth. That's exciting. Yay for us. No, it's different. It's a change that takes us to something different. It's living. It's alive. And it's going to be different and he continues on look at a couple more verses here he says and there's the glory of the sun another glory of the moon another glory of the stars for one star differeth from another so also is the resonance It is sown in corruption, it is raised in corruption, it is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory And it is sown in weakness and race and power. Do you see the difference? It's not more the same. It's a change to something better. It's change of something that's living. It's change of something that's going to have forever involved. It's not just, okay, it's going to be a little bit better. It's going to be entirely a change of something far better than what we could really understand. The best picture we can get is in the resurrection body of Jesus Christ. How is it that you can have a body that you can touch? It eats, but yet somehow almost seems to go through walls, and yet is still recognizable. And yet it's still glorified, but yet it still has scars. It's incredible. It's change. You can recognize it, but it is much better. It's a change that is different. It's something that we should look forward to, something we can get excited about. So he says, going back to verse 42, so is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption, raised in incorruption. It is sown in dishonor and raised in glory. It is sown in weakness and raised in power. It is sown a natural body and raised a spiritual body There is a natural body, and there is a spiritual body. And so it is written, the first man, and this is the verse that we read, and so it is written, the first man Adam was made a living soul. Net living is the same word that we're dealing with in 1 Peter 3. It's a living, it's alive, that 's some vibrancy. And the last Adam, that's Christ, was made a quickening spirit. There is a hope, there is a revived hope that we can have. So we're looking at a revived hope. I want to look more specifically now at the at the hope of 1 Peter 1, verse 3. Because we use the word hope today, like some of us were hoping it would stop raining before the end of the service. Some of us were hoping there wouldn't be too many many puddles to drive through, and our brakes would still work on the way home. That's kind of a wishful thinking type of hope. When we say a revived hope, yes it's alive, but this hope is not the wishful thinking. It is a confident expectation. It is something that is going to happen. We can have upright confidence in what is going to happen. A couple verses to help demonstrate what type of hope this is. In Acts 16, 19 he says, And when their masters saw that the hope of their gains were gone, They caught Paul and Silas and drew them to the marketplace unto the rulers. So what were these guys so confident in? To give us some background, they're preaching the gospel. These men of the city are not liking it. And it says, and when her master saw that the hope of their game was gone, so basically they're not making any more money. They know they're not making any money. This is not just, I think my profits are declining. They know with utmost confidence we don't have the money we used to. This is not going well for me and my living They know this is happening. They're confidence happening so much so that they're taking action of what they know to be true, not a wishful thinking, oh that this could hurt my back pocket. I might not have as many coins by the end of the day. They know this is happening, so therefore, because of what they know, they're taking action and they're they're getting rid of Paul and Silas. They're getting rid of them because they are no longer making the money. That's open, they know this is happening. This is not, they think so. They know so. This is exactly happening. We see another thing in Hebrews 6, verse 18. That by these two immutable things, in which it was impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong consolation, who have fled for refuge to lay hold upon the hope that is set before us. Which hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and steadfast. Once again, this is something we could anchor on. This is a solid rock. This is unmovable. This is not, oh I'm I'm thinking This might happen. I I hope it you know it's my lucky number my day or whatever. You might be thinking, I got my my lucky shirt, okay. I tied my shirt No, no, no, no. Which hope we have as an anchor that is sure and steadfast is the picture and illustration. That is the idea of this hope. It's not going anywhere. When your anchor is down, it's large, it holds the ship fast. That's the type of hope that we have. We have this hope that's alive, that is real, it is concrete, that we can have confidence in it. We see that same word hope there in Hebrews 11:1. Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. We also see it in Romans 5:5. And hope maketh not seen. ashamed because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost which is given unto us. There's a lot more we could say on on this verse too, but we have the Holy Ghost In us, which we know. And he's saying, And the hope maketh not ashamed. Now, if you have a wishful thinking, and I hope it goes my way, I hope the rain stops for the end of this morning's service. You're not going to be sitting here thinking, wait a minute, I I'll be ashamed of that. If I'm wrong, I tell the kids or whatever. There's no shame because you're confident. You know it's going to happen. It is not a wishful thinking. It is of utmost confidence. So we have a revived hope here. This is what Peter is encouraging those that are going through difficulties with struggles. When he's encouraged by our Savior to strengthen the brethren, and they're going through difficult times when Peter's now writing to them, this is what he's encouraging them with to start his epistle of encouragement to strengthen them. We have a living hope. and utmost confidence in what is taking place. So going back to 1 Peter 1, verse 3, he said, Blessed be God the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. which according to his abundant mercy hath he gotten us again to a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. So we've looked first at a revived hope. Now we're going to look at a resurrected savior. A resurrected savior. Jesus is clearly different. How is all this possible? How is this revived hope made possible? By the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Now, when we say resurrection, obviously he was dead. He is made alive. He is new. So he is brought back to life, but it's not just more of the same. He just didn't get a physical body where they you know wiped off the blood and you know tried to sitch up the wounds. No, no. He had a new life. They can still recognize him. But through his resurrection is by what makes all this possible. This is a great distinction on what our hope is in. Our hope is going to be different than it would be to put it in a Muhammad or a Buddha. Or a Joseph Smith, or a Maker Barry Eddie, Mary Baker Eddy, or a Charles Russell, or any others that you want to name You can go to their graves. There is no resurrection. Well, not like Christ. They are not resurrected to be at the right hand of God the Father. They are not the first fruits. They are very much dead and paying for their sin. If these men made promises that they would come alive, it hasn't happened yet Christ predicted his death. He did his best to encourage and to teach his disciples. So much so that that's why they sealed. It's interesting when you think I was thinking about that again even during Pastor's message this morning. His own apostles still struggled to figure out that he's really risen again? Meanwhile, you have the enemies that are saying, we better seal up that tomb because they said he was gonna rise again. So we're sealing that thing. They understood it. But yet his own apostles are like, wait, I I don't know. I just don't know if this is gonna happen. Really? You're telling me he I I gotta touch him. You know, doubting Thomas as we call him. But his enemies believed it, so much so that they set a guard and sealed it. Very interesting. But Jesus Christ is set apart. It is a fact. We can have confidence. We can have hope in this resurrection. Turn back with me to 1 Corinthians 15. Now we're going to go to the beginning of the chapter. In 1 Corinthians 15. I've heard this many, many years ago referred to as the gospel in a nutshell. It's the gut the gospel in summary, and I love it. In 1 Corinthians 15, verse 3 and 4, it says, For I deliver unto you first of all that which I also received. How that Christ died for our sins according to According to the scriptures. our We should know this is going to happen. His followers should have known this is going to happen. Verse 4. And he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to According to the scriptures. the wor What did Jesus Christ do? He died for your sin, my sin. He died for the sins of the world, past, present, and future. He came as the Lamb of God to take that upon himself. But he did not stay dead when he he was buried. He rose again, just like the scripture said, just like we can have confidence in the word of God and he is going to do what he says he's going to do. This is how we can have a hope that's like no other. This is how we can have a revived hope that's living and it's confident because we know Christ And just in case there are others that are still skeptics, or those who are in doubt, especially those in Corinth, Paul continues. He doesn't just stop there. He says this, starting verse 6. Oh, I'm sorry, go back to verse 5. He said, and that he was seeing of Cecus and then of the twelve. So he shows himself to a small group, he shows himself to an individual. And people like, okay, well, he shows himself to the 12th. That wouldn't that would be obvious. I mean if you wanna if you want to spread some kind of hope or encouragement to your message, you're gonna tell your closest friends. And they will spread your message of hope. The problem with that theory is they weren't so confident themselves as we've already discussed from this evening and this morning. They had to be convinced what he rose again from the dead? So you wouldn't want a message to be spread through your doubtful followers that were hiding for their lives. That wouldn't be the way you would try to communicate that. But they did. And here's something else that's very interesting, very powerful is the next verse as well. After that He was seen of above 500 brethren at once. Why does this matter? The word of God is so great. It dispels so much and so many challenges that can come. Because even if you think, okay, they faked the doubt, they were trying to make it look good to fulfill his story. We know he really did. Of course they would follow through. They weren't so doubtful. You guys just say that. To but to be seen. Recognized they saw who it was by over five hundred people at the same time. It's hard to persuade five hundred people at the same time that didn't know each other. other they have different backgrounds. It's hard to get five hundred people in anything to agree on one same thing. There was over 500 witnesses that had seen the resurrected Christ at once. So it's not just a little convincing. It's not okay they tried to, you know, a little hypnosis or a little bit of persuasion. You're gonna I set aside some money that you guys can collect and I'll tell you where it is, you know, at a certain time. No. There's nothing like that. And then it gets even better. Because it says, out of these five hundred, at the end of the verse, look at this. He says, of whom the greater part remain unto this present, but some are falling asleep. So if you want, you can get hundreds of witnesses if you want to do your homework. You don't you don't need you know Gemini or Google or any of that. You can just go talk to Yourself in person. I saw him. It's not just me, not just his closest followers. Five hundred other people. And most of them are still alive. You can go talk to him. If you needed hope, if you needed confidence to know that if he promised that we could have everlasting life, but he couldn't raise himself or that he stayed dead himself, what kind of hope would we have? As Paul says later, we'd be of all men most miserable. And we're not going to take the time, but I like how we argue through, for the sake of argument, that okay, if he is correct, if there is no resurrection, then these things would also have to be true. But we know that Christ is resurrected. We have seen these many things. And I love these passages. I want to read them just because it's Easter. In Matthew 28, 6 and 7. He is not here, for he is risen, as he said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay. You can go look at where he is. He's not there. And I'm sure that his enemies and the religious leaders that day would have loved to keep him in there. They sealed it and they set a guard. The last thing they wanted is rumors flying around that this guy was. Risen, like he said. That's why we killed him to get rid of him. We didn't want his message to continue. We want to keep our power. We want to keep our authority. We like uh the the relationship we have with the Romans right now. They did not want that to happen either. But you can go see where they it's empty. So they have to lie, they have to make stuff up. And he says, and go quickly, and tell his disciples he's risen from the dead, and behold, he goeth before you into Galilee, and you shall see him. Lo, I have have told you. to be. Mark 16, 6. And he said unto him, Be not afrightened. Ye see Jesus of Nazareth, which was crucified. He is risen. He is not here. Behold the place where they laid him. Still empty. Vacancy. Someone else can use it. He's not there. Luke 24, 6 and 7. He is not here, but is risen. Remember how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee, saying The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified and the third day rise again This is exciting. This is where our hope is in. It is a lively confidence, a living, forever-type confidence we can have in a resurrected Savior. And how's all this end? In 1 Peter chapter 4, or verse 4, of chapter 1, sorry, 1 Peter 1 4, because of the resurrection, we can have this lively hope, we can be born again, and in verse 4, it's wonderful. Because then we've seen a revived hope, we've seen a resurrected Savior, and lastly and briefly, we have a reservation in heaven Look at this. To an inheritance incorruptible. So there is a change, but it's going to be different. It's not going to be corruptible anymore, like these bodies. And as you get older, you start realizing I'm not as invincible as I once thought I was. And undefiled, and that fadeth not away. This, reserved in heaven for you. And I love what he says in verse 5. And you are kept by the power of God. God keeps you. This inheritance is reserved. It is yours based off your faith in what Christ has already done for you. You need to believe in who he is and what he's done, and you can have a wonderful hope and encouragement for the future because of what he has done on our behalf and the fact that he was dead, and yes, he did rise again the third day, just as the script Scripture said, just as Christ said, just as the witnesses have seen. And you can have a spot in heaven based off what he's done for you. That will not corrupt. It will not fade. It will not get old. It will not ache and pain and hurt. So we truly, as believers In Jesus Christ from His word and what He has done, we can have a revived hope. We can have a resurrected Savior. We have a resurrected Savior. And we most serve We certainly have a reservation in heaven that's not going anywhere. Because it is God who keeps his word. And we know our reservation is not going anywhere. If you've trusted in what he's done for you, would you put your faith in him or have confidence in what he has already done for you on this wonderful Easter day? Let us close in prayer. Father, this is a wonderful blessing. Hopefully, this was encouraging. Hopefully, this is a reminder of a lot of things already known and possibly convicting to others. others that may feel like they have a dead hope, that they were floundering, that they're lost. The world will try and make all kinds of excuses about Christ, would we rest in your word, having a living, lively, revived hope in who Jesus Christ is and what he has done for us? And we know he was resurrected. And our hope of our future resurrection, our hope of eternal life rests in what he has already done, just proving that he keeps his word. Could we have utmost confidence knowing that we have this reserved in heaven through what he has done by his grace? And we put our faith in what Christ has done. Done. When we thank you and we praise you for Jesus Christ on this wonderful resurrection day as we truly celebrate it and have a desire to share it with others in the day Days, weeks, months, and years to come. All for the honor and glory of our Savior, whom we love. Amen.