And I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles and turn to Luke chapter 9. Again, Luke chapter 9, and we will look specifically at verses 57 down to To verse 62. Before we look at this passage, let's bow our hearts together in prayer, please. Father, again, we come into your presence and we are so grateful for the time we've spent reflecting on your providence. And reflecting on your power, and reflecting on your love for people. You love the folks that are there in Cape Coast, Ghana. And you chose to send from this congregation two families who invested some of the young years of their married lives. To work with these dear Christians. I thank you for the many stories of men and women and children and young people who have come to understand The grace of God bestowed upon us through Christ and his finished work, who were humbled under the work of the Spirit And turned in repentance to trust alone in the finished work of Christ. I'm so thankful for the faces that I saw today and the many stories that are there. And how that church has blessed this church. This morning we were able to receive a wonderful encouragement from them. And I thank you for the friendship that we have with that wonderful church in Cape Coast and how we get to reflect on that today. Just a remembrance of your love for us. Father, I think of those who are in our midst who have not been able to physically be in church for some time, and you have worked and given them the strength, and they can be with us. What a blessing. to see those individuals. And I know there are a good number of folks who physically can't come today and they're dealing with tremendous physical infirmities. I pray you'd give them physical strength. I pray that you'd strengthen them emotionally. Be with those who are caring for them. I know that within our congregation we have many that are carrying heavy loads. Where they are dealing with great pressures and they are caring for those who are in great need. And so I lift up to you those individuals and I pray you'd strengthen them through your word. Father, we think of every person here today. I thank you that they're here. It's by your design. And there's something specific in this text that will minister to their soul. I pray that their hearts will be attentive to the word And as I preach the word, it would come forth with simplicity and clarity, and that the Spirit of God might move in our midst. I pray that you will be with those who are Coming to the end of their days, we have individuals in our church who are very near to entering into glory. And I pray that you'll strengthen them, strengthen their families as they are by their bedsides. I just pray that this day would be a day of joy and rejoicing, but also a day of remembering those who are in great need. Help us to keep that balance today. We ask for those that will listen to this message on the internet later. Strengthen them through the things that will be presented. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke 9, 57. I will read again to you the verses that are before us. It says, And it came to pass as they went in the way, a certain man said to him, Lord. I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest. Now, before we get into the verse, this entire passage, I want us to stop and reflect on our lives for a minute. In many places in the Gospels, Jesus uses an illustration of a building. Once you think about what goes into building a building, I mean look at the building that we're in here. Today or this week my father was here, my dad's an engineer, and we were looking at uh a a cosmetic, I hope, issue down the hall And he said, well, if I'm going to understand what's there, I've got to look at the blueprint. So I dug through a bunch of things and I pulled out, I mean, a lot of blueprints. And he sifted through that stuff and he's looking at where, oh, this he was here after that section there. There were like three or four different building projects that went on here and there were walls that aren't there anymore and we went up into the attic and we looked at a bean that had been put there. You know what's interesting when you build something or when you expand something, there is a tremendous amount of planning that goes into that You don't just say, hey, we want to build this thing and all of a sudden we start working. No. You go to some engineers and you say, here's what I want, and there is an extensive process. of planning that goes into and a lot of money too that goes into that. And then it's years sometimes of building. Lots and lots of labor. And well that's the way things work in this world. Jesus uses the example of building a building and says, this is what the Christian life is like. It's a life that, first of all, you see that there's a need and you have opportunity. And then there's calculation and then there's a commitment after you have calculated and decided this is worth it. That's significant because when we come to Luke chapter 9, Jesus is getting ready to send out 70 disciples who are going to preach the gospel of the kingdom in Israel. Now he's in the midst of his his earthly ministry. He has twelve specific disciples who are with him everywhere he goes. But he's going to send out seventy individuals to preach the gospel of the kingdom. Before he makes that decision and he sends them out, we have this discussion between him and three individuals. You might say, why is this recorded for us in Luke? Well the reason is that Luke wants us to understand Christ is very aware of human nature. And because he's aware of human nature, he understands the kinds of responses that are natural to us that hinder, we could say, a lifetime commitment to following Christ as disciples. So what Luke does is he records a conversation, and it's very brief, between three individuals and Christ. This is because God wants us here this morning to calculate the cost of being a disciple, to see that it is worth it, and that he is worthy of our full confidence. And then we will make that commitment to pursue discipleship the remainder of our days. What are those four hindrances that we will observe this morning? Well, let me mention them. First of all, many people try to follow Christ But they try to do it outside of conversion or the new birth. We will look at that in just a moment. A second hindrance is that many people try to follow Christ and it's material benefits that are the reason that they're doing that. A third, many people want to taste what this world has to offer. So as they are in the midst of following Christ, they start to get distracted and say, what about this and what about that? Lastly, many people look back during very difficult seasons of following Christ and they ask the question: what would it have been like if when I was twenty, instead of following Christ? I would have gone and done this over here. So those are some hindrances. I want to get into the text. So let's begin with truth number one. And this is important. If you're taking notes, please write it down. Only genuine converts have what it takes to be a lifelong disciple of Christ. And genuine conversion continues and presses us into discipleship. Let me say that again. Only genuine converts have what it takes to be lifelong disciples of Christ, and genuine converts continue in discipleship. Let me give you this illustration. If you were in Ghana and Eric and Leslie and Conrad, you guys that have lived in Ghana for a while, you know exactly what I'm talking about. When you're driving in Accra, you come up to traffic lights, and you are inundated with street vendors. Now these guys come alongside and walk through traffic and they have bread on their head. They're selling uh ice cream, they're selling water, they're selling uh credits so that you can use your telephone And some people are selling phones. Okay? So you'll see a guy, he'll be walking along, he'll notice that you are a foreigner, and he'll kind of pull out of his pocket and say, hey, iPhone right here. You want that? And I mean he's trying to sell it to you. And by the way, people buy him. Okay? They buy the iPhones right there on the street side. Now, you know what's interesting is when a guy is trying to sell you that iPhone, you don't know it is if it's genuine or not You have no idea. You don't know if it's been stolen too. That's a really good possibility. But when you buy that iPhone, if it's the real deal It's gonna have well it's gonna last and it's gonna work and you won't have problems with it because it's genuine But if it's not the real thing, you know what's going to happen. You're going to get that phone and you're going to say, hey, check out, I got an iPhone. It only costs me $60 And your friend's like, it was stolen or it didn't reel oh it's sixty dollars. And you know what happens a week later? It's like it's jamming up and it has all these kind of problems and it's not working. You say, why is that? Because the real thing is different than a fake. If it's fake, it won't last. You can't tell it when you're looking at it initially. But as time goes on, as there's a little bit of testing, the real thing is demonstrated to be real and what's not is demonstrated to be a fake. Well, this is also true in the Christian life, believe it or not. We're not iPhones, and if you hate Apple, we're definitely not iPhones. But the truth is that if somebody is a true disciple of Christ If someone really is a child of God, there is an authenticated nature that follows that conversion, you might say. Go to John chapter 6, verses 64 and following, and you will see a very interesting passage. In John 6. 64, this is what the scripture says. Jesus is talking to his disciples It's the bread of life discourse. He makes some very difficult statements that the people do not understand. And he makes this statement. There are some of you that believe not. Now please understand, he is talking to people who are following him. They are in his midst. They are walking alongside of him. They are listening and they are processing. And for all intents and purposes, you say they are disciples of Christ. He says, There are some of you that do not believe. Now in that in their midst they had no idea who those people were. Christ did know who they were. He continued to minister to them And it says, for Jesus knew from the beginning who they were that believed not, and who would betray him. This is interesting. Even amongst his twelve, there was an individual who Jesus knew as he walked side by side with this man, as he gave him opportunity, as he was involved in everything, he knew the man's true character and heart. He goes on to say this. From that time many of his disciples went back and walked no more with him. Then said Jesus to the twelve, Will ye also go away? And listen to what Simon Peter says. Then Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life. And we believe and are sure that thou art that Christ, the Son of the living God. Now I want you to think about the history that goes on from this passage. Peter failed miserably as a disciple, did he not? Jesus says, you're going to deny me. And he says, I will never deny you. I will even die for you. And Jesus says, you're going to deny me three times, Peter. And you know what it happened? He denied him three times. He wept miserably. But you know, that's not the end of the story. Because there is another passage later on in the book of John where Jesus is on the Sea of Galilee, beside the Sea of Galilee, and he's cooking a meal. And when those disciples are out fishing, he calls them and says, Hey, do you have any fish? And you know it's an interesting story. He says, cast your nets. And They had a huge draught of fish, and that is exactly what happened the day that Jesus called those disciples. The exact same thing happened And when they came back, Peter is sitting beside Christ. He asked him three times, Peter, do you love me more than you love these? And he broke down and he wept and he said, I do. You know what's interesting? The scripture never teaches that a child of God won't go through the valley of despair. It never teaches that a child of God will not stumble and fail miserably and go through seasons of doubt and discouragement, and it can be very dark. Read the Psalms. But here is what we see. Authentic Christianity has a nature or a quality that continues to press individuals who are possessed by the Spirit of God. And Peter is that great example. Your discipleship will be tested. If you say, I believe in Christ, and you trust in the finished work of Christ and you are baptized and you begin to follow the Lord as a disciple, please understand something. Your discipleship will be tested. And it will be tested in many ways, and it will be different for every single individual. But if you are God's child, when you stumble, he won't leave you to decide. When you break down and you are in the valley of despair, he will continue to pursue you and work in your heart. And as Peter said, where do we have to go? You have the words of life, and we believe and are sure that thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. And that is the quality of a convert, someone who is truly saved. You cannot follow Christ if you're not a child of God. It's impossible. You may come to the church and be a part of the church, but as I've heard this Stated before, just because you're in a in a garage doesn't make you a car. And just because you're in the church this morning doesn't make you a Christian. There is a quality of new life in Christ. And that is what sets apart those who are in Christ and those who are not. Truth number two, we need to follow Christ with an understanding there is a personal cost. Verse 57, it says, It came to pass as they went in the way, a certain man said unto him, Lord, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest. Is that a good or a bad thing that he had that desire? It's a fantastic thing. There are a lot of people that don't want to say that. Lord, I'll follow you if you reveal to me the nature of that following, and then I'll decide what I'm going to do. He says, I'll follow you wherever you want to go. I am a hundred percent a follower of Christ. You know, Jesus doesn't say, oh, you can't follow me. But this is what he does say. Hey my friend, do you understand the commitment you have just spoken with your mouth? He says in verse 58 , Foxes have holes. The birds of the air have nests. But the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head. He says, if you're going to follow me, you don't know where you're going to end up tomorrow. Even the animals have a place to stay. I don't own a house. This is a serious commitment. Are you willing to do that? Christ is warning him that this is a serious commitment. If he doesn't have his entire heart behind this, if he's not convinced of who Christ is, If he's not really resting in the finished work of what Christ will do on that cross, if he is not convinced that he indeed is that Messiah, the Son of the Living God, He will not continue in this discipleship. The reality is that Christ would say the same thing to you and to me. I remember when I was in high school, I was on the worst junior high basketball team. that ever existed in my high school's history. Okay? That's why I stopped playing basketball in junior high. So our team, seventh and eighth grade, never won a single game. That is true. And I remember my coach, you know, all the junior high boys, they wanted to be on the basketball team. And so we would all, they would make an announcement, if you want to play basketball, Come to such and such a room at such and such a time. We're going to have a meeting. Tell you when practice is going to be everything that's involved. And then you're on. So I was one of those guys. And I remember the coach said, just bring your running shoes, boys. The first week, that's all you're gonna need. And he was right. The first week we ran and we ran and we ran and we ran. And it was in Florida, okay? It's hot in Florida at almost all times of the year. It was terrible. And I remember at the end of that purging period, if it was 40 guys, it was about 15 by the end of that time. And then he sat us down and he said, well guys, you're the serious ones. Congratulations, you're on the team. I didn't even have to cut anybody. Why is that? Because a lot of times when we make a commitment, we have no concept of what's involved, and because we haven't considered that cost, we fall to the side. Jesus wants us to understand this is a serious commitment. If you're going to follow Christ, it's going to cost you something. I can't tell you what it's going to cost you, but it will cost you something. It will cost you something over and over and over and over again. It may cost you relationships, it may cost you opportunities. It may cost you friendships. I hate to say it, but that's true. If someone trusts Christ and they are saved at a later stage in life, all of their friends may abandon them because of their new commitment to Christ. So he begins with that statement. Luke 14, 26 says, If any man will come to me and hate not his father and mother and wife and children and brother and sisters, yes, in his own life, he cannot be my disciple. He says, whoever forsaketh not all that he hath cannot be my disciple. Jesus may not ask you to make the same level of sacrifice that somebody else does. Okay? He may not do that. It's not for us to compare each other and say, oh, you've really had a tough go. I don't know if I can handle that. That's not for us to determine. That's not for us to think about. Just keep your eye on what Christ has for you. But the reality is, we have to be willing to forsake whatever God and His providence brings on our path. In Ghana, we were robbed multiple times. Multiple times. We were threatened physically. in Ghana. Uh we had a a a friend here, Tyler. Their family experienced tremendous hardship. We went through some difficult times. But we didn't go through anything compared to what others have gone through. Just being totally honest. I have a healthy body right now. There are people in this church that don't. There are people who are struggling with tremendous sicknesses and cancer. And things like that. They didn't know that that was the road they would walk. Following Christ is an absolute commitment of surrender to Him. Truth number three, we must not put off following Christ. Look in verses 59 and 60. Jesus has just made this statement to a man who said, I'll follow you wherever you want me to go. And Jesus turns to another and says, Hey, you follow me. This is an invitation. The guy didn't actually say, Would you like me to follow you? He didn't say, I'm volunteering. Jesus speaks to him. He said, Lord, suffer, or allow me first to go and bury my father. And Jesus said unto him, Let the dead bury their dead. Go thou and preach the kingdom of God. What in the world is Jesus saying there? Yeah, I remember when I was in high school again. When I was in the tenth grade, well, I was in the ninth grade, I started playing varsity baseball, and I loved baseball baseball. Now you guys might not know that, but I was I was a a serious baseball player. And I remember my mom and dad would come to me and I'd be sitting in my room and you know I'd be like pumping out on the bench and doing all this kind of stuff and my dad's like, son, what do you can do with your life? I'm only in the ninth grade, Dad. Yeah, you gotta think about stuff like that. Dad, I'm gonna play MLB baseball, man. He's like, whatever, man. You're not gonna play Major League Baseball. You gotta be an engineer. I was like, no, man, I I don't want to do the engineer thing like all the other men in our family, right? But you know, that question kept coming. What are you going to do? And I always said, I'm going to play baseball. And I was very, very serious about baseball. I was consumed with baseball. And uh it's a good thing I wasn't a Norles fan. Sorry guys. Didn't say I'm not now And you know, my junior year of high school, I was not a like a horribly rebellious kid in the school, but I had very little interest in the things of the Lord beyond the fact that I I was saved. Um I I generally say it out of trouble, but but I was not in any way interested in going into ministry or anything like that. It didn't even cons it wasn't even on my mind. It wasn't something I even considered. And I remember in our junior season, I was playing third base , guy had a line drive down the third baseline, I ran and dove, and when I dove, the only thing I remember was hitting something really hard I dove headfirst into the the corner of the the the dugout right there and it it knocked me out and I I got huge gash in my head and down my ear and And um when I came to, my coach said, Are you okay? and I said, I'm fine And He said, Well, there's only one more out left in the game, so go on back out there and I did. And if they'd a hit me the ball, I don't even think I would have seen it come. It was not good. And my mother drove me from a it was a little farming community in Northwest Florida and she drove me to the hospital. I was bleeding everywhere. It was a mess. And I remember thinking in my head , boy, I think I've put baseball in the wrong place in my life. It was very significant. I remember going to school the next day with my head all wrapped up and all kinds of stuff, and and it was a life-changing experience. Because for the first time in my teen years, I realized that I was living for something that was very superficial. God didn't call me into the ministry at that time. I wasn't ready for that kind of a commitment. But through the preaching of God's word, God humbled me. And brought me to the place where I said, you know what, I'm not going to put this off. I remember in my mind going, you know, I'll do the baseball thing and you know, you only have a career till you're 40, so I mean after 40, I can do a lot of good things for the Lord, you know. And that wasn't what God had for us. It wasn't what He had for me. You know, that's what it was for me, but that may not be what it is for you. The truth is that there are lots and lots of people who live their lives putting off the seriousness of the things of the Lord. You know, when I get married, I'm going to college, okay? University, fraternity fund, I'm gonna go ahead and just knock myself out my first year. And then after that, then I'll be serious about the things of the Lord. I mean how many kids do that? And they knock themselves out. And their lives get really wrecked because of what they do. You know how many people say, once I get married, then I'll take this seriously. How you know how many young people leave church when they're 18 and then when they're 35 they come back? It's very common, I think. You know why that is? Because they took this attitude, I'm going to just do my own thing. And then once they hit a brick wall in life, Once they realize they cannot live in this world without God, they are humbled and they come back to what is sensible. When Jesus says, let the dead bury their dead, this man's father, he was not walking in a processional and he was getting ready to bury his dad. The reality is he had a man at home. Who had a tremendous inheritance probably awaiting him, and he said, I don't know when dad's gonna die, but I'm gonna be ready when he does, because there's a lot coming to me when that happens. That's really essentially what's going on. This man is waiting for a time. He has no idea when it's going to happen. But he's going to get the material blessings and benefits that he wants. How many of us think and act in that kind of a way? There's a fourth truth that we see here. And this is in verses 61 and 62. Another also said, Lord, I will follow thee, but let me first go bid them farewell, which are at my home. At my house. Jesus said unto him, No man having put his hand to the plow and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. Interesting statement. Have you ever been riding behind somebody down the road and that car is just like, mmm? You know what I'm talking about? You're like, man, I wonder if that guy's like drunk, but it's the middle of the day. What in the world? And then you know you pass him and you look and it's it's a teenager texting on their phone. Like, what in the world? Now why is it that they're weaving back and forth? Nearly hit a mailbox here and nearly hit somebody that's passing in the other lane. Why is that? They're not intoxicated. They didn't take any illicit drug. They're addicted to their phone. And because their phone has their attention, the road does not, and what they're doing is extremely dangerous. Jesus makes this statement saying: don't get distracted. By some people called your family. Now please, I am in no way anti -family. Okay. I love my wife, I love my kids, and I love the fact that I see many, many families here And by the way, many of us, if you have a strong Christian family, your family will be one of your greatest assets. The older you get, the more you'll appreciate your family. Your kids, your mom, your dad, your grandkids, all that. But not everybody has it that way. There are people who come to faith in Christ, and their family is extremely antagonistic towards them. And they put incredible pressure on them. And the greatest dramas that they experience in this world are connected to their family who wants nothing to do with their faith in Christ. And this is the experience for many, many people in the world today. In many different cultures and throughout church history, we've experienced this as God's people. Jesus is saying, don't let those people, the ones that you love, but will pull you away from the things of God, don't let them distract you from cutting a straight course. And he uses the illustration: no man putting his hand to the plow and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. When you make that decision to follow the Lord as a disciple of Christ, You believe that the commitment is right and you calculate and you say, I will do this, and you stick to it, you know what's going to happen. There'll be times you want to look back. I was having a conversation with a good friend just the other day, and I said to him, I wonder how many people who are missionaries When they leave the field for whatever circumstance, it can be health-related, it can be that they have failed spiritually, it could be that they have to come off the field because of circumstances totally outside of their control. How many of those individuals go through great seasons of despair because their identity was wrapped up in that work? And as we reflected on it, we talked about a lot of situations that we were aware of. And it's it's missionaries, it's pastors, people who are evangelists. When they get that life-changing experience, they don't know how to deal with it. But it's not just people in ministry who deal with those things. You've been working the same job for 30 years and all of a sudden you get a slip. And you're like 30 years of service in this place and this is what I get. And you say, God, I have served you. I've been faithful in this church. I have taught my kids right. I have done this and this and this. And this is how I'm thinked. You know what I'm talking about? It can hit you at any it can hit you when you're 35, it can hit you when you're 45, it can hit you when you're 70 The circumstances are different for everybody. But the reality is God's people, when they're in the midst of following the Lord, and they go through that season, That they cannot understand. They have their Job moment, their ASAP moment. Sometimes they look back and say, I wonder what would have happened if. And they look back and say, Man, you know, when I was in high school At some camp, I made a commitment to follow the Lord, and I took that seriously. And here I am today, and man, look at all the fun I missed out on. Now it's not biblical thinking, it's not straight thinking. But it's common. They look at their friends and man I could've I could have been very wealthy if I would have pursued something different in my life If I wouldn't have lived such a clean life, I I could have gone further in that company than I did. I could have done this, I could have done this and And they start asking all these questions, saying, What if, what if, I wish I what would have happened? And they think that way. I say they we can all be there. And we will get there at times in our lives. And so what does Jesus say? Resist the temptation to look back and ask what could have been You know, when I was in and when I was uh studying to go into the ministry when I was in college, I had a friend from high school who came up to me one day. He said, hey Joel, there's a really big event going on at one of the local universities. I said, what's that? He said, well, they're actually going to have Major League Scouts. There. He's like, what do you think, man? Let's go. And I was like, yeah, I was I don't remember, I was second or third year studying to go into the ministry. And um I went and got my cleats, got my baseball glove and my bat and all this stuff and I put it all together and he and I got in his pickup truck and we started driving. And in my heart I was like I shouldn't do this. I mean there's nothing sinful. I wouldn't do anything sinful, okay? But in my heart I knew that wasn't the decision for me to make. So we pulled in the we pulled in the parking lot by the stadium and we're sitting there And we sat and sat and sat and nothing happened. And I said, what in the world? Well, this is before the cell phone era where you could just get online and, you know, check your event and all that kind of stuff. So we made some phone calls and found out that we missed the tryout. You know, I remember the the Spirit of God just hitting my heart and saying, Joel, what are you doing? You're looking back. You're looking back. And I wasn't going through any crisis. But when you do go through a crisis, you look back. Matthew chapter 4, verse 18, Jesus was walking by the Sea of Galilee. He saw two brothers, Simon Peter, Andrew's brother, casting their nets in the sea. They were fishermen. He saith unto them, Follow me, I will make you fishers of men. And they straightway left their nets and followed him. Later in the same text it says, They immediately left their ships. And their father, and followed him. Matthew 6: No man can serve two masters, either he will hate the one and love the other, other he will hold to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon. 1 John 2. 15, if any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. Second Timothy 2. 3. No man that warreth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life. Hebrews 12, 1. Seeing we are compassed about by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which does so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race. That is set before us. James 1. 8, a double-minded man is unstable in all of his ways. I want to ask you this question this morning Are you committed to a life of discipleship? We are saved by grace alone, through faith alone, and the finished work of Christ on Calvary I'm not accepted by God because I served as a missionary or because I'm doing the work of a pastor or because I went to Bible college or anything like that. When God looks at me, his love for me is in no way connected to those things. Nor is yours. My acceptance is in his righteousness. My forgiveness is in his suffering, not my suffering. But the reality is, the same Christ that died for our sins and gives us a righteous position before the Father, who takes us into his presence, is the same Christ who says, Follow me. Follow me. And as Peter said, where can we go? You alone have the words of life. Is that your heart towards God? Are you committed to being a disciple of Christ if you're not born again? You can't do it. You will not have a sustained discipleship. It's an impossibility. If you're following Christ because you think you're going to get something material from him , One day he's going to take something from you and you will say, Why did I follow you? If you're constantly wondering what the world has to offer you and you constantly are lured by the taste of the things of the world You will not persevere as a disciple. When those difficult seasons come And you begin to wonder what could have been. It's a very a very dangerous time. May God in his grace help us to be committed and faithful disciples. Missions is not the main thing. It is the fruit of healthy Christianity. We don't become disciples by putting missions on the forefront of the church. If we are committed disciples, missions will flow naturally out of what we do. And so I want to encourage you this morning, if we as a church are going to continue to be a mission-minded congregation , we have to be committed disciples. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. Father, this text is a very simple text, but it's very, very practical, and it really hits right at the heart. of where we are in our Christian walk. Many times we we decide to follow you because we want something. Many times we follow you with a divided heart. The things of this world just continue to drag at our attention. And when we hit the wall and when we are discouraged, we look back and say, What would have been? Father, I plead with you, may this congregation be a congregation that is committed to a lifetime of discipleship and disciple making. The great blessings that we have been able to enjoy this morning, the fruit of many years of commitment to give and to send and faithfulness in ministry. That which we've enjoyed this morning, may that continue to be the story in this congregation till you return. Bless our fellowship this morning as we get together, we eat, and we just enjoy each other's company. Maybe it's sweet time. But may this text grip our souls And may we not turn from your call to be disciples. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.