Well good morning. Good to see each of you today. I hope that you are having a blessed day and uh it's beautiful outside. Hope it doesn't turn to rain and get flossy everywhere, but Anyway, if you're joining us in the live stream, we want to welcome you. For those of you who are here this morning with us join together, we want to welcome you. And first of all, I want to remind you of a couple of events that we have coming up. In the next couple weeks, first of all, we have our ladies' meeting on the 4th. And so, ladies, please make sure that you uh prepare for that. It's going to be on Thursday. There is going to be a snack time at the end, so uh make sure that you're aware of that. Also, we're gonna have our men 's fellowship this coming Sunday, or this coming Saturday. February the sixth. So uh men please uh put that on your calendars. I also want to mention that on the seventh we have a farewell fellowship for uh Marico. She's gonna be uh moving out of the area, and so Please do prepare for that as well. If you could take your Bibles, let's turn together to our opening scripture, and that is in Psalm 143. Psalm 143, and we're looking at verses 8 through 10 this morning. Psalm 143, verses 8 through 10. Here's the scriptures say, Cause me to hear thy loving kindness in the morning, for in thee do I trust. Cause me to know the way wherein I should walk. For I lift up my soul unto thee, deliver me, O Lord, from mine enemies. Flee unto thee to hide me. Teach me to do thy will, for thou art my God. Thy spirit is good. Lead me into the land of a brightness This morning, as we look at this passage of Scripture and we also get into our text in James chapter 4, we're going to be looking at the importance of pursuing a lifelong walk with the Lord. And so let's bow together for a word of prayer. And let's lift up to the Lord these issues as we focus on this topic. Father, we thank you so much for the opportunity to gather this morning Thank you for the work that you do in us when we gather together as a local assembly. We pray that this morning would be a very sweet day of fellowship and worship. I pray that you would really speak to our hearts through the preaching of your word. As we sing these wonderful hymns of the faith, I pray that our hearts would be knit together and that we would be encouraged in song. We pray that every aspect of this service would bring glory to you. Father, we are so grateful for your goodness and we're reminded of how you demonstrate that and your love for us, how you tenderly and compassionately work in our lives, how you extend to us a daily supply of your grace. We thank you so much for that. We thank you for the wisdom that you give us each day to deal with the challenges of life. We pray that you would be with our nation, be with our church family, be with our families. We pray that your hand would be at work in our lives, both personally, corporately, and also nationally. Pray you give wisdom to those who are in positions of authority, that they would make decisions that are guided by your hand, and that we would respond appropriately to you in the midst of the challenges that we face. Father, I pray that this morning as we sit under the ministry of the Word, we would see how truly good you are, that our hearts would be overwhelmed by how great and how good you are. and that we would respond appropriately in worship and in submission to you. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right. Good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us. Let's all stand as we prepare to sing hymn number four fifty. A child of the king will sing the first, second, and fourth verse. My father is Let's pass the bad mass, if all the world by my own , I burning my mind to write. Oh the go the channel I watched I king a child My father 's on the same I 've won your I am I machabat thing, I save , and to you the blood I go, I machin. That 's the God. I want Sabak, I must have king, God Saban. King , that is a birthday door, I'm not sala king. Great singing, please be seated As we turn back to hymn 374. Hymn number 374, Be Thou My Vision. We'll sing all four verses for this hymn. Not I think thy presence, my life, be thou my wisdom and thou my word I am the land. I would be on preachers I did not know that to be praise Thou I am I was a I'm over before I give a man and my journey. I came up heaven, my biggest one. May I read heaven 's voice of my heads? I call my own heart for the bottle. Still be my bad. Great singing as we jump back over to hymn 463. Blessed assurance. We'll be singing all three verses. What 's up in the world in mind? There was a day stuff , please. The spirit faster is God. This is my story. Babe, that's a song, praise me like everyone. This is my story, baby , praise my several. Perfect , perfect , present up , present, Angel is everything. This is my soul beef, this is my soul, breathing my second. This is my story, this is my song, raising my setting on the law to raise a passion. All in that press , play myself while we are singing and begging, looking up on this cutness. This is my story, just as my soul, bringing my step on the Great singing this morning. Our scripture reading for this morning will come from the book of James, chapter 4. James chapter four, verses five through ten Do ye think that the scripture saith in vain, the spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy? But he giveth more grace. Wherefore, he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the humble. Submit yourselves, therefore, to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sins. And purify your hearts, ye double-minded. Be afflicted and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to heaviness Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. So we continue our singing. We'll turn to hymn number 439. Hymn number 439. Nearer my God to death. And the meeting will take me as we are under remaining and good out of my country Everyone watching God will be watching a breaking parts. Great singing. Our last song will be our song of the month, Complete in thee. Let's all stand as we sing all four verses of Complete Indie. 192 on the blue book. Uncle Temple, they take their lawn. The place of I 've got that garden book for me, and I am now complete. It just enough for blessed God and strength. I fell out and watch for me and for and I turn the men almost elsewhere. By grace I wonder thy booth shall be the childly And thy shalt stand I've done a part and block for me And for red light I too shall be complete And no good thing to me deny Since now a caution wonder. I ask no more complaints and days. They just step by And say their base and brought Thy blood not born but for me I'm glorified I too Shall be their savior when before thy thought. False rise and tongue, was them belong among thy shoes, and will I be at thy right now? And some things in me, yeah, just the fight of what they do, and thank the fight salvation brought by God and God and not for me. Amen. Great singing, please be seated All right. That's a wonderful song. Our children ages two to six can be dismissed to the back for junior church. And the rest of you, I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to the book of James. We are in James chapter 4 this morning. James chapter 4. And I will tell you that we'll make a call on the evening service after the service from where I was sitting, it looked like it's snowing a lot harder than it was when we came. So Uh the chances are we probably will cancel the evening service, but I'd like to at least see what that looks like before I say. But um if we cancel it, I may try to do a live stream depending on what the roads look like. Just kind of giving you a heads up on that. Um also I didn't mention this before, but uh Darien and his wife are the very grateful parents of a little boy and also we have grandparents here as well so congratulations that's a tremendous blessing and so thankful for God's blessing of that little one And uh so if you could, let's take our Bibles and let's look at James chapter 4, and we're looking at verses 5 through 10 together. James 4, 5 through 10. Excuse me, here's what the scriptures say. Do you think that the scripture saith in vain, the spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy? But he giveth more grace. Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. Submit yourselves therefore to God, resist the devil, he will plea he will flee from you. Draw nigh to God, and He will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners. Purify your hearts, ye double-minded. Be afflicted and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning, your joy to heaviness Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. When we come to this passage of Scripture, we're going to actually look at this in two parts. So this morning we're going to look at two aspects of what we're going to talk about this morning, and then either this evening or next Sunday, depending on our situation, we're going to be looking at the second part of this section dealing with a life of fellowship with God. So, in order for us to understand the content, I want to begin with a summary statement, and then we'll dig into two truths that we're going to look at this morning. The following section of James reveals both God's desire for fellowship with his people and the means through which he works to cultivate this relationship. God cares about fellowship with people. It's not that God is in need and that he's a needy individual. It simply means that God delights And having fellowship and communicating who he is with people. It's one of the reasons that he made us. He made us so that we could know him, we could fellowship with him. And so because God made us with people who have the ability to have fellowship, and he has the desire for us to actually commune with him, to fellowship with him. I want to remind you of this very simple truth that God wants us to live lives that are characterized by consistent fellowship with Him. I think about what the Bible says about a man named Enoch. It says that Enoch walked with God, and he was not, for God translated him. Literally, Enoch was a man who walked with God. His life was characterized by a consistent fellowship with him. Abraham was called the what? The friend of God. When the Bible talks about people who were truly godly, great men and women of the past, what we see is that they were people whose lives were characterized by walking in fellowship with God. Godly lies flow out of a fellowship with God. At David's finest, he was a man after God's own heart. That means he was a man who actually cared about walking with God. He was a flawed individual. He sinned in terrible ways throughout his lifetime. But whenever he sinned, he was humbled by God. And he came back into a fellowship with God. When we think about James and we think about John, we think about men who walked with God. John was that disciple that the Bible says loved the Lord. And so we see from this passage of Scripture that God wants us to have fellowship with Him, to walk with Him, to enjoy Him, to delight in Him. And so the question we want to ask this morning, and then the next time we gather together, is how can we be people who have this kind of a life? How can we be people who walk in fellowship with God? Well, we're going to look at two truths this morning. I'm going to actually give you all four of the truths that we're going to look at, but we're just going to focus in on the first two. The first truth we're going to find is that fellowship starts with humility. God does not commune or fellowship with people who lift themselves up in pride. The second truth we're going to find is that fellowship is something that has to wrestle through adversity. We're going to find that there are many adversaries to this thing called fellowship with God. And we're going to talk about that this morning. What are those adversaries that we have to literally wrestle with in order to commune with God, to fellowship with God. The third of these truths we're going to find is that fellowship It's something that's supposed to create a spiritual transformation in us. Literally, as we walk with God, He will change us fundamentally from within. A person who walks with God is going to be a person who has God-like godliness characterizing their lives. Literally, the Spirit of God is going to dominate the heart of that kind of an individual. And then the fourth truth we're going to find. as we get into this study today and then and the next time we're together, is that fellowship is something that finds satisfaction and fulfillment in God. So those are the truths that we're going to look at one at a time. We're going to look at two of those, Lord willing, this morning. And the first of those is that fellowship starts with humility. I want to ask you this question. Not how do you see yourself, but the people that you interact with. Maybe your spouse, maybe your kids, maybe your parents, maybe the people that you work with. That work for you, that you work for, whatever the situation. How do people perceive you? Do they perceive you as a humble person or as someone who is very stubborn and very proud? Well, I want you to realize this morning it really doesn't matter how other people perceive you. I mean in some ways it does, because sometimes what people see is reality. But it's also true that many times what people see is not really the whole story. It's almost like people see the tip of the iceberg. The real you and the real me is not what you see on the top. That is part of who we are. But the real us is what's below the surface. How does God see you? Does God see you as a humble person who wants to fellowship with him, or as someone who is proud and he has to resist. Notice what the Bible says in verses 5 and 6. It says, do ye think that the scripture saith in vain the spirit that dwelleth in us lusted to envy But he giveth more grace, wherefore he saith , God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble I want you to see a couple of facts that are connected to this verse. Some are preceding it. We've already talked about them a little bit. And some of them are found right in these verses. The first of these facts is that We are objects of God's gracious affections. Another way to put that is God loves us. Literally, the Holy Spirit is jealous over our hearts. Last week we talked about many, many passages of Scripture that lay out for us that God wants, demands, expects our hearts. God doesn't just want outward conformity. He doesn't want us to just follow a list of rules, but God wants us to be people who genuinely, deeply love Him. Genuinely, deeply want to obey him, and literally what people see is flowing out of a genuine heart that is walking in fellowship with God. Fellowship starts with humility, and God genuinely, deeply loves our us as his people. Proverbs or excuse me, James 4, 5 says that the spirit that dwelleth within us lusteth to envy. Literally, God jealously yearns to dominate and control your heart. I think of Ephesians chapter 2, verses 4 to 7. Listen carefully to the way that the passage talks about how God deals with people who are lost. People are sinners, yet he loves them in spite of their sin, and he's provided a way that they can be brought into his presence, that their sins can be forgiven, and they can be called his children. It says in Ephesians 2, for God who is rich, I love that statement, rich in mercy. And we learned that mercy has the idea of God's compassion, his love toward us in our desperate condition. God, who is rich in mercy for his great love, wherewith he loved us. Even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace you are saved, and hath raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. That in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. Let me just highlight a couple of those phrases. It says that God is rich in mercy. It says that it's his great love that loves us. It says he wants to show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. What is the Bible communicating about you and me? The Bible is communicating that in spite of our sinfulness and our brokenness , In our miserable condition before God, our rebellion before God, God loves us He actually is compassionate towards us. He has graciously set his affectionate love on us Not because we are earning it, not because we deserve it, not because we are lovely by nature, but because he is a good God. The second fact that we see is that because God is holy, He hates pride. Let me give you just a couple of examples. Just a few of many, many passages that talk about how God hates. Pride. Proverbs 16:5. Everyone that is proud in heart is an abomination to the Lord. Though hand joint in hand, he shall not be unpunished. We talk about an abomination. What are we talking about? Something that is detestable. When we think about the various things in the scriptures that God says are an abomination to him Pride is one of them. It's something that God detests. It's something that God hates. It's something that's very contrary to his nature. God detests pride. Proverbs 15, 25, the Lord will destroy the house of the proud. Proverbs 16, 18, pride goeth before destruction. And a haughty spirit before a fall. Psalm 138, verse 6: Though the Lord be high, yet hath he respect unto the lowly, but the proud he knoweth afar off. Literally, God pushes the proud away from him. We look at Proverbs 11, verse 2, it says, When pride cometh, then cometh shame, but with the lowly is wisdom. Proverbs 29-23, a man's pride shall bring him low, but honor shall uphold the humble in spirit. I think of what it says in the book of Proverbs. These six things doth the Lord hate. Yea, seven are an abomination to him. What's the very first thing he mentions? A proud look. The fact is, God hates pride. So I want you to think about this for just a minute. Wrap your minds around this if you can. We have a God in heaven who is holy, who is pure, who is righteous, who is just. Who has set his affections on you and on me, yet he hates pride. How does that work? How can God love me in spite of who I am, yet hate and have this thing called pride that comes within my own heart? He calls it an abomination. The fact is, that's really what the gospel is all about. The gospel is about taking people that are set as the enemies of God Who are at enmity with God, who are pushing God away, and God says, I love you, and I'm providing a means of redemption through the work of Christ on the cross. Literally, he pours out his wrath and his anger on the Lord Jesus Christ as he hangs on the cross. That is how God can love you and love me, even though we are proud, sinful people. Yet the Bible reminds us that God hates pride. So that moves us to a third fact that we find really in these verses. And that is that God constantly calls the humble to commune with Him. We see these verses, God is telling us that if we will humble ourselves We can enter into his presence and we can enjoy fellowship with him. God strengthens the humble. Literally, he puts it like this: God giveth grace to the humble. He giveth more grace. While he's resisting the proud, he's giving grace to the humble. The passage in front of us tells us that God invites the humble to come into fellowship with him. Literally, if we will humble ourselves in his presence, he will invite us into his presence. God resists the proud. That means that he actively brings difficulties into our lives to humble us when we are proud. God doesn't just allow us to continue indefinitely in a position of arrogance toward Him and towards other people. There comes a day when God will step in and He will resist us. And he will shake us, and he will put us in a place where he has to bring us to our knees. And the question is why? Because this is part of how we can come into his presence. I want to encourage you to be very cautious about how you think toward God and how you think towards others. I want to encourage you to be very cautious about how you think about yourself. You don't want God to humble you. You want to humble yourself. Anytime we start welling up with pride, and by the way, I know what this is like. I'm sitting there and I start thinking about certain things. And all of a sudden this pride just starts getting in my heart and I and I get this check in my mind, Joel, do you want God to step in and humble you? Every single one of us needs to be warned and warned and warned of this thing called pride. God steps in and humbles us when we're proud. You realize even the Apostle Paul, a great, great man of God, was humbled by God so that he wouldn't raise himself up in pride. so that God could continue to work through him and God could continue to fellowship with him. Think about what the scripture says in 2 Corinthians 12, 7. Paul writes, unless I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelations. And by the way, if we look at that passage of Scripture, it's really interesting what's going on. Paul is writing to the church of Corinth who he's ministered to, he loves this church, yet this church has lifted up themselves and they've resisted Paul. And Paul's sitting there going, you guys are crushing my ministry. And the fact is that there's nobody in your church that's experienced the kinds of opportunities that I've had. He says, you want to talk about revelations? I have been lifted up into the sec the this the third heaven. You want to talk about somebody who's a prophet? God has literally used me to write all these scriptures. Someone who's had incredible opportunities. I've had those opportunities. Yet what does Paul say? Lest I should lift myself up The Bible says, God gave me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure. The Apostle Paul is basically saying, God knew that I needed to be humbled. God knew that I needed to be kept in check. God knew that even I needed to be reminded that I am flesh. As people are attacking me, and I'm thinking about how dare they do that, and think about the nature of my own ministry. I'm reminded I'm nothing. Who is Paul? Who's Apollos? We are ministers of Christ. One plants, one waters, God gives the increase. That's the way that Paul had to think. When we have This idea in our minds that we are completely reliant on self and we begin to glorify ourselves and we begin to be presumptuous, we are in a very different, different, very, very dangerous place. A place where God may need to step in and remind us we are needing to be reliant on Him. We have no right to glory in ourselves. We have no right to presume against His grace. I think of 1 John 1, verses 4 to 7, John writes, These things write we unto you that your joy may be full. This then is the message that we've heard of him and declare unto you, God is light. And in him is no darkness at all. If we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in the darkness, we lie and do not the truth. But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another. The blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanseth us from all sin. You say, well, what does that have to do with pride? Basically, what that verse is telling us is that God is a God of light. God is a God who is holy and he's righteous. And he says, You cannot fellowship with me and walk in the darkness. It's like you can't fellowship with God and lift yourself up in pride. These two things are contrary to one another. They don't work together. It's one or the other. Fullness of joy and a rich walk with God begins with recognizing He is holy. We cannot walk with Him if we resist Him in pride. And our life is going to be continually needing to be renewed. We're going to continually need to be brought to repentance, continually brought to humiliation, continually brought to cleansing, continually being needing to be restored. The fact is that our Christian life is one where we need to see our sin, we need to see his holiness, we need to confess our sin, and we need to be cleansed and restored and humbled. Our life is constantly going through this process. And so the first truth that we find in the text before us is that God invites the humble to fellowship. But if we are going to walk in pride, God is going to push us away and resist us until he brings us to humiliation where we will walk with him. The second truth we're going to find in the passage in front of us is that fellowship has to wrestle through adversity. You say, well, if God wants us to fellowship with him , And God created us to fellowship with him. And God has provided all the tools needed to be able to fellowship with him. And we ourselves want to fellowship with him, then what kind of adversity could keep us from fellowshipping with God? Well, I want you to see that in these verses, he's going to mention two basic sources of adversity to a walk with God. Notice what he says in verse 7. He says, Submit yourselves. Therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. You might say, Well, Pastor, I don't see two hindrances to walking in fellowship with God. I see the devil that he needs to be resisted and we need to see him flee from us, but where do you see two? I want you to see the two. The first is this, submit yourselves. Do you know who the first problem is? It's you. It's me. We are our own biggest enemies sometimes The biggest adversary to our walking with God is actually not the devil. It's our own flesh. You are your own biggest enemy. I am my own biggest enemy. The reality is what's going on in my own heart. is probably the greatest hindrance to fellowship with God that there is in this entire world. You know, when you get up in the morning on a Sunday and you say, you know, I don't I don't think I really want to go to church this morning. I'm tired. It's been a long week. I'll just tune on the live stream and I'll get around to it. And you know, I I don't even know if I have time to tune into the live stream. I'll watch it on Tuesday or Wednesday. I'll get the message. I'll listen to some of the songs. I don't have time for that today. You know, I'd like to read my Bible this morning. I am so busy. I am so tired. I am so frustrated. I don't have time for this. I'll catch this later on. Do you think that's the devil telling you to do that? Like every single person in the world got the devil right there telling him not to read his Bible in the morning. There's only one devil, folks. But we've all got our own flesh. The reality is what it is that keeps us from doing what we need to do is our own hearts. It's that fleshly nature that still longs to resist God. Notice the way he puts it. Submit yourself to God. He doesn't talk about the devil first, he talks about my own heart and your own heart. It starts with us. We've got to submit our own hearts to God. It's not just resisting the devil, but it's dealing with what's inside of us first. In James 1. 14, he says that every man is tempted when he's drawn away of his own lust and enticed. He doesn't talk about the devil there. He doesn't talk about the person that's tempting you. He says, your heart is the problem. In Romans 7 verse 18, he says, I know that in me, that is in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing. For to will is present with me, but how to perform that which is good I find not. He doesn't talk about the devil in that verse. He talks about his own fallen heart. Romans 7:23 says, I see another law in my members, warning against the law of my mind, bringing me into captivity to the law of sin, which is in my members. Basically, what Paul is saying is, my own heart is where the battle starts. My own heart is where the struggle really lies. My fallen mind is inclined towards being self-deceived. My body is inclined towards sinful passions. The real battle lies in my own being. It's so interesting. We go to Romans chapter 6. He doesn't even really talk about Satan there He talks about reckoning yourself to be dead to sin but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Don't yield your instruments as instruments of righteousness, unrighteousness unto sin. but yield your members as instruments of righteousness unto God. Romans 6 is all about how we deal with a fallen body. And how we deal with a fallen mind, how we are to think biblically when we deal with temptation. The first battle to fellowship is my own heart. The second is Satan. Now I didn't say that Satan's not part of the struggle, but he's not where it starts. There's only one devil. Though there are many spiritual forces that attack us on a daily basis, there is one Satan. Yet this individual is an evil being. He says, resist the devil, he will flee from you. The Bible talks a lot about Satan and the work that he does in the world. Let me give you a couple of examples of how Satan works. 1 Peter 5. 80 says, Be sober, be vigilant, your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour. It means he's active. That means he's thinking. That means he's analyzing. That means that he's looking for advantage. That means he's looking to destroy. Satan really hates people. Revelation 12:9, Satan deceiveth the whole world. He is actively involved in the world. Second Corinthians 2, verse 11, we are not ignorant of his devices. We talk about his devices, we're saying he actually plots, he actually schemes, he's actually working in people's hearts 1 Thessalonians 2. 18, he says, We would have come unto you once and again, but Satan hindered us. Literally, he attacks the work of God. 1 Chronicles 21, verse 1, it says, Satan stood up against Israel and provoked David to number the people of Israel. And in Acts chapter 5, verse 3, the apostles say, Why hath Satan filled thine heart to lie to the Holy Ghost? I want you to realize that when it comes to sin, you and I are responsible. You and I are the ones who either choose to resist. Or we choose to give in. The number one battle starts with our own fallen mind and our own fallen heart. But there's a real devil, and there are real angels who have rejected God and serve his purposes and truly do work to disrupt The work that God is doing in the world and the work that God is doing in us. And so we have to recognize that there is a real battle for our souls. There's a real battle that is hindering us from walking with God as we should. So the question is, how do we have victory? How can we be a people who fight the good fights the way that God intended it? Well, the answer is found in these verses. He says that we are to draw nigh to God and he will draw nigh to us. It says we're to resist the devil and he will flee from us. And I think about the fact that there are examples in the Bible of how this actually takes place. Victory comes through a combination of Submitting ourselves to God and resisting the devil. We're not just submitting ourselves to God or just resisting the devil. We are submitting to God and resisting the devil at the same time. In other words, there's two sides to what we're doing in order to actually deal with temptation that hinders us from fellowship with God. Let me give you the example of Christ in Matthew chapter 4. Notice the way that he puts it. Matthew 4. 1 says, When Jesus was led up of the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil, he had fasted forty days and forty nights. And afterwards was hungered. And when the tempter came to him, he said, This is Satan. He's talking to Jesus. And he says, If thou be the Son of God, Command these stones to be made bread. How does Jesus respond? It says, but he answered and said It is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. I want you to see that this shows us the very simple pattern for how to deal with temptation. Jesus resisted by submitting to the authority of his Father. He says, it is written. What is he saying? My father states. In other words, I'm telling you no as I submit my will to him. I'm doing both at the same time. When the invitation, the temptation to sin was presented, Christ resisted the temptation by submitting himself to his father's authority. And you know, we have to do the same thing when it comes to our own walks with the Lord. I want you to realize that a lot of times in the New Testament we see that kind of pattern Presented to us. For instance, in the epistles, we're commanded to put off certain things and put on certain things. Ephesians 4. 22, he says, put off concerning your former conversation. the old man that is corrupt according to the deceitful lusts. And be renewed in the spirit of your mind, that ye put on the new man, which is after God and is created in righteousness and true holiness. Whereof put away lying, speaking every man the truth to his neighbor. For we are many many members one of another. What is Paul saying to do? Resist, submit Put off, put on. There are certain things in our lives that we have to uproot them and we have to put them to the side and say, I want no part of these things. But at the same time as we're putting off, what do we need to do? We have to put on what is right. We have to replace what is wrong with what is right. Put off the former conversation. Put on the new. A great example is when you have struggle lying, what do you need to do? Stop lying and start telling the truth. If you have a hard time working, what do you need to do? Stop being lazy and start working. The idea is you're putting off one to put on the other. It's not just that I'm always resisting, resisting, resisting, but I'm resisting, submitting, resisting, submitting, putting off, putting on We see the same kind of thing in Colossians chapter 2. He says, mortify, that word means put it to death, your members that are on the earth. Put on, therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, bows of mercies, kindness, humbleness, meekness, long-suffering You see, there's certain things we're to put to death, certain things were to put on, and certain things were to put to life. Romans 8 13 says, if we live after the flesh We shall die. But if ye through the spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live. Certain things are to be put to death, and certain things are to be awakened in us It's like the difference between saying, you know, I used to do this, I'm not going to do it anymore, and then I just sit there and don't do anything. No, I stop doing that and I replace it with what is right. And this is one of the great challenges of the Christian life. We can be focused on what we're supposed to do and ignore what we're not supposed to do. Or we can be focused on what we're not supposed to do and ignore what we're supposed to do. And God says, put off, put on. Put it to death, and by the Spirit's power walk in newness of life. That's exactly what Paul means in Romans 6 when he says, Reckon yourselves to be dead to sin. But alive and to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. In other words, if we're going to have victory, folks, it's not just about focusing on the negative. It's about focusing on the positive. It's not just about focusing on the positive. It's the combination of putting off and putting on. To put it in the simplest way I can, it's impossible to play on both sides. You can't do it. You can't indulge in the world and walk with God at the same time. These two are in opposition to one another. Like John writes in 1 John, he says, Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. All that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, it's not of the Father, but it's of the world. And the world passeth away in the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. These two things are in conflict with one another. And I want to challenge you this morning. As God invites you into fellowship with Him, Satan says, come over here. And your flesh says, maybe next time. And what you and I have to learn how to do is resist and submit. Put off. And put on. Put to death and bring it to life. God not only empowers us to resist our flesh And to resist the devil, but he empowers us to walk in newness of life. He empowers us to walk By the Spirit's enabling. And I want to encourage you this morning. That is exactly what we need as God's people. We need to resist and walk in newness of life. Since God and his kingdom are in direct conflict, Satan and this world system cannot be embraced while we embrace a walk with God. You know, it might be that there's a person here this morning That honestly speaking, you're trying to play both sides. You are trying to have your foot in the world You're trying to indulge your flesh. It's like you have a box, and in this box you have this side, and you have that side. And you say, you know what? As long as I got the wall between the two. Then these two can peacefully coexist, like the little bumper sticker. Peacefully coexist. And I have news for you, that's not true. You cannot embrace the world and embrace a walk with God at the same time. Now you may think that you're walking with God. You may think you're in fellowship with God, but you cannot be doing both at the same time. They're contrary. You have to take what is here and uproot it and pull it out and say, I want nothing to do with this And let God be in control of everything. The fact is, we may find ourselves at times trying to play both sides, and it is impossible. I want to encourage you and challenge you, don't try to play that game. It might be that there's a person here that, frankly speaking. Pride has taken root in your heart. And it's not just like it's there, but it is it's like it's like a weed that is digging down into every single area of your heart and every single area of your life. You know it's so interesting. During this time of the year, I remember talking to people about, you know, when do you plant grass? Well, you plant grass in the fall. Because during the winter, you know, during the summer you plant it in the spring and then in the summer it gets really hot, it just kills it. But in the winter all those roots go deep down into the soil. And they begin to just take over that that yard. At least that's the theory. We'll see if it happens this year. But the idea is that the roots go deep. And the roots spread out. And they do that during that dormant season. And once you realize that's what pride does in us. Pride goes deep into our hearts and it grabs every single crevice of our lives. And the fact is it takes a lot to uproot it. And God has ways of bringing us face to face with our pride so that He can pull it out. I want to ask you: do you want to walk with God? Let him humble you. Be willing to humble yourself. And don't play both sides. Let's bow together for prayer. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us to walk with you. I know that's your desire. I know you want to be the center of our joy and delight. You want our lives to to radiate. How gracious and good you are. You want to draw people to yourself through lives that demonstrate the power of the gospel. You want us to experience satisfaction and delight in you. Father, I pray that you'd help us this morning to be gripped by this very simple truth that we cannot play both sides. And that you resist the proud, yet give grace to the humble. Father, help us to humble ourselves under your hand so that you can lift us up. Help us to enjoy you and delight in you. And help us to be a people who point others to you. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. You know, it might be that somebody here this morning, as you're listening to this message, you realized, man, I'm not a child of God. I don't know for certain that when I die, I'm going to heaven. That could be somebody here with us. That could be somebody that's listening on the live stream. If you do not know for sure when you die, you're going to heaven. And I want to encourage you, get the answer from the Bible. God's word is very simple. It tells us exactly what we must do to be saved. How we need to respond to the work that God has done for us by simply trusting in the finished work of Christ. If you do not know for certain when you die you're going to heaven, please. Do not leave this place or do not leave this live stream without reaching out. If you're if you're watching on Facebook, if you're watching on YouTube, if you're watching on Sermon Audio, you can reach us through those platforms. And I would be glad to speak with you about how you can know for sure that you're saved. It might be that there's somebody here that says, you know, Pastor, the thing about pride. I just slammed my heart. Get alone with God this afternoon. Get on your knees and confess to God your sin. And plead with him to help you to think right about yourself and him. Remind yourself of what the Bible says about your sin and God's holiness. And you know what God will do? He'll begin to put you back where you need to be. It might be that there's somebody that's trying to play both sides. And I want to challenge you, don't play that game. Let God work in your heart and uproot those areas that need to be uprooted and replace them with what is right. God can and God will help you to do what you need to do. The song that we're going to be singing in our closing this morning is hymn number 156, How Can It Be? I think this is such an appropriate hymn for us to sing as we reflect on the fact that God loves us. How can it be? Hymn 156, I want us to sing the first, the second, and the third verses together for our closing hymn. Let's all stand together, please. He will understand God as free show thou as me. Can 't get to think how this move my heart is now, how can it be? How can it be? I can make me And case of noise to come down. Can view the precious meeting form like the woman so bruised and torn All the suffering was for me in If I cry, how can it be? How can it be? How can it be that shallow? How can it be? How can it be? I love him kindness out his wood. And she rescued me. Oh my boy, how can it be? How can it be? How can it be? That God should not so like me , Well that's a great song, isn't it? Well so good to see each of you. Uh I haven't seen what it looks like outside, but it it I'm kinda getting the feeling we might need to cancel tonight, so I'll confirm that after the service. But I saw it was snowing pretty heavy. Sean, can you close this in prayer please? And uh hope that you guys have a great week. Um if we can I'll try to stream tonight. If not, it all depends on the roads. And then Lord willing we'll be back on Wednesday. So hope to see you guys on Wednesday. Go ahead, Sean. Father, thank you for the service that we just heard. Thank you for this message. I ask that you would uh uh apply into our lives and that we would um humble ourselves so that we can have a uh richer and fuller relationship with you And just keep us safe as we drive home and just help us all to be careful. And I uh ask if we have a service tonight that that would go well. And just uh help us this week as we go about our daily lives. Not forget um the fellowship and the teaching we hear while we're here at church, and we thank you for all that you do for us in Jesus' name. Amen