All right. That's a wonderful song. Our children ages two to six can be dismissed to the back for junior church. And the rest of you, I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to the book of James. We are in James chapter 4 this morning. James chapter 4. And I will tell you that we'll make a call on the evening service after uh the service from where I was sitting, it looked like it's snowing a lot harder than it was when we came. So Uh the chances are we probably will cancel the evening service, but I'd like to at least see what that looks like before I say. But um if we cancel it, I may try to do a live stream depending on what the roads look like. But Just kind of giving you a heads up on that. Um also I didn't mention this before, but uh Darien and his wife are the very grateful parents of a little boy and also we have grandparents here as well so congratulations that's a tremendous blessing and so thankful for God's blessing of that little one And uh so if you could, let's take our Bibles and let's look at James chapter 4, and we're looking at verses 5 through 10 together. James 4, 5 through 10. Excuse me, here's what the scriptures say. Do you think that the scripture saith in vain, the spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy? But he giveth more grace. Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. Submit yourselves therefore to God, resist the devil, he will plea he will flee from you Draw nigh to God, and He will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners. Purify your hearts, ye double minded. Be afflicted and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning, your joy to heaviness. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. When we come to this passage of Scripture, we're going to actually look at this in two parts. So this morning we're going to look at two aspects of what we're going to talk about this morning, and then either this evening or next Sunday, depending on our situation, we're going to be looking at the second part of this section dealing with a life of fellowship with God. So, in order for us to understand the content, I want to begin with a summary statement, and then we'll dig into two truths that we're going to look at this morning. The following section of James reveals both God's desire for fellowship with his people and the means through which he works to cultivate this relationship. God cares about fellowship with people. It's not that God is in need and that he's a needy individual. It simply means that God delights And having fellowship and communicating who he is with people. It's one of the reasons that he made us. He made us so that we could know him, we could fellowship with him. And so because God made us with people who have the ability to have fellowship, and he has the desire for us to actually commune with him, to fellowship with him. I want to remind you of this very simple truth that God wants us to live lives that are characterized by consistent fellowship with Him. I think about what the Bible says about a man named Enoch. It says that Enoch walked with God, and he was not, for God translated him. Literally, Enoch was a man who walked with God. His life was characterized by a consistent fellowship with him. Abraham was called the what? The friend of God. When the Bible talks about people who were truly godly, great men and women of the past, what we see is that they were people whose lives were characterized by walking in fellowship with God. Godly lives flow out of a fellowship with God. At David's finest, he was a man after God's own heart. That means he was a man who actually cared about walking with God. He was a flawed individual. He sinned in terrible ways throughout his lifetime. But whenever he sinned, he was humbled by God. And he came back into a fellowship with God. When we think about James and we think about John, we think about men who walked with God. John was that disciple that the Bible says loved the Lord. And so we see from this passage of Scripture that God wants us to have fellowship with Him, to walk with Him, to enjoy Him, to delight in Him. And so the question we want to ask this morning, and then the next time we gather together, is how can we be people who have this kind of a life? How can we be people who walk in fellowship with God? Well, we're going to look at two truths this morning. I'm going to actually give you all four of the truths that we're going to look at, but we're just going to focus in on the first two. The first truth we're going to find is that fellowship starts with humility. God does not commune or fellowship with people who lift themselves up in pride. The second truth we're going to find is that fellowship is something that has to wrestle through adversity. We're going to find that there are many adversaries to this thing called fellowship with God. And we're going to talk about that this morning. What are those. adversaries that we have to literally wrestle with in order to commune with God, to fellowship with God. It's something that's supposed to create a spiritual transformation in us. Literally, as we walk with God, He will change us fundamentally from within. A person who walks with God is going to be a person who has God-like godliness characterizing their lives. Literally, the Spirit of God is going to dominate the heart of that kind of an individual. And then the fourth truth we're going to find. as we get into this study today and then and the next time we're together, is that fellowship is something that finds satisfaction and fulfillment in God. So those are the truths that we're going to look out one at a time. We're going to look at two of those, Lord willing, this morning. And the first of those is that fellowship starts with humility. I want to ask you this question. Not how do you see yourself, but the people that you interact with. Maybe your spouse, maybe your kids, maybe your parents, maybe the people that you work with. That work for you, that you work for, whatever the situation. How do people perceive you? Do they perceive you as a humble person or as someone who is very stubborn and very proud? Well, once you realize this morning it really doesn't matter how other people perceive you. I mean in some ways it does, because sometimes what people see is reality. But it's also true that many times what people see is not really the whole story. It's almost like people see the tip of the iceberg. The real you and the real me is not what you see on the top. That is part of who we are. But the real us is what's below the surface. How does God see you? Does God see you as a humble person who wants to fellowship with him, or as someone who is proud and he has to resist. Notice what the Bible says in verses 5 and 6. It says, do ye think that the scriptures saith in vain the spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy But he giveth more grace, wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble I want you to see a couple of facts that are connected to this verse. Some are preceding it. We've already talked about them a little bit. And some of them are found right in these verses. The first of these facts is that We are objects of God's gracious affections. Another way to put that is God loves us. Literally, the Holy Spirit is jealous over our hearts. Last week we talked about many, many passages of Scripture that lay out for us that God wants, demands, expects our hearts. God doesn't just want outward conformity. He doesn't want us to just follow a list of rules, but God wants us to be people who genuinely, deeply love Him. genuinely, deeply want to obey him, and literally what people see is flowing out of a genuine heart that is walking in fellowship with God. Fellowship starts with humility and God genuinely deeply loves our us as his people. Proverbs James 4, 5 says that the Spirit that dwelleth within us lusteth the envy. Literally, God jealously yearns to dominate and control your heart. I think of Ephesians chapter 2, verses 4 to 7. Listen carefully to the way that the passage talks about how God deals with people who are lost. People are sinners, yet he loves them in spite of their sin, and he's provided a way that they can be brought into his presence, that their sins can be forgiven, and they can be called his children. It says in Ephesians 2 for God who is rich, I love that statement, rich in mercy. And we learned that mercy has the idea of God's compassion, his love toward us in our desperate condition. God, who is rich in mercy for his great love, wherewith he loved us. Even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace you are saved, and hath raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. That in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. Let me just highlight a couple of those phrases. It says that God is rich in mercy. It says that it's his great love that loves us. It says he wants to show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. What is the Bible communicating about you and me? The Bible is communicating that in spite of our sinfulness and our brokenness , And our miserable condition before God, our rebellion before God. God loves us He actually is compassionate towards us. He has graciously set his affectionate love on us Not because we are earning it, not because we deserve it, not because we are lovely by nature, but because he is a good God. The second fact that we see is that because God is holy, he hates pride. Let me give you just a couple of examples. Just a few of many, many passages that talk about how God hates. Pride. Proverbs 16:5. Everyone that is proud in heart is an abomination to the Lord. Though hand joint in hand he shall not be unpunished. We talk about an abomination. What are we talking about? Something that is detestable. When we think about the various things in the scriptures that God says are an abomination to him. Pride is one of them. It's something that God detests. It's something that God hates. It's something that's very contrary to his nature. God detests pride. Proverbs 15, 25, the Lord will destroy the house of the proud. Proverbs 16, 18, pride goeth before destruction. And a haughty spirit before a fall. Psalm 138, verse 6. Though the Lord be high, yet hath he respect unto the lowly, but the proud he knoweth afar off. Literally, God pushes the proud away from him. We look at Proverbs 11, verse 2, it says, When pride cometh, then cometh shame, but with the lowly is wisdom. Proverbs 29-23, a man's pride shall bring him low, but honor shall uphold the humble in spirit I think of what it says in the book of Proverbs. These six things doth the Lord hate. Yea, seven are an abomination to him. What's the very first thing he mentions? A proud look. The fact is, God hates pride. So I want you to think about this for just a minute. Wrap your minds around this if you can. We have a God in heaven who is holy, who is pure, who is righteous, who is just. Who has set his affections on you and on me, yet he hates pride. How does that work? How can God love me in spite of who I am, yet hate and have this thing called pride that comes within my own heart? He calls it an abomination. The fact is, that's really what the gospel's all about. The gospel is about taking people that are set as the enemies of God. Who are at enmity with God, who are pushing God away, and God says, I love you, and I'm providing a means of redemption through the work of Christ on the cross. Literally, he pours out his wrath and his anger on the Lord Jesus Christ as he hangs on the cross. That is how God can love you and love me, even though we are proud, sinful people. Yet the Bible reminds us that God hates pride. So that moves us to a third fact that we find really in these verses. And that is that God constantly calls the humble to commune with Him. We see these verses, God is telling us that if we will humble ourselves. We can enter into his presence and we can enjoy fellowship with him. God strengthens the humble. Literally, he puts it like this: God giveth grace to the humble. He giveth more grace. While he's resisting the proud, he's giving grace to the humble. The passage in front of us tells us that God invites the humble to come into fellowship with him. Literally, if we will humble ourselves in his presence, he will invite us into his presence. God resists the proud. That means that he actively brings difficulties into our lives to humble us when we are proud. God doesn't just allow us to continue indefinitely in a position of arrogance toward Him and towards other people. There comes a day when God will step in and He will resist us. And he will shake us, and he will put us in a place where he has to bring us to our knees. And the question is why? Because this is part of how we can come into his presence. I want to encourage you to be very cautious about how you think toward God and how you think towards others. I want to encourage you to be very cautious about how you think about yourself. You don't want God to humble you. You want to humble yourself. Anytime we start welling up with pride, and by the way, I know what this is like. I'm sitting there and I start thinking about certain things and all of a sudden this pride just starts getting in my heart and I and I get this check in my mind. Joel, do you want God? Step in and humble you. Every single one of us needs to be warned and warned and warned of this thing called pride. God steps in and humbles us when we're proud You realize even the Apostle Paul, a great, great man of God, was humbled by God so that he wouldn't raise himself up in pride. so that God could continue to work through him and God could continue to fellowship with him. Think about what the scripture says in 2 Corinthians 12, 7. Paul writes, unless I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelations. And by the way, if we look at that passage of Scripture, it's really interesting what's going on. Paul is writing to the church of Corinth that he's ministered to, he loves this church, yet this church has lifted up themselves and they've resisted Paul. And Paul's sitting there going, you guys are crushing my ministry. And the fact is that there's nobody in your church that's experienced the kinds of opportunities that I've had. He says, you want to talk about revelations? I have been lifted up into the sec this this the third heaven. You want to talk about somebody who's a prophet? God has literally used me to write all these scriptures. Someone who's had incredible opportunities. I've had those opportunities. Yet what does Paul say? Lest I should lift myself up The Bible says, God gave me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure. The Apostle Paul is basically saying, God knew that I needed to be humbled. God knew that I needed to be kept in check. God knew that even I needed to be reminded that I am flesh. As people are attacking me, and I'm thinking about how dare they do that, and think about the nature of my own ministry. I'm reminded I'm nothing. Who is Paul? Who's Apollos? We are ministers of Christ. One plants, one waters, God gives the increase. That's the way that Paul had to think. When we have This idea in our minds that we are completely reliant on self and we begin to glorify ourselves and we begin to be presumptuous, we are in a very different, different, very, very dangerous place. A place where God may need to step in and remind us we are needing to be reliant on Him. We have no right to glory in ourselves. We have no right to presume against His grace. I think of 1 John 1, verses 4 to 7. John writes, These things write we unto you that your joy may be full. This then is the message that we've heard of him and declare unto you: God is light. And in him is no darkness at all. If we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in the darkness, we lie and do not the truth. But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another. The blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanseth us from all sin. You say, well, what does that have to do with pride? Basically, what that verse is telling us is that God is a God of light. God is a God who is holy and he's righteous. And he says, You cannot fellowship with me and walk in the darkness. It's like you can't fellowship with God and lift yourself up in pride. These two things are contrary to one another. They don't work together. It's one or the other. Fullness of joy and a rich walk with God begins with recognizing He is holy. We cannot walk with Him if we resist Him in pride And our life is going to be continually needing to be renewed. We're going to continually need to be brought to repentance, continually brought to humiliation, continually brought to cleansing, continually being needing to be restored. The fact is that our Christian life is one where we need to see our sin, we need to see his holiness, we need to confess our sin, and we need to be cleansed and restored and humbled. Our life is constantly going through this process. And so the first truth that we find in the text before us is that God invites the humble to fellowship. But if we are going to walk in pride, God is going to push us away and resist us until he brings us to humiliation where we will walk with him. The second truth we're going to find in the passage in front of us is that fellowship has to wrestle through adversity. You say, well, if God wants us to fellowship with him , And God created us to fellowship with him. And God has provided all the tools needed to be able to fellowship with him. And we ourselves want to fellowship with him, then what kind of adversity could keep us from fellowshipping with God? Well, I want you to see that in these verses, he's going to mention two basic sources of adversity to a walk with God. Notice what he says in verse 7. He says, Submit yourselves. Therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. You might say, Well, Pastor, I don't see two hindrances to walking in fellowship with God. I see the devil that he needs to be resisted and we need to see him flee from us, but where do you see two? I want you to see the two. The first is this: submit yourselves. Do you know who the first problem is? It's you. It's me. We are our own biggest enemy sometimes The biggest adversary to our walking with God is actually not the devil. It's our own flesh. You are your own biggest enemy. I am my own biggest enemy. The reality is what's going on in my own heart. is probably the greatest hindrance to fellowship with God that there is in this entire world. You know, when you get up in the morning on a Sunday and you say, you know, I don't I don't think I really want to go to church this morning. I'm tired. It's been a long week. I'll just tune in on the live stream and I'll get around to it and you know I I don't even know if I have time to tune into the live stream. I'll watch it on Tuesday or Wednesday. I'll get the message. I'll listen to some of the songs I don't have time for that today. You know, I'd like to read my Bible this morning. I am so busy. I am so tired. I am so frustrated. I don't have time for this. I'll catch this later on. Do you think that's the devil telling you to do that? Like every single person in the world got the devil right there telling him not to read his Bible in the morning. There's only one devil, folks. But we've all got our own flesh. The reality is what it is that keeps us from doing what we need to do is our own hearts. It's that fleshly nature that still longs to resist God. Notice the way he puts it. Submit yourself to God. He doesn't talk about the devil first, he talks about my own heart and your own heart. It starts with us. We've got to submit our own hearts to God. It's not just resisting the devil, but it's dealing with what's inside of us first. In James 1. 14, he says that every man is tempted when he's drawn away of his own lust and enticed. He doesn't talk about the devil there. He doesn't talk about the person that's tempting you. He says, your heart is the problem In Romans 7 verse 18, he says, I know that in me, that is in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing. For to will is present with me, but how to perform that which is good I find not. He doesn't talk about the devil in that verse. He talks about his own fallen heart. Romans 7:23 says, I see another law in my members, warning against the law of my mind, bringing me into captivity to the law of sin, which is in my members. Basically, what Paul is saying is, my own heart is where the battle starts. My own heart is where the struggle really lies. My fallen mind is inclined towards being self-deceived. My body is inclined towards sinful passions. The real battle lies in my own being. It's so interesting. We go to Romans chapter 6. He doesn't even really talk about Satan there. He talks about reckoning yourself to be dead to sin but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Don't yield your instruments as instruments of righteousness unrighteousness unto sin. but yield your members as instruments of righteousness unto God. Romans 6 is all about how we deal with a fallen body. And how we deal with a fallen mind, how we are to think biblically when we deal with temptation. The first battle to fellowship is my own heart. The second is Satan. Now I didn't say that Satan's not part of the struggle, but he's not where it starts. There's only one devil. Though there are many spiritual forces that attack us on a daily basis, there is one Satan. Yet this individual is an evil being. He says, resist the devil, he will flee from you. The Bible talks a lot about Satan and the work that he does in the world. Let me give you a couple of examples of how Satan works. 1 Peter 5. 80 says, Be sober, be vigilant, your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. That means he's active. That means he's thinking. That means he's analyzing. That means that he's looking for advantage. That means he's looking to destroy. Satan really hates people. Revelation 12. 9, Satan deceiveth the whole world. He is actively involved in the world. 2 Corinthians 2 verse 11. We are not ignorant of his devices. We talk about his devices. We're saying he actually plots, he actually schemes, he's actually working in people's hearts. 1 Thessalonians 2. 18, he says, We would have come unto you once and again, but Satan hindered us. Literally, he attacks the work of God. 1 Chronicles 21 verse 1, it says Satan stood up against Israel and provoked David to number the people of Israel. And in Acts chapter 5, verse 3, the apostles say, Why has Satan filled thine heart to lie to the Holy Ghost? I want you to realize that when it comes to sin, you and I are responsible. You and I are the ones who either choose to resist. Or we choose to give in. The number one battle starts with our own fallen mind and our own fallen heart. But there's a real devil, and there are real angels who have rejected God and serve his purposes and truly do work to disrupt The work that God is doing in the world and the work that God is doing in us. And so we have to recognize that there is a real battle for our souls. There's a real battle that is hindering us from walking with God as we should. So the question is, how do we have victory? How can we be a people who fight the good fight the way that God intended it? Well, the answer is found in these verses He says that we are to draw nigh to God and he will draw nigh to us. It says we're to resist the devil and he will flee from us. And I think about the fact that there are examples in the Bible of how this actually takes place. Victory comes through a combination of Submitting ourselves to God and resisting the devil. We're not just submitting ourselves to God or just resisting the devil. We are submitting to God and resisting the devil at the same time. In other words, there's two sides to what we're doing in order to actually deal with temptation that hinders us from fellowship with God. Let me give you the example of Christ in Matthew chapter 4. Notice the way that he puts it. Matthew 4. 1 says, when Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil, he had fasted forty days and forty nights. And afterwards was hungered. And when the tempter came to him, he said, This is Satan. He's talking to Jesus. And he said, If thou be the Son of God, Command these stones to be made bread. How does Jesus respond? It says, but he answered and said It is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. I want you to see that this shows us the very simple pattern for how to deal with temptation. Jesus resisted by submitting to the authority of his Father. He says, it is written. What is he saying? My father states. In other words, I'm telling you no as I submit my will to him. I'm doing both at the same time. When the invitation, the temptation to sin was presented, Christ resisted the temptation by submitting himself to his father's authority. And you know, we have to do the same thing when it comes to our own walks with the Lord. I want you to realize that a lot of times in the New Testament we see that kind of pattern presented to us. For instance, in the epistles, we're commanded to put off certain things and put on certain things. Ephesians 4. 22, he says, put off concerning your former conversation. the old man that is corrupt according to the deceitful lusts, and be renewed in the spirit of your mind, that ye put on the new man, which is after God and is created in righteousness and true holiness. Whereof put away lying, speaking every man the truth to his neighbor. For we are many members one of another. What is Paul saying to do? Resist, submit Put off, put on. There are certain things in our lives that we have to uproot them and we have to put them to the side and say, I want no part of these things. But at the same time as we're putting off, what do we need to do? We have to put on what is right. We have to replace what is wrong with what is right. Put off the former conversation. Put on the new. A great example is when you have struggle lying, what do you need to do? Stop lying and start telling the truth. If you have a hard time working, what do you need to do? Stop being lazy and start working. The idea is you're putting off one to put on the other. It's not just that I'm always resisting, resisting, resisting, but I'm resisting, submitting, resisting, submitting, putting off, putting on We see the same kind of thing in Colossians chapter 2. He says, mortify, that word means put it to death, your members that are on the earth. Put on, therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, bowels of mercies, kindness, humbleness, meekness, long-suffering You see, there's certain things we're to put to death, certain things were to put on, and certain things were to put to life. Romans 8 13 says, if we live after the flesh. We shall die. But if ye through the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live. Certain things are to be put to death, and certain things are to be awakened in us It's like the difference between saying, you know, I used to do this, I'm not going to do it anymore, and then I just sit there and don't do anything. No, I stop doing that and I replace it with what is right. And this is one of the great challenges of the Christian life. We can be focused on what we're supposed to do and ignore what we're not supposed to do. Or we can be focused on what we're not supposed to do and ignore what we're supposed to do. And God says, put off, put on. Put it to death, and by the Spirit's power walk in newness of life. That's exactly what Paul means in Romans 6 when he says, Reckon yourselves to be dead to sin. But alive and to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. In other words, if we're going to have victory, folks, it's not just about focusing on the negative. It's about focusing on the positive. It's not just about focusing on the positive. It's the combination of putting off and putting on. To put it in the simplest way I can, it's impossible to play on both sides You can't do it. You can't indulge in the world and walk with God at the same time. These two are in opposition to one another. Like John writes in 1 John, he says, Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. All that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, it's not of the Father, but it's of the world. And the world passeth away in the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. These two things are in conflict with one another. And I want to challenge you this morning. As God invites you into fellowship with him, Satan says, come over here. And your flesh says, maybe next time. And what you and I have to learn how to do is resist. And submit. Put off and put on. Put to death and bring it to life God not only empowers us to resist our flesh and to resist the devil, but he empowers us to walk in newness of life. He empowers us to walk by the Spirit's enabling. And I want to encourage you this morning, that is exactly what we need as God's people. We need to resist and walk in newness of life. Since God and his kingdom are in direct conflict, Satan and this world system cannot be embraced while we embrace a walk with God. You know, it might be that there's a person here this morning that honestly speaking, you're trying to play both sides. You are trying to have your foot in the world. You're trying to indulge your flesh. It's like you have a box, and in this box you have this side, and you have that side. And you say, you know what? As long as I got the wall between the two, then these two can peacefully coexist. Like the little bumper sticker. Peacefully coexist. And I have news for you. That's not true. You cannot embrace the world and embrace a walk with God at the same time. Now you may think that you're walking with God. You may think you're in fellowship with God, but you cannot be doing both at the same time. They're contrary. You have to take what is here and uproot it and pull it out and say, well, nothing to do with this. And let God be in control of everything. The fact is, we may find ourselves at times trying to play both sides, and it is impossible. I want to encourage you and challenge you, don't try to play that game. It might be that there's a person here that, frankly speaking. Pride has taken root in your heart. And it's not just like it's there, but it is it's like it's like a weed that is digging down into every single area of your heart and every single area of your life. You know it's so interesting. During this time of the year, I remember talking to people about, you know, when do you plant grass? Well, you plant grass in the fall because during the winter You know, during the summer you plant it in the spring and then in the summer it gets really hot, it just kills it. But in the winter all those roots go deep down into the soil and they begin to just take over that that yard. At least that's the Syria. We'll see if it happens this year. But the idea is that the roots go deep and the roots spread out. And they do that during that dormant season. And once you realize that's what pride does in us, Pride goes deep into our hearts and it grabs every single crevice of our lives. And the fact is it takes a lot to uproot it. And God has ways of bringing us face to face with our pride so that he can pull it out. I want to ask you: do you want to walk with God? Let him humble you. Be willing to humble yourself. And don't play both sides. Let's bow together for prayer. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us to walk with you. I know that's your desire. I know you want to be the center of our joy and delight. You want our lives to to radiate. How gracious and good you are. You want to draw people to yourself through lives that demonstrate the power of the gospel. You want us to experience satisfaction and delight in you. Father, I pray that you'd help us this morning to be gripped by this very simple truth that we cannot play both sides. And that you resist the proud, yet give grace to the humble. Father, help us to humble ourselves under your hand so that you can lift us up. Help us to enjoy you and delight in you. And help us to be a people who point others to you. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. You know, it might be that somebody here this morning, as you're listening to this message, you realized, man, I'm not a child of God. I don't know for certain that when I die, I'm going to heaven. That could be somebody here with us. That could be somebody that's listening on the live stream. If you do not know for sure when you die, you're going to heaven. And I want to encourage you, get the answer from the Bible. God's word is very simple. It tells us exactly what we must do to be saved, how we need to respond to the work that God has done for us. By simply trusting in the finished work of Christ. If you do not know for certain when you die you're going to heaven, please do not leave this place. Or do not leave this live stream without reaching out. If you're watching on Facebook, if you're watching on YouTube, if you're watching on Sermon Audio, you can reach us. through those platforms. And I would be glad to speak with you about how you can know for sure that you're saved. It might be that there's somebody here that says, you know, Pastor, the thing about pride I just slammed my heart. Get alone with God this afternoon. Get on your knees and confess to God your sin. And plead with him to help you to think right about yourself and him. Remind yourself of what the Bible says about your sin and God's holiness. And you know what God will do? He'll begin to put you back where you need to be. It might be that there's somebody that's trying to play both sides. And I want to challenge you, don't play that game. Let God work in your heart and uproot those areas that need to be uprooted and replace them with what is right. God can and God will help you to do what you need to do. The song that we're going to be singing in our closing this morning is hymn number 156, How Can It Be? I think this is such an appropriate hymn for us to sing as we reflect on