All righty Well, if you could, let's take our Bibles and let's all turn together to uh back to the book of James. And we are in James chapter 4 this evening. And we're looking at the second part of the section of scripture that we looked at this morning. I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to read again the text of Scripture that we were looking at. and remind you of a couple of the details from this morning's message. And then we're going to look at the second part. So we're going to look at truth number three and four on this very important talk topic of a life of fellowship with God. James chapter 4, we're reading verses 5 through 10 together. It says, Do ye think that the scripture saith in vain, The spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy? But he giveth more grace, wherefore he saith , God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. Submit yourselves therefore to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you Draw nigh to God, and He will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners, and purify your hearts, ye double-minded. Be afflicted and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning, and your joy to heaviness Humble yourself in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. Now I want to remind you again what the main point of the text of Scripture was we looked at this morning. First of all, We see that the section was to reveal that God's desire for us is that we would have fellowship with Him. And because of that, He works to actually cultivate that relationship with us. It is God's desire that you and I have a close, intimate walk with him. In fact, we talked a little bit about Enoch, and we talked about Abraham, and we talked about David, and we saw that these people were described as God's friends. People who walked with God, people who had a heart for God. God wants us to be a people who know him and walk with him. Not just that we know about God, but we actually know him personally. In fact, I'm reading a book called Knowing God, and one of the points that the author makes in that book is it's not just about having an intellectual knowledge of God where we can talk about the way that God works in the lives of other people. But it's about us knowing him personally. It's about us having actually experienced this walk with him And so we see that these are people that had a fellowship, a walk with God that was real and it was vibrant. And so the text before us shows us that God wants us to walk constantly in fellowship with Him. But in order for us to do that, we need to recognize that there are some things that can hinder our ability to have fellowship with God. In fact, when we look at the book of 1 John, we can see that that book is almost entirely written to deal with this issue of issues that hold us back from walking in fellowship with God. If we want to have joy, if we want to have a vibrancy in our lives, we have to recognize that it starts and it stays with a walk that is with the Lord. And so the first thing that we saw this morning is that fellowship starts with humility. We saw this in verses five and six. It says, Do ye think that the scripture saith in vain The spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy? But he giveth more grace, whereof he saith , God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. One of the things that we saw this morning is that because God cannot walk with us in our arrogance, there are times that God will bring things into our life. specifically to humble us, to get her attention, to help us to realize that we're being self-absorbed, to help us to realize that we're being too self-reliant. To help us to realize that we're walking in a way that is arrogant, that is acting as if we own the universe rather than we are a creature that's supposed to submit to God and his ways. God resists the proud, yet he gives grace to the humble. The second truth that we saw this morning is that fellowship wrestles through adversity And in verse 7, we saw that the Scripture tells us to submit ourselves therefore to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from us. The idea is that one of the things that keeps us from having a healthy, vibrant fellowship with God is that there are two great adversaries to that fellowship. The first of those adversaries is our flesh He says, submit yourself to God. In fact, it's interesting. He's making that statement basically right after he just said God resists the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. The idea is that Our flesh wells up with pride, and this is one of the things that keeps us from enjoying fellowship with God. But then there's a second adversary, and that adversary is actually Satan himself. He says, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. And what we saw this morning is that resisting the devil is both a positive thing and a negative thing. I actually resist Satan by submitting myself to God. Like in other passages of Scripture where it says, put off concerning the former things, put on the new man. Or it says, put to death your fleshly passions. And he says, walk in the spirit, so that you'll not fulfill the lust of the flesh. We see that walking with God, and we see that resisting Satan has two aspects. The negative resist and the positive draw nigh to God. Well, I want us to see the third of the truths that we find in the text before us. And that third truth is that fellowship create spiritual transformation. Now one of the things that's so very important for us to remember as we think about the Christian life Is that God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, through in Christ alone, and so it is not in any way the work that we do that makes us acceptable to God. It is all by grace. It is all God's work. It's not us and him. It's him alone Well, one of the things that people will often say when they hear that the gospel is by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone, is they'll say, if it's all of grace If it's faith alone, if it's not of works in any way, then what is my motive to actually live a holy life This is a very common question. In fact, in Romans chapter 6, Paul poses that question, understanding that if if a person understands that salvation is by grace alone, they'll say, then why in the world should I live a holy life? He says, Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? That's the question that a person would ask if they understand salvation is by grace alone, not of works, lest anyone should boast Yet, what does Paul say? He says, How shall we who have died to sins live any longer therein? One of the things that we find out when we study the Bible Is that we're saved by grace alone through faith alone in Christ alone. But at the moment that we're saved, we also become new creatures in Christ. And old things pass away and all things become new. And we're actually regenerated. And as it says in Ephesians chapter 2, it says, we become his workmanship. created in Christ Jesus unto good works which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. So literally the Bible teaches us that while we are saved by faith alone That faith is a vibrant faith, and that faith is a faith that changes us. It literally changes what we do That's why in James, James tells us that a faith without works is a dead faith. Because real faith that's associated with real spiritual life. Is a faith that's going to produce a change in direction and a change in outlook and a change in life. Well, the question we could ask ourselves, understanding those truths, is how do we change? How are we transformed as believers? Well, the answer is actually found in the verses before us. We find it in verses 8 and 9. Fellowship with God is something that creates spiritual transformation. The way that we change is by walking in fellowship with God. You know, I think about a statement that was made in the Minor Prophets. It says, can two walk together unless they are agreed? The answer is of course not. Two people that are antagonistic towards one another will not walk together very long. The truth is that as we walk with God, as we draw close to Him, That relationship with him, that communion, that fellowship with him, is something that changes us fundamentally. It transforms us. And so we see it in verses eight and nine. He says, draw nigh to God, he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners. Purify your hearts, ye double-minded. Be afflicted and mourn and weep, let your laughter be turned to mourning, and your joy to heaviness You might say, well, Pastor, how does that text of Scripture tell us that fellowship with God transforms us? I want you to see it. Because in those verses, he talks about four ways that a person who draws near to God will ultimately be transformed or changed by that closeness to God. The first of those areas is that a person who walks in fellowship with God draws close to God. Notice what he says in the verse: draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Now I want to ask this question. Do we by nature, and when I say nature, I mean in our natural state , Do we draw close to God or do we push away from God? We push away from Him. In fact, the clearest and the first example that I can think of in the Bible is the first example that we have of sin. We think about Adam and Eve when they take that fruit. And what's the first thing that they do when God comes to them? They're hiding from him. Well, why are they hiding? Because they feel guilty. They're afraid of God. Their conscience has been injured because of their sin. They don't feel right. They feel guilty. They feel shame. The very first thing that a person does is pull away from God in their natural condition It's like in John where Jesus says that men love the darkness rather than the light because their deeds are evil. And they won't come to the light lest their deeds are reproved. The fact is, we will not go to God unless he does a work in us that draws us to himself. In our natural state, we don't understand the things of God. They're foolishness to us. Neither can we know them because they are spiritually discerned. In Romans 5. 10, it says that when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. That's what we were before salvation. In Ephesians 2, 11 to 15, it says, In times past, you were without Christ, aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, strangers from the covenants, without God. He says that God is our peace who hath made both one and broken down the middle wall of partition between us, having abolished in his flesh the enmity. Those verses indicate that in our natural state we push away from God. Yet the passage of Scripture tells us that we are to draw near to God, and if we draw near to God, he will draw near to us. The fact is you cannot draw near to God as an unbeliever. You have to first be a new creature in Christ. You don't have the desire, you don't have the capacity to have communion with a holy God. Until actually your heart has been transformed, has been regenerated by the power of the Holy Spirit. But the first thing that we see that happens when a person walks in fellowship with God Is that there's a nearness to God when there used to be a distance between us and God. Folks, that's a huge thing. We do not naturally want to be close to God. Unless we are new creatures in Christ. Secondly, we see that a holy walk is produced. And we see that in the phrase: cleanse your hands, ye sinners. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners. Now why do you need to clean your hands? It's because our hands get dirty In fact, it's kind of interesting now that we're, you know, constantly wearing, you know, putting on hand sanitizers and stuff, my hands are cracking. Like it it's it's awful how much my hands are cracking. I say, why is this? Well I think part of it is It's dry, it's winter, but I think it's because we're constantly using this hand sanitizer. And this hand sanitizer is just like pulling all of the moisture out of our hands. Well, we clean our hands when our hands are dirty. And the fact is that by nature, our bodies are not used for the glory of God. We use our bodies for sinful purposes. In Romans 6. 11, he says that we are to reckon ourselves to be dead to sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. And then he tells us what that looks like. He says, let not sin reign in your mortal bodies. That means that our physical bodies are not supposed to be dominated by our flesh. And used for sinful purposes, but our bodies are supposed to be used for the glory of God. We're supposed to use them in a way that's consistent with the work of the Spirit in our lives. He says we're not to obey it in the lust thereof, not to yield our members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin, but to yield ourselves unto God. And our members as instruments of righteousness unto God. The reason that Paul has to write this in Romans chapter 6 is that by nature we don't use our bodies for God's glory. And so this passage of Scripture says, as you draw close to God, he draws close to you. And as you walk in fellowship with God, you're going to clean your hands. He's talking about how there's a renewal of the way that we use our bodies. We use it for the glory of God. It's like in 1 John chapter 1. Where he tells us if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanseth us from all sin. Well, the idea is that as we walk in the light, God begins to expose to us areas where we're not submitted to Him Areas where we're not using our bodies for his glory. And as he exposes those things to us, he gives us opportunity, he confronts us. So that there'll be repentance and there'll be an asking of forgiveness and there'll be a cleansing and there'll be a restored fellowship, and ultimately our bodies will be used for godly purposes. So we see it's not just that we begin to draw close to God, but that we have a holy walk. A third area that he mentions is that we'll have an undistracted inner man. He says, purify your hearts, ye double-minded. Now the question is, is he talking about your heart or is he talking about your mind? And the answer is, well, your mind is a part of your heart. We talk about our heart, our heart is that part of us that thinks, that reasons, that analyzes, that plans. It's that part of us that calculates, and it's also that part of us that loves. It's that part of us that has affections The inner man is what he's talking about. And when he uses the word double-minded, the idea that this is a person who has a divided soul, he actually used that very word in another place in the book of James. It's a two-soul man. It's a person who's vacillating between God's kingdom and living for God and living according to his flesh. And so he basically says, you need to walk with God because walking with God is going to take your heart and your mind, and it's going to cleanse it, and it's going to put it in a place where you're not divided in heart. One of the things that God does throughout the course of our life is he uproots what needs to be replaced and he pulls it out And he puts in the right place what should be there. And what is he doing? He is taking our heart and he's drawing it to himself. He's removing the rivals. We desperately need God to do that. That's why in James 1. 5 he says, if any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, but let him ask in faith, nothing wavering For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. Let not that man think he shall receive anything of the Lord. A double-minded man is unstable in all of his ways And the picture is that you have a person who isn't convinced that they want God's wisdom. They like the world's wisdom, they like God's wisdom, and they're vacillating between those two positions. And James says, ask God for his wisdom. And don't be divided in your heart. Don't bounce between those things. You'll be like a wave. That's just being driven by the wind. You're at the mercies of the wind. You're like a person without an ability to actually think and reason the way you're supposed to. And so he says, don't think you'll receive anything from the Lord if you have a divided heart. The point of the passage in front of us Is that fellowship with God will take our heart from being divided and it'll be focused on Him. The fourth area that he mentions is that God will begin to develop in us a hatred for sin. Now when I say a hatred for sin, we tend to think of this in the sense that I will hate your sin. You understand what I'm saying? In other words, it's like the person who wants to get up in front of the Supreme Court and wants to talk about all the sins of the nation and how terrible America is. Yet they don't want to talk about the sin that's in their own heart. The fact is that God's talking about the sin that is in our own heart. We're going to begin to not love the sin that we hide in our heart, but we'll begin to hate it. We'll begin to hate it because we understand how destructive it is, how controlling it is, how merciless it is. How much it drives our heart away from God. How much that sin dominates us, and how much that sin steals our affections. We will begin to hate the sin that resides in our own hearts. And that's exactly what he's saying. A person who fellowships with God hates the sin that he sees within himself. This is how he puts it. Be afflicted and mourn and weep. It's like when Jesus is giving the Sermon on the Mount and he says, Blessed are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness, they will be filled. And blessed are those who mourn, they'll be comforted. What's Jesus saying? The person who wants to be righteous and wants to walk in God's ways is a person who's going to recognize he falls short. He's going to be a person who recognizes he's morally bankrupt. He's going to be a person who weeps over his own sin. And he wants to be clean and he wants to walk with God. But as that person begins to see their own brokenness, on the other side, they're going to see the grace of God. They're going to see the cross of Christ. They're going to see that there's forgiveness and there's cleansing through what Jesus has done for them. And so as we're humbled and we look at our own sin, we can be comforted because that mourning is not going to direct us to this place of morbid introspection. But it's literally going to drive us to a place where we recognize the beauty and the greatness of God's grace. This is not a perpetual state of morbidity or introspection. It's a time of reflection, of seeing the seriousness of our sin, confessing our sin to God. He says, let your joy be turned to heaviness. And I think what James is expressing is that we're supposed to see our sin. And our sin is supposed to grieve us. And our sin is supposed to be something that causes us to have a heavy heart. But that's really not the end of it. It's going to direct us to God. In Ephesians chapter 2, verses 2 to 3, he says, In times past, ye walked according to the course of this world. He says you were fulfilling the lusts of the flesh and the desires of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath. And Romans 8, verses 5 to 80 says that those who are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh, and they that are after the spirit the things of the spirit. To be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is life and peace. The carnal mind is enmity against God. It is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be So that they are in the flesh cannot please God. God wants us to be a people who come to the place where we're humbled over our sin. And so what we see is that when people fellowship with God, God's going to draw near to them, God's going to expose their sin. God is going to put that person in a place where they need to be. But then we see our fourth and final truth, and that is that fellowship with God is meant to help us to find satisfaction or fulfillment in Him. Notice what it says in verse 10. It says, humble yourself in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. I love that statement. He says, humble yourself in the sight of the Lord and he shall lift you up. It doesn't say humble yourself in the sight of the Lord and he'll crush you. And he'll leave you there to wallow in your sin and wallow in your brokenness. It says, if you humble yourself in his sight, he'll lift you up. What it tells us is that God doesn't just leave us stinging in agony over our sin, but literally he leaves us in that place. to draw us to himself so that he can pick us up and he can strengthen us and he can encourage us and he can bless us and we can find satisfaction in him. It's kind of like in Hebrews chapter 12 where he says, lift up the hands that are feeble and weighed down. And he talks about the fact that this person is weary and they're discouraged and they're frustrated. And he says, become strong He tells us that when God chastens us, he does it out of love. He's not doing it because he hates us. He does it because he wants to draw us near to himself. And he wants us to understand how good he is and how great he is. The passage tells us that by humbling ourselves, we put ourselves in a place where God lifts us up. Not where we pick ourselves up, but where he picks us up. Earlier in the passage in James chapter 1, he says, Let the brother of low degree rejoice in that he's exalted The rich and that he's made low. And I remember dealing with that passage and basically saying what God does is he allows a person who's humble to be in a tough place so that he can pick them up. And a person that's very proud, he puts them down so that by them being put down, they'll be humbled, and then he can lift them up. God is the one who wants to exalt us so that we can see his goodness. In 1 Peter 5. 6, a very similar passage. He says Humble yourself under the mighty hand of God that he may exalt you in due time. I think of Nebuchadnezzar. I mentioned that this morning. We're talking about God's powers, authority. And we see that Nebuchadnezzar in Daniel 4 was driven to the field like an animal. And at the end of the section, it says that God would do this. until he knew that the Most High ruleth in the kingdoms of men and giveth it to whomever he will. God wasn't just driving Nebuchadnezzar to the side because he wanted to humble him, but it was to humble him so that he would understand God had put him in the position that he had before. So that he would understand when God reinstated him that it was God who put him there, not his own power, not his own might. The reality that we see here is that God humbles us for a reason, so that he can pick us up, and we can see that it's his goodness that does it. Encouragement is meant to bring contentment. And many times God will humble us So that he can encourage us and we can find him to be all sufficient. Let me give you some examples. In Psalm 119, 67, David writes, Before I was afflicted, I went astray. But now I've kept thy word. Psalm 119, 71 says, It is good for me that I've been afflicted, that I might learn thy statutes. In Psalm 51, when David had sins, and by the way, David's sin was a terrible sin. But I want you to notice how David responds when God rebukes him through Nathan the prophet, and he's humbled. And Psalm 51, verse 80 says, Lord, make me to hear joy and gladness, that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. Hide thy face from my sins, blot out all mine iniquities, create in me a clean heart, renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from thy presence. Take not thy Holy Spirit from me. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. He talks about God giving him joy, God giving him gladness, God helping him to rejoice, God giving him a renewed and right Spirit, God restoring unto him the joy of his salvation. The idea is that David recognized that God could restore what he had lost when he was confronted with his sin. One should realize that there are times that God humbles us because He wants us to know Him afresh again. Humility is a prerequisite for being exalted in God's economy. If you want God to lift you up, then you need to humble yourself. If you push to lift up yourself, prepare for God to put you down. God wants us to be in a position to handle his good blessings rather than be ruined by them You ever seen a person who got a job advancement? They were a very humble person. They were a good worker. And all of a sudden they got this new opportunity. Gave them a lot more money, gave them a lot more prestige, and all of a sudden it went to their head and destroyed them. You ever seen a person who wasn't known to anybody? And they were they were a very humble and gentle kind of a person, and all of a sudden they get a position of authority. They start being known and seen by people, and all of a sudden it goes to their head, it destroys them. Think about some of these young professional athletes. Sometimes these are young men and young women who come from very difficult backgrounds And all of a sudden, because of their athletic ability, they become known not just in a community, but literally worldwide. They're known all around the world, and as they get more money and as they get more popularity and as they get more fame, guess what often happens to those people? It destroys them. God doesn't want to destroy us by blessing us. God wants us to understand how to actually handle his exaltation. And so sometimes what God will do is he will humble us. And he will put us in a lowly place so that when he lifts us up, he helps us to understand its grace It's his kindness. It's his hand. It's his goodness. God wants us to be in a position to handle those good blessings so that they don't ruin us. One of the things that we see in this passage of Scripture is that when God wants us to walk with Him and enjoy Him, we have to be humble in order to do that. God wants us to realize that we're not entitled to the blessings that we enjoy. They come from his good hand. So you might say, well, Pastor, what's the conclusion of this? How do we practically respond to these things? Let me give you a very simple summary of the things that we've talked about. God wants us to live lives that are constantly in fellowship with him. That's his desire. He's done absolutely everything that is necessary. For us to be able to enjoy that communion, that fellowship with Him, but we must humble ourselves We must fight against those enemies to our soul that come in and actually hinder our ability to fellowship with God, our flesh and Satan. We must allow God to fundamentally change who we are. You can't walk with God and not be changed. It's like Moses when he was in God's presence. It says when he left God's presence and he came amongst the people, he glowed with a radiance because he'd been in God's presence. We will be changed when we walk with God. And lastly meet, we must find our complete satisfaction and fulfillment in Him. There's nothing wrong with being blessed in life. God blesses many of us. He uplifts us. He gives us opportunities. But God wants us to recognize that the opportunity is simply His grace. The blessing is simply His grace. The prosperity is simply His grace And it's not about the prosperity, and it's not about the position, and it's not about the blessing. It's about the giver of every good and perfect gift. Folks, I want to encourage you, be a person who like Abraham, who like Enoch, walks with God. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, help us to take the text of Scripture that we have been able to look at this evening and help us to just be the beginning. Reflection on this passage. Father, I pray that these truths would really settle into our hearts and that these truths would grip our souls. And they begin to take root. And as they take root, they begin to change us. Father, I know that you want us to walk with you. You want us to find you to be the center of our joy. You want us to be fully satisfied in you. And I pray that you'd help us to be a people who genuinely commune fellowship with you. Pray that every person that is here this evening, every person that's joined us on the live stream, every person that will be able to come across this message at some point in the days, weeks, and months ahead. I pray that you would use these truths from your word to really impact their hearts in a way that will change them forever. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, if you could, I want us to turn together. To our closing hymn and our closing hip