First John chapter four, we're going to start there. We're just going to tonight do a study since Valentine's is This Friday and Love is in the air. We're going to look at what the Bible says about love. We're going to take a look at what the Bible says Now this is it's a huge topic, so basically what I have done is I just took some major passages of scripture and I'm putting them together to look at what love is. So we're in 1 John chapter 4, and we're just going to spend some time in this. I'm going to read verses 7 through 11 to get started. A look at love, 1 John 4, verse 7. Beloved, let us love one another. For love is of God, and everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. He that loveth not knoweth not God For God is love. In this was manifested the love of God towards us, because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through him. Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us, and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. Let's pray. Father, we thank you so much. For this evening, thank you so much that even the snow melted on the road so quickly that we can get here. We ask that you'd be with Pastor and Braxton as they are away. And Father, we ask for everyone that's assembled here. And that turned on by waves streaming, that we may have our hearts and minds open and tender to the teaching and preaching of your word, that we would get an understanding of who you are. And then in turn understanding what love is. I ask that you would do the work in the hearts and lives of your children through your word this evening In Christ's name. Amen. So look at love. Here in 1 John 4, I was going to give us a love test and ask you to turn to the love chapter. But because I'm using both passages, when it comes to love, like I said, it's a very broad topic, but here in 1 John 4. . I see that is how love is defined. Love is defined in 1 John chapter 4. And what do we see in verse 8? We see that God is love God is love. So if we want to understand what love is, we need to understand who God is. And this is why in 1 John 3 earlier we read this: behold. What manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. Therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. So basically the argument I'm making here from the Word of God in this chapter is if we're going to define love, it's saying that God is love in chapter 8. And if we don't know , God. It's hard for us to truly know what love is if we don't know who God is. And that comes from earlier in chapter 3. Basically they they don't know who God is. They don't know us. They didn't know it's gonna be hard to understand this love that God has towards us. Now I've been married over twenty years and had four children. And I'm still trying to get love figured out. When you have it all figured out, let me know. But the best I can, using some different texts of scripture, and understanding that the very simplest definition of love here, it's it's hard to argue that says God is love. But then God is this inexhaustible, all-knowing being. That defies, or not really defies, but is hard to comprehend and to get our sin-cursed little minute brains wrapped around all that God is And when you sit and you're just looking at the beautiful snow falling, you're looking up and it as it clears and see all the stars and the sky got this beautiful white and to think that God who is holy and is perfect, who died in our place as the innocent Lamb of God to take away my own sin. And you start thinking of those things. And then you look up and you see the stars in the heavens. And the heavens declare the glory of God. And you realize how infinite and finite We are and how infinite God is. Your mind is just blown. And so when we think of God and we think of love as we will this Friday, where a lot of hopefully been thinking about that. Simply said, God is love. A vastly huge topic. But to understand more of God's love, we need to understand who God is. So look to look at some just some basic things, very basic. To help narrow down who God is and what he's done as we're defining love. So we see God is love. And then number two, we see God gave his son for sinners. Now I know this is very basic, but I think when we look at it, John 3. 16 does help us with what God has done. If God is love, what did he do? We know that God so loved the world, he gave. And when we just think about that, God so loved, he gave. A lot of time in our world today, people see love as what can I get? It's a love for self. And not a love for others. So if love is God, what did God do? Simply, and basically we can just narrow it down very simply. In John 3. 16, one of the most common verses in all scripture. For God so loved the world he gave. He gave. He gave for us who do not deserve it. He gave of his son for sinners, that we may have everlasting life. So love gives from self to benefit others I don't think that's how a lot of people would define love today. You mean I am going to give of myself with no benefit, in fact, at great cost, to self. to benefit someone else and then to go someone that doesn't deserve it? Going back to a holy, righteous God. becoming a man. And then God sent that man, Jesus Christ, to die in my place. He gave of himself. That's incredible. I don't think that's how people would see love today. People uh can get very construed and they think, what can I get? And we know the opposite, that a love of money would be the root of all evil. So today, when we look at that comparison, when we love money, not that the money is wrong, But it's the motive. We love for self. Money is to provide for self, just to get for me, for my wants, for my desires. God's love gives to benefit others. We also see this in Romans 5. 8. As we're looking at love to find, Romans 5. 8. But God commendeth his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. So while we're sinners, deserving punishment, deserving life apart from God, to take the wages of sin upon ourself. God, because of his love towards us, loved us anyway. Loving the unlovable, loving that which is not beautiful. Loving that which others would not. So these are just some basic understandings as we look at trying to define something as great as love and knowing that God is love. We see that God is love, and God gives to meet the needs of others Here, sometimes we think, oh, well love is also giving to just help other people out. Yes, but I would say that love as God gives, God gave to a need that only he could meet. God gave to, we had a need. We were in debt. That we could not pay. And yet God met our need through his sacrifice, through giving of himself, through Jesus Christ. Because he gave to something we needed. Because some people also think, well, well, love, it just gives whatever they want. If you just give what people want, you want that equals? Spoiled rotten brat. If if people just want and you think as a parent, I love them, so I have to give them everything they ask for. That's not what God does. We were just going over Bible cruising in the back. Then James 4 talks about asking, and we don't receive what we ask because we ask amiss. We 're not doing things God's way. God doesn't give us everything that we want, everything that we desire. That's not what love is. But yet some people would think that if I love them, I have to do what they say. You ever heard that phrase, if ye love me, ye would fill in the blank? You ever heard that? Someone says, if you really loved me, you would Tell them like, you know what that is? It's manipulation. That's a love for self. They want for self. So they're trying to use you to meet their own need to satisfy themselves. That's not how God loves God gave to meet our need at a great cost to him. That's what love is. So we're gonna look at love described. We've seen love defined. Now we're gonna try and look at love described and I would say love described by Christ. Love this described by Christ. And a lot of these passages I'm getting are almost all from John, either his epistles or his gospel. The reason I'm using this is one, he has a lot of material on it, but two, also, this is the disciple whom Jesus loved. And he wrote about it a lot. So, to love as described by Christ. So if God is love and God sent his son , We're going to see how his son, Jesus Christ, described it. So in the Gospel of John, chapter 13, we're going to see how we ought to love and obey like God loved and obeyed Christ. In John 13 it says, A new commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another, as I have loved you. That ye also love one another. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if ye have love one towards another. So this is Christ explaining something. He's saying, if you have love one towards another, if you're giving to meet the needs of others, if you're going out of your way, as God has done for me, as I've done for you You ought to love one another, as I have loved you. And now they're on the other side of the cross here, but they have still seen the love that Christ has displayed to help the lame, the blind. The leper. You name it, the hungry. Christ has gone out of his way and showing his love. And then amongst their other. And when you look at the apostles there and who we put together, fishermen, tax collectors. The fact that they even get together and accomplish anything good is amazing. It's incredible. But he says, as I've loved you, you are to love one another. And this is coming from whom God has sent. And if God is love and he has sent Christ, he's explaining, he's describing. This. He also says later in John 15, verse 9, he says, as the Father hath loved me. Now he's explaining, God loves, God the Father loves me. And he says, So have I loved you. So we have God, who is love, sent Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is saying, okay, he's loved me, and have I loved you. So he's setting himself as an example. He says, continue in my love. My self-sacrificing, my giving of self to meet the needs of others. And then here's what love does. As he's describing this love, you know how you demonstrate your love? He says, if you keep my commandments, you abide, you remain, you continue in my love because you obey. Because love drives you to obey. And I've had the privilege of getting four children from the Lord. And it is wonderful when they choose to obey. It's not so great when I force them to obey. You want them, your goal is not just to get your children. If you if your goal as a parent And as we're looking at God as our Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ the Son, and we're supposed to love as they loved one another, and as Christ is loving us, we want love. to be a motivation to do right. And if you as a parent are only training your children to love or an obey you I think we're missing a key part. When we are training our children, we're not just training them, listen to mom and daddy, and the reason why I want you to do this is because I got embarrassed. So now I'm going to discipline you because I get embarrassed and I don't like it when you do that. I think the key that we need to add in there is you want them to understand they need to obey God. They need to love God first. This is one reason why I love working with teenagers, as they're going from little boys and little girls to young men and young ladies, and by the time they get out of the youth group, they're going into adult life. You want to train them to love God. You obey because you want to obey and love God. So love brings obedience. And when you're not their parents, let's just pretend you have a daughter away at college. You want them. To obey God because I cannot be there. I'm limited to one place at a time. I know it seems like moms can multitask sometimes and do this and do that, but we're still so limited. So we need to love like Christ as an example. And he says to keep my commandments. We want to love God. We are teaching and training the next generation. And that's what Christ is saying. I'll pick it up there in John 15, and verse 10 is where he lost it left off. It says, If you keep my commandments, you shall abide in my love, even as I have kept my father's commands. and abide in his love to remain to continue. These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full. This is my commandment, that ye love one another. As I have loved you. Once again, starting and ending with himself as example. As I have loved you, love each other. And if we can't love each other, who all love God together, It's going to be challenging to love anyone else. How are you going to love the unlovely? How are you going to love the ungodly? If you can't love those who love the same God you do, if you don't love those who love the same church that you do, that love the same sport or whatever it is. If we can't love those, How are we going to love? And once again, we need to learn to love. And that love is giving to meet the needs of others. Loving is loving as Christ loved. That's what he did. And then I'd be amiss if I did not go to this passage. So we're looking under love described by Christ We're going to look at Paul's love list. Paul's love list. How do we not talk about love at least briefly? This is a list of things in 1 Corinthians 13. As we're describing love, this is Paul riding to Church of Corinth, and they were boasting about all kinds of things in their church, and all kinds of struggles But Paul here, it's very interesting, it's actually in the context of teaching on the different gifts in 12 and 14. And then right here in the middle, he's talking about love. The love chapter falls right in between. And if you read the rest of it, there's actually talking about gifts and charity. And by the end of the chapter, he says if charity is the greatest of the three, of faith and hope. But in this list, okay, he's describing what love looks like. And I would say what love does not look like sometimes. So what he does here is he gives, well, this is what it is and this is what it's not. And we're defining something, we're looking at something, it's helpful sometimes to see what it's not. And yet this is what it is. So let's just look at a couple of these as we look at love described by Christ with Paul's love list here. In 1 Corinthians 13, we'll just start with verse 3. He says, and though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor. See, that's a good thing. Oh, you love the poor. You're giving of yourself. Though I give my body to be burned, I'm going through great personal sacrifice. And have not charity, but if you're not doing it for the love of God and for his purpose, if you're doing it just for self, it profiteth me nothing. It doesn't do anything. There's no benefit. Then he starts his list. And anytime you see, we're going to see the word charity here. This charity is always from the word agape or agape. Love could be the philetto or love could be the agape, but anytime you see charity, it is always, every time you can look for your strongest concordance, charity is always the agape, unconditional type of love. So charity suffereth long and is kind. Charity envieth not. Charity vaunteth not itself. Is not puffed up. Do you see how he's saying what it is and what it's not? Verse 5. Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil. Boy, that's a good one for the siblings. Hell I know they did they did that on purpose. Oh, I know them or you have a sibling or sometimes even a spouse and you want to think these thoughts and you know what they did, so do you really? Just be careful. Continuing in verse 6. Rejoice not in iniquity , but rejoicing in the truth. Do you ever find joy in watching someone else suffer a little bit? That's challenging. That's not love. Rejoicing not in iniquity, but rejoicing in the truth. Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. That's just the the main part of Paul's love list and what love looks like. And the purpose is not to dig into every one of these. We don't have the time. Like I said, we're I'm just looking at the big picture of love and just taking a look at love. So we're looking at love defined and simply said God is love. We're looking at love described as by Christ. And then last We're going to look at love displayed by Christ. And I love this passage. I want you to turn with me to John 21. In the Gospel of John, the last chapter. Christ does something truly amazing here, and he asks Peter a very good question. Looking in verse 15 It says, so when they had dined, Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? And he saith unto him, Yea, Lord, thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my lambs. Now this is gonna, it's not the same, but there's a pattern it's developing here. Christ is going to ask Peter, do you love me? And he's going to do it three times. The question here that I think is very good is this is at the end of Jesus' earthly ministry. The apostles have seen his life, his death, his burial, and now his resurrection. And we know this is the third time, because in verse 14, it says that this is now the third time that Jesus showed himself to his disciples after that he was risen from the dead. So they know that by this time their time is coming to an end. And Jesus is asking him, Peter, do you love me more than these? What are the these? I'm not sure. My guess is maybe the fish they just caught. Peter's a fisherman and it makes sense in my mind as we flesh this out. Here he is. He's got a big catch. They just threw the stuff on the other side of the boat and they bring it in. They're like, hey, that's the Lord. And they come to the shore and everything's sum in. They're like, wow, that 's that's him And then Peter says, or Jesus says to Peter, Do you love me more than these? Is it the other apostles? Possibly. Is it the fish? Possibly. I kind of tend if I had to lean, I would lean on the fish actually, just because Peter's a fisherman. And that's what he loved to do. That's how he earned his living before he met Christ. That's what he did. So he's asking, do you love me in comparison to something? Regardless of what it is, it's compared. How is our love to God compared to What you spend the most money on, what you spend the most time on. That can be really revealing. So he asks them a very good question And Peter answers, Oh, yeah, thou knowest that I love thee. And he responds to him and says, All right, if you love me, then feed my lambs. Here, when he says, feed my lambs, it's actually a command, and it has the idea of to to tend, to graze the little lambs. The young ones. Lead them to a place where they can eat. It makes sense when he says, feed my lambs. But Christ is pushing for something. He asks them a second time. He saith unto them, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? Now this is slightly different. in that he asks him the second time but leaves out the comparison. He says, do you love me, Peter? Now Peter was probably dreading this question. He already answered it, thought he got away with it. But Christ is pushing the point. He wants Peter to recognize some things. And then Peter responds exactly how he did the first time. Peter is staying true to his answer. He's saying, Yea, Lord. He says, Thou knowest that I love thee. So then Christ says, feed my sheep. So Peter gives the exact same answer to a slightly different question, just a little subtly different, but then Christ says, feed my sheep. This has the idea of to lead or guide, to care for, to look after, slightly different than the feed in verse 15. In verse 16, it's more about leading and guiding. Look after them. He's still commanding them. So he's adding a little bit to this. Then what's really interesting is verse 17. Because Christ is continuing to push Peter here, and this would be hard, because I would like to put my, well, sort of, I'd like to put myself in Peter's situation here. Do you really want the God of all creation asking you the same thing three times? Is it really necessary for Christ Himself as God to ask a question that he already knows the answer to three times? I don't know if I would like that. When you know the answer is hard to give. And we'll get to that in just a little bit more here in a second. So Christ says unto him, a third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me. Now the response here is different. Because Christ is pushing him, pushing Peter a little bit to cause him to think. And Peter was grieved, because he saith unto him, the third time, lovest thou me. Now this is a great time to dig in the Word of God a little bit more, and if you had a strong concordance, you would see the differences in the words between the feeds. The sheep and the lambs. But here, when it says, lovest thou me the third time, remember I said earlier in 1 Corinthians 13 that charity is always the word agape, the unconditional love that God would have. That's how Jesus was asking it in verse 15 and in verse 16. So what's taking place is Jesus is asking Peter, Peter, do you agape me? But what Peter answered in verse 15 was, Yea, Lord, you know that I fled owe you. You know that I have a brotherly love for you. So then Christ asked them a second time in verse 16, Peter, do you agape me repeating what he said? Peter responds the same exact way and says, Lord, you know that I philet o you. You know that I love you, but I just don't know if I can quite do it unconditionally. So then we ask the third time, what Christ says is, Peter, son of Jonas, do you flee o me? Because love can go both ways in English. Charity does not. Love can. And this is one of those examples. So if you're a student of the Word of God and you're looking through a strong concordance, you will see this. So what Christ did by displaying his love for Peter is he saying, listen, I'm going to come to where you are, but I want to love you to where I want you to be. And he tells him, do you phleetto me? And that's when Peter was grieved because he said the third time, oh man, he phletos me. Oh, he ah, and then you want that might be flooding through Peter's mind at this point? I don't know exactly. Maybe it's the fact that he changed, that Christ changed from a agape to the floo. Maybe it's because this is the third time he's seen him resurrected. Maybe it's because it's the third time that comes to Peter's mind that he denied Christ openly, publicly. And then he asks them the third time this a similar question. So I don't know which it is exactly. Maybe it's a combination of all the above. Maybe it's one more or the other. I'm not sure. But all the same, Peter was grieved. And Christ is just saying, I love you anyways, Peter. And he gives them yet a third command and says, feed my sheep. So what we've seen is God is love. We've seen how it's described. And here what we're seeing is Christ is displaying an amazing love for someone who is messed up Who's someone who has denied him? For someone who just convinced other apostles to go fishing. Because that's how we start the chapter. Peter says, let's go fishing. And they said, all right, let's go fishing. Maybe we might be able to feed ourselves that way. And now he's facing Christ and he gets that same question. He thinks he gets away with the first time. Doesn't. Christ asks him the second time, think maybe he'll soothe his way over. I'm gonna get out of it. Christ is not, he says, nope, Peter, but I still want you to feed my sheep. I want you to be an example. And Peter in his self is thinking, but I I think I don't think I can do this. And Christ is like, that's okay. I love you anyways, Peter. And you can love others as I've loved you. When you feel like a failure, when you feel like you've made mistakes, when you've led others astray, when you have messed up, it's not too late. God's love is greater. than our sin. And if we will come to him and recognize that he is encouraging him, Peter, you can still do this. He is loving him despite who he is. That's who Christ is. Christ doesn't want us to serve him because of our great talents and our great abilities. And oh, here's a great if if God 's not sitting up there Going, man, if I could only get this person to serve me, hey, we'd turn the world around. He doesn't need any of us. What he wants is for us to recognize how he loves us. A perfect and holy Creator God to love a sinner, to give of himself for us. sacrificing of his own self to meet a need that we have. And even when we mess up, that's why he came. That's why God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. He's not picking Peter because he's some great guy. He's saying, Peter, I do love you. And I want you to serve me. He is demonstrating his love. But for Peter to recognize sometimes I I can imagine Peter sitting there, I just don't think I can love the way that you can. Can any of us truly love the way that God loves us? I don't think we really can. We could try and we can get better at hopefully if you're looking at a graph. You know what's going up, you know, ups and downs, but hopefully, as my son has been learning in algebra, you have these dot plots plots, and they're kind of up and down a little bit, but you know, it's generally going up. You know, on a plot line, it's not exact, there's some up and down, but the the directory should be going up positive. There's a line there. That's kind of how it should be, I think, for us. We should be generally getting closer to God and learning to love others as we know and love God more. And even when we look at the greatest commandment, it's to love the Lord thy God and then to love your neighbor. So the key element of love is the common bond there. And Christ is displaying this to Peter and is encouraging him to follow him. despite our challenges, despite our shortcomings. So when we are looking at love and we're thinking about Valentine's Maybe we can take a couple moments and just ponder who God is, how he has shown his love, how he has described it. And yet he just doesn't love you. He loves the person beside you. He loves those that despitefully use you. And he is willing to give to the needs of others and present himself to them, even though they don't deserve it. Can we love like that? It is a challenge. It is very difficult. Because our love can get led astray. We even read in Revelation, you know, I'll left thy first love. We get distracted. But as we think about it, here at the end, Jesus He's displaying love and love that forgives. He's extending forgiveness to Peter. Peter, I know you've done these things. I'm forgiving you. The power of forgiveness, love will forgive. Christ has forgiven us our sin. Not just for salvation. But I think for Peter, he is really getting the depth and understanding. And when you read his epistles, the encouragement that he has in some of his epistles to others, God used him to pen two epistles. to encourage the brethren and to stand up. And you read through 1st and 2 Peter, you might see some of this come out. That'd be a great study after this. But to love like Christ has loved us, to understand the basic, the most easiest way to try and comprehend love or define it, is just it's God. God is love. Well then how are you gonna but God is impossible sometimes when you try and narrow him down to such little things. Yeah, I know. And then you try and love is a vast subject. I know But hopefully tonight we're just taking a glance, we're taking a look at what love is by looking at who God is, how it's described, and how he's displayed it through Christ. Let us pray. Father, I thank you and praise you for your love for us. Trying to define it and look at it can be challenging. The best we can do is look examples of Scripture. And this was just some of the main texts dealing with love. There's many others, all throughout Scripture. But Father, if we're to love others, we truly need to know who you are. Help us, through your word, to know you. And yet, even knowing others, we can have your love for them. These are people that have eternal lives at stake others who need encouragement. Could you use us as you have loved us to love others? Father, and we thank you, we praise you for your amazing, really incomprehensible love towards us, and may we do our best day by day to grow in our love for you and help us to love the unlovely. And may we do this to the honor and to the glory of Jesus Christ in whose name we pray. Amen.