Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And if you're joining us today, I'd like to ask you to take your Bible and turn to 1 John chapter 2. And we are looking at 1 John chapter 2, verses 6 through 11. Again, if you're joining us this morning, let's go to 1 John chapter 2, and we're looking at Let's read it together. He that saith he abideth in him, ought himself also so to walk, even as he walked. Brethren, I write no The old commandment is the word which ye heard from the beginning. Again, a new commandment I write unto you, which thing is He that saith he is in the light and hateth his brother is in darkness even until now. He that loveth his brother His brother abideth in the light, and there is none occasion of stumbling in him. But he that hateth his brother is in darkness, and walketh in darkness, and knoweth not whither he goeth, because that darkness hath blind Now, when we come to this passage, I think it's important for us to remember this is a continuation of the things that we've talked about the last couple of weeks. And so let me give you a summary statement. Here. John continued developing his theme of assurance, fellowship, and joy by reminding his readers of their sobering responsibility to walk even as he walks. That last phrase is very important. We are to walk like Christ. And so we're going to break down that thought of how we are to walk like Christ, how we So let's look at a couple of truths here. The first truth we find is this those who call themselves Christians have a sober Responsibility. Look down in verse six, it says this, He that saith, that's the key phrase, that he abideth in him ought himself also to walk. So he's saying if I claim to be a Christian, I have an obligation, I have a duty. In fact, that word Christian means a follower of Christ. Christ. So because I've placed my faith in Christ, I can walk in newness of life. And I'm supposed to walk in newness of life. Every time I tell someone I'm a Christian, I'm a Identifying myself with the Lord Jesus Christ. And so that's a sobering responsibility. So he's saying, look, if you're saying, if you're going to publicly tell a person, I'm a Christian, That means you have an obligation. You ought to walk. And you also have an example. Your example is the Lord Jesus Christ. We then come to a second truth. Our responsibility has a unique dimension Look down at verses seven and eight. Commandment is the word which you have heard from the beginning. And then he says this, so interesting. Again, a new commandment I write unto you, which thing is true in him and in you. Now when When we read those verses, we say, so is it an old commandment or is it a new commandment? I'd like to get the answer. And the answer is yes, it's both. It's an old commandment But it has a new dimension to it. In other words, what John is telling the church to do is something that has always been an expectation from God for his people. But the There's a new dimension to this expectation. There's a side to it that is true now but wasn't true then. And you might say, well, what exactly does he mean by that? How is it an old commandment but there's a new dimension that's new now but it wasn't there before. I think once we look at it you'll understand it. First of all let's talk about the old aspect to this. What does he mean by an old commandment Not a new commandment I'm writing to you. Well, he's referring to the fact that God has clearly stated in his word that God's expectation for people involves really two simple things. things. One, love God with all your heart, soul, and mind, and love your neighbor as yourself. In fact, it's interesting when we go to the book of Deuteronomy, we see that the law is stated as love God with all your heart and your neighbor as yourself. Jesus says the same thing in the book of Matthew. Jesus says you can summarize the whole law by saying love God and love your neighbor as yourself. yourself. Let me kind of break it down to you in a real practical way. When we look at God's commands, God's commands are simply an expression of those two things. Specific application of loving God and your neighbor as yourself. So for instance, we we take the Ten Commandments. These are ten specific commands, but they really could be broken down into just two commands. For instance, if I love God, I won't do things like replace him with a rival. I won't misrepresent him by creating an idol. I won't treat his name flippantly I will dedicate a day of the week to rest and worship God. In other words, if I love God first, I'm going to do those things. Those are simply five expressions. Murder my neighbor. I'm going to respect the fact that God created that person in his image and that person has value. I won't dishonor my spouse by being unfaithful and committing adultery. I won't steal my neighbor's property because I I recognize that that property belongs to them and I love them more than I love myself. I won't bring a false report against someone and say that they did something that they didn't because I love them more than I love myself and I won't covet my neighbor's property. The point is the old commandment is love God, love your neighbor as yourself. And there are so many different ways that that command is going to be practically applied. Then he comes to this idea of a new commandment. Well, how is it a new commandment? Well, here's the key to that statement. We are to walk as Christ walked. Now, this is very significant. The reason that this is a new commandment is because before Christ walked on the earth You could not walk as he walked because he hadn't come yet. Now, after Christ has come to this earth and we've been able to watch how he lived, what do we see? We see the absolute perfect fulfillment of the law. So when we walk as Christ walked, we're not just imitating him, but we are also, by virtue of imitating him, loving God first. And we are loving our neighbor as ourselves because that's what Christ did. So we see in Christ a perfect fulfillment of the law. And so John is saying, look, I'm telling Telling you you need to do what is right. You need to obey God. Love God first, love your neighbor as yourself. That's an old commandment, but there's a new dimension to it. Not only are you doing this, but you're doing it as one who is following Christ. In other words, as Christ walked, you're to walk. In other words, it's an old commandment and a new commandment at the same time. It's an old commandment with a new Dimension to it. We then come to a third command, our third truth. And the third truth is this: our responsibility has a unique empowering. In verse 86 says , again a new commandment I write unto you which thing is true in him important phrase and in you an important phrase because the Darkness is past, another important phrase, and the true light now shineth. Now he makes four statements that talk about how we as Christians are Empowered to walk in obedience to God. I want to remind you that before we trusted Christ as our Savior, there were things about us that made us a slave to sin. In other words, it's not that we did everything as bad as we could have, but the idea is we didn't have an empowering, an internal empowering, to be able to walk in obedience to God. When a person tried Christ and they become a new creature in Christ, and old things pass away and all things become new. They actually now have a unique empowering that they did not have before their conversion. And he's He states four ways that we have this unique empowering here. The first is that we've received a new nature when we are placed into Christ. He says this thing is true. So if you're not in Christ, you cannot do what he's saying you're supposed to do here. In other words, now that you are placed into Christ, you're new creature in Christ and old things pass away and all things become new. Because of that, you have a new nature that enables you to be able to do what he's saying to do. A second point We receive the Spirit who indwells us from the moment that we are regenerated. So it's not just that I'm a new creature in Christ. I have a new nature internally, but I have the presence presence of the Holy Spirit, who is also new in his relationship to me. He puts it like this it's true in you. So who indwells the belief Well, it's the Holy Spirit. He then mentions a third very important empowering enabler that we have. We are in a new position after our conversion. He says the darkness is past. The idea is that what we were then and what we are now is different. Before my Conversion, there was an aspect to uh to the way I was supposed to live in this world that I was blinded to. I didn't have the ability to see it. I didn't have the capacity to see it. But now that am a new creature in Christ, I have the darkness past. We then have a fourth, a fourth point. And that's that we are in the midst of a sanctification process. He then goes on to say this not only is the darkness past, but the true light now shineth. The idea that there is this progressive change day After day after day. In other words, we're not in the darkness anymore. We're actually in the light. But we're not only in the light, but we are growing in progression. In that light. It's almost like I'm sitting down and I'm watching the sunrise. And it begins with a complete darkness. And as the sun begins to rise, I haven't yet seen it. But we're beginning to see a little bit at a time. And as I watch the sunrise a little bit longer, what do I do? Eventually it'll get brighter and brighter and brighter, and then I'll see the sun, and then as the sun rises higher Eventually everything around me is is seen even clearer than it was, say, you know, 30 or 40 minutes before. And that's really the idea of what he's saying here. As a Christian, not only has the darkness passed, and I have a new nature, and I also have the presence of the Holy Spirit, but there's this progressive growth and sanctification that's taking place. And as I grow as a Christian, what's going on around me becomes clearer. And I'm not walking in the darkness, but I can see because the light is growing and bright. We then see a fourth truth. Failure to obey this command has debilitating consequences. If I cast aside And I don't listen to what John is saying here. If I ignore the scriptures, the consequences are very serious. Hateth his brothers in the darkness even until now. He that loveth his brother abideth in the light, and there is an occasion of stumbling in him. Now when he talks about light, he's talking About light in the sense of fellowship with God, the ability to see clearly, biblical discernment, joy, assurance, a thriving relationship. John constantly Uses the term light in this kind of a sense. When he talks about darkness, he's emphasizing separation from God, spiritual blindness, hatred, doubt. Broken relationships, pressures. So when John talks about light and when John talks about darkness, he's emphasizing really our relationship to God, whether it's healthy or not, and our relationship He's basically saying listen, if you walk in the light, there are positive effects. If you walk in the darkness, there are debilitating effects. And he says, you will stumble if you walk in the darkness. And it makes sense. You know, walk into a dark room, you can't see what's there, you step on something, you fall on the ground. Turn on the light, you see what's there, you can avoid it. So the idea is if a person's obedient and they're walking in the light and they're fellowshipping with God, they will not stumble if a person's in the darkness And they're not walking in fellowship with God, what happens? There are pitfalls all around them. They don't see them, and they're constantly stepping in these pitfalls. How does sin affect our relationship? to other people. Let me just mention this very briefly. Well, one thing is it kind of hardens and desensitizes our hearts. How is it that a person can hate another individual? It's because Because he's been hardened. And what is it that causes us to become hardened? It's the harboring of our sin. It can blind us. And really, that's the biggest point that John is emphasizing here. He says he He who talks, says that he's in the light and hates his brothers in the darkness. What is that talking about? He's self-deceived. If a person is stumbling, what does that mean? They can't see clearly If a person avoids pitfalls, what does it say? They can see clearly. So he's emphasizing the fact that not only does sin desensitize us, but it blinds us. We don't have the ability to see clearly When God wants us to see clearly. He says it can cause us to stumble, verse ten. And it can keep us from coming to Christ. He says, He that saith he's in the light, hateth his brother, is in the And you know what's very interesting when John talks about people and why they don't come to God, he says men love darkness rather than light. Because their deeds are evil. And the truth is that when we get into a place where we're beginning to harbor sin in our lives, it's going to cause us to withdraw from fellowship with God. rather than to commune with God. And so it's extremely important that we recognize that this issue of obedience as a Christian is very, very important. So you might ask well Well, how can we practically apply the verses in front of us today? And there are three simple things that I jotted down that I think we should all consider. The first is this. I need to be willing The focus is not so much on the law as on the fulfillment. Fulfillment of the law of the Lord Jesus Christ. I want to imitate him. And by the way, the more I spend time with Christ, the more his thinking and his character It's going to be pressed into my mind and heart. When we interact with people and we become close to them, we become close friends, what happens? We begin to become a lot like them. A person Who walks with Christ is a person that will begin to reflect Christ's character. And so we need to be willing to take responsibility and say, I want to and I need to and I will walk as Christ walked. A second point. We have all of the essential equipping to walk as he walked. He's given us everything. We have a new nature. We have the whole Holy Spirit, we have the presence of God's work in sanctification. We can walk even as He walked because God's enabling us to do that. And the third point we'll see is this. If we fail to obey this passage in front of us, the consequences that come from that disobedience, they're very sobering. They're very destructive. And so we should recognize On the positive side, we need to follow Christ. And on the negative side, when we don't follow Christ, there are consequences, serious consequences, difficult consequences I if this has been an encouragement to you this morning, I hope that you'll just jot down a little note. I hope that you'll consider sharing it so that Let's have a word of prayer, and Lord willing, we will meet again tomorrow. Father, we thank you so much for the opportunity to study your word. I thank you so much that we have an example in the Lord. Lord Jesus Christ of the perfect fulfilling of the law. Help us to obey you by walking even as Christ walked. We ask that you will bless each person that's That's been able to join us today and those who will join us later. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it's been good to see each of you this morning, and uh we will look forward to seeing you again next time, Lord willing. Have a wonderful day. Bye now.