What we'd like to do tonight is we'd like to focus in on the importance of a posture of grateful worship toward God during this Thanksgiving season. And every one of us has a lot to be grateful for. And I would go so far as to say that if we are ungrateful, then we are sinning. It's that simple. And I know that sometimes we do carry great burdens that can really cloud our judgment. They can really become a focus for us. But we as God's people Just because of who we are in Christ, we have so much to be grateful for. And the truth is that we could go far beyond just The fact that we are forgiven and we are cleansed and we're God's children. But we live in the greatest country in the world. We have so many blessings. And we could just go on and on and on about the many things that we should be grateful for. But that's not what we're going to focus in on tonight. We're going to focus in on the content of Psalm 113 and Psalm 114. So let's go ahead and read verses 1 through 9, but do know that we will look at also Psalm 114 as well. It says, Praise ye the Lord. Praise, O ye servants of the Lord. Praise the name of the Lord. Blessed be the name of the Lord from this time forth and forever. From the rising of the sun until the going down of the same, the Lord's name is to be praised. The Lord is high above all nations, and his glory above the heavens. Who is like unto the Lord our God, who dwelleth on high, who humbleth himself to behold the things that are in heaven and in the earth? He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, and lifteth up the needy out of the dung hill, that he may set him with princes, even with the princes of his people. He maketh the barren woman to keep house and to be a joyful mother of children. Praise ye the Lord. By the way, it's kind of interesting that statement, praise ye the Lord, that's mentioned at the beginning of this psalm and also at the end of the psalm could really be translated with one word. Hallelujah. That means praise Yahweh. Praise the Lord. That's what it means. So when we say hallelujah, that's technically what we're saying, whether we realize it or not. That's how he starts and that's how he ends. But what I'd like to do before we look at some of the content here is talk about some of the background of this portion of Psalms because I think it will be helpful and it will give us a much greater appreciation. for what's said. I think if we just looked at the content, that would be very helpful. But stepping back and seeing how this psalm is used and how the next that the section of Psalms is used would be very helpful in helping us appreciate it. So the first thing I'll say is this. Psalm 113 through Psalm 118 are called halel Psalms. What we mean by that is these are six psalms that were sung during a lot of the Jewish festivals, and there are several festivals that would have involved feasts. For instance, the Passover, Pentecost, these would be a couple of examples. Well, when the people would gather together and they would celebrate the Passover, the Passover is not just But it's really a season. And then from the Passover until Pentecost is also a season. And during these times, they would have special festive meals. When they came together to celebrate the Passover, they were remembering and they were celebrating God's deliverance of his people from enslavement in Egypt. And so as they gathered together and as they they followed all the different rituals that they were expected to follow at that time, they're ultimately remembering we were slaves in Egypt, and God with a mighty hand delivered us out of Egypt. And then 50 days after Pentecost, after Passover, they would celebrate Pentecost, which is a celebration of the grain harvest. But it was more than just the grain harvest. It was a time where they were going to remember that God had brought them not only out of Egypt, but he had brought them into the promised land. And when they came into the promised land, this was to remember that for forty years they had wandered in the wilderness, and God was establishing, or we could say re-establishing his covenant with these people as they're entering into the promised land. Let's remember that everyone that was over twenty years of age Died in the wilderness, and all those who were under that, some of these people, in fact, a lot of these people that went into the promised land, they didn't they didn't know what it was like to be at Mount Sinai. They didn't remember those things. And so when they went into the promised land after they crossed the Jordan River, they were going to remember that they were a covenant people. And so there was a re-establishment of that covenant. So when they came to Pentecost, they would be remembering that they had That God had reestablished that covenant with them. And it was a celebratory time because the grain harvest was coming in at that time. And then there was the third of the festivals that this psalm would have been traditionally not just read, but sung at, and that was the Feast of Tabernacles. This reminded the people of God's provision and his care during their 40 years of wandering in the wilderness. So we have these three events. One is God's deliverance. One is God's provision and protection during that 40-year period, and then one is his entrance into the promised land and the grain harvest coming in and the re-establishing of that covenant So these were big deals as far as Jewish holidays, and they were commanded by God to celebrate these festifications. The first two of these Hallel psalms were to be sung before these festive meals So to put it into our modern situation, it would be like tomorrow, or not tomorrow, on on Thursday, when people gather together and they celebrate Thanksgiving instead of them just Thanking God for the food and then going in and eating the food and then, you know, sitting there very lethargic while they watch football, right? Which is what some of us will do. They would not have done that. They would actually have sat down or stood up before they have their meal and they would have sung these two psalms together. And then after the meal, they would have sung the other four psalms. This is kind of interesting. One is one of gratitude, and one is one of commitment. And so these festive occasions were meant to be times where families came together, communities came together, they remembered their history as a nation. And they remembered that as a believing people who were in covenant with God. Isn't that an awesome thing to think about? In fact, I've thought about it this way. A lot of our culture, because it's becoming more secular, has almost no holidays that it actually celebrates together. You ever thought about that? I mean when you ta when you talk about Thanksgiving, if you don't believe that there's a God who gives and a God who preserves and a God who takes care of us, then who are you thinking? If you don't believe that, then who are you thinking? And what is Christmas without the Messiah? And what is Easter without the resurrection? And a lot of people aren't patriotic anymore, a lot of young people, and so guess what? They don't appreciate the 4th of July. They don't appreciate what we're remembering during Memorial Day weekend as we think about those who have passed. in the line of duty and they they don't celebrate these things. And so our culture's really in a place where we've got to get back to being a place where we turn back to the Lord. Well, God's plan for his people was that they would celebrate together as families, as a community, as a nation. And remember God's goodness and God's faithfulness and who they were in relation to Him. So a couple of practical thoughts that I want to get, then we'll dig into the text itself. The first practical thought here is there is a tremendous value in gathering as a community to pause and give praise to the Lord. I want to encourage you, wherever you gather this week, if you are the one who is running it, make sure that you take time to draw people's attention to God's goodness. And I'm not saying you need to sing the psalm or anything like that, but that would be kind of cool if we actually knew how they sang that. Second thing is this, this is one of the few times in American culture where we still this is one of the few times we still do this. It's a concept that is sadly becoming lost because we're becoming very secular. And so Thanksgiving is a great time for us to remember the abundant blessings that we enjoy. Thirdly, we need to incorporate a God-centered focus as we gather to celebrate Thanksgiving. So, those are the introductions. I want us to dig into the text itself. First thing I want you to notice in this passage is that we should be a praising people. In fact, when we look at these verses He says in verse 1, praise ye the Lord, praise him, O ye servants, praise the name of the Lord, bless the name of the Lord from this time forth and forever. He states that we are to be a praising people. And the question is, why does that need to be stated? Why did God appoint on the Jewish calendar on an annual basis that they would have the Passover and the Feast of Tabernacles? And all of these different sacred occasions. It's because the people needed an annual reminder of how God delivered them out of Egypt And the fact that there's coming a Savior and they needed a continual reminder year after year after year that they were a sinful people and there needed to be atonement made for the people. And they needed to be reminded that God preserved them and protected them when they were traveling in the wilderness. And they needed to be reminded of the re-establishment of that cult of that of that covenant that God had made with them when they entered into the promised land. All of those things needed to happen because there are times that we need to stop and be told This is why church is so important. Church is so important because you come into a context where someone plans the worship. Every Sunday, the songs that we sing, we plan them. We actually plan them around the theme of the service. The scripture readings are planned around the preaching of the word Everything is, to some extent, it is it is put together in a way that makes us think about some common theme that's important to our Christian life. How we think about God How we think about ourselves, how we think about life, how we think about one another, how we think about Christian doctrine, all of those things, we need that reminder to take place. And that's why they would have sung these psalms before these festivations. We need to stop and be told, praise God. It's not natural to us. We are not by nature a grateful people. In fact, I think sometimes people are grateful, but they don't express it because they've never been taught how to do that. A lot of people that are my age and younger don't write thank yous. You know why they don't write thank yous? Because they weren't taught to. Because they send emails or text messages and those kinds of things. It's just something that's being lost to our culture. How many Times have you r actually received a handwritten letter from someone that's say in their twenties or teenager? If you did, it's because their mom or dad told them to do that and taught them how to do that. But I think that it's not natural for us to be grateful. We're naturally very self-centered. Every single one of us. You don't have to teach a child how to be how to be self-centered. That is in them. You have to teach them how to say thank you. You have to teach them to share and to actually play with others and to not take other people's stuff and not be the bully. Okay? It's not natural for us to do this. We have to be taught how to do this. The very first thing mentioned in Romans 1. 21 is it says, When they knew God, they did not glorify him as God, neither were they thankful. That's where that list of sins starts. In gratitude. It's pretty amazing. So there's a connection between worship and gratitude, and that's why we see in verse 1 Praise the Lord. Verse 2, blessed be the name of the Lord. Verse 9, praise ye the Lord. We need to be a praising people. Second truth. We need to remember that we are his servants and not the other way around. Now, it's kind of sad that I'd have to say this, but we really do have to say this. And verse 1 he says, ye servants of the Lord, it is far too easy to develop an entitled attitude toward God. We often believe that we deserve only and always good. Isn't that true? As soon as something negative happens in our life, we immediately go, God, how dare you let this happen to me? We have this mentality. Think about the disciples. Here's Jesus. He's walking up to Jerusalem. He's on his trek to Jerusalem. He's going to die and to be crucified. And he tells them, I have to go to Jerusalem and I have to be rejected of the religious leaders, and I'm going to die, and I'm going to rise again. And as soon as Jesus is telling them this information, guess what they do? They argue about who's going to be the greatest in the kingdom of God. They say, hey, we have a question for you. Can you let us sit at your right hands? They even sent their mother to go talk to Jesus about it. Kind of crazy to think about, right? So here he is. He's saying, I'm going to die and I'm going to rise from the dead. I'm going to be scourged. I'm going to be beaten. I'm going to be treated terribly. Hey, hey mom, go talk to him about us getting honored in the kingdom. Kind of mind-blowing, is it not? But you that's human nature What's so great about the Bible is that it's so transparent about human nature. Sometimes we need to be reminded we're a servant, not the master, not the Lord. We often believe that. We should be holding others to a different standard than we hold ourselves. And people say, I'm not like that. Listen to what Paul says in Romans chapter 2. He says Thinkest thou this the man that judges them which do such thing and doest the same that thou shalt escape the judgment of God? You ever gotten frustrated with someone who didn't treat you with a lot of respect Yeah. Have you ever disrespected someone? Well, they deserved it Maybe they'd say the same thing about you. You ever thought about that? Or hey, I don't like it when people exaggerate and tell stories and they're not totally truthful with me. Have you ever exaggerated? Not given the story correctly. Well, you know, my situation's a little bit different. The fact is, if we're to stop and think about the things that we get really upset about, we have done the same thing to other people. We really have. And you know, you look at your children while they're growing up, and your kids will do something, you're just like, oh I can't believe they did that. And you're telling your your mom about it, and she's like, pfft. Wow, what goes around comes around. I remember when you did such and such and you're like, are you sure about that? Oh yeah. Absolutely. The fact is we are masters of holding people to a different stand in our We often get into these positions where we need to be reminded we are not masters. We're not entitled to everything being smooth and easy and good. The fact is we are servants and he is the master and we need to submit to him. We need to resist the temptation and demand of others rather than submit to him and serve him. Look in verse number one, he says this. Psalm 115, verse 1. He says, it is not unto us, O Lord, not unto us, but unto thy name. Give glory for your mercy and your truth's sake. Psalm 116, verse 5, it says, Gracious is the Lord, and righteous year. God is merciful. Now that word gracious And that word merciful, they start with a presupposed understanding. Mercy is given to someone who's in a pitiful state And grace is given to someone who does not deserve the good. Do you understand that? So if we say that God has given us grace and God has been merciful to us, then that's an indication that where we started , was a position of unworthiness. It's important for us to remember these things. Third truth. We should long for him to be praised over all his creation. Now, verse number three is very interesting. He says, from the right , actually I'll go back to verse 2, but verse 3 is kind of where we're going to focus. In verse number 2, he says, blessed be the name of the Lord. From this time forth and for evermore. So he's giving this time limit, okay? And then in verse 3 he says, From the rising of the sun until the going down of the same, the Lord's name is to be praised. Now, when we read that verse, in fact, the way that I've tended to look at this verse as a Western thinking person Is that he's talking about from the morning until the evening, I'm supposed to praise God's name. Isn't that the way that you would have thought of it? But that's really not what he's expressing here. But that is true, okay? He's already talked about the time limit. He's saying from now forever you need to be blessed. But when he says from the rising of the sun to the going down of the same, he's talking about an expanse of region. So when we look to the east, we see the sun rise, right? And when we look to the west, I guess east west is right here, so I could I could actually go right off the east west. Okay, the sun rises this way and the sun sets over there Now, we tend to think of it as a time thing, but they're thinking of as far as I can see in this direction, I want God's name to be praised and blessed as far as it goes. And when I look the other direction, I wanted to go as far as possible. Why? Because all of this belongs to God. And so the idea is that we long for him to be blessed forever, and we long for him to be praised over all of his creation. It's an idiomatic expression reflecting the space, and the first one is the time. He's saying, as far as you can look to the east and as far as you can look to the west, let the Lord's name be praised. And this statement has missions implications. Because God's name is not praised everywhere. It's really not. Especially when this was written in the Old Testament time period, most of the people that would have been believers would have been living in this very small region in the land of Israel. Because they have the law and they have the prophets and they have the covenant promises and they have the sacrificial system. So they have all these pictures and they have all these feasts and all these festivals. And the nation of Israel was supposed to be a light to lighten the Gentiles. They were supposed to do what's right as a people and through that reach into the nations. Like listen to what it says in Psalm 96. He says, sing unto the Lord a new song. Sing unto the Lord all the earth. So all peoples need to know our God and sing praise to him. Verse three says, Declares glory among the heathen is wonders among all people. I know that word heathen isn't used so much anymore. That's an old English term. But in the thinking of the people it means Those people who don't have a knowledge of the Lord. In fact, you could probably plant into there the Gentiles. Okay? People that don't know God. Verse 10, stay among the heathen, same term. That the Lord reigneth, that the world also shall be established, that it shall not be moved. He shall judge the people righteously. So when we look at Psalm 96, he's saying, not just the Jewish people who have law and prophets and covenants and feasts and festivals and the sacrificial system, we want all the nations of the world to know him. All the nations of the world to come and to worship him. And that's really the significance of stories like Jonah. You know what Jonah is? God's grace on Gentiles. Oh, we look at the story of Daniel and Nebuchadnezzar and Daniel and Cyrus and these people. What's the significance of that? That's God reaching into the nations. Or the story of Solomon and We have the Queen of Sheba coming up to visit him. What's the point of that? Here's this woman who is a queen way down in Africa. And she hears about the wisdom of Solomon, and she goes to Jerusalem to meet with this man, to hear his wisdom, to see the things that she has heard, to see if in fact they're true. These are all examples of God reaching through his people to the nations. And so in the same way that this Psalm says May God's name be praised from now forever and from the east to the west everywhere. That ought to be our passion, our desire. Truth for. We should praise him because of his transcendence. Now the word transcendent Has the idea of we're talking about God's majesty, his greatness, how he is above and beyond his creation. And he states it a couple different ways in these verses. In verse 4, he says, the Lord is high above all nations. And his glory above the heavens. The idea is that he is a God who is unsearchable in splendor and majesty. There is no one who reaches the greatness of our God. In verse 5, he says, who is like unto the Lord our God who dwelleth on high? There is nothing, and there is no one that can be compared to him. When the Bible describes the greatness of God, the language that is used falls short. Okay? God uses language that we can grasp, but we're not fully grasping God as He is. Because human language doesn't fully communicate His greatness. In fact, you know, not every language has equal terminology to be able to describe certain things. You you realize even when we talk about the English language and the development of the English language. If we're to go back to the to the time period where they were really doing Bible translation, this is during the time of the Reformers. So we're talking about the late 1500s into the 1600s. There are a lot of terms that didn't even exist in English. They were created. to be put into the Bible because they didn't have those concepts being expressed with terms. When someone goes and translates the Bible into in certain cultures, There are certain terms that they don't have, and they have to create a term, or they have to take a term that's being used, but they have to use a biblical explanation of that term. I think about when I was a missionary and I would be preaching. Sometimes I would say something and I'm expecting uh what's being translated to be a little bit short and it uh just kind of goes on and on and on and I'm like, wait a minute, what's going on here? What's he doing? He doesn't have a term to use for what I just said, so he's got to describe it. So when we're talking about God, we're talking about someone whose splendor and majesty is far beyond our comprehension. His greatness. There is no comparable to him. He dwells on high. He's high above the nations. His glory is above the heavens. That's the way that he's described. Verse 6, who humbleth himself to behold the things that are in heaven and in the earth. And this is an interesting statement. He literally lowers himself down to behold his creation. You say, well, that sounds a little bit demeaning to the creation. I mean, it's the Bible. What does it say? It's saying that if you want to talk about the glory of man and the glory of God, it's incomparable. He literally stoops down to interact with us. And I think about some other passages that describe the greatness of God in this way. 1 Chronicles 29: Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty. All that is in heaven and earth is thine. Thine is the kingdom, O Lord. Thou art exalted as head above all. Or Psalm 145, 13. Thy kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and thy dominion endureth throughout all generations. Or Daniel 4, verse 34, I bless the Most High, praise and honored him that liveth forever, whose dominion is an everlasting dominion, and his kingdom is from generation to generation. So we talk about God, we should praise him and we should glory in him because he is so great. And his majesty is so incomparably amazing. He is a transcendent God. But what I think is wonderful about this psalm is he doesn't just talk about God's transcendence. He talks about how he condescends to people. I don't mean he's condescending to people and dismissive. I mean that he lowers himself and he relates to us and he deals with us in time with tremendous compassion and tremendous mercy. I mean, think about it this way. If you were to be walking through some area in Annapolis and you come across somebody who is, let's just say, a very well-known figure. And you're to walk up to them and say, Hi, my name is Joel. They'd go, I don't know you. I know you. Yeah? What about it? Can I uh get a picture with you? Would you uh want me to get a picture with you? I mean, you do you do you have people walk up to you and ask you to get a picture with them? Like, like, what's this all about? Okay, not trying to be rude. I just thought it'd be kind of neat to get a picture with you because you're a very well known person. He's like, yeah, so what? Okay. I'll uh I'll have a nice day. Enjoy your yacht down there, all right? Why is that? Because they got a lot of money. Then we'd be bothered by us lowly peons, right? They're big people. You know what? Nobody living has any comparison to God and his greatness. But here's what's amazing about God. He deals with us as individuals Not an amazing thing. I mean, in our lives, think about how he's dealt with you. Think about your salvation. Think about his patience, his mercy when you've not been the man or woman you should be. He's an amazing God. That moves us to truth five. We should praise him because of his personal care for needy individuals. Now this is where it gets very interesting. He's a God who takes personal interest in people who could never repay him. It's not like God got a great deal when he got me or you. Wow! I really got a great deal when I got Pastor Josh, Pastor Joel, when I got Scott go through the list. No God got a broken, messed up person. Every single one of us. He puts up puts a lot. Notice what he says in verse 7. He raiseth up the poor out of the dust. He's describing a person who's completely destitute. They got nothing. And he lifts them up. Verses seven eight, this is a fascinating statement. He lifts up the needy out of the dung hill, that he may send him, set him with princes, even with the princes of his people. Anyone ever been to a dung hill? Do you know what a dung hill is? I have been to a dung hill. And you're all like, whoa, that's crazy. Okay, that's true, okay. I remember when we when we did baptisms, we lived in Ghana. One of the places that we did baptisms at the beginning of the time that the church was there was this area where we would go to the backside of this Village area, and there was a river that was flowing through there. We did baptisms in the river, and you had to walk past this mound of trash. It was not a nice place. Not a nice place. All kinds of trash. The plastic trash wasn't the bad trash, okay? It was a gross place. And you'd see like a goat digging around in there looking for something and you'd see some really mangy looking dogs. And they're digging around there. And then sometimes you'd even see a kid who was like walking around just kind of like digging in the trash looking for stuff. You say, really? Yeah. I mean there's people that live that way. All over the world. And so if you're going to a dunghill to look for stuff, what are you doing? You are so destitute that you're hoping you can find treasure in someone's trash. That's what you're doing. You can't talk about being more needy, picking through people's trash to find something that you can use and have value. And so here is this majestic, transcendent God who is holy and pure. And he goes down to people like that and he picks them up. Isn't that an amazing thing to think about? I mean, we don't even like want to get our hands dirty in certain situations. Like there's people that they won't even drive into Baltimore. Certainly not at night. I don't know that I'll do that, right? But that they don't even want to go into Baltimore and get their hands dirty in a situation. Yet here is God who is that He is that kind, He's that compassionate, He's that patient. He's that tender towards us. In verse 9, he says something very interesting. He says, He maketh the barren woman to keep house and to be a joyful mother of children. Praise ye the Lord. The woman who's been unable to bear her own children. And the fact is that when we talk about something like this, a verse like this can be very personal and very painful for some people. But if you've lived in the ancient world and you you look at the stories of of people like Hannah. And you see how Hannah was treated because she could not have children. Or you look at the situation of some of the other people in the Bible like Sarah. This was something that was very, very painful. What is he saying? Here is a person who has struggled in an area that has brought them much pain. And God reaches into that person's life and he lifts them up and he pours joy and strength into their lives. What is that? That is God taking personal interest in people that can't repay him. In fact, interestingly, this passage is parallel to two passages that we read, both one in the Old Testament, one in the New The first one is Hannah. Here is Hannah, a barren woman who was constantly harassed by another woman. I could have said her husband's other wife, because that's true. Okay. But she's harassed. Why? Because she can't have children. And then God intervenes on her behalf and it says this. It says, My heart rejoices in the Lord, mine horn is exalted. In the Lord, my mouth is enlarged over mine enemies, because I rejoice in thy salvation. There is none holy as the Lord. There is none beside thee, neither is there any rock like our God. The Lord maketh poor and maketh rich, he bringeth low and lifteth up, he raiseth up the poor out of the dust. Does that sound kind of similar to what we're reading here? He lifts up the beggar from the dunghill. Sounds very similar, doesn't it? To set them among princes, to make them inherit the throne of glory, for the pillars of the earth are the Lord's, and he has set the world upon them. What is she expressing? Praise to God. As someone who's experienced some of the hardest, most difficult heartaches of life, and God has reached personally into her life and lifted her up. We have another story, Mary in Luke chapter 1. She says, My soul doth magnify the Lord, my spirit hath rejoiced in God, my Savior. He hath regarded the lowest state of his handmaid. Behold, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed. He that is mighty hath done a great thing, and holy is his name, and his mercy is on them that fear him from generation to generation. He put down the mighty from their seats, exalted them of low degree, filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he hath sent empty away. He hath hope in his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy Here is Mary, a young woman in Nazareth, who would have never been known in human history had it not been that she was the mother of the Messiah. And so what do these things remind us? They remind us that this great God who made all things, is all-powerful, knows everything. He is majestic. He cares about us. That's really amazing. That's so comforting. Sixth and final truth. We need to learn from his compassionate care of his people. In these verses, he gives a bunch of examples. And those examples are primarily in Psalm 142. And remember that when they sang this this this this psalm, they would sing 113 and 114 before they would have their Passover meal and those things. And so they talk the Psalm 113 talks about how we need to praise God and bless God. It talks about his transcendence and it talks about his compassion. What does Psalm 114 do? It gives us examples that were directly pertinent to these festivals that they were celebrating. The Feast of Tabernacles. The Passover and Pentecost. So the first example was the plague and the Passover. Verse 1 of chapter, or Psalm 114, he says, Israel went out of Egypt. And Exodus 2. 23 says, The children of Israel sighed by reason of the bondage. And they cried, and their cry came out unto God by reason of the bondage, and God heard their groaning. Remembered his covenant with Abraham, with Isaac and Jacob, and God looked on the children of Israel and had respect unto them. His first example is here are these people, their slaves. They're crying out, and God delivers them with a mighty hand. A second example is what takes place at Mount Sinai in the Mosaic Covenant, verse 2. Judah was his sanctuary and Israel was his dominion. Now I want you to think about that word sanctuary and I want you to think about the word dominion and ask yourself, what is the significance of a sanctuary and of a dominion? What is the difference? What is the significance? I'm going to tell you in just a second, but I want to read to you what it says in Psalm or Exodus 19. And this is how Mount Sinai when God establishes his covenant, not just with Abraham, but now the nation of Israel. He says, You have seen what I did unto the Egyptians, how I bare you on eagle's wings and brought you unto myself. Now Therefore, if you will obey my voice and keep my covenant, then you shall be a peculiar treasure unto me above all people, for all the earth is mine And you shall be unto me a kingdom of priests and an holy nation. These are the words which thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel Now notice the statement, you will be a kingdom of priests. A kingdom is a realm. That people rule over. When we say that God is sovereign, what we really mean by that is he is the ultimate king over everything. Everything falls under his jurisdiction. Everyone is answerable to him. He is ultimately the one who's in charge. And when we use the word priest, we're talking about a place where God meets with people. The priest was a mediator between the people and between God. Now go back to that statement verse 2. He says, Judah is my sanctuary and Israel my dominion. Those two words are indicating something about how God dealt with these people. The sanctuary is the place where he dwells. Interestingly, do you know when the people are moving through the wilderness? That they were supposed to camp in a specific way. Each of the tribes had a unique part place in the camp that they were supposed to where they were supposed to be. And do you know where the center of the camp was? was? Who was in the center of the camp? You know where the center of the camp was. Do you know who camped in the center of the camp? God did. That's where they put the tabernacle. So when they were moving about, the tabernacle was set in the dead center of the camp, and all the people were camped around that. Why is that? Because God wanted to dwell amongst his people. The significance of we we we talked about the story just a couple of uh Sundays ago where they're bringing the Ark of the the the covenant back into Jerusalem. What what's the significance of that? That is the place where God met with his people. I mean he is he is an omnipresent God. He's not confined to the temple or the tabernacle or the mercy seat, but that is where he chose to interact personally. The Shekinah glory would be right over that box. God wanted to dwell amongst his people. Dominion. This is the place where he rules. He wanted to rule through his people. And that has been God's plan since the beginning. When he creates Adam, what does he say? He says, be fruitful, multiply, and have dominion over what I've created. Interesting. Why is that? Because that's what God created us for. To rule his creation, to take care of it. Third example: deliverance through the Red Sea. And verse 3 says, the sea saw it and it fled. I think it's kind of interesting actually that he mentions Sinai before he mentions The sea fall falling away. But he mentions the Red Sea and he mentions the Jordan basically back to back together in verse 3. Because these are two big events. One is when God finally removes the Egyptians from going after the Jews, and the other is when the people enter into the promised land. But in Exodus 14 it says, Israel saw the great work which the Lord did to the Egyptians, and the people feared the Lord and believed the Lord and his servant Moses. And the Lord and Moses, his servant , start a song where he says, The Lord is my strength and my song. He has become my salvation. He is my God. I will prepare him a habitation. The Lord is a man of war, the Lord is his name. Psalm 77, his way is in the sea, and thy path in the great waters. Thy footsteps are not known. Thou ledest thy people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron. So we see God's mercy. He delivers the people out of slavery. God establishes a covenant with them. God delivers them through the Red Sea, not from the Red Sea, through the Red Sea. And they cross into the over the over through the Jordan River to possess the promised land. Verse 3, Jordan was driven back. In Joshua 4, he says, Pass over before the ark of the Lord your God into the midst of Jordan and take ye up every man, a stone upon his shoulder, according to the number of the tribes That this may be a sign among you, when your children ask their fathers in time to come, What mean ye by these stones? And you shall answer: The waters of the Jordan were cut off before the Ark of the Covenant. of the Lord. When it passed over Jordan, the waters of Jordan were cut off. These stones shall be a memorial unto the children of Israel forever. When your children ask their fathers what mean these stones, you'll let them know: Israel came over this Jordan on dry land. The Lord your God dried up the waters of Jordan from before you until you passed Over, as he did with the Red Sea, that all the people of the earth might know the hand of the Lord, that it is mighty, and ye might fear the Lord your God forever. Isn't that amazing? Has anybody ever been to the Museum of the Bible? I've been there a whole bunch of times. If you go through that Old Testament story, there's a little section that you go through, and those are the stones. Okay? And it's to remind you that when the people crossed through the Jordan River, they took big boulders out of the river and they placed them in this massive heap. And anytime people came by, they would say, hey, what's that stuff? Is that a memorial or something? Yeah, our our forefathers. See that river right there? They went through it. Like they waded through it? No. On dry land. Nah, get out. See those big boulders? You know where they came from? They came from that river. Really? Yeah, that's what God did. Fifth example is that he provided water at Horeb and Kadesh. In verse 80 says, He turned the rock into standing water, the flints into a fountain of waters. Why do you remember these things? The fact is, part of being grateful is stopping. And reminding, rehearsing in your mind what God has done for you. And that's something we need to do. That's something we should do tonight. When we gather and we're praying together and we talk about our burdens and the requests are on this prayer sheet, you know what we should do? We should take some time to remember what God's done. I close with this final passage. I'm just going to read from Psalm 118, because this is how they would close their meal. O give thanks unto the Lord for He is good. His mercy endureth forever. Let Israel now say that his mercy endureth forever. Let the house of Aaron say that his mercy endureth forever. Let them now that fear the Lord say that his mercy endureth forever. I called upon the Lord in distress, and the Lord answered me, and set me in a large place. The Lord is on my side. I will not fear whatever. Man can do unto me. May God help us to be thankful people. Let's bow for prayer. Lord, thank you for your word. Thank you for these two psalms. There is so much for us to be grateful for. And so I pray that tonight we would set our hearts in such a way that we would be grateful and humbled before you. I pray that as we gather together with family and friends over the next several days, we would set our heart to be grateful and humble people. Lord, use your word to stir up our hearts, and may we walk in the light of your truth. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.