Well, good evening. Good to see each of you tonight and looking forward to a continuation of our study in the pastoral epistles. Let's go ahead. And bow together for a word of prayer, and then we will pick up on part three of 2 Timothy 2, verses 1 through 7. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, we're so grateful for the opportunity to sit under the ministry of your word. I pray that as we sit under this text of Scripture, that you would instruct us, and that you would humble us and that you'd encourage us As we think about how important it is as believers to walk in the grace that is provided for us, to give us the strength that we need, I pray that we would see this portrait of ministry strength. in the passage in front of us and that we would apply these truths to our lives. May we have a sweet time of fellowship tonight as we come together to pray, I pray that these requests would be brought into your presence with a very humbled And an encouraged heart as we think about the fact that you will answer in the very best way possible. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, 2 Timothy chapter 2 is the text we're in, and we're looking at verses 1 through 7. I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to read these verses again for us. Reminds you a couple of details from the last couple of weeks, and then we're going to pick up on number three. Second Timothy 2, verse 1. Thou therefore, my son, be strong. And the grace that is in Christ Jesus. And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men who shall be able to teach others also. Thou therefore endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No man that warreth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. And if a man also strive for masteries, yet is he not crowned except he strive lawfully The husbandman that laboreth must be first partakers of the fruits. Consider what I say, and the Lord give thee understanding in all things. Now I want to remind you of the simple purpose statement that we started with, and that is that Paul wrote this section of the letter to challenge Timothy to endure ministry hardship like a soldier. Like an athlete, like a farmer who would patiently endure while investing in future leaders One of the things that I've tried to emphasize each time we come to this text of Scripture is that when we talk about ministry strength, we need to think of ministry not just in terms of those who are in a pastoral role or missionaries or evangelists, but the fact is every single believer has an area that God has placed them in and they have ministry responsibilities. So even though we might look at the work that we do as a secular kind of vocation, that doesn't mean that there isn't a ministry capacity that's connected to the role that you are playing. Most certainly, the Bible has a lot to say about our roles within the home, as a husband to the wife, as a wife to her husband, as a dad to his children, even as children to their parents. those who are under the authority of masters or bosses in our culture, those who are in the position to actually lead. All of those areas could be classified as sacred duties, as areas of ministry. And so when we talk about Christian ministry, don't think exclusively in terms of the pastor. Think of any role that God puts a believer in. We also recognize that we're all responsible in some way to share the gospel with people, to call people to see the truths of the gospel, and to be humbled under God's law that shows them that they have zero hope. of eternity through their own righteousness and good deeds, and to call them to look to Jesus and to trust in what He's done for them on the cross and His resurrection and His righteousness. So when we talk about ministry and the strength that we need in ministry, that really encompasses every area of the Christian life. Now, the reason that Paul writes this section when it comes down to our practical responsibilities to God is that God wants us to be strong Christians who patiently fulfill our Christian duties. And so that's really what the text is driving toward. How can we be strong Christians? Now, the first thing that we talked about is the fact that if we're going to be strong Christians, We have to recognize that strength starts with humility. The way he puts it in verse 1 is he says, Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. Paul does not tell him to look within. He tells him to look up to Jesus. And God is going to give him the strength. the grace, undeserved favor on a daily basis to do the work that God's called him to do. So he says, look to God and let God be the one who strengthens us. Well, that takes humility. That takes us recognizing the strength is not found within us naturally, but it comes from outside of us, it comes from God. The second truth that we saw from these verses Is that strength is something that shapes people who are moldable. And as we are involved in that shaping people who are moldable, God strengthens us through that very process. Another way to put it is that God strengthens his children as they're involved in making disciples. So we talked a little bit about how we are energized and we are encouraged and we are strengthened when we are investing in people's lives. When you have a young Christian that you're teaching God's word and you're seeing them grow, when you see a person place their faith in Christ and you see the transformation that comes with new life in Christ, that encourages you It reminds you of the power of the gospel. And so we saw that those who are in leadership are to commit the things that they have heard among many witnesses. to faithful men who shall be able to teach others also. We spent a good bit of time talking about the concept of shaping the next generation of leaders. So now I'd like us to move on to truth number three, and this is where we're going to get into some of the illustrations that Paul is choosing to use to talk about the kind of strength that we need in ministry. The first illustration that he uses is an illustration that would have been very familiar to all of the people that lived in Rome and all around the Roman Empire. You know, we are not used to in our culture, at least not up until a couple weeks ago, we're not used to seeing soldiers in the streets. That's not something that we see in our culture. It's not something we see in our nature. It's not typical to see the military patrolling communities unless there's been some natural disaster, or maybe the National Guard has been called out to keep order and to keep stability in a place that's been devastated by a hurricane. But that's not the case for the people that Paul's writing to. Let's remember that all of these people lived in one of the most oppressive, one of the most powerful regimes in all of human history. They lived under the oppression of Roman rule. And so these people knew what it was like to see soldiers everywhere that they went. Everywhere they went they saw armed guards. They saw Roman legions patrolling around in the streets. They understood what it was like to be treated poorly, to be abused by soldiers. They understood what it meant to be a conquered people, to have to pay taxes to the Roman government, even though you were not a Roman citizen, but you were Jewish by ethnicity. They chased at Roman presence. Yet this is the very illustration that Paul chooses to use to talk about the kind of strength that we need as Christians. Paul chose to use an illustration that they knew very well, that they understood. And notice what he says in verses 3 and 4. He says, thou therefore endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No man that warreth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. This is a really interesting analogy that the Apostle Paul uses. He uses the analogy of a soldier. He says, if you're going to be a faithful Christian and you're going to fulfill your ministry duties, You have to be strong like a soldier. And so I want to talk for a moment about the importance of the illustration that Paul is using in this text Endure hardness as a good soldier. The image communicates that this is an issue of life and death If you're a soldier and you're going into the battle, you're going to kill and you're going to defend And you're going as a unit and your strength and your skill and your obedience and your willingness to follow the instructions of your superiors is going to determine whether or not you're able to accomplish the mission or not. He's talking about something that's a matter of life and death. Now, when we talk about the Christian life, we need to understand that the most important thing about the Christian life is not our physical life, but in fact it's the spiritual well-being of the people that we're working with You realize that when we're giving the gospel to people who are lost, there's a matter of eternity in the balances. It's a matter of eternity with God or eternity separated from God in hell, the lake of fire. The fact is, if we're not communicating the scriptures effectively, passionately, accurately, there is a matter of life and death forever in the balance by the way that we communicate truth. If we're living in a way that's inconsistent with our position in Christ, we compromise before other people that the message that we are portraying to them. We tell them that the gospel saves us from sin and that it gives us the power to walk in newness of life and it gives us strength in this life. But if they're watching our life and they see no evidence of the power of sin being broken. And they see no evidence of the strength and stability that we claim that we have, then what does it do? It causes them to doubt the power of the message. Yet on the same side, when we are faithful, when we are growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus, and people can see that our lives have been transformed by the gospel. And they cannot explain it any other way than that the gospel really does change people. And the gospel really does give us hope and strength and stability, all of a sudden the message comes to them in a way that grips their heart differently. We are functioning as light. Shedding light on the power of the truth. We're functioning as salt that God uses to begin to cause them to hunger and thirst to know the truth so that they can be saved. God uses us as instruments. God doesn't have to use us. He works in spite of us, but the fact is he uses us And so he talks about the illustration of war , the image of the soldier. A second thought is that the image communicates that there is a cause that's bigger than ourselves that's in the balances If you're a soldier, you don't go into battle for yourself. If you're a soldier, you're going into battle for your country. Or if you were a Roman for the Empire, the fact is that you are serving at the will of your superior officer, who ultimately is serving at the will of the commander-in-chief. And so when you're a soldier, you are working in something that's bigger than you. Think about those men, those young men. These are boys that were 18 years old, 19 years old, who are called on In June , June the 6th, on D-Day, they were called on to storm those beaches at Normandy. I can't imagine what it would have been like to be Eisenhower who made the call. We're sending all these boys. All these boys, 18, 19-year-old boys, these are young men that could have been in the youth group a year ago. We're gonna send them to those beaches and they're gonna get mowed down by the thousands. But they're going to sacrifice their lives so that the European continent can be preserved from what's going on in Nazi Germany. We're going to take back the continent from this oppressive, evil, wicked regime. What was this all about? People laid down their lives for a cause that was bigger than them. And that's what a soldier does. A soldier goes into battle not for himself. He goes into battle for the sake of the cause of the one who sent him there. The image communicates putting our lives in harm's way sacrificially for the defense of others. Those who go and serve this country, they are even willing to pay the ultimate price so that we have freedom. So that we can actually sit here today and we can sit under the ministry of the word and we don't have to worry about the kinds of things that would happen if this country and the freedoms that we had were lost. Those young men who fought in World War II and in World War I and those who are in the military today, they're willing to lay down their lives for the sake of the defense of this nation. And the fact is that these soldiers were willing to go into battle to lay down their lives to defend someone who was sending them into battle. But what I also think is very interesting about this illustration is it communicates a collective focus. It's communicating that you are just one soldier who's a part of a unit. I remember when we were going through Ephesians chapter 6 and we were talking about the the the shield of faith. We talked about the shield of faith. The shield of faith wasn't the small shield that you held, it was like your personal handheld shield. But it was something that was probably the size of one of those doors right there. And every single one of those soldiers would carry this massive shield and the shields would be locked together and they would move in a unit almost like a modern day tank. This is the way that they would go into battle. They would lock shields together and they would move forward and they would take ground as a unit. Every individual was important to the unit, not as an individual. And so the picture that Paul is using is that of one who is going into battle with others. I tell you, lots and lots of Christians believe they don't need the church. I know that for a fact. I've heard the sentiment. You know, it's all about me and my walk with God. Let me tell you, that is flawed thinking. It's not true. The picture that is used here is not you going into battle by yourself, but it's you locking shields with others, and you are moving under the leadership of the one who has sent you. It's a collective focus. And there is so much at stake. Notice some of the details that we find in these verses. First of all, the important importance of the allegiance. He says, we're to do it as a good soldier of who? Of Jesus Christ. We serve at the will of the Lord Jesus Christ. He's the master. He's the commander-in-chief. He's the king. He's the one who says, This is the place that I've placed you. These are the people you're to minister to. These are the people that you are supposed to grow together with in community. I have placed you there for a reason. Our allegiance is to Christ. And this is for the cause of the advance of his kingdom. It's not to build our own kingdoms. It's not to build our own reputations. You know, if you contrast what Paul is communicating to the way that the Pharisees thought, the way that Paul even himself thought before his conversion as one of the Pharisees, the reason that people did religious deeds as Pharisees was not for the sake of the cause of Christ. It was for the sake of helping people to know that they themselves were righteous. Why do you think the Pharisees used to stand on the street corners and they would pray loud prayers in the public? Why did they do that? It was about themselves. You think about the story of the publican and the Pharisee who went into the temple to pray. And the publican falls on his face and he says, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. And the Pharisee stands. And speaks with himself and he says, God, I thank you. I'm not like other men. Oh, by the way, like this publican down here. And here's all the things that I do. The difference between genuine Christianity and the thinking of someone who's thinking the way he's supposed to as a Christian, and the way that the world thinks as a religious organization is that the world system is about you. And the gospel is about him. We don't matter in the big picture. We matter to him. It's important. But the fact is that our interests fall to the side because it's about Him. And this warfare is weighed in an absolute allegiance to Christ. The second thing I want us to see is the importance of the focus. He says, no man that worreth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life. Now if you're a soldier and you're called to go into combat, guess what? You're not able to continue civilian pursuits You don't get to go into battle and say, oh, I'd like my wife to come with me. I'd like my kids to come with me. I'd like my friends to come hang out with me. You're focused on the battle. You're focused on your mission. All of those civilian pursuits are laid to the side. You are deployed, and you are under the commander-in-chief, and what he says you must do. The idea is that a person who's a soldier cannot be distracted, cannot be entangled with civilian pursuits. That's what the affairs of life mean. The things that most normal people get to do on a normal basis, if you're a soldier in combat, you don't get to do those things. You know it's so interesting, even in the ancient world, during the Old Testament era, when someone got married, when a young man got married, he didn't have to serve in the military for a whole year. You know why that was? It said it was to cheer his wife. But the idea was he was to start his life with family life before he went to fight for the nation. And that was even in the Mosaic Law. Because we understand that there's a big difference between civilian life and that of the soldier. You know, this kind of reminds me what I was talking about at the uh rescue mission last night. We were looking at the parable of the sower, and it said that some of the seed fell on the wayside and thorns and thistles grew up and it choked it out. And it was a picture of a person who the word of God is choked out by the deceitfulness of riches. And the lust of the flesh and the cares of life. The fact is that if you're a soldier, you cannot be distracted in the work that you're doing. Yet how many of us as Christians are deeply distracted? One of the greatest tragedies about sin Is sin takes our heart and it pulls us away from what is most valuable, what really matters in life. It captures our affections. And we begin to serve it, and it becomes the master rather than Christ. That is the great tragedy of sin, not just the terrible consequences of sinful behavior, but the consequences of being captured in our affections by the things of this world. Thirdly, the importance of motivation. He says it's that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. What should motivate the Christian to fulfill his duties? It's a love for Christ. It's a desire to please him. Now when he says a desire to please him, it's not in the sense that I'm earning God's favor. That's not what he's saying. He's not saying, oh, I want to stay in God's good graces. I'll give you a good analogy of this. It's like a person who has a spouse and they love their spouse. They love their husband, they love their wife, they love their children, they love the people that they're interacting with, They want to do what pleases that person because they care about them. They love them. It's not like, oh, I want my wife to continue to love me, so I gotta do these things to earn her favor. Or I gotta earn my husband's favor by doing these things. That's not the sense. The sense is out of love, you want to please. You want to do what they delight in. The idea is that as Christians, one of the things that strengthens us is we're really not concerned about what other people think. We're not concerned about how people will view us. We're concerned about what Jesus thinks. We're concerned about doing what honors him. And that is the sense that we find in this text, the illustration of being the soldier. There's a second illustration, and that's that of a strength that trains like an athlete. We're going to get into this a little bit. We may not actually get to this entire section, but I want you to notice the illustration that Paul uses as that of an athlete. He says in verse five, If a man also strive for masteries, yet is he not crowned except he strive lawfully. Now that word masteries is a very interesting word. The Greek word has the idea of athletic competition. So if a man is going to strive in athletics, he has to strive lawfully. And if he strives lawfully, he's going to be crowned in the end. That is the illustration that the Apostle Paul uses for our strength. And you know what's really interesting? There's a difference between the soldier who's a part of a team, a unit, and that of the athlete. Here are the kinds of athletics the kinds of games, the kinds of sports that Paul was referring to when he uses the term masteries. Sports like boxing. If you're stepping into the arena, guess who's there? You and your opponent. That's it. Wrestling. You step on the map. It's you and it's your opponent. When you talk about a foot race, that would be one of the examples. They're running a race that is fast. That one you're running alone against all these individuals. Another example is that of the pentathlon. We've watched the pentathlon when we come to the Olympics, and they have all these different events. They actually had that in the ancient world. They had another sport called Tancration. This was kind of like mixed martial arts. It was a very brutal sport. It was essentially a combination of boxing and a combination of wrestling. And they would go into the arena and they could punch and they could kick. There was hardly anything that was off limits in this kind of sport I want you to realize that that's the illustration that Paul uses. Paul uses the illustration of the boxer stepping into the arena and he's going to fight for the prize. He gives the illustration of the wrestler who's going to step onto the mat and he's going to grab his opponent and he's going to go for the prize. The person who's running a foot race, whether it's the long-distance marathon, whether it's the short-distance race, he uses those illustrations because those are wonderful illustrations about the nature of the Christian life. Let me give you just a small taste of some of the places that Paul uses the athletic analogy For instance, running a race. Acts 13, 25. He talks about John who fulfilled his course. The idea is he ran his race well and he finished victoriously. And he uses the analogy of the marathon. Acts chapter 20, verse 24. He says, None of these things move me, neither count I myself dear unto myself. So that I might finish my course with joy. He talks about the self-sacrifice and the discipline that is necessary for someone to finish the course that God has laid before him. And to finish it well. Romans 9 16 he says it's not of him that willeth, nor of him that runneth, but of God that showeth mercy It talks about how God is the one who strengthens and enables people. And if you finish your race well, you look and you realize God is the one who gave you the strength to do it. 1 Corinthians 9. 24, he says, Know you not that they which run in a race all run, but one receiveth the prize. So run that ye may obtain. Again, the illustration of the race. Galatians 5. 7, he says, ye did well run well, but who did hinder thee? That thou shouldest obey not the truth. Philippians 2:16, hold forth the word of life, that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain, neither labored in vain. And then I love this analogy in Hebrews 12. 1. He says, wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses Let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which dutch so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us. Now there's really two ways that you can look at this passage of scripture. You could look at it as you are the athlete who has stepped into the arena, and all these people are watching you as you step into the arena. Now in this analogy, he's running a race. Or you could look at it this way, and this is what I think he's actually saying. All of those people that ran before you, they should inspire you to run your race well. That's the sense that he's giving. And he gives all these illustrations. He talks about Moses and he talks about David. He talks about Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. He talks about the people that ran their races. Yes, they were flawed individuals. There were days that they stumbled, but they ran their race and they finished their course. They were faithful. He says, be like that. I remember when I was in high school, my coach was, he was an Olympian. He wrestled in the Olympics twice. And when you walked into our wrestling room, our wrestling room was different than any other high school's room. Because when you walked in, you had all these pictures of Olympic athletes. Like there was my coach when he was like 25. And the guy was he was incredible. And it's him and his brother, and they're standing there. He's got a picture of him with some of the the former Olympic athletes who were on the Greco and Freestyle teams. He had all these different different athletes and he had these inspirational quotes and he talked about these people. He talked about what it was like to be in Munich and he talked about what it was like to be in Mexico City and talked about what it was like to wrestle a Soviet during the Cold War era. That was really fascinating. Why did he do that? He wanted to inspire us. He wants us to be the best that we could be. He'd say train like a champion. He had this funny little picture on the wall And in this picture, there was a great blue heron. And the great blue heron was trying to eat a frog. And so the frog was in the heron's mouth And the frog grabbed the neck of the great blue heron and the quote says, Never give up. And the idea was, don't quit. Why did he do that? Because he wanted us to train heart so that we could be victorious in in our athletics. You realize that's the sense that Paul is trying to press on Christians. That the Christian life is hard. The Christian life takes discipline. The Christian life takes labor. The Christian life is going to involve a perseverance, bearing under loads. And he says, there are other Christians who have gone before you. They were flawed people just like you are, but they didn't quit. When they fell down and they stumbled, they got back up. God always gave them the strength that they needed to finish their course, and they did it. He uses other illustrations like boxing and wrestling. 2 Timothy 4:7, I fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I've kept the faith. He used the illustration of the boxer. The illustration of the runner, Ephesians 6, 11, we wrestle not against flesh and blood, that of the wrestling match. And in 1 Corinthians 9, verse 26, he says I therefore so run not as uncertain, so fight I not as one that beateth the air, but I keep my body and bring it into subjection, lest by any means, when I have preached to others, I myself should be a castaway. Now I'm not going to get any further into this discussion on this analogy that Paul uses, but I want you to see the analogy. I want to talk a little bit next week, Lord Welling, about the nature of it and why it's such an important analogy. But I want you to realize the Christian life is like a race. It's like a match. It's like a battle. These are analogies that tell us that the Christian life involves struggle. It involves hardship. You might say, well, Pastor, why is this practical and significant and helpful to me today? I will tell you that one of the reasons that Christians get discouraged is because they don't realize that the Christian life is a battle. They don't realize that the Christian life does involve a struggle. They're not mentally prepared for that thing. When they face temptation, the reason that they crumble is because they think other Christians don't face the same kinds of temptations that I'm facing They expect God to give them this easy road, and they don't realize that there's a training process, and God matures us, and he shapes us and he molds us in the midst of this process. And sometimes half of the battle is understanding it is a battle. It's kind of like you step into the arena and the you know the guy's playing football and he's gonna cat uh throw the ball and He's kind of real stiff and he's not really playing well and all of a sudden he gets sacked, he gets crushed. And when he gets back up, it's like all of a sudden, all right, we're really the game now. It's time to start playing. And when he gets that first hit Now he's ready to compete. The fact is that in the Christian life, sometimes we just need to realize that there's a struggle. And we need to realize that that's the way the Christian life actually works. It also is a help because it helps us to recognize that there are disciplines that we have to actually develop. Spiritual disciplines, just like the athlete trains, we have to begin to develop disciplines. We've been talking about the men with our men's meeting. We talked about reading the Bible. You know what? It takes a lot of discipline to get up early and to read the Bible. To actually think about what you're reading, to actually jot it down and reflect on it throughout the day, it takes discipline. It takes discipline to learn how to pay attention in a sermon. Some pastors are harder to follow than others. I hope I'm not too hard to follow. But the fact is, it takes discipline. You have to learn how to sit still when you're a child, and you know it as you get older, you don't have to learn how to sit still, you have to learn how to stay awake. You have to learn how to focus your attention. You know, it's like someone who hasn't been in school for 20 years and they go back, and all of a sudden they realize it's hard to sit in a class. It's hard to take notes. It's hard to read. It's hard to do these things. It takes discipline. The fact is that the Christian life involves that discipline. We need to learn to establish disciplines like the athlete. We need to recognize we're in a battle. We're in a combative kind of situation, like the boxing match, like the wrestling match. We need endurance like the runner. And so I want to encourage you this evening, draw strength from God in the midst of the battle. Draw strength from the Lord in the midst of your race. Recognize that you desperately need God to help you to develop disciplines. And that is what God wants us to do. He wants us to be faithful, like these illustrations that he's using. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and then we'll have our prayer time. Father, thank you so much for the opportunity to think about these truths. These are wonderful analogies. The athlete, the soldier, the runner, the boxer, the wrestler. The disciplines that are needed, a willingness to suffer, a willingness to endure, a willingness to be a part of a cause that's greater than ourselves. A willingness to serve and to lay aside our rights for the sake of others. Father, help us to be those kinds of Christians. Help us to be strong, ministry -minded servants of Christ. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.