Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our morning service and uh if you were able to join us yesterday, we had a wonderful uh wedding here and it was beautiful and thank you thankful for the Lord's blessing on that. I know that uh they weren't anticipating a tropical storm, which we're still dealing with, but as someone who grew up in Florida, uh it's not even a hurricane, so It's hard for me to take it seriously. But anyway , we want to welcome you to our morning service. It's good to see each of you. I have a couple of announcements and then we'll open up our service in prayer. Good morning. Hoping everyone's saying dry as Pastor was saying. This Friday we have a teen activity. It is going to be from 7 to 9. It's jugby. Um come out and find out what that is. And then starting next Sunday, as exciting as it is, we have uh missions month starting. So we're gonna be talking about God's plan, our privilege, and just the exciting parts of looking and having some of our missionaries in over the next month. Really want to encourage you guys to come out the month of October. Pastor Josh? Our opening scripture reading is found in Psalm 143, and we will start in verse 5. I remember the days of old. I meditate on all thy works. I muse on the work of thy hands. I stretch forth my hands unto thee. My soul thirsteth after thee as a thirsty land. Selah Hear me speedily, O Lord, my spirit faileth. Hide not thy face from me, lest I be like unto them that go down into the pit. Cause me to hear thy loving kindness in the morning, for in thee do I trust. Cause me to know the way wherein I should walk. For I lift up my soul unto thee. Our theme for worship today is let's purpose to have a well-ordered prayer life. Ask the Lord's blessing on our service and uh welcome those who have joined us by the live on the live stream this morning. Let's pray. Father, we're so very grateful to be able to gather together this morning. We recognize that it is a great privilege, first of all, to be called your children. It's a great privilege to be able to have the Word of God laid before us this morning. And so I pray that as the scriptures are preached, that you would open our understanding, that the Holy Spirit would take these truths and press them deeply upon our hearts. I pray for those who are not able to be with us today, whether they're out of the area or whether they're sick and not able to physically be here because of health. I pray that your hand would uphold and strengthen them. Father, please be with this young couple who just got married yesterday. Thank you for your work in their lives, and I pray that you will bless them as they start their new life together. Father, we pray that your hands would be at work in our lives today. Uphold and strengthen us. Bless our fellowship together, and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning. Thanks so much for joining us for worship here at Anchor Baptist Church. Please stand with me. Open your hymn books to hymn number 26 Hymn number twenty-six, Praise to the Lord the Almighty, will sing all four verses. Ramelic R And back to him number fourteen, worthy of praise. Number fourteen, we'll sing both verses. Malay live Next thing is raised for my feelings on my two my commands and it's not just Great singing. Please be seated as we turn over to hymn number 38. How great thou art. Hymn number 38 will sing all four verses. I think the world and water 's play my long I speak on the birth is great and And then I didn't really uh controller will open them up and video in that time. But as you clear the one I can't talk about. He went on to take away my friend, to let 's take my soul for my dream of I'll pray now for me to be a prayer. With Christ of God, with the baby so itself. Then I shall die side, and there will be my God Great singing this morning. Our scripture reading will be found in the Gospel of Luke. The Gospel of Luke chapter eleven. Luke chapter eleven. We'll be reading the first four verses of Luke chapter eleven. The scriptures say, and it came to pass that, as he was praying in a certain place , When he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him, Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples. And he said unto them, When ye pray, say, Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, as in earth, as in heaven, so in earth. Give us day by day our daily bread. And forgive us our sins, for we also forgive every one that is indebted to us, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. May the Lord add a blessing to the reading of His Word. All right, let's continue our singing this morning. We'll turn over to hymn number four hundred eighteen. Trust and obey. We're going to sing the first, third, fourth, and fifth verse of this song. 418 in your hymn book, Trust and Obey. When we walk with not all In the morning on the God But I want to be fair. Do I come on the day? Great singing. Our last song before the sermon will be found in our blue book, number 24. In our blue book, You Are Always Good. Please stand with me as we sing all three verses of You Are Always Good. Every club on my life, always see my best , every time, when you're made when they look like my best you spend you every day. I can see my face , in my strength , My brain is so small, still it is you hold my hand and you hear my glory. Yeah, Great singing, please be seated. My drink and ball, Sri Lanka Tandar Sodra Had been under First things who find he forgiveness when they go to the bottom of Shrink from his well and my mercy forever. No need to mark for your closure. Healing forgiving, glory, glory , honest on birthday. Oh my god , but We really want Going from the mountain to all place on a show Yeah , Lady, hey , near the baby. But you understand for you for the one loving thing. Sorry , the richness for the break nothing to like for your poor. Will we raise we need for giving following the way the day? I consult me. Our children who are junior church age can be dismissed to the back for their class. And the rest of you, I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles and let's all turn to the book of Luke. We're in Luke chapter 11 this morning and a fountain of mercy. What a wonderful, beautiful picture of how God just strengthens and nourishes us in times when we desperately, desperately need that. Luke chapter 11, we'll read verses 1 through four together. And over the next several uh times we're looking in this section of Luke, there's going to be some overlap between what we're talking about here and what we'll be looking at in the Sermon on the Mount. But don't worry, we won't get to the Sermon on the Mount section. for a little while so the overlap will not be at the same time. But uh today as we look at the Lord's Prayer, rather than handling it the way that I'm going to do when we are dealing with the Sermon on the Mount, where I'm just taking one piece And it'll be a sermon, and then another piece, it'll be a sermon. Because this is a more condensed presentation of the Lord's Prayer, we're going to look at it as a whole. Here's what it says. And it came to pass that as he was praying in a certain place, when he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him, Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples. He said unto them, When ye pray say, Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done, as in heaven, so in earth Give us day by day our daily bread and forgive us our sins, for we also forgive everyone that is indebted to us. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil I'd like to take a moment to just ask the Lord to help us to understand this very, very important text of Scripture. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, as we open the Word of God this morning, I pray that the Spirit of God would take the Word and really use it in our hearts. Help me to communicate this text with clarity. Help the things that are presented to be tools that you use to help shape our worldview. So that when we come into your presence, we would come into your presence in the way that Jesus says Christians ought to think about their God. We ask all of this in Jesus' name. Amen. You know, when we talk about a topic like prayer, I think it's important for us to recognize that God does not answer our prayers because of the formality in which we come into his presence. In fact, this is something that we're going to see really played out as we work through this passage of Scripture. I don't think that anyone, as we read this passage of Scripture, should walk away saying, okay. Here's the four or the five points, and I have to dot my I's and cross my T's, and then if I do that, then I know that God will hear my prayer and God will respond to me. The simple fact is that when our children are in their junior church classes and our kids are in their Sunday school classes and they pray It is true that God hears their prayer just as much as he hears my prayer. I think sometimes people think, well, if I can have the pastor Pray for me, then I know God will hear the pastor's prayer. But if I asked my husband to pray, I know that God would not hear his prayer. Or if I was to ask my children to pray for me, of s of course He would not hear their prayer. That's not the way that we should approach prayer. I think it's great for us to ask others to pray with us in matters But the fact is, God doesn't answer our prayer because of the perfect mode in which we've come into his presence. He doesn't answer our prayer because of the length of the words or the depth of the theology that motivates our prayer life. Or because of how long we've been a Christian or the status that people think that we have, and the word think is the important word there. God answers our prayer because he's good. It's really that simple. He answers our prayer because he loves us. And so the intent of this text is not to say, here's the formula. If you get it, then you have this immediate access to answered prayer. I really think that the intent of the text in front of us is to say that matured Christians should approach God with these simple elements shaping the way they come into the presence of God. And so that's the way that I'm going to approach the passage in front of us. Christ's simple teaching on prayer gives us a healthy framework to shape how we approach one of the most important parts of our walk with God. He wants us to have a properly ordered prayer life. And I think that as healthy Christians we should desire that all the things that we see in this prayer are indeed shaping our worldview So first of all, I want to mention a couple of things in introduction. We know that prayer is an essential part of a healthy Christian life. Luke 18, 1 Men ought always to pray and not to faint. 1 Thessalonians 5, 16, pray without ceasing and everything give thanks. This is the will of God. We know that we're supposed to be a praying people. And sometimes people say, well, is prayer just me going to God and whining about all the things that I want? And the answer is no, that's not what prayer is. Is prayer me going into the presence of God and demanding all the things that I want? And the answer is no, that is not what prayer is. In fact, there are lots and lots of different kinds of prayers recorded in the Bible. I'm not going to be able to go through all the different kinds of prayers, but I want to give you just a little bit of a sense of these things. First of all, there's a prayer of adoration. First Christ Chronicles 29 says this, Blessed be thou , Lord God of Israel, our Father, forever and ever. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty. Do you get the sense that as David is praying in such a way, he is praying and just saying, God, I'm overwhelmed at how amazing a God you are. Isn't that the sense of that? Another example is people that are really not even truly gathered in their thoughts. And I think that this is how a lot of us actually pray. The truth is when we're very troubled about something inside, we kind of talk through it in our head. Anybody ever been there? You know, there are some people that they process everything. And then they tell you what they're thinking. And there are others that they process as they talk through this issue. And David actually prayed in such a way. Listen to what it says in Psalm 42. My tears have been my meat day and night, while they continually say unto me, Where is thy God? When I remember these things, I pour out my soul in me. I had gone with the multitude, I went with them to the house of God with a voice of joy and praise and a multitude that kept holy days. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him who is the help of my countenance. O my God, my soul is cast down within me, therefore will I remember thee. What you can see in that prayer of David is that David is talking to himself. David is talking to God, and then he's talking to himself, and then he's talking to God, and in many ways he is processing a very complex situation. And so it's not like David just sits down and he prays this clean and profound prayer, like we saw in the first example. Prayer can also just simply be communion with God, talking with God. When the Bible says that we're to in everything we're to pray without ceasing, I think that this is really the sense in which we're supposed to pray. We're supposed to continually be in this disposition between us and the Lord where we just talk to him about what's going on in our day. We talk to him about our burdens, we talk to him about our cares, we talk to him about our joys, we talk to him about our needs, we talk to him about the burdens and the needs of other people. And we see in Psalm 143, this is the text that we read at the opening of the scripture, I remember the days of old, I meditate on all thy works. I muse on the work of thy hands, I stretch forth my hand unto thee, my soul thirsteth after thee. Cause me to hear thy loving kindness in the morning. And thee do I trust. Cause me to know the way wherein I should walk. I lift up my soul unto thee. When I read these verses, what I'm seeing here is that David is just communing with God. He's talking to the Lord. It's like it's a regular part of his daily life. Not just, okay, I got my prayer time. I gotta get everything set out. I gotta write this down and I gotta say these right words to God. That's not the way David's doing this. He's just talking to God. It's a natural thing. And the same way that you commune with a person that you are very close to, this is how David is speaking to God. And then we see examples of great desperation. Psalm 86. Be merciful unto me, O Lord. I cry unto thee daily. Rejoice the soul of thy servant. Unto thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul. What's the point of this? The point is that there are all kinds of different ways we can pray to God. But We ought to have an informed disposition when we come into his presence. That's really the point. And that's what we're going to look at this morning. No matter what kind of prayer We're offering to God. There are five simple elements that are laid out in these verses that Jesus gives his disciples that should shape the way that we pray. And so, excuse me. The first element is that we are to remember that we are going to our Father. I love this statement The very first thing that Jesus said when asked, how should we pray, was not remember that you're talking to the God who created the world. Now, it's true. He's the God who created the worlds. But before he talks of his authority, he talks about the relational right to enter the presence of God. And so he says in verse 1, when ye pray, say, our Father which art in heaven. And there's two pieces to this. There's a relational side to this, and then there's a little bit of a balance so that when we look at the relationship, we don't treat it casually. So we see the relational side. Before he talks about power and authority, he reminds them of relationship as children. Psalm 103 Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. He knoweth our frame. He remembereth we our dust. The mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him. Now one of my children had a birthday yesterday. Little Lydia. And she was so excited, you know, to have a wedding on her birthday, and it was just a really big thing. But you know, there's something about when you see the the way that your little child's eyes just light up at some of the things that we as adults just kind of like, we just like blow right through. Little kids, they they savor those moments, they cherish those moments, they light up in those moments. And the fact is that when we look at our children, And we see how they respond in those moments. Those are one of the ways that God reminds us that we need to sometimes pause and slow down in life and enjoy what's in front of us. When we go to the presence of God, we're going to our Father. There. And the fact is that if God was just a God of power, but you and I had no access to his presence, then talking about this in prayer would almost be meaningless. In some ways it would almost be as if God was taunting us, saying, I have all this power in the world, but you don't have access to me, so I'm sorry. So where does he start? He starts with relationship. We have relationship with God. And in Ephesians 2. 18 it says we have access by one Spirit unto the Father. Not just the Father as in the third person of the Trinity, but we have access to the Father who is our Father. Think about that for a minute. It's interesting how later on, when Jesus talks about this in the Matthew text, in Matthew 7, he talks about how we're supposed to pray. And he contrasts the way that a pagan views deities and the way that a believer is supposed to view God himself. And in verse 9 of chapter 7, he says What man is there of you? If his son ask bread, will he give him a stone? Or if he ask fish, will he give him a serpent? If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children , How much more shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him? What's Jesus saying? He's saying, when you pray, you are going to your father. And not only are you going to your father, but he's good. He knows what you need. He likes to take care of you. He feels the weight of the responsibility of caring for his children, and that should shape how you go into his presence. But then there's a balance to this as well. And the balance is this. Though he is our father, he is not our peer. And there is a sense in which some people today have such a careless and casual view of God that they treat him as if he's just an ordinary person that they interact with in their daily lives. In fact, this Carelessness and casualness , it is something that's just all over our society. This week there was a story in the news about the Senate deciding that uh there are no longer going to be rules not for uh those who work for senators but the senators themselves And when they decided to change the rules that have stood for yes, several hundred years, one of our sen not thankfully not our senator, but He was he was your senator, Pastor Josh, at one time. He decided to come in uh gym shorts and uh a nice hoodie and uh do the work of Congress. You know what that tells me? That's a man who has no sense. I could just stop there, but no sense of. He has no sense of the weight of God. Government. Just no sense of the weight of government. You realize world leaders are gonna meet with that mindset. But here's the simple fact. It's bad in the Senate. There are a lot of people that that's how they look at God. They look at God as simply appear. And so there is this dear relationship, but he's our Father in heaven. And we need to recognize his authority. And we need to recognize the power that is there. So though he is our father, we shouldn't view him as a peer, someone that we can approach casually, someone that we can push around, someone that we can manipulate. And by the way, this is so very different than the way that those of pagan cultures of past, and I would say, and of cur of present, have viewed their deities. In Matthew 6, 7 it says, When ye pray, use not vain repetitions as the heathen do. They think that they shall be heard of their much speaking. Be not ye therefore like unto them, for your father knoweth what things you have need of before you ask him. He's saying, you know, people that don't understand God as he is, they think that they can twist his arm. They can manipulate him. They can they can push him around like they push another person around. Because they view him as a peer. You say that's not the way that prayer works. When you go into God's presence, he loves you. He has compassion towards you. But he knows better than you do. And there's a balance there. The second thing we're going to see is that we should long for his glory, not our glory. God is not a genie in the bottle that just gives us the things that we want. And if God were to do that, I would say that he would not be good, because most of the things that people tend to ask God for. Especially if they're not a matured Christian who understands the Bible and it's shaping their worldview, the average thing that a person would ask an all-powerful God to give them would be things that would ultimately destroy them. Would not be for their ultimate good. And so in verse number two, he says, Hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done, as in heaven. So in earth. And there's three important pieces to the statement that we read in verse number two. He talks about his name, he talks about his kingdom, and he talks about his will. And so when he talks about his name, he says that his name is to be hallowed. The idea is that the name of God is a name that should be reverenced, treated as set apart and holy to God. Now, if you're thinking about the entirety of Scripture, you go, well, that sounds a lot like what it says in the Ten Commandments in Exodus 20, verse 7, where it says, Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. And if you're thinking that way, then that's exactly the case. When he says, Don't take the name of the Lord thy God in vain, I don't believe he's thinking in uh primarily of how we speak Speak of the name of God, though this would certainly be a part of it. But he was writing to a Jewish people whose identity was rooted in the God of Israel. They were a covenanted people with God. And so when they went into a Gentile community and they treated lightly their association with the God of Israel, you know what they were doing? They were taking the name of the Lord their God in vain. They treated that association as if it was meaningless and it had no value In the same way that a Christian could go into the workplace and tell people, yeah, I'm a Christian, but they're just as dishonest as the other people that they work with. They're just as licentious as the people that they work with. They do not follow a different set of values and standards, and their worldview seems to almost look no different, but they're unashamedly saying, I'm a Christian. That is taking the name of the Lord your God in vain. And so when he says, pray, hallowed be thy name, he's saying, before you pray, realize he's your father, and realize that it's his name. And his glory that should be foremost on your mind. My desire should fall under those greater desires. The second thing he mentions is his kingdom. And when he says, Thy kingdom come, really there's debate about what he means by this Is he talking about the fact that he wants the gospel to go forward so that the kingdom expands? And the answer is, very well, that may be what he's saying. In John chapter 3, verse 3, it says, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Every time a person opens opens up the Word of God and says, Here's what the law of God says, and you fall short of it And here is Christ, the perfect Son of God, who came and he died for your sins, and he rose from the dead. Your sin debt was placed on his shoulders. And he was punished so that you could be freed and forgiven and declared righteous. And a person says, I believe, and they place their faith in the finished work of Christ. Every time that happens, the kingdom of God expands. The fact is there's there's one person who's going to be the last person who is saved I don't know if that's in our lifetime. I don't know if that's a thousand years from now, but there's somebody who's going to be the last person who embraces the gospel. Before the end. And so when he says thy kingdom come, I would have to say that that would be part of what he means by that. But another aspect to this is that a person is longing to see the kingdom of God established forever. Matthew 6, verse 33 says, Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. Anybody ever looked at the world around them and said, Man, I sure think I'd like to be in heaven instead of deal with this mess. I I know some people are laughing and some people are groaning. And the the simple fact is, yes, I think we sometimes feel that way. What we really need to say is, God, I long for your kingdom, but I'm going to be faithful until you say it's time. But that is part of this prayer. We desire his name to be reverenced. We desire his kingdom to come. And we desire his will to be done. It says, thy will be done as in heaven, so in earth. Now ask this question. In the presence of God, are the angels saying, I know this is what you want me to do, but I'm not going to do it? The answer is no. They are submitting to the will of their creator in every single way. And so in this prayer, he's saying, in the same way, that there is that kind of obedience. I desire that that's what I would see around me. We want his moral will to be accomplished. When we see evil triumphing in the world, we long for God to resolve those evils in justice. We pray that God will be the one who accomplishes this work in people 's lives. That's what we desire. The third element we see in these verses is that we remember that we are dependents. And verse number three says: give us day by day our daily bread. I think this is a fascinating statement. And I know that today I'm not going to break it down in great detail. There'll be a day down the road in our Wednesday night series on the Sermon on the Mount. We're going to talk about this statement, and it's not just going to be a little piece of a message, but it's going to be an entire message that we meditate on together. But there are a couple of little pieces to this statement. Give us day by day our daily bread. The first piece is that it's telling you that we are dependent people. The idea is that if God didn't give us the minds that could think clearly, we wouldn't be able to do the work that we need to do to eat the food that sustains us. If God didn't give us the physical strength to be able to do the work that we need to do so that we can feed ourselves, we wouldn't be able to do it. So we're talking about the mental abilities we have. We're talking about the physical strength that we have. We're talking about good health. We're talking about opportunities. All of these things are encapsulated in the concept. Give us day by day our daily bread. And what it tells us Is that if it's not for the good hand of God that is sustaining us and strengthening us, we're in huge trouble Reminds me of James chapter 4, verse 14, where James writes about people who were presumptuous in their mindset as they went to go do business. They said, we're going to go into such and such a city, we're going to buy, we're going to sell, we're going to get gain. It reminds me of a man who Jesus talked about who brought in these massive And he said, I'm going to tear down my old barns. I'm going to build back better barns. And I'm going to fill them and I'm going to sit back and I'm going to enjoy the rest of my life because I am a man who is prosperous. And sadly, he did enjoy the rest of his life. It wasn't years, it was ours. And so in James 4, he says, What is your life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time and then vanisheth away. I always get excited when it gets cold enough that you can see your breath in the air. Did you know that yesterday you could I could see my breath in the air? I think it was because of the humidity, not how cool it was. But that's what our lives are like. You see this breath, and it's gone. It's really sad, but it's true. Some of the most amazing people who have ever lived on this planet The vast majority of the six billion plus people that live on this planet, they don't know anything about them. They don't know their names. from their lives. They haven't learned any lessons from their lives. Yet they were some of the wisest, some of the strongest, some of the most influential people of their generation. It's sad, but it's true. The vast majority of the people in this room don't even know the name of their great-grandfather. Great grandfather. It's true. You don't know his name, you don't know where he came from, you don't know anything about what he did or what he didn't do. You don't know his strengths, you don't know his weaknesses. That would be the vast majority of the people in this room right now wouldn't even know who the person was. Unless you do the like DNA thing or whatever. Then then you might, you know, know the name or whatever. But that's what our lives are like. It's a vapor, it appears for a little time and vanishes away. He says, you ought to say, if the Lord will, we shall live and do this. I'm reminded one of the benefits of being a pastor is it's this is both a bitter and a sweet thing. Is that when people , as they get older and they become weaker and they have sickness, I have the opportunity to go and to visit them and to encourage them. But it's also a very sobering thing. It's also a very sad thing. So many people, you go and you visit them in the hospital, you go and visit them in a rehab facility. And if you'd have seen them 40 years before, they would have been strong and fit and vibrant people. But by the time they get into that position, guess what? They're all the same. They're all mentally the same. They're all physically the same. That happens to all of us. Ecclesiastes talks about this. That when we are young, we should live very soberly because the evil day is going to come. And we need to be prepared for this. And one of the things that God does is God allows us when we are strong and when we are young and we are vibrant and we are prosperous, sometimes he just allows the curtain to get pulled back just a little bit through an illness. or through some disappointment in our lives or through something sudden that shakes us, he does that so that we will be reminded we're a dependent, so we'll live wisely as dependents. That's really at the heart of being someone who prays. We're saying to God, I need God's strengthen. The second piece to this is that we have needs that only He can meet. The fact is, there are some things in this world that it doesn't matter how much money you have. You could be the wealthiest person on the planet. It will not keep you from dying. It may not keep you from dying in a very tragic and a very painful and a very humiliating way. You could be the wisest person, you could be the strongest person, you could have a position of tremendous authority. These things have no ability to keep you from certain things. And so in this passage, we're reminded that there are certain things that only God can give, certain things that only God can sustain. And Psalm 136, verse 23, he says, He remembered us in our low estate. He giveth us food to all flesh. His mercy endureth forever. When we pray, we need to remember we are dependents. We are dependent upon Him. He's the only one that can meet certain needs. And we need to be reminded that this is a day-by-day thing. He says, give us day by day our daily bread. This is a conversation that I've had many times with people. And they look at a person and they say, I don't know if I have the strength to do what they are doing. And the thing that I have to always go back to is, well, you don't need that right now. But if you find yourself in that place someday, God will by all means give you the grace at that moment. To endure what you will be enduring. The reason for that is that God doesn't give us all the strength today and say, all right, just live the rest of your life off of this, and I hope you make it to the end. This is not a battery that gets charged and then it just drains over the course of our lives. It's a relationship. We walk with God. He strengthens us today for the things we encounter today. He strengthens us tomorrow for the things we're encountering in that day. And he does this day after day after day, and one day he says, all right, this was the last day of the grace. Now you're coming to glory. That's what he does. And so we see this third element, we're dependence. The fourth element, we need to be sensitive to the struggle that we have with sin. In verse number four, he says, forgive us our sins, for we also forgive everyone that is indebted to us. Now, I've I've made a statement about this as I've been going through the Sermon on the Mount Passive, when he says, for we also forgive everyone that is indebted to us, it's not his way of saying, okay, if you want God's forgiveness then the way that you earn it is by forgiving other people. That's not what he's saying. What he's basically saying is this a forgiven person has a certain quality about them. And that quality that encapsulates that person is something that comes because they understand I've been forgiven. It shapes how they view other people. And so he basically is saying this. The person that has trusted Christ thinks about forgiveness a certain way, and so he's dealing with it in that sort of a sense. I'll flesh this out in greater detail. at another time. And we've even talked about this in the Sermon on the Mount. But I don't want you when you read that to think, okay, A plus B equals C. So I know that if I forgive somebody, then I know I've earned the right to be forgiven by God. Technically speaking, you're already forgiven. He's not talking about a judicial matter here at all. So you say, well, what exactly is he talking about when he mentions this issue of forgiveness and indebtedness and all those things? Well, the first thing is this. Our sin is something that affects communion, fellowship. Now we understand this in our human relationships. You know, think about uh our children here. We'll say that one of the kids does something that's wrong, they uh come upstairs to talk to mom or dad, and they start telling a story, and when they start telling a story, you could just you could just sense in their spirit something's wrong. not right. You know what that alerts you to? They feel guilty about something. They don't feel right about something. Say, well why is that? Well because they have a conscience. And that conscience is kind of coming out in their demeanor, or it gets really quiet. You're like, hey, I haven't seen so-and-so in a while. I wonder what's going on. And you realize they're like hiding somewhere. They're trying to clean something up. Why why do people do that? Well, because when we sin against other people, in our conscience we know something's not right. We don't fellowship with people. We want to withdraw from people when there's something between us, or when something comes between us and another person. The simple fact is that there comes a point where you say, okay. We've got to clear the air. There's something that's happened here. We need to speak honestly about it, resolve the issue, and then we move on. Doesn't mean that the relationship you have as a father to a child or something like that. Like that is broken, that you're no longer a father to this person. They're no longer your your parent. But what it does mean is that the communication between you, it is strained and it is broken. And the point is that our sin affects communion. In 1 Peter 3, verse 7. This is a fascinating passage. It says this. It says, husbands dwell with them, your wife, according to knowledge, giving honor unto the wife as unto the equal vessel or weaker vessel, and as being heirs together the grace of life. And the next statement is fascinating. He says that your prayers be not hindered. Catch that. Why did Peter say that? Why did the Holy Spirit move Peter to write, that your prayers be not hindered? Well, it's because When a man does not treat his wife right, well we could reverse and say, when a wife doesn't treat her husband right, guess what? You go to God and you say, God, I have this great need, and he says, Well, why don't you address some issues between you and your wife first? Now, why is he doing that? Because sin affects our communion. Sin affects our willingness to pray. You know, a lot of people won't get on their knees because there's something in their conscience that keeps them from doing it. Or the fact is they really don't want God to act in a certain way because it might go against what they really desire. Sin affects the kinds of things we pray for. I've listened to people who were bitter. And the way that they prayed about a relative, someone who had wronged them. I'll tell you what, man, that's pretty dicey. You say, why? Well, because bitterness blinds you to the way that you should look about things. It affects the attitude in which we pray It affects how God responds to our prayer. And this is an undeniable part of the prayer issue here. When a person comes to the Lord in prayer, they should be coming with a heart that is clean. Not sinless. Okay? We have blind spots in our lives. But when we know there's something between us and another person, or between us and our Father in heaven, We're hypocrites to walk into his presence and say, Give me this. Jesus even says this in the Matthew account. He talks about if you have a gift that you're about to give at the altar and you know that there's something between your brother Leave the gift there, go and resolve the issue with your brother, and then come back and give your gift. What's his point? Sin affects fellowship. And so there's a few pieces to this. One is that we should be a conscientious people. We care about sin even though we are forgiven and redeemed. It's like what it says in Romans 6. How shall we that are dead to sin live any longer therein? Secondly, we recognize that sin affects our fellowship with others. Forgive us our sins, we forgive. We're concerned about un unbroken broken fellowship with God and broken fellowship with other people. And we live with this continual remembrance of the grace that God has given toward us. We also forgive everyone that is indebted to us. What is he saying? Well, he's saying that a person, as they're forgiving, is thinking in these terms, I forgive you because I know that I'm a forgiven person And it makes absolutely no sense for me, who's been forgiven of so much before God, to hold this thing in my heart against you. That's what he's saying. And so why does a person do this? Well, it's because it's the only appropriate way to respond when we've been forgiven of such a great debt. The last element that I want to mention here is the resting in God's providential care. In verse number four, he says it this way. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. I'll say it this way: God is actively at work in the world. He is sovereign. If God is not sovereign, then prayer is pointless. Now, when I use the word sovereign, please don't misunderstand what I'm saying. What I'm saying is there's no higher ruler than God I'm not suggesting that I understand everything about how God mediates his rule. Some of these things are just going to come out in a minute. But if everything was dependent on fate or chance, then what would be the point of prank? There would be absolutely no point. If we're praying to a God who doesn't have the power to actually influence what's going on in the world and change the course of what's going on, or he's unwilling to do such a thing, then prayer is pointless. There are many scriptures that talk about how God providentially cares for his people. Listen to some of these statements. Proverbs 21:1. The king's heart is in the hand of the Lord. As the rivers of water he turneth it whithersoever he will. Now that's not a promise that when I pray God is going to move the president's heart or the senator's heart or the king's heart exactly the way that I expect God to work right here and right now. What it is telling me is that even though this person is sitting up there sometimes shaking their fists in arrogance against God and doing things that are contrary to God's moral will , God is not sitting back in the in the in that going, I don't know what to do with this person that's out of control. I'm just hoping people will pray and I can act. That's not the way God works. He's working in ways that are beyond our full comprehension. We've got to realize that God's plans work out over long periods of time. Proverbs 16. 1, the preparations of the heart in man, the answer of the tongue is from the Lord. Proverbs 16. 9, a man's heart deviseth his way, the Lord directeth his steps. Proverbs 16, 33. The lot is cast into the lap. The whole disposing thereof is of the Lord. Psalm 3723. I love this statement. The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord. He delighteth in his way, though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down. For the Lord upholdeth him with his hand. That an incredible statement. God works actively in this world. Romans 8. 28, we know. that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. And so when I look at this statement, he's ultimately asking for two things. He's asking for God to directly intervene in our troubles. And he's asking God to sustain us and to strengthen us when he chooses to permit our suffering. There's a whole lot more that I could say there. In fact, there's actually more I plan to say there, but I'm looking at the time and not going to get into the great details. But it's simply this. There are times that God chooses to withhold evil. He protects us. He keeps us from experiencing suffering and hardshipping difficulties. There are times that God allows it. But he chafes it and he guides it and he works and he limits it. And at the right time he says, deliverance is coming. There are times that he allows And his plan is to strengthen us in the midst of those things. The question is, why does he do it the way that he does it? The answer is because he's God and he knows what's best. He's God and He knows what we need. And He knows that sometimes what we need is to be protected from evil because we don't have the strength and the ability to handle such a heavy, heavy load. I think of the passage in 1 Corinthians. There is no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. God is faithful, who will not suffer or allow you to be tempted above that you are able. He will with the temptation also make a way of escape that you may be able to bear it. What does that tell us? There are times that God keeps us from temptation. But there are other times that he says, you know what? For your own good Because you need to grow and you need to mature and you need to take another step in your growth into Christ's likeness. I'm going to step back and let this come forward. You say that's so cruel and so mean. Why would God do that? Why does a coach make his athletes train hard? And sweat and labor. Well, because that's the only way you get stronger. And so God, with perfect wisdom And with love for each of us and in full goodness, he chooses how to manage these situations. And so what does Jesus say? Ask God to intervene in your troubles and to strengthen you when he chooses to permit them. So that moves me to a final question. How should these principles shape our prayer life? Three words I want you to walk away with this morning. The first word is the word confidence. He is your father. He loves you dearly. He is sovereign. Your prayers are not a futile attempt to move the heart of a disconnected God. His ways are good, and he's infinitely wise. We need to be confident. The second word is humility. We are dependent creatures. If God does not act on our behalf, we are in desperate trouble. We know that He loves us and is working all things together for good. And these things should cause us to bend the knee and say, God, I submit to your purposes in my life. The third word is the word anticipation. We should anticipate that he will answer our prayer. By the way, an answer doesn't mean yes. No is an answer. Okay? If if your children come to you and say, Daddy, can I do this? And you say no, they say, Daddy, I'm not leaving, so you answer me. You're gonna say, actually that was the answer, and uh please do not ask again. I'll I'll say that nicely, the next time it will not be said nicely. No is an appropriate answer. Or you need to wait a little bit. Just wait a little bit. You ready to tell your kids that? Wait a little bit. So when God says yes, and he does exactly what you've asked, he's answered your prayer. When he says no, he's also answered your prayer When he says, you need to wait a little bit, he's answered your prayer. One of the things that I've learned in prayer is that sometimes as we endure in prayer, our perspective changes. And all of a sudden we start saying, God, I've asked you to take this. I'd love for you to take this, but I need you to strengthen me in this. And when the time comes for you to remove it, I'll rejoice in it. But I pray for your strength. God many times even changes the way. We approach him as we pray through his shoes. We should anticipate that when he chooses to work in other ways, what he accomplishes is ultimately better than what we requested. Think about Joseph. Joseph was treated horribly. God could have easily intervened on Joseph's behalf. Actually, he did intervene on Joseph's Joseph's behalf because his brothers wanted to kill him. behalf. They didn't get to kill him. Okay? And the way that he intervened on their behalf, those brothers had no idea that God was working. And Joseph didn't either. And then Joseph ends ends up in in in in Egypt and he ends up being a slave and he's mistreated and he's thrown in the prison. You go through this entire story and you say, Why wasn't God working in Joseph's life? No, he was working in Joseph's life. life. Why was God allowing this? Because in the big picture, God said this the way that I preserved this entire nation from death by famine is that I allowed Joseph to end up in Egypt. Egypt. And the way he ends up in Egypt, sadly, is because his brothers have ill intent. But I'm going to preserve his life, I'm going to strengthen him, I'm going to preserve his integrity, and when the day comes that he faces his brothers, he will not know that I did it. What an amazing concept. This is the world we live in. These things should motivate us to be men and women of prayer. Let's bow for a word of prayer. Our Father in heaven, we think about the scriptures before us, full of so much richness. I ask that as we come before your presence in prayer, that these simple principles would truly shape our worldview. And Father, I pray that you'd help us to be a people who come into your presence with confidence. Confidence in your character, confidence in your wisdom, confidence in your goodness, confidence in your Father, help us to be a people that come into your presence with humility, recognizing we don't always know what's best. We need to submit to your will Father, help us to come into your presence anticipating that in fact you will work in the very best way possible because you are a good father who loves your children. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. I'd like to invite you to turn with me to our closing hymn, hymn 156. How can it be? How can it be? We'll sing the first , second, and third verses together. Please let's stand. Oh see , do that. See for the wonders of thy mind until the hell used As we should The way it was born , but it's great by God. A spiritual shit for the Brother Ralph Pridgin, can you please come and close us in prayer? that you'll be able to be back for the evening service. Pastor Josh will be preaching on Caleb and a great story from the book of Joshua. So Brother Ralph. Let's pray. Our gracious Lord and Heavenly Father, we do thank you for this example from Scripture that we can look at as to how we're supposed to approach prayer. Lord, we pray that your Spirit would remind us this week. of how we should pray without ceasing. Lord, give us opportunities to tell someone in our world around us about our Savior and about how we pray. Lord, we pray that you'd watch over us and keep us safe as we're dismissed. And we give you the honor and glory in our precious Savior, Jesus Christ's name. Amen.