Good morning. Welcome back for our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for this week. And we've been talking about prayer. We've been looking at the Lord's Prayer from Luke. And so if you have a Bible, I'd like to invite you to take it with me. And let's turn together to Luke chapter 11, and we'll read verses 1 through 4 together, and then we'll look at the second element that we can draw from this passage that should shape the way that we pray. Here's what it says. And it came to pass that as he was praying in a certain place, when he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him, Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples. He said unto them, When ye pray, say, Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done, as in heaven, so in earth Give us day by day or daily bread. Forgive us our sins, as we also forgive everyone that is indebted to us. Lead us not into temptation. Deliver us from evil. Now yesterday when we were looking at this passage, we emphasized that the first thing that should shape the way that we pray is that God is our Father. And so we should approach Him as if there's actually a relationship between us. We have access into the presence of the creator of the world because of the new birth. And then we saw kind of a counterbalance to that in the sense that he is our Father in heaven. We are not peers, and so that should also shape the way that we approach him. The second element that we'll look at this morning is that we should long for his glory, not for our glory. Now, that's not to say that we shouldn't desire for God to work in a positive way on our behalf. And that is what prayer is, but we recognize that it's not just how we feel what we want that should shape the way we pray. We should desire God's glory, not ours, God's will, not our will. And we have to always keep this as a check. any balance to the way that we pray. And so we see this in verse number two. He says, Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, in heaven, as are as in heaven, so in earth. Now there are kind of three pieces that I want us to notice as we look at this statement. The first piece is the emphasis on his name and how we should desire for his name to be hallowed. And so we see the statement, hallowed be that name. What does the uh the word hallowed mean? It's not a word that we typically use. The idea is we want his name to be reverenced, and we want people to recognize the value of his name. This sounds a lot like Exodus 20, verse 7, one of the Ten Commandments, where it says, Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain Now, I think it's important that we recognize that the third commandment about not taking the name of the Lord in vain is not so much about what we say. as how we how we uh view the um association that we have with the name of God. So for instance, for someone living in uh at the time that it was written in Exodus, one of the children of Israel, Whenever someone said, well, I am I'm an Israelite, I'm one of Yahweh's chosen people, then the way that that person lives and thinks and the things that they do Well, they they actually give people an impression of the name that they are associated with. And so when he says, Hallowed be your name, I I think in many ways he's saying, let your people properly represent your name. And let your name be reverenced, and may it be held in high esteem. That's what he's saying. He wants the reputation of God to be exalted. The second part of this is his kingdom. He says, thy kingdom come. And it's true that as we think about this statement, There are a couple of different ways that we could look at this, and I don't know that we can be absolutely dogmatic of one to the other. In fact, I could say perhaps maybe it's a little bit of both. And so the first aspect is that we want to see people trust Christ so that they become citizens of this kingdom. When we pray for the advancement of God's kingdom, What we are ultimately desiring is that people who are not saved, they're not converted, they've not placed their faith in Christ, They will hear the gospel, they will embrace the gospel, they'll be born again by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, and they will become citizens of the kingdom. that the kingdom of God would expand by people being added. I think that this is one element of that. And so in John 3, when Jesus is talking to Nicodemus, he says, Except a man be born again. He cannot see the kingdom of God. So when we say, thy kingdom come, I think in some ways we could be saying, we're praying for the advancement of your kingdom. But there's a second side to this that may very well be what he's saying as well, or maybe a little bit of both. And that is we long for the day that he will literally, physically establish his kingdom rule forever. And in the Jewish mind, one of the things that a Jewish person was longing for was the establishment of God's kingdom. They were looking forward to the day that God would establish a righteous rule on the earth forever. And when Jesus came to inaugurate his kingdom, we could say that he preached the gospel of the kingdom. He's saying, this is how you enter the kingdom, and this is the future kingdom to come. And the king is actually in your presence. And so there's really a bit of an eschatological side to this where when someone's saying thy kingdom comes, they're saying, I long for the day that you come again and you take us to be with you and you establish your kingdom rule forever. This is something that should be on the heart of every single Christian. The fact is that this is not our ultimate home. This world is not our home. We're just passing through the little song. But the idea is that we are strangers and pilgrims on the earth. And the world today is not the way that it's supposed to be. We need God to set it right and to establish His rule. And we want to see justice reign on the earth forever. And so part of this prayer is that we desire the future kingdom more than this current world the way that it is. And so in Matthew 6. 33, he says, seek ye first. the kingdom of God and his righteousness, all these things shall be added unto you. The third element is referring to God's will. He says, thy will be done as in heaven, so in earth. Now one of the things that we have to notice about the way that God mediates his rule at this time is that though God is sovereign and he is ultimately in charge, God does not force people everywhere at all times to follow his moral will I mean, God tells us, thou shalt not covet, yet he allows people to covet. God says, thou shalt not kill, but he does not intervene in every single situation to stop people from murder. Now, he is going to hold every single sin accountable. And so we will answer to God. But the simple reality is when we pray, Thy will be done. As in heaven, so in earth, we're saying, God, we want to see people live according to what your word says is right and wrong. It's like a person who looks at their nation and says, our nation's a mess We know that righteousness exalts a nation, sin is a reproach of any people. And they say, God help us to have righteousness in our leaders and righteousness in our nation. Help us to see this nation be what it's supposed to be. Or help our church to be what it's supposed to be. Help our family to be what it's supposed to be. When he says, thy will be done as in heaven so in earth, it's another way of saying, God, I want my family to be ordered after your commands. I want my church to be ordered after your commands. I want my nation to be ordered after your commands. I want to see your purposes accomplished. Not just you allow things to unfold a certain way and you still bring it to your glory, but I want to see people obey you. I want to see righteousness rule. That's the sense of this statement. And so we want his moral will to be accomplished. When we see evil triumphing, we long to see God. resolve those evils, we pray that God's will will be accomplished in people's lives. And so I asked this question this morning. Does this longing for his glory and longing to see his will be accomplished and this longing for his kingdom, does this shape your prayer life? Or is our key our our prayer life really all about give me this, give me this today because I want it and make my life easier and simpler? And it's almost as if all we seem to to our prayers reflect this um this concern about only our temporal lives and not the bigger picture. And so may the Lord help us to have a perspective that's bigger than just what's in front of our shoes. Hope that gives you something to think about this morning. Lord willing, tomorrow we'll upload another another video. Have a great day. Bye now.