Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for this week. And I hope that this study has been an encouragement to you And my greatest desire is that all of us, when it comes to this issue of prayer, that we would be growing in the way that we approach the Lord. And the truth is that the way that we pray in many ways is a reflection of our of our knowledge of the Lord. Whether or not we really know him personally, it's a reflection of our maturity. And what I think is also wonderful about this issue of prayer is that even though we may not be very very knowledgeable, we may not be very wise, we may not be a matured Christian, the fact is that that God does listen to the prayers of his children. And prayer is not a performance. Prayer is just a part of our relationship. But it is also true that we should desire to grow in this area. We should desire to be a people that when we pray, that prayer is really a reflection of the kinds of pieces that the Lord Jesus Christ tells us should be a part of our prayer life. So the last thing we're going to look at this morning is a fifth element, and that is the element of resting in God's providential care. And this is an important piece, and this is kind of where it closes out. And so I'm going to read the text again, and then we're going to look at this last piece and then have a couple of final thoughts. It says, And it came to pass that as he was praying in a certain place, when he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him, Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples He said unto them, When ye pray, say, Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done, as in heaven, so in earth Give us day by day our daily bread. Forgive us our sins, as we also forgive everyone that is indebted to us. And lead us not into temptation. but deliver us from evil. Now that last little piece in verse 4 is what I'd like us to focus on this morning. The statement is, lead us not into temptation. but deliver us from evil. Now there are two pieces to that. And when we look at those two pieces side by side, What I think it does is it gives us a picture and how we should view this issue of God's providence or the way that God cares for his children in a very personal way. Let me make this first observation. God is actively at work in the world. He is sovereign. Now when I say that God's sovereign, I don't mean that that we are mindless robots who just do what God uh forces us to do. That's not what we mean by sovereign. The word sovereign means that he is the highest authority. He is the ruler. He is the king. Everything falls under his jurisdiction. And the fact is if God is not sovereign, then prayer is pointless. What would be the point of going to a God who basically can't control what's going on in the world, has no ability or is unwilling to do that? When we talk about someone who's a deist A deist is someone who believes that God created the world and then he just kind of left it to do its own thing. , That's not the way that God is. God is personally and actively involved in this world. And even though there is evil and trouble and difficulty, it doesn't mean that God is not personally involved in what goes on in the world. Now this is a mysterious topic, and there's a lot that has to be flushed out. But I want to dig into this a little bit. If everything is dependent on fate or chance, prayer is pointless. If God's not sovereign, prayer is pointless. But there's good news. The Bible is full of examples that tell us that God is involved personally. the care of his children. Listen to some of these statements. They're powerful statements, and a lot of them are going to be from Proverbs, but they're from all over the scriptures. Proverbs 21. 1. The king's heart is in the hands of the Lord. As the rivers of water, he turneth it whithersoever he will. What an amazing statement. The most powerful people in the world, they're being guided by the hands of God. That doesn't mean that they're forced against their will to make the decisions that they that they do is that God is at work managing what's going on in the world. Proverbs 16, 1. The preparations of the heart in man and the answer of the tongue is from the Lord. Proverbs 16. 9, a man's heart deviseth his way, but the Lord directeth his steps. Proverbs 1633. The lot is cast into the lap, but the whole disposing thereof is of the Lord. Psalm 37, 23. The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord. He delighteth in his way. Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down. For the Lord upholdeth him with his hand. Romans 8. 28. We know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. Why do I bring these verses up? It's to remind us that God is personally actively involved in the world. And so the statement that we read in verse 4, lead us not into temptation. but deliver us from evil really begins with some presuppositions. The first of those is that God is always at work in the world. But This work is not always direct. And we see that in the statement, lead us not, deliver us from The idea is that sometimes God directly is involved in the way a thing plays out, and sometimes he is not, but he's still involved. That's the point. And so God generally governs this world through the laws that He's created. I think about the little statement in Genesis 8 after the flood, it says while the earth remaineth, seed time, harvest, cold, heat, summer, winter, and day and night shall not cease. Well those those details that he talks about, the cold and the heat, and the summer and the winter, and the day and the night What governs all that? Well, those are the laws that God has created. And so part of the way that God governs the world is through creating laws that make things unfold the way that they do. The second one is this. He never tempts people or causes them to sin. Someone may say, well, if God is actively involved in the world to such an extent and people get tempted, well then does that mean that God causes people to be tempted? Or does God cause people to sin? And the answer is of course not. James 1. 13, it says, Let no man say when he's tempted, I'm tempted of God. God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. So then someone says, well, if God doesn't tempt with evil and God's in control or is in charge , And people still face temptation, then how does this happen? And well the answer is, well, he often permits people to face temptation. And we see this in Genesis 50 verse 20. It says, As for you, ye thought evil against me, but God meant it unto good. To bring to pass as it is this day to save much people alive. So who was responsible for the sinful actions against Joseph? Well, the answer it was 100% his brothers. But the question is, why did God allow them to do those sinful things? The reason is because there was a bigger purpose behind the scenes that God was accomplishing. And so in that particular instance, God chose not to intervene to protect Joseph from the trouble. He allowed it to unfold so that he could ultimately use it to accomplish good. And so what we see is that his purpose and how he mediates his rule is always ultimately good. Whether God stops something or allows something or he limits something, whatever God's Plan of how he works in these situations. We know that his purpose is good. And so we see the statement in Romans 8. 28, all things work together for good. Is that because it's just happening to work out that way? The answer is no. God is actively causing these things to work together for good. And so this is a tremendous comfort. It's a tremendous comfort because even when things are out of control and difficult and frustrating and scary, we know that God has purposes that he is doing that are bigger than what we can see in that short-term moment. And so that is one of the great comforts we find in this issue of prayer. The second thing is this. God can directly intervene, and he often does when people pray. This is why Jesus says Pray, lead us not into temptation. Now, this is not some vain thing. The fact is that there are times that we say, God, lead us not into temptation. You know what he does? He answers, okay, I will protect you. from something that really you could have encountered that I chose to preserve you from. One of the great things that I have learned in my life when I've experienced difficult things is as I stop and I reflect on it, I begin to realize how easy it is for those terrible things to unfold all the time. And I ask, well what is it that keeps this from happening all the time? But it only happened in this one moment And the answer is, well, God is continually preserving his people, and he's continually at work protecting us from things that are far beyond what we can handle. I think of what it says in 1 Corinthians, there's no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. God is faithful, who will not suffer or allow you to be tempted above that ye are able, but will with the temptation also make a way of escape, that ye may be able to bear it. And so we see this concept in the statement, pray, lead us not into temptation. But then there's a third side. He doesn't always directly intervene. Sometimes he allows us to experience temptation, even though we have asked him to protect us from it. And so we see the statement, deliver us from evil. I think about what Jesus says in his high priestly prayer. I pray that you would not take them out of the world, but that you would preserve them in the world. This is what Jesus prays for for his own. And the idea is that sometimes God's will is to protect us from, and sometimes it's to build us in. Sometimes he wants to purify us and refine us and strengthen us and test us and demonstrate the maturity that has been developed and the purity that has been refined in his his children. And sometimes he knows you cannot handle that, and so he protects you from it. And so these are tremendous comforts for us in this area of prayer. God is a good God who we can rest in his care. So when we're asking, lead us not into temptation, deliver us from evil, we're ultimately asking for two things. One, we're asking God directly intervene. in our troubles. Or two, we're asking God, sustain me and strengthen me when you choose to permit me to suffer. And so this is something that should shape our prayer lives You may say, well, Joel, what's the ultimate takeaway from everything we've talked about this week and today? Well, here's the takeaway. There are three words that should shape our prayer life. The first word is the word confidence. He is our Father. He dearly loves us. And when we come to Him, We are coming to the sovereign of the universe, and we have a God who actually cares about us. This is not some futile attempt to move the heart of a disconnected being. This is an appeal to our Father. And his ways are good and he's infinitely wise. And so the first word is confidence. When you pray, pray with confidence. The second word is the word humility. We are dependent creatures. If God does not act on our behalf, we are in desperate trouble. And we know that he loves us. and he's working all things together for good. And these truths should humble us. So the first word confident, the second word humble. The third word is anticipation. We should anticipate that he will answer our prayer. And we should anticipate that when he chooses to work in a way that is different than what we desire and what our petition is, what we're asking for. What he is accomplishing is ultimately going to be better in the big picture than what we requested in the immediate. And so let me leave you with that encouragement this week. Confidence, humility, and anticipation should shape our prayer life because of the elements that Jesus has taught us should be a part of our prayer life If this has been an encouragement to you this week, I hope you'll share that. And Lord willing, next week, we'll continue our series with a new passage of Scripture. Have a blessed weekend. Bye now.