Morning. Good to see each of you today, and I know that this is uh a special weekend. This is the Memorial Day Weekend, and uh it's a very important time for us to stop as a nation and reflect on the fact that there are many men and women uh who have laid down their lives so that we could have the freedoms that we enjoy as a nation. And so after our opening uh events, we're going to have a moment of silence before opening prayer. Before we have that, I'd like to mention a couple of items that are in our Bulletin to draw your attention to. First of all , tomorrow at five o'clock we're going to have a uh a picnic and cookout, and the idea is you bring your your own meats. It's it's informal in that sense where we're not you know planning out everybody's food, you plan your own food. Uh so bring enough for your family and if you want to bring a little extra, there's nothing wrong with that. Don't want anybody to go home hungry. But we're looking forward to that. At six o'clock we'll have a concert, and so we're looking forward to having the Marinatha Heritage Singers with us And uh it's going to be just a good time of fellowship and it'll be a blessing for our church family. So please do come to that. Mark it on your calendar. Secondly, I wanted to mention that after the morning service, we have our vacation Bible school meeting and so if you are uh planning to help out with that please do come to that meeting so that we can go over some important details details as we prepare for that. It is set up as an event now on our Facebook page and so take a note of that and and share that so that You can invite people that way. Also wanted to mention that we have a ladies' Bible study on June the 3rd. That's at 7 p. m. So ladies, please make sure that you uh mark your calendars for that. Also there's a baby shower on the 5th. That's uh at 11 o'clock at the Porsche Household. So ladies who are signed up for that For that, please remember to um to go to that. That'll be at eleven o'clock on Saturday, June the 5th. Uh, we've been having our children uh Tiny trackers and truth trackers working really hard this year on Wednesday nights. And I know that a couple of our kids were not able to be here this morning, but uh a lot of our kids are, and so we're looking forward to hearing from them and then hearing about the good work that they have involved been involved with. So we're turning this over to you guys now. To the adults that is. Oh, yes. Tiny crackers, tiny crackers, oh woo, woo. So as we can as you can see we have a lively group with our tiny trackers. Um sometimes we have ten in the in the group, so it it's uh been quite a fun year, quite a energetic here um and we really really enjoyed it the kids have learned thirty verses and most of the kids have said all thirty verses throughout the year and they also had a new devotion book this year. So for five days a week they could do a devotion with their parents um and it helped them go over the verse and they would read the passage that we studied for um the Bible story time. So I think the r kids really got a lot out of it this year. and that was a lot of fun. I have some certificates for them and we're going to start with Caleb Porsche. Come on up. I've got one for you. And Adeline Porsche. And we can clap for those two And then one for Landon and Wesley, Nikki. Russell, here's yours. Good job. And then Blair Peterson, Evangeline Peterson, and Sage Peterson. Here 's your shade. Here's your Z. And then Kaylee Hudgens. Good job, Kaylee. And then we have two that aren't here tonight. Um Isaac McCallie and uh Grayson Garner are not here today, um, but they also were with us us through a good part of the year and learned a lot of the verses with us. So I would just wanted to give them a hand this year. They really did a good job with their verses. Good job, guys. And I also wanted to say thank you to Lisa. She was a huge help this year and Drinian. Um he helped in the second part of the year. Um they were my helpers and they helped keep order and keep us going in the right direction, which sometimes can be hard. So I greatly appreciate that. Appreciate their help this year. All right, so in Truth Trackers we have a couple of the different awards that the kids get. They get a completion certificate for faithfully attending the whole year, and they get uh there's a total of three devotional books that they go through. through and they get a pin for each one they've completed. And then there's a total of six verse books that they do that they do throughout the year, one for each doctrine that we cover. And they get a pin for each of the those that they complete. And then finally, if they complete all their doctrine uh verses and all of their uh devotional books, they'll get a completion medal for those. So first up, we have Joel Porchet. He gets three devotional award pins, all six Doctrine Awards, and then a uh completion medal. Next up is Nathaniel Porsche. He also gets three devotional awards, uh six verse awards, and then his completion medal. And then we have Judah, Judah Snow All three devotional, all six verses, and the completion medal. And next up, Maya Snow. Maya gets all three devotional awards, four verse pins, and then uh her completion certificate. And then we have logo Logan Hudgens. Logan gets uh one devotional award pin and its completion certificate. And then we have two that aren't here today, uh Kylie and Gina McCallie, and they are both getting devotional awards, uh first awards, and then a completion certificate. And we'd just like to say thank you. We we love teaching uh the kids at Anchor. It's been a huge blessing to see them grow as they learn their verses and go through the doctrine. And they grow and and have a just grow a relationship with the Lord. It's a huge blessing to see that and to be a part of that. And I'd just like to say thank you to my wife for helping and to Paige and also uh Joseph. Uh who's helped us out, Jesse Taylor. So thank you. Well I'd like to say a big thank you to our parents for uh bringing your children out on Wednesday night. I know that uh that is a challenge uh sometimes with school and everything going on. So thank you for bringing your kids to that. A big thank you to our workers who some weeks the kids are great and other weeks I'm sure it's a challenge. Uh, but uh very thankful for their service and their ministry. And uh I'm just thankful for the opportunity for our children to be learning God's word. And um as a pastor when I'm working through uh sermon preparation and things like that. It's amazing how many passages I can recall off of memory and it's really because of the children's program. that I was in when I was a child. And um that's where I I was forced, at the time forced, uh to memorize scripture to not just memorize the scripture but also the references where they were found. And that's invaluable. So I just want to say a big thank you to our parents, to our workers. And The kids had a great uh a great quarter, and um we're also looking forward to our summer program. It won't be truth trackers and tiny trackers, but uh we'll pick up the tiny trackers and truth trackers again. again in the fall. Let's have a moment of silence and reflection, and then I'd like us to um do our opening scripture reading in Psalm 143. So let's have a moment of silent reflection. Let me read our opening scripture at Psalm 143, verses 8 through eleven. Let's listen carefully to the Word of God. It says, Cause me to hear your loving kindness in the morning, for in you do I trust. Cause me to know the way in which I should walk, for I lift up my soul to you. Deliver me, O Lord, from mine enemies. In you I take shelter. Teach me to do your will, for you are my God. Your spirit is good. Lead me in the land of uprightness. Revive me, O Lord, for your name's sake. For your righteousness' sake, bring my soul out of trouble. Psalm 143 is such an important text of Scripture. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to help us to really reflect deeply on His Word today and that He really speaks Father, we thank you so much for this text of Scripture, and I pray that it would be our heart's cry, that we would know you intimately. personally that we would reflect deeply on your character and your ways and that as we reflect on you and grow in our knowledge of you we would see your hand Personally, consistently at work in our lives. Father, we think about this weekend where we will remember those who've laid down their lives in defense of this nation. Father, help us not to become a people who forget the past, a people that don't appreciate the incredible sacrifices of past and present generations. That we enjoy the freedoms of. Father, I pray for those who are in our midst and those who have joined us on live stream, who have personal friends and family members who Have paid the ultimate price. I pray that you would comfort and strengthen them as they remember their loved one and the sacrifice that they made. For this nation. Father, we pray for this nation. I pray that we would be a nation that honors you and turns to you in times of Christ. Crisis. Father, I pray that as the Church of God, we would be faithful to be salt and light in this generation Father, we pray for people all around the world who live in countries and in cultures where the gospel is under attack. Where they cannot assemble freely and openly, where they are persecuted for righteousness' sake. Father, help us not to forget our brothers and sisters in Christ all around the world. Who, in fact, are suffering immensely for the sake of the gospel. I pray that you would encourage them and strengthen them. Father, help them to To have a vibrant, healthy walk with you. We pray that you'd protect them physically and emotionally and spiritually. Father, we pray that you would give mercy to these people and these Father, we pray for our congregation. I know that many have or will travel in the next few days. I pray that you would give safety to those who are on the roads. in the air, moving to places where they're meeting with family and friends. I pray that you would bless their time of of rest and refreshment, time with family. I pray that it would be very strong And that you would use them to be a blessing in whatever place that you have directed them at this time. Father, we pray that in this service Our attention would be drawn to the Word of God, that our hearts would be humbled and encouraged, and that you would be exalted in our midst. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right, good morning. Thank you so much for joining us here at Anchor Baptist Church. Please stand and open your hymn books to hymn number six. I sing the mighty power of God. We'll sing all three verses of hymn number six. I sing the mighty power of God that made the mountain wise That's where love blowings is abroad, and better love is gone. I think the word of that or dead, the father of The room signs for light is coming when all the stars will be I sing the goodness of the more fast and a day of whatever He pulled on recipe as one and then called up the God Why I do both where I turn on. And boys are made up round eyes when boy gave up on the cry There's not a plan , not me, but make my glory. And by the rise and best close by order thy drone. Why would I come in by And angry when that man can we have God. And over to hymn number two hundred and fifty-one. Hymn number two hundred and fifty-one, Jesus keep me near the cross. We'll sing all four verses. Jesus gave me never cross their recipe Free to walk healing stream close from K Tell my rather Near cross a traveling so love and mercy by There brought an morning song that me Near the cross of God bring in things before me How we want progress today when the shadows running And that cross memor Tell my writer to suffer , Near cross and wants and ways of been trusting Tell my race back all dance ran , trust me on the river Tell my rat me on the Thank you so much. Please be seated as we turn back to hymn number 109. Great is thy faithfulness. Hymn number one hundred nine, we'll sing all three verses. Great but before I saw God, my partner. The no sadhurning weather De César Krampás Nante felad I 've seen Sapuah Greater my performance , greater my performance M ne bymol lichtnem All I really Lord I serve Summer and Spring Time and Barbers Samoa s Soin Webkaramana Bobana To my grandmother Greater thy paper, greater thy paper More than we must say All I have needed I had and wrong by that on us. Horme , heart and forth and the Thy older chair guy Slang water down right on water moral Blessings online with ten thousand be slight Great man by Bible. Great man, my bad. Morning by morning, no mercy by free All I have needed by provider , breaking back on. Great singing. Our scripture reading for this morning comes from the book of James, chapter 2. James chapter 2 verses 14 through 20. James chapter 2 verses 14. What doth this prophet, my brethren? Though a man say he have faith and have not works, can faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled, notwithstanding. Ye give them not those things which are needful to the body. What doth it profit? Even so, faith, if it hath not works, is dead being alone. Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works. Show me thy faith without thy works, and I will show thee my faith by my works. Thou believest there is one God. Thou doest well. The devils also believe and tremble. But wilt thou know, O man, that faith without works is dead. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. Let's continue continue our worship through song this morning as we turn to hymn number two hundred ninety-nine. Hymn number two hundred ninety-nine. Arise, my soul. Rise we'll sing verses one, two, and five Oh rise, my soul rise Say come up by And my behalf of peace, before the prom my soul system, before the process, My name is Letterboxd, devo For me , birthday for me , my mom. This was blood simply. There's blood on our race. There's blood on our race. And spray clothes now that broad I know I can s And for me for I can know what carbon by down, with card feather by down And Baha Ba and let's stand once more as we turn to our blue book for our song of the month number 192 in the blue book will be singing complete in the all four verses Complete and did no work of life maintain. Thy one and bought and bought for me, and I am now complete in thee. They just step out of blood and think of my salvation Thy blood now fought and fought for me, and more important I serve suffering Complete and thee, no more shall then thy grace and hold them reign with them. Thy voice shall bend thy tempter flee, and thy shall stand completely. Yeah, just a bike of the parts and take it by salvation bars. Thy blood hath wide and was for me, and more and white I too shall be. Complete and this was applied, and no good things to be denied Send thou my voice and Lord welcome , I ask no more complete in thee Yes, they find a blessed heart and say divide salvation part. Thy blood hath fallen bought for me, and glorified I cursed Just leave your wedding for thy bar. I'll try that song to stumble on Come on thy throne, then will I be and thy right hand complete in thee Yeah, just that fight, don't let them run, and make them fine , salvation rock. Thy blood hath poured and bought for me and glorified I thus thou me. Amen. Great singing, please be seated What gift of grace is Jesus my Redeemer There is no more for heaven now to give. He is my joy, my righteousness and free. Freedom, my steadfast love, my deep and boundless peace. To this I hold my hope is only Jesus, for my life is Only bound to his Oh how strange and divine I can sing. All is mine, yet not I, but through Christ in me The night is dark, but I am not forsaken For by my side the Savior he will stay. I labor on in weakness and rejoice Rejoicing, for in my need his power is displayed. To with thy hold my shepherd will be found And me through the deepest valley will lead. Oh, the night has been one, and I shall overcome yet not I but through Christ in me No fate I dread, I know I am forgiven. The future sure, the price it has been paid. For Jesus' lied and suffered for my pardon, and he was raised to overthrow the grave To this I hold my sin has been defeated. Jesus now, whenever is my fleet. Oh the chains are released. I can sing, I am free, yet not I, but through Christ in me With every breath, I long to follow Jesus. For he has said that he will bring me home, and day by day I know he will renew me until I stand with joy before the throne to this I hold my hope is only due Oh, the glory evermore to him when the race is Complete, still my live shall repeat, yet not I, but through Christ in me To this I hope, my hope is only Jesus, over glory evermore to him. When the race is complete, still my live shall repeat, yes, not I, but through Christ indeed. The race is complete, still my live shall repeat, yet not I but through Christ in me Yet not I but through Christ in me. Yet not I but Through Christ in me. Thank you so much for that. Our children uh ages three to seven can be dismissed to the back for junior church And so, parents, please take them back there. And the rest of you want to invite you to turn with me to the book of James. And this is the synopsis of our study in the book of James. We're looking at James chapter 2. verses 14 through 20, that's going to be the sermon text. But the reality is what we're going to be looking at is truly going to be a synopsis of the book of James. And I always I wonder if I'll be able to pull it all together. But I think that as we work our way through this, you'll see that really the main thrust of this book is the topic that we're going to address this morning. So with that in mind, let's read James chapter 2, verses 14 through 20 again. And then I want us to look at the book really as a big picture. What is the main point of this book that was written so many years ago, so practical, so rich, so encouraging and challenging to us as God's people. James 2, 14 says this. What doth it profit my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? Can faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you saying to them, Depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled, notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body. What does it profit Even so, faith, if it hath not works, is dead being alone. Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works. Show me thy faith without thy work. I will show thee my faith by my works. Thou believest that there is one God, thou doest well, the devils also believe and tremble. But wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead? We come to this passage of Scripture and then we really look at the book of James. One of the the things that's so important for us to remember when we're studying the Bible is that there are certain concepts, biblical concepts, that when we put them side by side Sometimes they seem like they are in conflict. One is pulling this way and one is pulling this way. One of those areas that we see that is the issue of justification and sanctification. We talk about how a person is declared righteous before God. We see that the Bible is very clear that we are declared righteous, justified by faith alone in the finished work of Christ. In fact, I'm going to talk about this a little bit this morning. Side by side, next to that justification, we see that the Christian life is a growth day by day into Christ-likeness. And so what we see is there's something that happens once in a moment on the basis of the work of Christ. And then on the other side, we see something that happens, you could say it there's a cooperative aspect to this thing called sanctification. I have to make choices. I have to make decisions. I have to put God's word into my heart. But I don't do it without the Holy Spirit enabling and empowering. And there is a progressive growth on that side. Well there are some individuals that when they talk about salvation, they will focus on justification and ignore sanctification. And on the other side, there are individuals who will focus on sanctification and almost present it as if sanctification is how we're justified. Well, the reality is when we see the Bible, both are clearly taught and laid side by side, and it's as if there is this tension that is pulling between those two. I want you to realize that when we understand justification and we understand sanctification and the tension is just right, guess what you have? A perfect note. It's like when somebody is tuning a guitar or a violin or some stringed instrument and they tighten it and they pluck it and they hear it. And it's not quite right. And they they tighten it a little bit more and they pluck it and it's not quite right. And then they pluck it again. Well, went a little bit too far. They back off and they plug it. They say, It's just right. It's intimidated. I want you to realize that when we talk about the book of James, we're seeing that the Bible clearly teaches, declare righteous before God on the basis of the finished work of Christ, by faith alone in Christ, yet. That position will be lived out practically. In fact, we can put it this way: the purpose of the book of James is to demonstrate That the Bible teaches that genuine faith in Christ is catch this, inseparably connected to a practical walk. And to do into obedience to God's will, and to practical daily growth into Christ's likeness. In other words, what the Bible teaches is justified by faith alone to become more like Christ. It is the position that gets worked out in daily living that is being presented to us here in the book of James. God wants us to see that our position is to be lived out practically in every single area of life. And that is really the main point of the book of James. The book of James is not written to tell you how to become a Christian. It's written to tell you how to live as a Christian. It's to tell you that because you are a new creature in Christ, old things really have passed away. All things really are become new. And this is how you walk as a new creature The book of James is written in that kind of a way. And so God would have us this morning to be reminded again that our position is to To be lived out day by day. The question I want to ask this morning and then answer from the scriptures is: how are we to live out our position in Christ? The first truth we're going to find this morning is that you have to first be a Christian in order to actually live out the position that you have in Christ. This book is not written for your benefit if you're not a believer. Notice what it says. It's written to the twelve tribes scattered abroad, and he says, My brethren. He's not just saying my brethren in the sense that I'm a Jewish man and you are Jewish brethren. He's saying it in the sense that you're a Christian, like I'm a Christian. We are brothers and sisters in Christ. We have to understand what it means to be righteous in Jesus, how a person actually stands before God as forgiven and cleansed. If we are going to live out the practical So I'd like to take just a moment to talk a little bit about this concept of how a person Is declared righteous before God, how we are saved from our sins. The first question I want to ask as we think about this topic that really is important as we think about the entirety of the book of James. Is a question, what is the gospel? You know, the Bible actually clearly defines what the gospel is. And it's important for us to notice what it doesn't say in the definition of the gospel. It doesn't say that it's the good news that if you keep the law and you do it faithfully and you do it consistently and when you mess up you ask God for forgiveness, it's the good news that if you labor, you get salvation. It's not what the Bible teaches. It's not the good news that if you can find a church somewhere in your community and start attending there week in and week out, you'll get to go to heaven. It's not the good news that if you give money in the offering box at the end of the service that somehow you earn heaven through those good deeds It's not the good news that if you read the Bible from cover to cover enough times in your life, eventually you'll get to go to heaven. It's the good news not about what you do for God, but what he did for you. Listen to what it says in 1 Corinthians 15. He says, Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel, which I preached unto you. Which also you have received er and wherein ye stand. Paul says, when I mention this word gospel, you know exactly what I'm talking about because I proclaimed it, I preached it to you. You received the message and you stand in that message because you embraced that message. The question is, what was the message that he proclaimed He states it in verses three and following. He says, Christ died for our sins. He was buried, according to the scriptures, he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. Folks, notice that in those words, it says nothing about what you do for God. It does say what you did against God. And it does say what God did for you, but it says nothing about what you do for Him. That's a really important thing for us to understand. The gospel is not about my work, my labor. It's about how I broke his laws, but he has provided a means, one and only, through which I can stand righteous before him. The word of God tells us that the gospel is about Christ. He's a person. That word Christ is really, it's it's taking us back to the Old Testament concept of the Messiah. That the Lord Jesus Christ is the fulfillment 100% of all of those Old Testament passages that pointed to the promised Messiah. You say, well, Pastor, what are those things talked about? Go back to our series that we that we went through when we were getting ready for the resurrection of Christ. Nine sermons, if you want to listen to them, they talk about the Messiah. They tell us verse by verse, section by section, many of the key passages that talk about the nature of who the Messiah is. The gospel is about Jesus. It's also about what he did. It says that he died. And it's not just that he died, but it was why he died. He died for our sins. This morning in Sunday school, we we talked a lot about the holiness of God and the righteousness of God and the justice of God and God's intense hatred for For sin, because God is holy and set apart from sin, because He is righteous, and what is good and what is holy and what is just is all connected to the character of God. Because God is just, that means he holds accountable people who have violated his laws. Because God hates sin and God must punish sin. The cross stands as the only way that our sin debt can be canceled And the gospel is about God canceling our sin debt through the work of Christ on the cross. Christ died for our sins. And I love that little phrase mentioned twice according to the scriptures. What tells us that we should anticipate this? What explains to us why this matters. And what reminds us that this really took place, it's all contained in God's word. But then there's more to it. He also rose from the dead. That means he literally conquered death by his own power. Folks, we cannot apply the book of James if we don't begin with understanding. What the gospel is. That leads me to a second question. That question is: well, what is the basis of our salvation? And the answer is, it's the gospel. In Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, it says, It's by grace that ye are saved through faith. That not of yourselves it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. The idea is that the basis of our salvation, what God looks at to justly call a sinner righteous, is not their performance. It's not their deeds. It's not their works. It's not their promises. It's the work of Jesus on their behalf. Salvation is a gift. Salvation is free to us and purchased at the expense of the life of Christ. It's something that we cannot boast in. In Romans 5, it says that God commendeth his love toward us, that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us, that we are justified by his blood, that we are saved from wrath through him that when we were his enemies we were reconciled to God through the death of his son and we are saved by his life The gospel is not about you. It's about him, but it's for you. And I asked this question: Have you embraced this gospel. You know, when we talk about the book of James, I hope you begin with a clear understanding of the gospel. And the firm conviction that in fact you have embraced it and that you stand just before God based on the finished work of Christ. We are not saved by law. We are declared righteous by faith alone. He says, by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified. Justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. We conclude that a man is justified by faith without the deeds of the law. Folks, this is the starting point. This is the foundation. As James sits down to write these words, he is writing from the beginning point that these are people who have embraced these truths. But the last question I want to ask under this point to me is foundational to where we're going in this book. What actually happens to you when you are There are lots of different ways that we could express what God does for us and what God does in us and what He's going to do through us. us. The most basic thing is that he's forgiven us. I stand before God as a forgiven sinner. Because of the work of Christ. Psalm 103 says, as far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us. You can't get any further than that. The expression is: God has taken my sin. He has cast it from his presence. He remembers my sin no more because the work of Christ has settled the debt. The second statement is very important. We are declared righteous. You know, forgiveness is more of the negative side. It's saying that God no longer sees me as the sinner condemned. He sees me as the sinner forgiven. But there's another dimension to this that is very, very important, and that is that we are positively declared righteous in the presence of God. Now, are you righteous, practically speaking? Of course not. Am I righteous practically speaking? Of course not. When we read the book of James, we see all these these testimonies that these are people who, while they are declared righteous, are not practically righteous. Because all these practical things that he has to address, these are areas where they're falling short of God's expectation for how they should walk as children of God. Declared righteous is on the basis of the righteousness of Jesus, justified freely by his grace. Literally, God looks at us in Christ and he says, You are righteous in him. That's a positive thing. But there's a third word that I want to mention, and that's the word Regenerated. That means you were dead, now you're alive. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 1, it says, You have he quickened. That word quickened means he made you alive, physically alive, mentally aware, spiritually dead. That's what he means when he says he quickened you It's like he raised you from the dead spiritually. You were separated from God, walking in your own ways. God gave you New life in Christ. This is why Jesus in John chapter 3 tells Nicodemus, he says, hey Nicodemus, unless you're born again, you will not see the Marvel not that I say unto you, you must be born again. He talks about people being not born of the flesh, but of the will of God. And so he's talking about being regenerated, having new life in Christ. In 2 Corinthians chapter 5, when he says that you're a new creature. In Christ and old things pass away, and all things are become new. He's saying you are regenerated. You were dead in trespasses and sins. Now you've been raised to walk in newness of life. Folks, that statement is extremely important to understanding what he's saying in the rest of the book. A new nature that's alive in Christ is a new nature that is going to manifest itself differently than the old nature. It's kind of interesting. I have this little app on my phone That's how you know I'm a little bit of a a garden geek. This app tells you, you like, you take a picture of a plant and it tells you what the plant is. And it can tell, oh, that's that's an orange tree, that's a lemon tree, that's a kiwi, that's sweet corn, that's poison ivy, don't touch it. Okay. Yes. Alright? And then what it does is it talks about the descriptions of those plants. It talks about how to take care of those plants. If your plant's not healthy, it says your leaves are yellow because it needs some more water or your leaves are yellow because it needs more nitrogen or something like that. It actually tells you what it needs to do. Now now listen, if I have ten orange trees that are there in my yard and I don't have ten, I have two and I'm babing them and I hope they survive. But I have these two orange trees. They're both of the same variety, but they're not of the same health If I had 10, 15 trees and I took a picture of every single one of those trees, guess what would happen? The app, if it's working properly, would say, oh, that's a Mandarin Orange tree. That's a man on North Street. That's a man on Or Street. That's a man on North Street. But some of them would say, that one has yellow leaves. You need to give it more nutrients. Hey, that one, the leaves are starting to fall off. You need to water it more. That one has really small fruit that's falling off, and here's the problem. You know what's really interesting about the diagnosis of the app? It tells you what it is, but they're not all equally healthy, and they're not all equally strong, and they're not all bearing the same amount of fruit, but they still all have the same characteristics. Characteristics of the Mandarin Orange. And I want you to realize that that really is the sense of what happens when a person becomes a Christian. Not every Christian is on the same level of maturity. Not every Christian is equally healthy. Not every Christian is equally gifted. Not every Christian is in the same place in this walk. But if they're a Christian, you will see evidence of them. being Christian. That's not to say you become a Christian that way. It's to say there's evidence of new life in Christ. That's the point of the book. There's another aspect to this thing, and that is that we become indwelt by the Holy Spirit. In Ephesians chapter 1, he says, You also, after that ye heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and whom after ye believed you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise, and I love this statement, which is the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession. The Holy Spirit comes and indwells the believer. He stamps the believer as God's possession, but then he becomes the earnest, the down payment of the redemption that we will enjoy forever. And you say, well, how does the Holy Spirit become the down payment? If you're buying a house, hopefully not right now because they're so expensive, but if you're buying a house, you put money down on the house that says I mean business, I'm gonna buy the house. Now that's not the full cost of the house, is it? No, it's not. But it's it's substantial. It says, I'm gonna buy the house. When God gives us the Holy Spirit Spirit. He says, I've saved you, declared you righteous, but there's an aspect of salvation that I've not yet given you. It's called glorification, and you're anticipating that day, and when it comes, you will enjoy all the benefits of the Of being in Christ, but you're anticipating that day. glory You're waiting for that day. And so I give you the Holy Spirit to give you a taste of what you're going to have. Say, well, how does he give us a taste? He's personally present in our life. He convicts us of sin when we sin. He helps us when we're understanding when we're reading the Word of God and the truth of Scripture. We begin digging into the text and we see what's there. He takes the truth and he just He presses it on us. And as he presses it on us, we begin to understand the weight and the significance of those truths. The Holy Spirit does that. He shapes us into the image of Christ. Literally, we are transformed through the renewing of the mind. The Holy Spirit does that work in us. The way that he is the earnest, the down payment, is his presence is changing us in part into what we will be in the whole in the future. As I see the evidence of the Spirit of God working in me, changing me, shaping me, molding me into the image of Christ, it's the reminder that I'm going to be complete forever one day Sanctification is a really important part of our salvation experience. It's important because it gives us the taste of future glory. And it is these two truths that we are regenerated and we are indwelt by the Spirit that drives us to the point of the book of James. Listen to what he says again. What does it profit, my brethren, there are a man say that he has faith? In other words, I'm a Christian, but there's no evidence. Does that matter? That's what he's saying. He says faith, if it hath not works, is dead being alone. And when he says that faith, he's saying, you can say you have faith, but if there's zero evidence, if the characteristic the most basic characteristics of being a Christian are not there, then why should I believe what you're saying? It's like that little app can identify that's a tree. It's not a healthy tree, but it's an orange tree. I can see the characteristics. And I can see that, though they're there, the tree's not Healthy. We're not saying that every Christian is identified by being in perfect health and perfect maturity. It's not the point. The point is there are distinguishing marks. James chapter 2 verse 18 he says a man may say he says thou hast faith, I have works. He says, Show me thy faith without thy works. You can't. Faith is something inside of you. What you do is you could say the outworking of what you believe. So if you believe something, guess what? It impacts what you do. It impacts how you respond. He says, I will show you my faith by my works. In other words, I'm going to live as an expression of my positioning. Another way that he puts it in other passages in James 3 says, Doth a fountain send forth in the same place sweet water and bitter Can it the fig tree, my brethren, bear olive berries, either of fig vines, of vine figs? So can no fountain both yield salt, water, and fresh? He he just gives these simple illustrations from life. He says, he says, okay, you have something that's supposed to produce grapes. Does it produce figs? The answer is Of course not. You have something that's producing figs, does it produce grace? The answer is of course not Do you have water that is salty and fresh at the same time? Either it's salty or it's fresh or it's brackish. You don't get both in the same location. The source determines what is going to come out. And so his point is that your position in Christ will practically bear out in how you live. I want you to see that what he says in the second point is that God uses circumstances in life to do two things. To train us and to test us. I want you to think of the gymnasium. I want you to think about the maps I want you to think about the track. I want you to think about the fields. I want you to think about the classroom. In those different contexts, there is training that's going on. There's physical training. training, there's mental training, there's emotional training. All of that training is part of the process of building you to take the test. Building you to step on the mat, building you to step on the field, building you to step into the arena. What is the point? The training process prepares you for the competition The training process prepares you to go out into the field. Do you realize that God is the same thing in your life? In my life. He uses circumstances to train us. There's a second aspect, and that's the aspect of testing As he's training us and as he's maturing us, as he's building us, as he's growing us, you know what God does? He puts us in situations where guess what? We're able to see the progress. You say, well, I don't always test pass the test perfectly. Nobody passes them perfectly. But in the test, guess what you see? You see progress. And the next time you end up in a similar situation, you see, you may not have passed it in every single area, but you see progress. And he expresses that in James 1:2. He says, Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. Knowing that the trying of your faith worketh patience. Let patience have her perfect work, that ye may be perfect and entire, wanting not And so the idea is that the challenges of life, they're meant to train us, to produce patience, to bring us to maturity. Training. We see the testing side in James 1. 12. He says, Blessed is the man that endureth temptation, for when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life. Which the Lord hath promised to them that love him. So it's not just that God trains us, but he tests us. And when he tests us, when we pass the test, there's going to come a moment where there's what? There's reward. It's like the person who competes because he trained and then he re receives the medal There is a ceremony where there are awards presented. There's the graduation as we complete the course. That is the sense, the illustration that he gives us. The person who is in Christ. Is going to live out that position. And he's going to live out that position because God trains him through circumstance and God tests him in circumstance. Now I'm not going to be able to go through all the different examples of this in the book of James, but I want to remind you of just a few of the things that He talks about suffering in James 1. He says, Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. Why does he mention suffering? Because suffering is part of the training process, and sometimes it's the test. He talks about how our wisdom sometimes and God's wisdom, they're in conflict and we're tempted to buck against what God says. And what is that? That is part of the training process. Sometimes that's the test. He talks about how sometimes we argue with God and we want to go our own way. Instead, he says, listen to what I'm saying. James chapter 1, 19 to 25. He talks about people who are dealing with temptation. He talks about people who are dealing with pride. He talks about self-centered passions. He talks about ways that we try to manipulate our circumstances because we want to control everything going on. He talks about when we suffer injustice. He talks about God's chastening hand. He talks about the importance of sometimes having conversations with people. You say, why does he go through all these contexts? Because he says, in all these contexts, God is training you. In some of these contexts, God is testing you. He's saying, this is how you grow. This is how you mature. This is how you develop. This is how you see how far you have grown. I want to ask this question. How do you respond to God in all of these areas? How do I respond to God in these areas? Let me give you one simple final thought, and that is that we need to understand the importance of God's tools. Folks, God uses tools In our lives. You say, what kind of tools are you talking about? The family that he gave you? Your spouse? Your children? Your boss, that person that you are the overseer of, and they are very, very difficult and they cause troubles for everybody. they work with. Those coworkers that some days have really good days and some days they are not very nice to work with. Our friends, who sometimes are incredible, rich blessing to us, and sometimes they deeply wound us and discourage us Do you know that God even uses our enemies? You say, how does he use them again? He uses them to train us and to test Us. You say, well, how does God do it? God does it through people. You say, I don't see God's hand in my life. You're not seeing God's hand in your life because you're not recognizing that the person That you are dealing with is a tool in his hands. You're not seeing it because that is the nature of it. We also see that God uses circumstances, and when we read Through the book of James, we see over and over and over again he talks about circumstance, circumstance, circumstance, injustice. People that don't treat us right. Chastening. Sometimes we go through very hard circumstances in life. Sometimes we can't answer the why and explain all of the reasons. When a person loses a job, when they go through a health crisis, when there are events that are out of control, whether in their family, in their workplace, in the community, whatever it is, God uses circumstance to train us and to test us. But one of the things that God really uses is the body. Of Christ. The final thing that James writes in this book is James 5, 16 through 20. He says the following: He says, confess your faults one to another and Pray one for another. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availth much. He says, if anyone wanders from the truth and someone is able to turn This person back. Know that he has saved this person from death and a multitude of sins. And I want to remind you that the way he closes out the letter is he says, God puts you in the body of Christ to interact with Christians so that you will be trained and pass the test and you'll grow. The regular teaching ministry of the church is so important in our lives. Intercessory prayer. We need to pray for one another. Mentoring. You know, this is going a little bit deeper than friendship. This is a person who is a little bit more matured in the faith than we are, and they invest in our lives. They shape our perspective. They talk through issues with us. They remind us of truths that we know but we forget. Mentoring is is so very important. Loving accountability. A person that you reach out to and you say, you know, I struggle in this area. You know that. You're my close friend. Can we pray together about this? When I'm struggling, can I call you and talk to you? Can I text you and say, pray for me? I'm really dealing with this issue right now, and I need you to lift me up in prayer. Can we talk through this issue? And folks, there are countless ways that we may need those kinds of relationships in our lives. I also mentioned corporate work There's something very special about when we gather together, we try, not imperfectly we do this, but we try to lay aside all the things going on during the week. And we just focus on the Lord. In song, in prayer, in word, in fellowship, corporate worship is so very, very important. To our growth into Christ's likeness. There are times that we walk into this place, we're very discouraged. And you know what? There is nothing that can be said by somebody here or by me That's gonna just like remove that problem in your life. But all of a sudden, when you start singing praise to God with that person next to you, God fills your heart with something you didn't have before. Sometimes the passage that will be preached, you go, Pastor, how did you know I was dealing with that? I didn't know. I mean like When you preach through a book of the Bible, there are times I can't tell you where I'm going to be in three months. Because I might do a two-parter. I might do a three-parter. We may have an event come up. I don't know where I'm going to be on a given week But if I'm in that place at that time and it just happens to be exactly what you needed to hear, then look up to God and say, God, thank you for sovereignly working in my life today. So very important. We need to be into the word in the Word of God. I can't tell you how many times I've opened up my Bible and I'm just systematically reading it verse by verse, chapter by chapter by chapter, and I read a passage and I'm like, that is exactly what I needed to read today. Or I read something and I don't realize how much I need it, and then about three hours later I'm in the midst of a very difficult situation, and all of a sudden what I read comes back to my mind. I go, now I know. Why I needed to read that today. What's the point? The point is that God trains us and tests us, and He uses Instruments. I want to encourage you, do not neglect the instruments that he uses in your life The book of James was written to drive home this very simple point that if I'm a new creature in Christ, old things Will pass away. All things will become new. Moment by moment, as I go through the process of walking in this life, God is training me, God is shaping me, God is pressing me. more and more into the image of Christ and along the way he's going to test me. And when he tests me, whether I pass or fail or struggle, whatever the cost, I will see Progress or need for progress, and his hand is involved in all of those things. God wants us to live out the position that we have in Christ. And I asked this question. First of all, are you a Christian? Have you placed your faith in Christ? You're the only person that really can answer that question honestly. I cannot answer it for you. I can't look at you and say, I know you're here, you're here. I can't do that. You can't know it's within your heart. I can make assumptions, I can make guesses that could be really way off or maybe they're somewhere close. But between you and God, do you know for certain that when you die you're going to heaven you've placed your faith in Christ. Second question I have is, are you struggling in this training process? Are you struggling in this training process? The book of James never gives the impression that the training process is easy. Never does that Your coach, if you're on a sports team, or the person that's teaching you in the classroom, or the person that's training you in an area, isn't going to say, oh, this is going to be so easy, so simple, you can just ignore what I'm saying, it's not going to be They say, you better pay attention. Because when you're in this situation, if you didn't listen, if you didn't put in your time, you're not going to do well in that situation. It could cost you your life. It could cost this business a lot of problems. It could make you be way off in that answer to that question. Are you struggling in the training process? Let God remind you of what He's doing. Are you passing the trying of your faith? As God gives you the quizzes, And the tests and the midterms and the finals of life. How are you doing? Are you growing? Are you maturing? Or are you frustrated with him? And lastly, I ask, are you relating properly to the tools that God is using in your life? Those tools are different for all of us. But God has tools of people and He has tools of circumstance that He's using. To train and to test. I pray that God will take this book that we have spent many, many, many months working through, and He'll use it to encourage us as we continue to grow into Christ. Let's bow together for prayer. I do want to ask this one question before we close in prayer. Is there a person that would say, Pastor? You spent a good bit of time on the gospel at the beginning of this, and I I really don't know for certain that I'm saved. And I go to church. I give, I show up. But the way that you explained it, I don't think I've ever trusted Christ as my Savior, and I need to do that. Is there anyone that would raise your hand quietly in this moment say, Pastor, that's me. I don't know for certain that I'm saved. I need to talk to somebody so I can get this settled. Anyone at all like that? I'm not gonna call you out or make a point. I'll just take notes so that I can try to speak with you later on. Anyone like that? Is there anyone that says, Pastor, I'm saved, but there was a a point in the That message that the Lord used to speak to my heart. Could have been about the fact that I'm in a training process. Could be the fact that I'm being tested and I needed To hear that. Just pray generally that the Lord will help me to think correctly and respond properly in these circumstances. Anybody like that say, Pastor, that's me. That's me. Amen. You can put your hands down. Let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask him to help us to really live in the light of these truths. Father, thank you for your word. The wonderful comfort of being a Christian because of the work of Christ. The sobering reminder that as we walk through this life, we will be tested, and we are in a training We are going through training, growth into Christ's likeness. Help us to be a people who are growing together and maturing. I pray that you'd help us to walk with you and not to resist what you're doing in our lives. Thank you for each person that's here. Thank you for the opportunity we've had to go through this study I pray that you would you would use it not just in this moment but for years to come that our lives would be built on these very important truths. We ask these things in Christ. Christ's name. Amen. I'd like you to take your hymn books out. Please let's turn to hymn 156, the song that we're singing for our closing. Is how can it be? Him 156, how can it be? I'm going to sing the first, the second, and the third verses of this very reflective song. Oh Savior, as my eyes behold the wonders of Thy might unto the head away, the vast creation thou hast made And yet to think thou lovest me, my heart cries out, How can it be? How can it be How can it be that should love a soul like me? Oh how can it be on the second? As at the cross I aren't Up on diamond and huge greening sun , a full nail so bruised and told To know the suffering was for me. In grief I cried, how can it be? How can it be? How can it be that God should love us so like me? Oh how can it be on the last? How can it be? How can it be Twas ever grace so full and free from heights of bliss, to death of woe, in loving kindness thou disco From sin and shame to rescue me, O love Divine, how can it be How can it be? How can it be that God should love us so like me? Oh, how can it be? Amen. I hope that you'll be able to make it back tonight for our evening service. We're going to be back in the book of Ecclesiastes and we're going to look at uh really a very important topic, and that is the importance of having compassion on people when they are And so I want to encourage you if you can uh come back tonight or at least follow on the live stream or look back and listen to the the uh passage we'll be looking at. I think it will will be uh very practical and encouraging and helpful to us. I'd like to ask if Chris, do you mind closing us in prayer? And uh good to see you. And uh I want to remind you that we do have a meeting for our vacation bible school workers, be down here on this side. So um take Take a couple of minutes, you know, get your kids, and then uh we'll be down here for that meeting. So let's remember to do that. Chris, close in prayer and then could be dismissed. Let's all stand together for closing prayer. Father, we thank you so much for the opportunity to be here. Thank you for your word. We can know what you have to say to us. Thank you for what you did dying for us and earning salvation for us. And I thank you that you continue to work in us. Help us to be receptive to that and help us to continue Continue to encourage each other that we may continue to grow. In Jesus' name. Amen.