Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to a new week of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I want to tell you a little bit about what I'm doing this week. This week I'm going to be traveling And so the video that you are watching this morning is uh prerecorded, so if you hear my voice, you'll know that um I'm still trying to get over something that I've been dealing with. And so my goal is to be able to upload these throughout the week, but I don't know what my internet connection is going to be like. So to the best of my ability. I'm going to put these out here, but we will see what happens. So I'm going to pre-record them and uh Lord willing be able to get them all out. But what I'd like to do is review the passage of scripture that We dealt with on Sunday from your perspective here, and that is Luke chapter 11. So let's look at Luke 11, verses 1 through 4. And what we're talking about this week is having a properly ordered prayer life. And we know that prayer is a very important part of our walk with the Lord. It's not the only element, but it's an essential part of our walk with the Lord, and we're going to examine that this week together. Luke chapter 11, verse 1 says this. It came to pass. that as he was praying in a certain place, when he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him, Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples He said unto them, When ye pray, say, Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as in heaven. Give us this day or daily bread. Forgive us our sins, as we also forgive everyone that is indebted to us. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Now, if you heard this this morning, you recall that this is very similar to the Lord's Prayer in Matthew, and there are some differences. This is a shorter prayer than Matthew. And it may be that Jesus taught this in several places. Matthew wanted to give a fuller version of it, whereas Luke is shorter. That's really not an essential part of our discussion this morning. But what is an essential part of our discussion is some introductory thoughts regarding prayer itself. And what we're going to do is we're going to pick apart each of these verses, and we're going to look at some elements that Jesus presents to us that should shape the way that we pray. But before we do that, I want us to look at some introductory thoughts. First of all, we know that prayer is an essential part of our Christian experience. Luke chapter 18, verse 1 says this. Men ought always to pray and not to faint. It's something that should be a continual part of our life. And when we're in difficult times, we're frustrated, we're discouraged. Prayer should be our first response, as opposed to becoming angry. discouraged or uh or wearied. First Thessalonians 5. 16 says that we're to pray without ceasing, and everything give thanks. This is the will of God. in Christ Jesus concerning you. And so the idea is that we should have a continual attitude of prayer where we are continually in communion with the Lord. And at any time we can come into his presence. with a desire, with a burden. I mean if you think about it this way, when we have a close friend, um we text them all the time, we call them all the time, we have conversations. And this is the way that we should be with God. The fact is that we shouldn't just set aside a time and this is my time I pray and then all these other times I don't even think about it. We do set aside time to pray, and sometimes prayer is a very formal thing, but it's also just a normal part of our Christian relationship. And then when we talk about prayer, prayer is described a lot of different ways in the New Testament and the Old Testament. Prayer is not just asking God for things, always knocking on the door and saying, give me this, give me this, give me this. Some people take that kind of an approach to prayer. But prayer covers a lot of different areas. One would be adoration. It's me talking to God and telling him how great I believe that he is. based on what he has done, or based about what I read in the Word of God. And so in 1 Chronicles 29, verse 10 , David says the following. He says, Blessed be thou, O Lord God. forever and ever. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty. When David is praying this way, what David is doing is he's expressing to God his adoration of Him. Another example would be Psalm 42, where it's almost as if it's a form of processing information, our innermost thoughts. And we kind of see the psalmist , I'll just read it to you so you can kind of see what he's saying. He says, My tears have been my meat night and day. While they continually say unto me, Where is thy God? When I remember these things, I pour out my soul in me, for I have gone with a multitude, I went with them to the house of God with a voice of joy and praise. He says, Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God I'll show up. Yet praise him with the health of my countenance O my God, my soul is cast down within me. Therefore will I remember thee. What you see is it's as if the psalmist is thinking to himself and he He's crying out to God. And it it's it's basically an explanation of him processing his innermost thoughts. And it is in a prayerful way. We also see an aspect where it's just Communion with God, Psalm 143. He says, I remember the days of old, I meditate on all thy works, I muse on the work of thy hands. Cause me to hear thy loving kindness in the morning, for in thee do I trust. And so it's as if the psalmist is just communing with God. And then a last example I'll give you is Psalm 86. And by the way, this is not the only kinds of examples. We could go even beyond this to other types of prayer. But he says in Psalm 86, 3, he says, Be merciful unto me, O Lord. I cry unto thee daily, rejoice the soul of thy servant. What do we see David doing in these verses? He's crying out in desperation. And so when we talk about prayer, whether it is a prayer of adoration, Whether it is a prayer of processing our innermost thoughts, whether it's a communion with God, whether it's interceding for someone, whether it's expressing our desperation and our dependence on the Lord. The things that we're going to talk about here in this model prayer, the Lord's Prayer, are the kinds of things that should shape our disposition and our worldview as it relates to this issue of prayer. And so I hope that this week you'll join us as we get into this vitally important topic. We need an ordered, a properly ordered prayer life. And so I want to encourage you, stay with us this week as we talk about how Jesus tells us to order our prayer life. Have a blessed morning and Lord willing we'll have another video up tomorrow. By now