Well good morning. Welcome back again to our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And we're looking at our fourth piece to this. And today we're going to look at two elements, not just one, as we've been doing the last couple of days. And so I hope that these will be an encouragement to you. But we won't go quite as in depth on these two pieces, though if I do, perhaps it goes a little longer. We'll see how it goes. But Again, we're in Luke chapter 11. We're looking at verses 1 through 4. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to encourage you to take it. Let's turn together, look at the passage, and see what the text says. Here's what it says. And it came to pass that as he was praying in a certain place, when he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him, Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples. And he said unto them, When ye pray, say, Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come. Thy will be done, as in heaven so in earth. Give us day by day our daily bread, and forgive us our sins, as we also forgive everyone that is indebted to us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Now this little section is important because there are two elements we're going to look at. The first is to remember that we are a dependent. And in verse number three he says, give us day by day our daily bread. I think it's important for us to to not miss the the pieces to that statement. The first piece is that we are a dependent on God. And sometimes people reverse that. They think and they act and they live as if rather than us being dependent on God, He is actually dependent on us. And I've even heard people present prayer in such a way as if God can't do something unless you free Him to do it by your prayers. Now some of you will hear me say that and you go, I've never heard such a chaotic thing to say. But there are others who are going to sit there and go, I've heard that many places, okay? The the the simple fact is that there are some Christians that that take the mindset, and they may not say it, but they take the mindset, well the only way that God can save a person is if I do enough pray. The only way that God can heal a person is if I can get enough people to pray with me, or I can get the right people to pray with me. And that's just not the case. God can do what he wants to do, but he chooses to work through our prayers. And so this issue of us being independent is important for us to remember. James 4. 14 What is your life? It's even a vapor. It appears for a little while, then vanishes away. You ought to say, if the Lord wills, we shall live and do this or that. And so when you come to pray, I hope that you pray as someone who recognizes you're the dependent, not God. The second part is we have needs that he is the only one that can actually meet them. And by the way, when we're praying, we are expressing need simply by the fact that we pray. But sometimes the attitude that is accompanied with prayer is not reflecting the mindset that would be most natural when we talk about prayer. In Psalm 136, verse 23, he says, he remembers us in our low estate. He giveth food to all flesh. His mercy endureth forever. There are certain needs that it is only God that has the ability to meet those needs And that is being reflected in this third element of the week. The third part to this piece is that we need to recognize that this is a daily provision. He says, give us day by day our daily bread. I've had many times they've had conversations with people, and they say, you know, I don't know if I would have the grace and the strength to be able to endure, and then they mention something. And the thing I often tell them is, that's not your concern today. If you find yourself in that place, then God will give you the grace then when you need it. He doesn't give you the grace today for something you will endure tomorrow. And so when God is providing what we need to sustain our lives, he does it day by day. This is how God chooses to take care of us. And I think it's important for us not to miss those pieces. The fourth element that we find in these in these verses is that we need to be sensitive to the struggle that we have with sin. In verse 4, he says, forgive us our sins as we also forgive everyone that is indebted to us. Now the wording is slightly different in the Matthew passage, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. But I think it's important for us to kind of break this down a little bit. to explain what Jesus is saying, but also maybe what he's not saying. The thing that we will see here is that our sin is something that affects our communion with God. Now, sin does not affect our position before God. When we talk about our justification, we are positionally righteous. When we talk about us being saints, the fact is we are saints on our good days and on our bad days. But there is an aspect to our communion or our fellowship or the enjoyment of that position that is contingent on what we do with sin. And I'll also mention this. There's a difference between sin that we are not aware of and sin that we have become enlightened to. God has made it clear to us. through his word and through circumstances, he has brought to the surface that we need to address an area of sin. When when there is a glaring sin between us and another person or between us and God, it hinders our communion with Him. I'll give you just one simple example of this. In 1 Peter chapter 3, verse 7 Peter says the following. He says, husbands, dwell with them, that's your wife, according to knowledge, giving honor unto the wife as unto the weaker vessel. and as being heirs together of the grace of life. So we know what Peter is saying. He's saying, husbands, treat your wife with honor and kindness. Dwell with your wife according to knowledge. Just because you are the head and responsible in the home does not mean that you can be some authoritarian dictator who lords your responsibility over your wife. He makes it very clear. But then he gives us the reason why. And this is not the only reason why, but it's an intriguing reason. He says, that your prayers be not hindered. What does that tell us? Well, it tells us if a husband's not relating properly to his wife, he's also not in communion with God. And so if he thinks that his prayer life is going to be strong and vibrant and he can mistreat his wife, he's living a lie. He's living inconsistent with the facts. He's self-deceived. That's the point. You say, well, why is that? Well, sin affects relationship in the communion side of it. Sin affects our willingness to pray. You know, a lot of people don't pray because the fact is that they don't feel right to go into God's presence because of what they're concealing in their heart and what they're unwilling to address. Sin also affects the kinds of things that we pray. If a person is filled with pride or a person is filled with bitterness and anger, I guarantee you It's going to shape and shade the way that they pray to God. Those sins in the heart affect the things we ask for. and they affect her attitude, not just the things that we ask him to do, but why we ask him to do it and the way that we expect him to do it. You can tell when a person is bitter because it it's something that comes out in their relationships. It doesn't just come out in their human relationships. It comes out in the relationship with their Heavenly Father. And it also affects how God responds to our prayer. There are times That God chooses to withhold our desired response until we address an issue that is causing the hindrance to that thing. And this is a delicate issue, and I think that there are some considerations that we need to have here, because we shouldn't have in our mindset that if we want God to answer our prayer, we have to be a sinlessly perfect person. But if we want God to answer our prayer and we are choosing to hold on to sin and we are fully aware of it, then why in the world would we think that God would respond to us with such compassion and kindness? There's actually a couple pieces to what he's saying. A person who is in this position, who is praying, and is sensitive of their struggle is a person who has a conscientious mindset. We care about sin, though we are forgiven and redeemed by his grace. And this is a description of the healthy Christian. How shall we that are dead to sin live any longer therein? We know sin is something that is a huge hindrance to of fellowship and communion and we don't want to tolerate in our lives. Secondly, we recognize that sin affects the fellowship we have with other people. Forgive us our sins, we forgive. You see the connection between those things? He's saying, I recognize that I do wrong to you. And I also recognize that people do wrong to me. And I care about fellowship with you, and I care about fellowship with them. That means that we are concerned about broken fellowship, whether it's between us and God, or whether it's between us and another person, or another person and us. And the last element to this is that we live with this continual remembrance of God's grace toward us. He says, for we also forgive everyone that is indebted to us. Well, when we see a statement like that, we should ask the question, well, why does this person do this? And the answer is very simple. It's the only appropriate way to respond when we have been forgiven of such a great debt. A Christian that has been gripped by the depths of God's grace is a Christian who is going to be gracious to others. And a person who has a careless attitude towards the kind of forgiveness they've received from God is a person who's going to have a careless attitude towards reconciling with other people. And so we see these two pieces. Remember, you're a dependent. and be sensitive to your struggle with sin. May these elements be a part of our prayer lives and shape how we approach God. Have a blessed morning and Lord willing tomorrow we'll close out our study with some final thoughts. Bye now.