Good morning. Welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for this week. And if you joined us yesterday, we were in Luke chapter 11, verses 1 through 4. And so I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles. Let's turn there again. And we'll dig into this passage of Scripture again. We talked about some introductory thoughts yesterday, but today we're going to look at what is really the foundational piece for almost everything else. that's stated in the rest of his text of scripture. Luke chapter 11, verse 1 says this. And it came to pass that as he was praying in a certain place , When he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him, Lord, Teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples. He said unto them, When ye pray, say, Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, as in heaven, so in earth. Give us day by day our daily bread, forgive us our sins, as we also forgive everyone that is indebted to us. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. As I mentioned yesterday, the traditional Lord's Prayer that we often pray at events is the Matthew Lord's Prayer And it's a fuller Lord's Prayer, it has has more details. And we are doing a Sermon on the Mount series on Wednesday nights. And so I'm going to actually deal with the Lord's Prayer in greater depth as I'm working my way through that. Here I just kind of want to grab the main point of what's there. And out of all the pieces that we're going to look at, as I mentioned earlier, I think that this one is really at the heart of the foundation of everything The way that we approach God in prayer should begin with the principle we're going to talk about this morning. And this element is we are to remember that we are going to our Father. And he says this in verse 1. He says, when you pray, say, Our Father, which art in heaven. Now, not everyone has lived with a great relationship with their Father. I'm thankful for all of those out here who are listening, who have a godly father, someone who has mentored them, who loves them, taught them the word of God, but an excellent example. And if that's the kind of home that you've grown up in, then the fact is that when you read this, you see the warmth and the endearment and you see the closeness that is mentioned in the word father. And that's the sense that we should take as we think about the situation. Some people see prayer as this uh this rigorous duty that we're supposed to perform. We're going to this judge uh who is stern and he's cold. And we're trying to get his attention or someone that we can manipulate and push around, but that's not the way that Jesus tells us we're supposed to pray He says, when you pray, pray our Father. And so there's two important pieces to this statement. There's the relationship side to this, and then there is a balance to the relationship side that I think is also an important piece for us to do that. understand. So first of all, let's notice the relationship side. Before he talks about the power and the authority of God, which obviously we know he has power and authority. He reminds them of the relationship that we have to God as children. A passage that comes to mind is Psalm 103, where it says, like as a father pitieth, his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. He knoweth our frame. He remembereth that we are dust. The mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him. I think this is just a wonderful picture of how God views us. And one of the reasons God views us with compassion and pity and mercy is because of the relationship that we have to him Understanding God's power and his authority on some level would be meaningless to the discussion on prayer if you and I had no access into his presence. So the fact that we have access into the presence of someone who is all-powerful and all-knowing and who is the supreme authority in the universe. It is the fact that we have access that ultimately gives us these wonderful blessings. And so I want to remind you of what it says in Ephesians 2. It says, it is through him, Jesus. that we have access by one Spirit unto the Father. We have access into his presence through Christ. because he is our Father. And this is by virtue of the new birth. We don't have the right to come into his presence through our own righteousness and our own deeds. We have the privilege of coming into his presence Because we have been authorized by this new birth. Because we've been born from above and we are God's children, we can come into his presence. And this relationship and our understanding of this relationship should really shape every aspect of the way that we pray. When we pray, we should be praying like we are talking to someone who loves us and cares about us. Someone who is actually kindly disposed to us, someone who we actually have a relationship with, someone who senses the earnestness of caring for us because we belong to him. Those are the kinds of things that should come out of the way that we pray. And so in Matthew 7. 9 and in the Luke passage he also will talk about this. We'll deal with this in great greater depth in another week. But he says, what man of you Whom if his son ask bread, will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent? If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children How much more shall your Father, which is in heaven, give good things to them that ask him? And so I simply ask this question. When you pray, Do you pray to God as if he is your father? And when we pray, we should recognize that we are praying to the Father. through the Son and hopefully being motivated or influenced by the Spirit. So there is an appropriate way to approach him. It's through the Father to the Father, through the Son. But there's also the side in which he's not just the Father, he's our Father, and that's so critically important. But then I want you to see that there's a counterbalance to this. And the counterbalance is this. We recognize that the personal dimension here. But that personal dimension should not cause us to be careless or flippant. I'll give you an illustration of this. We just recently had something happen this past week where the Senate decided that they were going to dumb down the rules. for dress on the Senate floor. And basically the reason they did it is because we have a senator from Pennsylvania who'd rather wear gym shorts to the Senate floor than wear a coat and tie. And the bottom line is that a man like that going to meet with public officials from other countries is going to be viewed as a complete joke. And the reason for that is because we understand that if we are coming into the presence of someone who has power and authority, we should show that we actually respect that moment. And so the fact that we've dumbed down the Senate in this way. is tragic, and I hope that it gets reversed at some point in the future. And I know that's a soapbox. You say, what does this have to do with this? Well it actually does have something to do with this. Because sometimes people have this mindset, because God is my father, I can approach him like John Fetterman's approaching, going to meet someone in the Senate. We can go to him with this flippancy and this carelessness and this casualness. And the reality is though he loves us dearly, we should still respect the the power and the authority of God, though he is our Father. And so it's amazing how he puts this. He says, pray to our Father which is in heaven. And so, though he is our father, we should not view him as a peer. We should not approach him in this casual push around or I can manipulate him or I can just say anything I want to him kind of an attitude Prayer actually is a serious matter. And so we really need this tension between the words and the affection of going into my Father's presence And also the seriousness of recognizing, and my father happens to be the creator of the world, who is limitless in his power, and there is no authority higher than his own. And so we see this in Matthew 6, verses 7 through 8. Basically, what Jesus says is there is a very big difference, there's a startling difference, between the way that pagans view their gods and the way that the believer views his father. And so he says it this way, when ye pray, use not vain repetition. as the heathen do, for they think that they shall be heard by their much speak. Be ye therefore not like them. Your father knoweth what things ye have need of before ye ask him I think a simple way to put it is he says, when you go into the presence of God, don't think that you can like manipulate him Don't think that somehow by approaching him in a certain way, you could cause him to change his approach to you because you have somehow twisted his arm like a peer like you could with somebody else. You need to recognize he's your father, but you also need to recognize that he has authority and he has power. And so the point is that there's a balance here, and I hope that that that comes out. So you say, well, well, Joel, what's the main point? The main point is this When you pray, recognize that you can come into his presence because the way has been made through the death of Christ, and you have the right and the privilege to come into the presence of God as your father. Approach him that way. But when you do, don't be flippant and careless and treat him like a peer. That's the encouragement this morning. I hope this has given you some things to think about. I hope that it's an encouragement and a challenge to you. And Lord willing, tomorrow we'll upload our next video. Have a blessed day. Bye now.