Well, good morning. Good to see each of you today and uh hope that you've had a good week and a good weekend, our family uh was out of town this past week and we're glad to be back and glad to have a few thousand miles behind us. So uh we had a good time and uh we're thankful to be back uh all in one piece and uh just ready to get I want to remind you that we have a lot of activities going on in the next few weeks. First of all, we moved our men's donuts and bible study to this Saturday morning from last Saturday. So men please make a note of that. That's at 8 o'clock on Saturday, June the 19th. Also after that we'll have a visitation outreach. And so So if you can come to that, we'll do that at 9. 30. So it'll give us some time to get a little bit of a transition from our men's meeting to to uh the visitation time. Also wanted to mention that on Wednesday nights we're now uh doing a new program. We're calling it Anchor Adventure Clubs. Basically it's uh a Sunday school program written by Anson Genesis and uh really like the program that that we that we're using for that. It's basically going to go through the Bible, uh dealing with um Old Testament narratives all the way up from the creation to the cross and I think it's going to be an excellent study. I'm also planning to use that for some things for our adults in the coming months. So I think you'll you'll find that very interesting. We're going to work our way through the Bible from Genesis to the cross, and I think that that'll be an ex extremely encouraging and a helpful study. Also want to mention that we have Vacation Bible School coming up on the 28th. So please mark your calendars. We've had a lot of young people that have already signed up through the website. And so So we're looking forward to a great group this year. Please make sure if you haven't picked up your shirts, if you're a worker, that you uh let me know that so that I can make sure that you get your uh worker shirt for that. Also the teens have some activities coming up. There's a progressive dinner on the twenty-sixth and uh if any of you are interested in helping out with that, uh Mr. Snow, Tori is the one to contact for that, um, and that's gonna be a great time. I think the kids Kids are going to really, really love that. And uh you guys will as well. Uh, if you're visiting with us today uh for the first time or the first time in a long time, we want to say uh warm welcome to you. And I don't know if you received a visitor's packet, but we have those in the back. And if you didn't, please make sure that you get one of those. And if you could fill that out. And what we do with that visitor card is that's a way for us to reach out to you. And um to just get to know you a little bit and how we can be a blessing to you. So I hope that you received one of those and you can put that in the little box in the back when you're heading out If you could, let's take our Bibles and turn together to Psalm 19. Our opening scripture reading is Psalm 19, and we're looking at verses 1 through 11. This morning. Psalm nineteen, verses one through eleven. Here's what the scriptures say. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork. Day unto day uttereth speech, night unto night showeth knowledge. There is no speech nor language where their voice is not heard. Heard. Their line is gone out throughout all the earth, and their word to the end of the world. In them hath he set a tabernacle for the Son, which is as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber and Rejoiceth as a strong man to run a race. His going forth is from the end of the heaven, and his circuit unto the ends of it. Thereof. The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold. the honeycomb. Moreover, by them is thy servant warned, and in keeping of them there is great reward. This morning we're going to be starting a new series through the book of Luke, and then working our way from Luke into Acts. And we're going to be talking about the life of Christ and really how Jesus is presented in the book of Luke and into Acts. And so really looking forward to our study. And with that, we're going to be focusing on the sure record that we have in the scriptures from Luke chapter one. So this morning I want to encourage you to really focus your attention on the surety of the gospel. So let's bow together for prayer and then we'll get started with our song service. Father, thank you so much for the privilege to be called your children. We're thankful for the cross that cancels the power. And we're so thankful that we've been buried with him in the likeness of his Death. own. We've been raised to walk in newness of life. I pray that this morning, as we as we sit under the ministry of the Word, as we think about the scriptures that are being read, and as we We sing these hymns of the faith that our hearts would be stirred up, our affections would be engaged, that we would be instructed and challenged, that we would truly have worshiped together as a local church. I pray that you bless every aspect of this service. May it point honor and glory to the Lord Jesus. Father, I pray that we would be reminded again, freshly, of your love and your grace. your tremendous patience and compassion, that your redemptive work would be magnified and that we would truly be grateful and humbled people. Father, we think about our nation and the tremendous needs that are in our land. I pray that you'd help churches that preach the gospel and make disciples and and believe in the verse-by-verse instruction of Scripture. I pray that you'd help these churches to be strong and to thrive, to reach into their communities. Pray that you'd build our families. Help us to be salt and light in the midst of the generation in which we live. Father, I pray that you'd be with those in our congregation who've traveled. I know that this is a busy traveling season. I pray that you'd give safety to those who are Are on the roads both coming and going in the next many weeks. I pray that you'd bless their time away with family, with friends. May they be refreshed and encouraged and as they come back. we would be a blessing to them and that we would be strengthened by the encouragement they've received. Pray that this morning you would be truly magnified, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Well good morning. Thank you so much for joining us here at Anchor Baptist Church. Ask you to stand and open your eyes your hymn books to hymn number one hundred thirty four. Hymn number one hundred thirty-four. And can it be? We'll sing all four verses of this hymn. Sing out this morning. And can it be that I surg and address that save your blood Thy need for me who caused me, for me who have to die for Amazing that a haha hat just a head for me A man feel that I got such like for me. He landed for the throne of God, so praise of I 'm more than self and came off, and life for I 'll stop Is mercy of amen and praise? Oh my God, it found out me Says my feel and pray for a I walk a nice and play welf My face fell off, my heart was free, my rose went forth and following my Says love my heart must be that was work for me. No cardination now I drag season of hem as mine. I went, my land, and lay just now. For by approach , deterrents, and claim the crown reprise my own For the time of the Great singing, please be seated. As we turn over to hymn number 147. Hymn number 147. Amazing Grace. We'll sing verses 1, 2, 4, and 5. Amazing grace how sweet the sound That send a wet like me, I was well blossom, but now I'm found Twas blind, but now I think Twas brain that taught my heart to fear and break my Been with my boss husband by friends The right for me, but Lord has promised good to me And one my boss records, he run myself and voice unf And long and life and noise when women thousand thousand years Right shining out with no sense to sing God's praise Then when we must be Amen, and we'll turn over to him number 160. My Jesus, I love thee. Listen, verses one, two, and four. My teeth love, I love thee, I love thou For the folly up then I rebuke My grandma like that I love the love of me. And birth of my border would have history. I love the boy, wait, long. And that 's our glory and light. I fail with my brother my chief. Great singing. Our scripture reading for this morning will come from the book of Luke. We'll be in the Gospel of Luke, chapter 1. We'll start with the first four verses of the Gospel of Luke. For as much as many have taken in hand to set forth in order a declaration of those things which are most assuredly believed among us even as they delivered them unto us, which from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the word, it seemed good to me also. having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write unto thee in order, most excellent theological That thou mightest know the certainty of those things wherein thou hast been instructed. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. We'll continue our singing this morning as we turn to hymn number 100. Grace greater than our sins. We'll sing all three verses of hymn number 157. Race that next and I can 't run There with the blood of the life was messed. Grace , race , God , grace, Grace that will pardon us. Where pray praise praise our praise Preston , talk in last They met we can upright, what hell are they to wash ever wag? Look there is for wing of heart , right? So that 's why you may be today. Praise , praise, God , praise , praise that we are born at place with them What 's wrest with greater than all my slam Marble that black and bats let's race. Really be so baby Oh who are longing to see this place where you that moment is waiting for Grace , grace, God , grace, grace that will partner that place with them. Rice , raise , rain , rain. And please Please stand with me once more as we sing our song for the month in the Blue Wilds songbook. Number 24 You are always good. You are only good. Sing all three verses. Oh, I give back, I can sing your face. Always taking my past There were signs when your way would make no sense for that you have never You always don't like that, you always touch me, but I can 't say You are always only for king and I can see my praying, my sense is great, and my strength is so strong. As you hear my call , always not your You are always glad to me what I can say on my heart, maybe you are always only Oh King of I can see your sympathy, I doubt myself, but I'm sure of your love. My best grace was born out that now. Salvete Thank you so much. Great singing. Please be single. Okay, well our children uh who are in junior church, that's ages three to seven. Parents, you can take them to the back for junior church. And the rest of you, I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and turn with me to Luke chapter 1. We're going to be starting a new sermon series and You know, when we finished up the book of of of James, I really, really wrestled with uh where I'd like to spend some time. I would like to get into the book of Romans. That's going to be a very long series. There are lots and lots of different places that I thought about going. But what I really wanted to do was take the book of Luke, and we're going to work from the book of Luke into the book of Acts. And I'd like us to work our way through an orderly account of the telling of the gospel story. And I think it's very important for us to understand These verses, and I think it's important for us to understand them in their context. It's important for us to understand what Jesus was communicating I think a lot of times when we read parables and we come to some of these accounts, I think we a lot of times miss the main point. of what was really being communicated. So what I want to do is first of all read the passage, talk a little bit about a summary and some introduction, and then I want us to deal with this very, very important uh start to the book of Luke. So Luke chapter one, we're going to read verses one through four together. Here's what it says. For as much as many have taken in hand to set forth in order a declaration of those things which are more surely believed among us, even as they delivered them unto us, which from the beginning were I witnesses, and ministers of the word, it seemed good to me also having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write unto thee in order, most excellent Theophilus, that thou mightest know the certainty Of those things wherein thou hast been instructed. Now, when we read this section of Scripture, what we're going to see is that the purpose of the section was really to set the tone for this entire gospel account. The reason that we see this is it is to convince a man, a man named Theophilus, that the details regarding the life of Christ and his ministry are fully reliable and they should be trusted. One of the things that we're going to see as we move through this is that the reason that Luke records certain events or certain details, yet he passes over other details or other events is because he's really focusing in on a very specific point. When we get into some of these parables, it's very important for us to understand what Jesus is communicating in these parables. And why it is that Luke chose to record some of these details, and maybe a passage like Matthew or maybe John or Luke doesn't actually talk about those particular parables. So the main point of this passage of Scripture is really to set the tone. This is a reliable record. We could put this in the area of history. This is not just some story from imagination. This is what actually took place. And it's important for us to understand that the details that Luke is going to record for us are details that were foretold in the Old Testament. And they're significant for us to understand as those in the New Testament, as New Testament believers, looking back at what was predicted, looking back at what took place, and looking at why this is significant, it's very important for us to understand those details. I believe what the scriptures would have for us to see today is that this account is meant to drive home the fact that the gospel is a reliable record, not a sentimental tradition. I think lots and lots of people today within our culture, the reason that they are walking away from the Christian faith is because they do not see that these are events in history. they see that they see these events as simply tradition or something that is sentimental that makes them feel very good. They like walking into this massive cathedral hearing some music play and they don't recognize that this is really to take us back to events that took place 2,000 years ago on the Jewish hillsides. I want to begin with this introduction. The gospel is really the story of how God promised and accomplished redemption for his people. That's what the gospel is. When we sit down and we tell somebody the gospel, what we're basically doing is we're saying, here is the problem. You're a sinner, I'm a sinner, we're condemned, we have no way of earning our way to God, we are unrighteous But God promised redemption, and he continued to picture what was going to happen all throughout the Old Testament. And then 2,000 years ago, he fulfilled his promises. As Jesus lived his life, as he went to the cross and he died on that cross, as he rose triumphant from the dead, that was the fulfillment of promises all throughout the Old Testament. And when we talk how we're about how we're to live as New Testament believers, we look at our lives as having implications in the gospel. It is because we are new creatures in Christ, it is because of what Jesus. Did for us that we are to walk in newness of life. And it's also that we can. We see it's a story of God's power, God's wisdom. God's love. God's faithfulness. A lot of times when we read the Old Testament, or a lot of times when we read the Gospels, We're not looking at them to see the greatness of God, His power, His wisdom, His faithfulness. We're looking for some little truth that I'm supposed to pull from this text that really is very foreign to the point of what Jesus was. Even trying to communicate many times. It's about demonstrating God's faithfulness to what he promised. What's also very interesting as we Read these gospel accounts, is that each of these four gospels were written to people from different cultures Different backgrounds. Some of the details between the various gospel accounts, they overlap with one another, but one account will give certain details while the other will not give those details. Details. And you say, well, why is there the conflict or why is there the difference? The reason there's a difference, not a conflict, is because the reason John recorded those details Details. And the reason that Matthew recorded those details was to demonstrate a different point to a different audience. There are times that Luke will explain things that Matthew didn't explain. Because of his audience. There'll be times that Matthew will make a statement referring back to the Old Testament in a way that Luke won't do. And you say, why? It's because of his audience. Each of these four gospel accounts were written to different cultures with both overlapping and unique details to present a compelling case that was unique to their different audiences. Let me give you kind of a taste of what I'm talking about. For instance, in Matthew, Matthew is a compelling case to Jewish Christians. These Jewish Christians had a deep understanding of the Old Testament. They were anticipating a literal fulfillment of all the scriptural prophecies regarding God's kingdom. If you were a Gentile, there would be things in the book of Matthew that though they are true, they will not resonate with you the same way. That they would have been someone growing up in a Jewish context who had studied the Mosaic Law, who understood the Old Testament, and who was anticipating the kingdom of God For instance, we see this statement over and over and over again. It was written that it might be fulfilled, which are it was it was it was done that it might be fulfilled, which was written by the prophet, and then he'll mention it. Why do we see that phrase over and over and over again? Well, it's because Matthew is focusing in on a Jewish context. We come to the book of Mark, we see a compelling case to suffering Roman Christians. Many believe that the Gospel of Mark was written at a time when Roman Christians were beginning to suffer persecution at the hands of Nero. There are certain details that are recorded in the book of Mark, which is the shortest of the gospel. the most abbreviated of the gospels, the quickest moving of the gospels, that is really meant to focus in on a group of people that are Gentiles that are suffering persecution. These Gentile Christians need to be reminded that though Jesus is God in the flesh, he came as a suffering servant who compels them to walk as disciples of Christ. Christ. There's a heavy emphasis on discipleship in the book of Mark. And you might say, well, why is that? Because believers who are living under persecution are going to often have to be reminded again and again and again that being a child of God puts me in conflict with my culture. And when I'm in conflict with my culture Those who hate the gospel are going to try to suppress the gospel. And I have to follow Jesus. I have to recognize I may suffer as he suffered And so Mark has that emphasis quite a bit. We come to the book of John, it's a compelling case to the non-Christian. The details were written so that ye might believe That Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing ye might have life through his name. What's interesting about the book of John is that a huge chunk of the book of John was not recorded over the years of his ministry. It was literally in the final hours leading up to the cross. When the disciples are there celebrating the Passover on that final night where Jesus tells them, I'm going to the cross. I'm going to fulfill those promises that were all made in the Old Testament. On that night, a large portion of the book of John focuses in on the things that Jesus said and did there in the upper room. You might say, well, why does John emphasize certain details, but Matthew doesn't. It's audience. It's audience. Then when we come to the book of Luke, what we see is that this is a case to a Gentile man, Theophilus, that you can believe The certainty of this gospel account. In fact, the book of Luke and the Book of Acts are really two parts to the same storyline. Luke begins at the beginning. He even goes all the way back to Adam talking about the humanity of Christ. And Luke moves all the way through the account of the birth of Christ and details before his birth and after his birth, and he works all the way through Pentecost and through the spread of the gospel all throughout the known world. Luke Acts is a fascinating, fascinating account meant to convince us of the surety of the Of the gospel. But I also want to make one final point in introduction. It's important for us to understand that the details that are recorded in these gospels, while they're recorded in the New Testament. It's important for us to understand that the events that unfolded happen before the cross. You say, well, why does that matter, Pastor? For instance, when the Bible talks about the baptism of John, you need to realize that the baptism that's being talked about in those contexts is not the exact same kind of baptism that we perform as New Testament believers. Believers, believers baptism. There's something that we have to explain about that particular matter. It's important for us to understand that a lot of the things that Jesus Jesus says and a lot of the things that he does are on the front side of the cross. He is anticipating the cross. He's explaining why these events matter. And so when we talk about the contents of the book of Of Luke, we are talking about contents that are not under the New Testament era, but are still back in the Old Testament, yet are very important for us to understand. So it's very important as we work our way through the book of Luke that we keep these details in mind. The specific details that are going to be presented to us are for a specific audience. And these specific details need to be understood in the time before the cross that they were given. And so as we work our way through this, I think that you'll find this to be a very important and instructive Well, the first truth I'd like us to see from the text in front of us is that the Gospel of Luke was written as a detailed and orderly account. Notice again what it says in verse number one. He says, For as much as many have taken in hands To set forth in order a declaration of those things which are most surely believed among us, even as they believed the even as they delivered them unto us, which from the beginning were I witnesses and ministers of the word. It seemed good to me also, having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first to write unto thee. Now, there are several statements in here that it's very easy for us to skip over and not understand the importance, the weight of what he's saying. For instance, when he talks about us, the question is who is Luke talking about? Well, he's talking about people that were physical eyewitnesses of the ministry, the teachings, the death of Christ, the resurrection. He's talking about a group of people that if they were called into a court of law and they were called to testify, did Jesus really die? They can give a first-hand accounting. Did Jesus really rise from the dead? They can give a firsthand accounting. Did Jesus really make that statement? They can give a first hand accounting. Many of these individuals that he's talking about are the people that we call the apostles. These are the individuals that God called out and he sent out bearing the authority of Christ. These are individuals that God used to pen for us the scripture. And as they're penning for us the scriptures, they're constantly going back into the Old Testament and explaining the significance of things that Isaiah said. Things that Micah said, things that Hosea said, things that Moses said. They're explaining the significance and the fulfillment of those things and then the implication of those things. Three key statements I want to mention in this little section. The first statement is this many have taken in hand To set forth in order a declaration of those things which are most surely believed among us. I want you to realize that during the time of Christ, this was in no way a hidden or meager series of events. When Jesus was crucified, when Jesus rose from the dead, the stories of his death and resurrection were numerous and all throughout the Roman Empire. Luke makes a statement about that. The story of Christ's life and ministry was abounding. And the reality is there were some people that were presenting details that were true, and others that were presenting details that were not true. There were some that were presenting messages that bore the full weight, the full authority, as Christ's apostles. There are others who just wanted to get in on the train. They just wanted to be well known in their communities. And so what is Luke saying? Luke is saying, with all this information, I'm going to sit down and I'm going to give you a detailed, perfect, first-hand accounting of the details. I want you to know that this is not just a popular story. This is the truth. This is based on the facts. This is based on the evidence. In other words, Luke was dealing with many firsthand eyewitness accounts. He says that in verse 2. They, the eyewitnesses, delivered them to us, which were from the beginning eyewitnesses, and ministers. of the word. Luke is saying, I'm compiling for you, Theophilus , an expansive explanation of the things that have taken place. The third thing is that Luke had a full knowledge of these events as one who was going to write them down, making a permanent, reliable record. In verse 3, he says, having had perfect Understanding of all things from the very first to write unto thee. Now I don't want you to miss what he's saying. When he says I had perfect understanding Luke is referring to something that Peter refers to in 2 Peter chapter 1, where he says, We have not followed cunningly devised fables when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Christ, we were eyewitnesses of his ministry, but we have a more sure word of prophecy than even the eyewitness account. That is the sense that Luke is giving. Because Luke is not just a historian. He's not just writing down details. He's writing details with the guidance of the Holy Spirit, giving him the very words that he records. Very, very important detail. The second thing I want us to do is I want us to understand the context. Luke was writing this account not just as a representative of the apostles, but as one who had done his research. Historians of the day that wrote about those things. These things are documented today. For instance, you can go to a book written by Josh McDowell called Evidences for Christianity And in this book, in one of his chapters, section number two, he presents what's called a case for Jesus. You say, well, what's the point of this? What Josh McDowell does is he goes into the historical record and he pulls out from Roman historians. Jewish historians, these are people who are not Christians. He gives you the details of what these people said about Jesus. You might say, well, why does that matter? Well, it matters because there are some people today that will go to the extent saying Jesus didn't exist. Nobody knew about him in history. Folks, that's not We have historical records that prove that that is not true. That Jesus truly was known by even those who opposed the Christian message. But I want you to recognize that those people, none of them wrote a detailed accounting like what we see in Luke, in Matthew, in Mark, and in John. Because what Matthew and Mark and Luke and John are writing is Scripture. It is reliable, it is historical, but it is also scripture. Two details that set this account apart from all the others. Luke was creating volumes of information. You know, you might not think of it this way, but Luke had a lot more information than he wrote. In fact, we know that John did as well. At the end of the book of John, John writes, if I were to write all the things that I witnessed, He said the books of the world could not contain all these details. But I took the things that are written so that ye might believe Jesus' The Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing he might have life through his name. Luke would have been able to say the same kind of thing. But I want us to notice the distinction of this record. The distinction is it was written under the guidance of the Holy Spirit. For instance, in 2 Timothy 3, verse 16, it says, All scripture is given by inspiration of God. I want you to notice something about that statement. It doesn't say all the writers of Scripture were inspired by God. Not what it says. It says all scripture was given by inspiration of God. You say, what's the difference? The difference is it wasn't the writers who were inspired, it was the very word Words given by God. When he says all scripture, he means every single word that Matthew And Mark and Luke and John and Paul and these apostles wrote every single word as they stroked it on that I guess you wouldn't call it a piece of paper on that Parchment. And they put that there on that parchment. The Holy Spirit was moving through those men as instruments to give us those very words. A good example of this is, you know, I play trumpet, Doug plays the saxophone, and you hear the distinction of these different instruments. Doug blows into that instrument. And it makes a saxophone sound. And Pastor Joel blows into this and it makes a trumpet sound. And when when Margaret is playing on the organ, it makes the organ sound. These people are using instruments And the instrument gives a distinction of tone based on the instrument that's used, but the instrument is being guided and controlled by the person playing. Now, when I'm playing, you're going to hear some mistakes If God was playing, you hear no mistakes. He's perfect. In other words, the problem with all the accounts written by men is they're human. But what makes this unique is it is God working through human instruments so that every single word that these men pen down is the very word of God. So as I'm reading the book of Luke, I'm not just reading a historical record. It is a historical record. I'm not just looking at the data that was compiled by Luke as he listens to all these firsthand accounts and has this volume of information. But I'm reading the word of God through that instrument, Luke. In 2 Peter chapter 1, verse 15, he says, Moreover, I endeavor that ye might be able after my decision Cease to have these things also in remembrance. Think about the Apostle Peter. He's an old man. He's getting to a point where he knows he's not going to live much longer. And he says, I have taught and I have taught and I've told all these people the events that unfolded during the ministry of Christ. I tell them about the Old Testament prophecies, and I make all these connections, and I'm teaching verbally, but you know what? I'm going to be gone. What am I going to do? God moved him to write the scripture. Scriptures. He says, We've not followed, cunningly devised fables, and we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. He's like, This is not coming from my own opinion and my own mind. This is the word of God. He says, when we made known to the power, we were eyewitnesses of his majesty, knowing this first that no prophecy of the scriptures of any private interpretation. For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. We talked about the scriptures not being of a private interpretation. He's saying, when I wrote these details and I explained the details, I'm not just explaining my opinion. I'm giving you God 's mind on that particular matter. There are many times in the scriptures we'll read about an event, and then God will make a statement about how he viewed that particular event. event. That's not just David's opinion or Moses' opinion or Luke's opinion. That's God 's words And so he says that these men spoke as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. This is what we call the doctrine of inspiration. And so when we read the scriptures, we are reading the very words of God. This is why we believe when we call an error. Because a perfect God gave us a perfect word. This is why when we read the scriptures, we don't say, well, you know, that historical account is very interesting, but it might be wrong. God gave us his word. This is reliable. This is trustworthy. This is sure. And that is the sense that Luke is trying to emphasize in this particular context. The second truth that we see is that Luke wrote this account to strengthen a man's faith. Verse 3 says, It seemed good to me also Having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write unto thee in order, most excellent Theophilus, that thou mightest, I love this statement. Know the certainty of those things wherein thou hast been instructed. He's saying, Luke, you've had people teach you the gospel. They've told you about Jesus. They've told you about the Old Testament. And in the back of your mind, you might be sitting there going, it Is it just that I interacted with these people and I came in contact with with this information, but it's not really true. There are some people they grow up in America, they grow up in a Christian church, they grow up in a family where the gospel is presented to them over and over and over again. And they get to an age like 16 or 18 or 22 and they go, well, you know, if I'd have grown up in the Middle East, I wouldn't have heard this message. If I'd have grown up in another continent, I wouldn't have heard this message. How do I know this is true? How can I have confidence that this is true? That is kind of the sense of what Luke is saying here. He says, Theophilus, you've heard these things. I want to convince you You that what you've heard is certain, it is sure, it is true, it is steadfast. You might say that there is an apologetics kind of nature to what Luke is trying to do. He is reasoning from the events that took place, going back into the Old Testament, explaining, here is the fulfillment of that, here is why it's significant. He's laying the things out as reasoned arguments so that Theophilus will go, this is unquestionably true. I believe it. It is Folks, that is really the sense that we want to get when we read this book. If we're reading this book and we're not getting that sense, then there's something wrong with the way I'm teaching. Teaching it, because that was the intent for which it was given. Let me give you a couple of distinctions of his work. One is that it was complete and accurate That phrase perfect understanding encapsulates a few things. One is he did his research. One, he has multiple first-hand accounts But really, what is at the heart and soul of it all is that he is being guided by the Holy Spirit as he writes these words. It considers the entire picture. He says this was of all things from the very first. You know, one of the things that I think is a great weakness sometimes. And the way that we teach the Bible and the way that we read the Bible and study the Bible is that we go to a passage of Scripture and we pull out a verse. We pull out a passage and we have no idea how that fits into the big picture. It's a huge problem. A lot of times we'll read a verse and we'll memorize that verse and we'll apply that verse, and if all we did was stepped around and we wrote the ten read the ten verses before it and after it, guess what we'd find out? The application was not exactly what it meant. We do this. And so one of the great challenges that we encounter is that we will go to the middle of the story and try to explain something in the middle of the story without having built the foundation first. So that we understand the significance of the middle of the story. And you know what Luke does? He goes to the beginning of the story , he goes to creation. He talks about Adam. He talks about Zecharias. You say, well, who is Zecharias? And why was Zecharias looking for the Messiah? What is the significance? of all these statements that Zecharias makes as he's talking about this child who's going to be born. Why does the child even matter? This child named John, why does that even matter? matter. Luke is taking us back to the beginning, and as he works his way through that, he's helping us to understand, okay, now I know why that passage is important. Because I understand foundation and I'm building on foundation, and now it all makes a lot more sense. That is what Luke is doing. He says, I have complete and accurate information, and I'm considering the entirety of the story. And by the way, what's amazing about what Luke does is he starts at the creation, but by the end of the book, what's he talking about? The spread of the gospel to the nations. And then what do we see in the book of Acts? We see the obedience of the church. Sometimes obedient, sometimes not, but the spread of the gospel throughout the nations. And the anticipation of God's eternal kingdom. He gives you the whole picture. This account considers the flow of events and conversations. Prophecies, anticipated prediction of events that were going to take place. It gives us God 's commentary on the significance of These events. It was carefully thought out and recorded. He says, I am going to write unto thee in order. The idea is it's sequential. He's not including everything that took place. He's including the important details. You know, it's kind of interesting. Let's say that you're a teacher and you're teaching mathematics and you're trying to teach first and second graders mathematics. And then you go to the next class you're teaching third through fifth graders. mathematics. And then you're going and you're teaching mathematics to seventh and eighth graders. And then a tenth grader and then a senior in high school. And now you're teaching entry-level calculus. And now you're getting into engineering. Question: Are there different kinds of mathematics or is it mathematics? Well, it's all mathematics. But what you're getting Giving people is kind of like what's appropriate for their level. Does that make sense? And so basically, what Luke is doing is he's giving you all the important information so that you will have what you need to have a strength. Strengthened and steadfast faith. It's also very personal, and it's also very practical. He says, This is that thou mightest know the Certainty of those things. Luke's goal was not that Theophilus becomes just a knowledgeable person. He wanted this man, Theophilus. To be a believer who was strengthened in his faith. The kind of believer that if someone says, you recant your faith or you die, he says, I know this is true. True, I have to stand on it. He's the kind of person that's not going to be shaken in the wind. He's not going to give up. He's not going to quit. It's personal. It's practical. He says, I want you to know the certainty of all those things. You know, I think many times we talk about faith, our view of faith is very sentimental. It's very feely. It's very emotional. First fa folks, faith begins with the intellect Intellect. Faith begins with the mind. Faith is reasonable. It doesn't mean that all the questions are erased, but it means that it's reasonable, it's rational, it's believable. As a person hears the gospel and as they read the scriptures, they're going to sit there and the Holy Spirit's going to say, you know that's true about yourself. You know that's true about your own nature. You can see what the Bible says about the anticipation of Christ and what he did for you and why it's important. What does he do? He convinces us through the facts, through the substance of it. But faith has to have a sure foundation, reliable. The facts don't lie The facts build a case. And the more they're laid in front of us, the stronger our confidence is in the reliability of those facts, and the more compelled we are to embrace the truth. I want to ask you this question. Living in the 21st century, do you sometimes not view the Christian faith that way? The book of Luke is for you. The last thing I'm going to mention is this. We need our faith to be strengthened alongside Theophilus 's. In verse 4, it says, It seemed good to me also having had perfect understanding. understanding of all things from the very first, to write unto thee in order, most excellent Theophilus, that thou mightest know the certainty of those things which thou hast been instructed. And I asked myself the question Why are you hearing this today? Why will you be hearing this for weeks and weeks and weeks? So that you can sit alongside this man, Theophilus, not physically, literally, but you can sit there alongside of him, and your faith can be strengthened. You will see, oh, all of a sudden I see that that miracle that took place was a deliberate act connected to something that was foretold in the prop by the prophet Isaiah. Like Jesus did that to provoke a response from the Pharisees so that he could make a point that he is the Lord of the Sabbath. What does that mean? That means he's the creator. He's the sustainer. He owns it all. When he opens the eyes of the blind, the people that are sitting there were supposed to go, you know, the prophet talks about the myself the Messiah opening the eyes of the blind, taking the lame and allowing them to be able to walk. No one can do these things yet God is with them. Him. That's the point. We need to have our faith strengthened alongside with the Oclausis. So I want to give you a couple of practical questions to ponder as well. We close. My first question is this. Has your faith been shaken by difficult experience? It's very easy for us to grow up in the church, to live our lives, and our faith is never really tested, and all of a sudden something tragic takes place. Sentimental and not rooted in facts, and we weren't convinced of the evidence, and our faith wasn't rooted in the object of Christ the way that it ought to be, is a healthy, strong faith. Faith, we are extremely shaken by circumstance and difficulty. I asked this question: could that be you this morning? Many, many, many people Who have grown up in the church walk away from the church because their faith that's never been tested gets shaken at just that moment and it it knocks Him down for a long time. I asked this question: has your faith been shaken by a gradual drift from the scriptures? You know, in Romans it says that faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the word of God. There are many people that it's not an event that shakes them and they walk away from the faith for a season. Or they struggle in faith for a season, but they literally drift. It's like watching erosion at the beach. You gotta sit there for a pretty long time to see But it is most surely happening as you stand there at the beach. And our faith can be like that, where it begins to be undermined over months and years of drifting away from the script. Scriptures, not being in the word, not interacting with godly people, not being connected to the church, these kinds of things can cause us to drift. And as we drift, our faith becomes shaken. Has your faith become shaken by the skeptic 's accusation? You know, it's interesting. This week I was. I was at a show that was talking about the amazing features of the world that we live in. It was a fascinating, fascinating show. It was a beautiful show. But you know what was really amazing to me about that show? It was seeing the evidence while rejecting the obvious It's really amazing. Statements like, we're really lucky that this planet just happens to be the right distance from the sun I'm like, really? Really lucky that this planet happens to be the right distance from the sun that it can sustain life. That water is at the right temperature that it can be drunk and used. Not frozen, not a gas. They talked about all these fascinating features, like the fact that the moon and the sun or or uh the moon and the earth are positioned the way that they are and how we have tides that that causes the flowing of the seas and how important that is to To life in this world. They talked about all these fascinating things, and it was all from this perspective of we're lucky that it worked out this way over billions of years. Really? Like, I know you're a brilliant person. The things that you're talking about are beautiful. They're majestic. They're fascinating. And you really believe that it was just luck? Like you really believe that? And at the end of the show, it gave us the dire warning of how important it is that we protect our planet. So that this wonderful planet that by random chance ended up exactly where it is and seems to be flourishing and thriving by random chance, we are the only hope to preserve this planet. And I go, really? Like, okay. And I ask myself the question: how do you reason to those positions? Is that not a contradictory viewpoint? That random chance creates it, and we, the intelligent ones, are the only ones that can keep it going. Like, okay. Folks, we are bombarded with the accusations of the skeptics. There are many, many people that love to trash the scriptures. There are many young people that go into school, go into the military, go into the workforce, and there are people that are just waiting to destroy their faith. It is their avowed It is their avowed purpose in life to undermine the faith of an unsuspecting young Christian who grew up in a church just like this one, but has never had Their faith tested. Folks, we need the book of Luke. I asked the question: has your faith ever truly been tested? Do you wonder if the events that you hear about being taught about in the scriptures are actually true? I have good news for you. Our faith is not simply in feelings. It is substantive. It's not simply sentimental. It is factually based. It rests in a real person and his real redemptive work. This person's life and ministry are the real fulfillments of a story that began all the way back in the book of Genesis. When we see key events in the Old Testament where God's plan could have been destroyed, and he steps in and he does the miraculous, you know what's a reminder of? That God sustains the world he made. That God upholds his promises, that he is faithful, that he is strong, that he is good, he is trustworthy. We can rely upon what he says. Folks, I think what we will see as we study the scriptures is that the evidence can be weighed and should be found overwhelmingly compelling. My prayer is that our faith will be strengthened as we walk through the As we read the parables, as we hear the stories that Christ gave, his teachings, the way he interacted with the religious Leaf, his disciples, the skeptics, the doubters. Our faith will be strengthened. God's Word is a wonderful, wonderful book, and I want to encourage you Let's be people who are lovers of the truth. Let's bow together for prayer and ask the Lord to really help us to be a people whose faith is strengthened as we read. These wonderful trees of scripture. Let's bow. Father, thank you so much for the book of Luke. I'm really looking forward to being able to get into this study. It's going to be so practical. And so rich as we move through these texts of Scripture, as we see the teachings of Christ, as we see these miracles, as we see how How he handled people, as we see how he refers back to the Old Testament scriptures, as we see how God continues his plan of redemption I pray that we would walk away having hearts that are overwhelmed with gratitude, with joy, and conviction that in fact the These things are true. Pray that you'll bless each person that has joined us both physically and on the live stream. I pray that we would leave this place having hearts that have been encouraged by the word. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. If you could, I'd like to ask you to turn with me to hymn number 478. It is Well with My Soul. And as you're turning there in your hymn books, I want to Encourage you. This message talked about the surety of the gospel, but it really didn't emphasize the gospel itself. But it may be possible that there There's a person here this morning that would say, Pastor, I don't really understand the gospel. I don't know for sure that I'm saved. If you do not know for sure that you're saved, I want to encourage you please when you when you pass through those doors I'll be in the back greeting people come by and say Pastor I need I need to meet with you I don't know for sure that I'm saved and I'd be glad if you're free after the service to sit down with you and take a Bible and show you from the Bible how you can be saved. If you want to set up an appointment in the following week, whether it's face to face or whether it's a virtual, it doesn't matter to me. I'd love to take the opportunity to sit down and show you from the Bible how you can be saved. So please do not leave here without reaching out if you don't know for certain that you're saved. Let's stand together and we're going to sing as our closing Hymn number 478 it as well with my soul. We're going to sing the first, the third with the instruments, and then the final verse we will sing a cappella When these like a river can at my way When sorrows like sea bellows fall Whatever my lot, thou hast got me to say It is well, it is well with my soul, it is well with my soul. It is well, it is well , with my soul on the third, I stand full of less Uh this war me as souls, I say not in part, but the whole scale to the cross And thy leverage no more. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Oh my soul. It is work with my soul. It is well, it is well in my soul on the last Rapapella. And Lord is the day when my face shall be sighed. The clouds be rolled back as a stroll, the trump shall resound And the Lord shall descend even so it is with my soul. It is with my soul It is wow, it is wild with my soul. Sounded pretty good. Amen. Praise the Lord for that. Brother Eric Nicky, can you close us in prayer? And uh if you're visiting with us today, uh really glad that you could join us And I hope that you'll stop by and uh you don't have to shake my hand, you can just greet me. Uh but uh want to definitely meet you and so glad that you could join us. Close us in prayer and hope tonight we'll be able to see many of you again. Dear Lord, we thank you for this day, and we thank you for what we've heard from your word today. And Lord, just ask that you would help us to grow as we hear from your word. Lord, help us to apply it uh daily, Lord, and just ask that you would uh go before us this afternoon. In Christ's name. Amen.