Let's turn together to the book of 1 Chronicles. That's not 1 Corinthians. That's 1 Chronicles in the Old Testament. And we're looking at chapter 29. And we're going to begin reading in verse number nine this morning together. And this is an interesting week because we are still in December, and I know in the month of December all of our focus has been on the miracle of the incarnation. It's been a Christmas focus. And uh this morning I kind of wrestled. I'm like, do I want to go with a Christmas theme? Because we're Still in that season, or do I want to kind of look at a theme that is sort of reflective on the past year and anticipating a new year? And I decided I'm going with the second one. So I hope that the text in front of you The Lord will really use it to minister to your heart this morning. And as we work our way through this passage, it'll be a little bit different than the way that I would typically work through a passage. I hope that the Lord will really use this to challenge you, to encourage you, and to really prepare your heart for the closing of this year and the entering in of a new year. I don't know what you've encountered this past year. Maybe this has been the greatest year of your life. Maybe it's been the hardest year of your life. Maybe you go, it's kind of both. Maybe you say, I don't even know that I'd want to define this past year. I don't know how to define this past year. No matter how you come to this text this morning, God has something for you. And so we're going to read the text. We'll bow together for prayer and commit our time to the Lord. And then my prayer is that God will really open your heart to his word as we work our way through these very important truths. 1 Chronicles 29, verse number 9. Then the people rejoiced, for that they offered willingly, because with perfect heart they offered willingly to the Lord. And David the king also rejoiced with great joy. Wherefore David blessed the Lord before all the congregation, and David said Blessed be thou, Lord God of Israel, our Father, forever and ever. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness. And the power, and the glory, and the victory, and the majesty. For all that is in the heaven and in the earth is thine, Thine is the kingdom, O Lord, and thou art exalted his head above all. Both riches and honor come of thee. And thou reignest over all, and in thine hand is power and might, and in thine hand it is to make great and to give strength unto all. Now therefore, our God, we thank thee. Praise thy glorious name. But who am I and what is my people that we should be able to offer so willingly after this sort? For all things come of thee And of thine own hand have we given thee, for we are strangers before thee and sojourners, as were all of our fathers. Our days are on the earth as a shadow, and there is none abiding. O Lord our God, all this store that we have prepared to build thee in house for thine holy name cometh of thine hand and is all thine own. Please let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to take his word and impress it upon our hearts this morning. Our Father, as we think about this scripture, I pray that the Holy Spirit would move in our midst, would move very personally, very practically, very effectively in our hearts today. We recognize that we are a people who need you to move us. We need you to open our eyes. We need you to convict us. We need you to comfort us. We need you to challenge us. We need you to shape us. We need you to uplift us. We need you to move us towards yourself. And so I pray that that's exactly what you would do this morning. Father, help this word to move our hearts so that we would be in a more godly position and a more matured perspective That you would move in our midst very practically this morning. And we'll thank you for that. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. When I read these verses, I want you to picture in your mind a man who is not reading these things but saying them from the heart with passion. In your mind's eye, what kind of a man do you see? Is he young and vibrant? Is he middle-aged? Or is he elderly? I don't know what comes to your mind, but the text is about a man who is very old. When I say very old, he wasn't quite 70 years old. That got a couple of you. But he was an aged man who was not quite seventy years old. The fact is not everybody that 65, 70, 75 has weathered life the same way. And as we studied the life of David on Sunday nights, you know that David is a man who experienced unbelievable heartache. He knew what it was like to be mocked by his children. He knew what it was like to bury his sons. He knew what it was like to commit horrific sins and hide them for beyond a year. He knew what it was like to have a prophet look him in the eye and say, you are the man that I'm talking about in this story. You are the man who deserves to die. You are the man who has mocked and scorned God by your actions. David knew what it was like to be a man who ran from his father-in-law, not because his father-in-law was angry with him, but because his father-in-law wanted to kill him. and was willing to use every tool at his disposal to take David out. Here is a man who probably is about 68 or 69 years old. But he looks very old. He's very weak. He's very frail. But he's very happy. He's very happy because he is living through one of the greatest moments of his life. It's a moment where he has the opportunity to give to his son years Of labor and years of planning and years of gathering so that his son can do something that he wanted to do, but God said no. I want us to answer a couple of questions about the text in front of us this morning in a way that I hope makes it very practical and comes home to you. The first question we're going to answer is what did David say? And as we look at the passage, we're going to break it down into a couple of things that David says. The first thing that I notice in the text that David says is that his God is indescribably great. Now David is describing God's greatness, but he's doing it in a way that I ask you, how do you define terms like greatness and power and glory and victory and majesty? When David talks about God, he talks about a God who is someone who is indescribably great, indescribably powerful, indescribably good, indescribably majestic. And so in verse 11, he simply puts it this way: Thine, O Lord, is greatness and power and glory and victory and majesty. When I ask this question, when you think about God, how would you describe him? When you think about God, do you think about him as greatness and power and glory and victory and majesty? Well there's some people that say, absolutely, God has been so kind to me and so when I think of God, that's how I think of him. And others would say, well, Joel, you don't know what I've lived through. You don't know about the pain. You don't know about the suffering. You don't know about the agony. You don't know about the misery. You don't know about the losses. You don't know about the hear Heartaches that I've encountered, there is no way in the world that I would call God great, power, glory, victory, and majesty. He to me , someone I could never say those things about. But that's not how David describes him. He describes him as an awesome God. The second thing we see is that when he describes God, he doesn't just focus in on God's greatness and power and glory and victory and majesty, but he focuses in on what God owns. And in verse 11, he puts it very simply, all that is in heaven and earth is thine. You say, well, what is all that is in heaven and earth? It's everything that exists. God owns it all. He made it all. He sustains it all. He upholds it by the word of his power. We think about Colossians where he talks about the Lord Jesus Christ and he says that he made everything and he upholds it all by his hands. By him all things consist is the way that the text speaks of it. And so when David thinks about his God, he doesn't just think about his greatness. and his majesty, but he thinks about how he rules and how he controls and he owns everything and he says, all heaven and earth is yours. He thinks about God in magnificent terms, doesn't he? Third thing he says is that every good thing comes from God's benevolent hand. In verse number 12, he says, both riches And honor come of thee. All of the stuff that we accumulate in life, all of the honors that we receive in life. They can be linked back to the kindness and the mercy of God. Now someone might say, well, hold on a second. If I work a job It's my mind that works the job. It's my hands that work the job. It's my strength. It's my diligence. It's my character. It's the tools that I have at my disposal. I use them. Other people didn't use them. So I'm getting what I got, what I made. All of those honors that I've received, they're the result of the good choices that I made. Other people could have made those choices, they didn't make those choices, so I've earned, I deserve those honors. And there is a sense in which, yes, it is true, your hands have done the work. And it is true that your choices have redounded to goods. But the question isn't what you've done, but why. Why have you done it? Why is it that when others have quit and others have failed, something happened at a pivotal moment in your life? That moved you in that direction that in fact you would not have taken had it not been for that random little thing that took place. Where did that come from? Did you create your own life? Are you the one who was able to give strength to your hands? Are you the one that was able to put food on your table? Well, you say, well, the choices I make, yes, there is truth to that, but the question is, could not God have taken away your strength at any moment? Could not God have caused you to lose your job at any moment? Could not God have allowed your strengths to fail? The answer is of course he could have. I think about people that I followed when I was a teenager and there was a there was a man that was an incredible athlete when I was a kid. His name is Ricky Henderson. Anybody know who Ricky Henderson is? Ricky Henderson was one amazing baseball player to watch. I mean when I was a teenager, I just I look at how muscled that guy was. I mean he was just like he was built like a rock And he could steal bases and he could hit the baseball. He was just an amazing athlete to watch. This past week I learned at 65 years old he died. I don't know anything about the circumstances. But you know what that reminds you? It reminds you, here's this this young man. When he was a young man, this when I was a kid, I looked at that guy and I said, that guy is absolutely amazing. Think about the strength and all of the skills that he had, yet his life is over. Another name that really comes to my mind is Nolan Ryan. I I was reading something the other day about Nolan Ryan. Nolan Ryan struck out Hank Aaron and Ken Griffey Jr. Is that not an incredible now some of you don't even know who I'm talking about. And that's if you don't, that's okay. But we're talking about a guy Who played in the 50s and a guy who played in the 2000s. I mean that's like pretty pretty incredible. And and Nolan Ryan threw a no-hitter at 44 years of age It's an incredible thing to think about. But guess what? He's now an old man. He's now an old man One of the things that we're reminded of is that our greatest moments, our greatest honors, our greatest strengths, they are fleeting, they are temporary, and it is the grace of God and his kind hand that gives us all the things that we enjoy. And in verse 13, he expresses incredible thanks to God. He says, now therefore, based on who God is , Based on what God owns, based on how kind God has been, therefore, we thank Thee. We thank Thee. I think one of the most appropriate things that you and I can do going into this new year, coming out of this past year, is that we stop and we write down things that we can thank God for. Write them down. You say that takes time. I know it takes time. But it'd be so good for us to each do it. It'd be so good for us to sit down and write down the blessings that we have received from God's good hand. And recognize they are of his grace, they are of his mercy, they are of his kindness, and we express gratitude to God. And by the way, the people that he used to give us some of those, we should probably express gratitude to those people as well. Because God used them as tools in his kindness toward us. The next thing we see is in verse 13, he expressed not only thanks to God but worship. He says, And we praise thy glorious name. Whenever we gather together for church and we worship God, the purpose of this gathering is about worship. It's about gratitude. It's about our minds being drawn to the Lord and us being reminded afresh. of how he works in our lives and what he has done for us and how kind he is to us. And David expresses all of those things. But there's a final thing that he expresses that I think is really important. He expresses his unworthiness for all that he has received. In verse 13, he says, But who am I? And what is my people that we should be able to offer so willingly after this sort? So as we read through this text, what do we see? We see that what David says is, God is great. He is so great, I cannot even fully articulate his greatness. God rules everything. There is nothing that falls outside of his sovereign control. He is kind in every good thing that I've enjoyed in life. It comes from his hand. I thank him, I praise him, I worship him, and I express I am unworthy of all of these things. That's where we need to be today. That's where we need to end this year, and that's where we need to cross into the next year. Seeing God's greatness, reminding ourselves of his rule, thanking him and praising him and worshiping him for his kindness toward us and reminding ourselves of our complete unworthiness. But there's a second question I want us to answer this morning, and that is the question, why did David say the things that he said? And this is important for us to think about a little bit. It's not just what people say. Sometimes it's the why that really speaks volumes to us. And so I'd like us to get a little bit of perspective about the text in front of us as we reflect on the why David said what he did. First of all, the book of 1 and 2 Chronicles, they actually fit together as one book. So if you're reading in a in a Hebrew Bible, you wouldn't see, well, there's 1 Chronicles and there's 2 Chronicles. You would see the book of the Chronicles. And this book was penned at a very difficult time in the history of the Jewish people. It was penned after the exile. And so you could say it was kind of a bittersweet time. The people had been in Babylon for 70 years. Jerusalem had been destroyed, the temple had been destroyed, the people's identity had been disrupted, and all of the things that they had experienced were things that God had promised they would absolutely happen. if they rejected God's laws. And for generations, that's exactly what they did. Well 1 Second Chronicles and 1 Second Kings were written during this time period as the people were coming back from the exile. And two questions would have really stuck in the minds of the people. The first question is, how in the world is God righteous To let our people, his chosen people, experience so much tremendous horror as a people. Fair question, right? So what does he do? He has a prophet write 1 2 Kings so that the people would realize God was absolutely just in what he did. This is a people who rejected God from generation to generation to generation And God sent prophet after prophet after prophet, and they ignored, and they ignored, and they ignored. That's the point of 12 Kings. But there's a second question that people would have asked. If we have been dealt with so harshly, we have no temple, we have a capital city whose walls are broken down. We are defenseless people. Our identity has been crushed. Many of the people coming back from the exile, they don't even speak our mother language anymore. Does God still have a purpose for us? It's a really good question, is it not? You can imagine that the people would have experienced that kind of a struggle. And so what does God do? He moves the prophet to write first, second chronicles, and he chronicles from Adam all the way to the time of Cyrus. We're talking about 2,500 plus years of history in the lives of these people. And the central focus of this story is that God is going to do everything he promised to his people. That's the central point. And you know what's amazing? Out of 2,500 years of history, do you know what the majority of that book is talking about? David and Solomon. I mean, we're talking about a very short period of time. Yet you go through and you look at these books and you'll see chapter after chapter after chapter recording all these details about They gathered this amount of material and they called these people to work in this place. And it all starts with David desiring to build the temple. And the prophet says, go and do what's in your heart. God is with you. And the next day he comes back and he says, actually God said no. And David goes. Well, if I can't build the temple, I can prepare my son to build the temple. And so he gives all this time and all this energy. To that great work. And so a big chunk of 1st 2nd Chronicles is from David being told you cannot build the temple to the text that we're dealing with here to Solomon building the temple. Because what it does is it reminds these people who have been dealt such a hard blow, God's not done with them. And there are times in our lives where we have experienced great heartaches and we need somebody to look at us in the eye and say, God's not done with you. Yes, it's true this has happened. Yes, it's true you've been through these valleys. Yes, it's true you can't make sense of all these situations. Yes, it's true, there's a lot of drama and a lot of heartache in your life, but God's not done with you. That's what 12 Chronicles is all about. And I would say perhaps the crowning moment in these books is what we're reading today. Where David expresses to God this incredible joy that he gets to contribute to the building of a temple that will be built after his death. And all these things he has gathered together, he gathered them together because God was kind enough to give him the strength and the will and the resources to do it. And so here is David, not a young man, an old man with so much joy in his heart, despite so much pain in his life. David said these things because he was overwhelmed by God's mercy and faithfulness in his life. And I think Psalm 37 really encapsulates this. This is what he says: I have been young and now am old. Yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken. There might be some people in this room right now that when you think about that, you go, you know, that's true. I've been young and I'm now old and I've not seen the righteous forsaken nor a seed begging bread. God, through circumstances that sometimes we have no idea where they're going to come from, he just He moves at just the right time to preserve his people. That's what David said. Despite all the hardships he saw, God's goodness. Through all the hardships he learned God's goodness and faithfulness. David's life was a testimony to the enduring faithfulness of God. I love these last verses. In 2 Samuel 23, listen to what David says. And this is a really fascinating passage. He says now. These be the last words of David. David, the son of Jesse, said, the man who is raised up on high, the anointed of the God of Jacob, the sweet psalmist of Israel said, the Spirit of the Lord spake by me and his word was in my tongue. The God of Israel said, the rock of Israel spake to me. And the next statement is important. He that ruleth over men must be just, ruling in the fear of God. And as David states that, what do you think went through his head? Bathsheba, Amnon, Tamar, Absalom. He knew he didn't do it He says, although my house be not so with God, yet he hath made me an everlasting covenant. Ordered in all things ensure, for this is all my salvation. An incredible statement He said, God picked me up out of being a shepherd. And he gave me all these things. And he spoke through me. And I knew what a king was supposed to be, and I fell short. But God's faithful. That's what he's saying. And he said, this covenant is what gives me salvation. That's why David said what he did. David said all this because he was a man who, despite all the heartaches in life, was a man after God's own heart. He learned, he grew, he matured. God sustained him. Third question How did he come to this attitude? I think I'm leaning into that second question just a little bit here. We know what he said. We know why he said it, but the question is, how could he say that? How could David not become this jaded, angry, bitter old man? Like so many people become in this very sinful and messed up world. And by the way, a lot of people become bitter and jaded and angry because of things that have happened to them over the course of their lives. Things that were completely outside of their control. And sometimes people become bitter and jaded and angry because they're not willing to face the fact that they created a lot of messes over the course of their lives and the consequences that follow those messes are their undoing. Think about this for a minute. David's challenges that he endured were so numerous. I've already kind of talked about this, but I'm just going to hit a couple of the highlights. And and and if you've been following us on Sunday nights. You're familiar with these because we've been working our way methodically through them. And honestly, some of these passages you just gotta roll your eyes and go What's David thinking? Sometimes you go, well, I sure hope the pastor doesn't go too far into that text because there's a lot of embarrassment to be spoken of in this particular section. Listen to some of the things that David endured. Some of these were things that he built out of his own waivers, and some of them, they were entirely the work of other people's hands. He was overlooked in his house growing up. And you know, we see a lot of example, a lot of evidence of this. So when Samuel comes and he's looking to anoint the next king, He has the oldest come through in the second and the third and the fourth and the fifth. And he goes all the way through. And Samuel says, well, don't you have any other children? And they're like Well, I mean there's a kid out out there watching the sheep. He's like, well is he your son? Yes. Go bring him. Why do you think they did that? Well, because he was little brother. He's the little guy that takes care of the sheep. He was overlooked a lot. Or think about when David comes to the battle and he comes to speak with his brothers and he's like, what's going on? And they're like, who are you? Did you leave those small sheep with someone so they don't run off into the hillside? You just want to come and spy out the battle. You want to be a hero. Why did they do that? He was a little brother. He got in the way. And you know what? Some people, that's the way they grow up in their homes, and they're always They're the second wheel. They're the young one. They're the one that's forgotten. They're the one that's overlooked. And you know what? That's something that starts to define them as a person all throughout life. He was despised by his father-in-law and hunted as a fugitive. Not everybody has great relationships with their parents and their in-laws. I mean, I wish we could say that all people do, but the fact is that's just not true. And the truth is that David had a horrific relationship with his father-in-law, and it wasn't his fault. The more that David was faithful, and the more that he served, and the more diligent that he was, and the more skillfully he worked in the palace. the more Saul hated him and feared him and was jealous over him. And when David goes out to battle, and David is a faithful soldier, and he shows a demonstration of valor, and Jonathan Saul's son loves David. What does Saul do? He hates him. And he does everything in his power to try to kill him. The fact is there are a lot of people that their family struggles. It defines them. He had a really dysfunctional home. I mean, we're talking about this right now. Tonight we're going to talk about Absalom's rebellion, and Absalom just horribly trade his father. But there were practical reasons that Absalom hated his father. I am in no way justifying Absalom's hatred for his father. It was wrong. But David really stumbled as a dad. He stumbled as a king. He created all kinds of problems through polygamy. Through favoritism, through an unwillingness to protect some of his children, through his dishonesty, through his poor example in the home, David had a really dysfunctional home. But at the end of his life, that didn't define him. He buried at least four of his sons. And the fact is he buried them as a direct result of his own sinful behavior. Because it is his sin that led to all of the complications in his home and in his kingdom. That led to the death of these people. And he had to carry the weight of that into his old years. His dream to build the temple was denied. How many people they have a desire to do a thing and it's a good thing and they purpose to do it and they strive and God just says no. And they buck against it, and they buck against it, and they buck against it, and God says no and no and no and no and no again. And that defines them He was undermined and humiliated by some of his closest advisors, I think of Ahithophel. He was betrayed and ashamed by one of his sons, Absalom. Yet amazingly, none of those things are the things that define David at the end of his life. If we didn't know these things, because the scripture never recorded them, and all we had was 1 Chronicles 29. In our heads, we'd say this guy must have lived an ideal life. He must have had a great marriage. He must have had wonderful kids. He must have experienced all kinds of good relationships. He had a good, sweet life. But we know that's not true. Because we have the rest of Scripture. But we also see another side, not just the challenges that he endured, but God's faithfulness through those things. God brought him out of obscurity and established him as a national hero and a king. When David went to fight Goliath, he wasn't thinking, man, I'm gonna get my picture on the back of a cereal box. He was thinking, hey, where are the men here? Is somebody going to stand up and kill this giant? Is someone going to defend the honor of God and his people? I'll go do it. When David went into battle, he wasn't trying to be a hero. He was just doing his duty. When David was elevated, it was all because of God, not because of him. God preserved his life through decades of battle. The truth is, David didn't just go to battle one time and he gets out and he's like, Whoo, I'm glad that's behind me. I never have to deal with that again. He went out to battle over and over and over again. He was in the thick of the battle. He was a man who knew what it was like to face death and escape it. God preserved him. God protected him when his father-in-law hunted him as a fugitive. In fact, through that, David even showed tremendous restraint and mercy towards his father-in-law. He established his kingdom despite many flaws and many failures. And God in his grace raised up a king to rule in his place out of the tragedy of David's family. It was Bathsheba's son Solomon. Who would replace David as king? And when the text talks about Solomon, it says that God loves Solomon. And Solomon was a man who experienced more peace than any other king in Israel's long history. And God promised to establish David's throne forever and to give him a descendant who would sit on the throne forever, and he did it. So how did David respond to God through the heartache and through God's grace? Psalm 16, verse 8 says this, I have set the Lord always before me because he is at my right hand. I shall not be moved. Therefore my heart is glad, my glory rejoices, my flesh also shall rest in hope. Thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine holy one to see corruption. Thou wilt show me the path of life, in thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand there are pleasures for evermore. That's how David responded. He did not allow bitterness to define him. He chose to overcome rather than embrace the mentality of a victim. David could have easily said, I can't get through life. I'm always overlooked. I've experienced so much trauma in my past. My father-in-law treated me terribly. My father treated me terribly. My brothers treated me terrible. All those things are true. But he overcame those things. He did not allow the heartaches of life to make him a victim. That's pretty amazing. Because the truth is the things that David experienced, very few people would rise above them. But he did. He chose to focus on the triumphs rather than the tragedies. And by the way, there were a lot of triumphs and a lot of tragedies. He chose to learn from his failures rather than to wallow in them. That's a really big one. Everybody sins. Everybody stumbles. Everyone makes horrible decisions at points in their lives. Things they regret. Things that haunt them. The question is, do you wallow in that? Or do you learn from it? David learned. His perspective was God-centered, not David-centered. He kept eternity and his future eternal inheritance at the forefront of his mind. That's why he says, thou wilt show me the path of life. In thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore. That's what David means by that. So that leads me to a final question. How can we learn from this? And how can we apply what we've read in the text? I want to give you two very simple thoughts. The first is this. We need to start the new year with a matured and godly perspective. In some sense , January the first is just another day. In another sense It is an opportunity for you to go, the calendar changes, I'm going to reflect on the last 12 months, and I'm going to purpose to do some things different in the next 12 months. It gives us a moment where we can pause and reflect and we can plan and we can purpose and we can worship our great God. We need to learn from what has gone down in the last 12 months of our lives. And we need those things to shape our perspective in a way that causes us to be more matured, more strengthened, more resilient, not less. We need a godly perspective. We need our perspective to be a distinctly Christian perspective, not just I'm floating through life and whatever happens, it batters me along the way. In the same way that David reflected on the greatness of God, we need to do that. We need to reflect on his greatness and we need to reflect on his goodness We need to remind ourselves that he rules, and this rule should bring us great comfort. In the same way that David made that reminder to himself, we need to do the same. We need to remind ourselves that every good thing that we enjoy finds its ultimate source in Him. Time and chance fall as God ordains. Strength, wisdom, and skill come by his good hands. Health and seasons come from his good hand. Mercy and grace come from his good hand. All of these things are from him. And we need to pause and we need to remind ourselves of that. We need to remind ourselves afresh of our complete unworthiness and allow that reality to shape every piece of our perspective. No Christian should have an attitude of entitlement. None. Because, as it says in Matthew chapter five, blessed are the poor. and spirit. Theirs is the kingdom. We become Christians by recognizing our spiritual poverty. We have nothing to give God. We have no righteousness. Our righteousness is all in him. We don't contribute in any way to our salvation. It's all of his grace. We need to express our heartfelt gratitude to him for every good and perfect gift. And so I would encourage you over the next few days, take some time to do that. Secondly, we need to learn from David's resilience. And I think that this is a very practical note. And I want to just give this invitation to you. If there's something that I say here, you go, you know, I think I need to do that, but I need to work through that, then reach out, and I'd love to talk to you about it. I'm not going to be put out in any way. If you need to talk through some of these issues, that would be very helpful. If you need some clarifications, I would love to give them. But we need to learn from his resilience. Let's not allow bitterness to define us. I'd really like to encourage you to come back tonight. Because we're going to talk about Absalom and how Absalom was defined by bitterness, and it did not end well. For Absalom, for David, for the kingdom. Don't allow a real hurt. And by the way, bitterness starts with sometimes true injustices. And our initial response may be entirely valid. But how we work through it in time, that's where the problem lies. Let's not allow bitterness to define us. Let's choose to overcome rather than embrace the mentality of a victim. Every person in this room. Has experienced heartaches that have the ability to potentially cause them to get down and never get back up. And every person, by the grace that God has afforded, can overcome whatever you are dealing with right now. Let's choose to focus on the triumphs rather than the tragedies. Let's choose to learn from our failures rather than wallow in them. I think this is one of the great lessons of life. That when we stumble, what does a just man do? He gets back up. He moves forward by the grace of God. He learns from those things. Failure is not the end. Sometimes it's the beginning of a new level of maturity. And a new opportunity to actually learn and grow and minister to others. Let's develop a God-centered perspective. It's not about us, it's about Him. And let's keep eternity and our future inheritance in the forefront of our minds. My challenge to you is a very simple one. Learn from that text. Let's bow for prayer. Father, you know every heart. You know the burdens and the cares and the challenges that some have endured this past year. I in no way want to diminish the heartaches that people have encountered, the struggles, the weariness, the suffering. You know those things very well. But Father, I want to challenge those who are hurting to turn to you and to be lifted up by your strengthening hand and to recognize that there is freedom in the truth And that there is a way to overcome, and there is a way to endure, and there is a way to triumph. And so, Father, as David learned these lessons through the great heartaches of life, may we learn from his example. May we have a big view of you. May we be humble in your presence. May we be grateful in your presence. May we worship you robustly. May we purpose to walk in a truly Christian manner this next year. I pray that you will strengthen those who might need to reach out. Help them to have the courage to do it. And I pray that those conversations would be very encouraging and helpful. That you would use those things to strengthen them this next year. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen.