Let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer, and then we will dig into Matthew chapter six again tonight. Lord, we are so grateful for the opportunity to gather in the middle of the week. Thank you for the holiday we'll we'll be able to enjoy tomorrow. Thank you for our country and for the way that you have in your mercy brought this country about. You have preserved this nation. You've given us freedoms that we enjoy up to this day, and I pray that you would help us tomorrow not to just enjoy the holiday, but also to reflect on your goodness to us, your goodness to this land, and that we would spend time in prayer for our nation. And I just pray that your people would be faithful and that you would continue to do work in our nation. We'll thank you for that. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, Matthew 6 is where we are tonight, and we're looking at verses 22 to 24. Again, it's Matthew 6, 22 to 24. And the title of our focus this evening is a singular devotion to God. A singular devotion to God. Here's what The scriptures say, the light of the body is the eye. If therefore thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light. But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness! No man can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon. I would summarize the text in front of us this way. It is impossible to be a healthy disciple of Christ with a divided heart. And notice in those verses it said, if your eye is single, then your whole body is going to be full of light. We're going to talk about what he's saying there. And interestingly, Jesus uses a term that depending on the context could have a couple of different ideas. And it was probably stated in that way to make people think about what he's saying. It's kind of a proverbial statement. But before we dig into that, I want to remind you of what we talked about last week. A little bit of review. So last week we saw that there are two basic worldview options. The first option is that we live on this earth for a brief time. And all you get is what you get in this life. And so live for today. Don't worry about tomorrow. It's not guaranteed. Eat, drink, and be merry. Tomorrow we die. That's kind of the mindset. That is a very worldly Worldview. The second option is that our lives in this world are only a small portion of our existence. So we must live today with an eternal perspective. We were created by God for a purpose, and he wants us to know him and to enjoy him forever. Those are the two basic worldview options. one that is representative of this world system and one that is representative of what the Word of God teaches in the Bible. And so we saw several principles. The first of those principles was that we are to not be consumed with temporal investments. Not to say that it's sinful to make good, wise decisions about our finances. That's not what Jesus is saying. He's talking about a person that is consumed with living for the accumulation of wealth. So in verse 19, he says, lay not up for yourselves treasures on earth. Then the second principle was remember the emptiness of temporal pursuits. He says, where moth and rust corrupt, and thieves break through and steal. The third principle was to live a productive life investing in eternal pursuits. God doesn't call us to be passive. He calls us to be active investors, taking our time and our energies and our talents and our resources and investing them the very best of our ability in eternal pursuits. Principle 4. Remember the lasting value of eternal pursuits. He says, where neither moth nor rust corrupt, and thieves do not break through And then the last principle we saw is to realize that you will invest in what you love. Verse 21. Now, if we were to step back and we were to look at the section of Scripture that we're in, obviously it is a sermon, and Jesus deals with all these different topics as he is teaching. But in this little section, there are basically three tests that talk about a person's devotion. For instance, the first talks about what captures the heart Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. He's talking about affection. What do you love? What are you living for? What motivates you? What captures your time? What captures your energy? That's the first test. What captures the heart? The second test is what lens shapes your perspective? And this is really what we're going to look at tonight in detail. What we mean by lens is when you look at life, you interpret everything through this grid. You see things in a certain way. You could have two people, they have the exact same circumstance. No different. In fact, you could have you could have a husband and wife, you could have two brothers, a brother and a sister people grew up in the exact same household. And they live through the same set of circumstances. Pretty much everything they're dealing with, it's almost exactly the same, humanly speaking. But the way they interpret is totally different. One person looks at their circumstances and they're a victim and they're weary and they're discouraged and they're disheartened and they can't accomplish anything. And so everything in life is pegged on that trouble that they had, and they always go back to this crutch, well, because this happened to me at this time, I can't do anything in life. Okay? People live like that. Another person, exact same circumstances, they rise above it. And and they grow and they mature and they're strengthened and they look at those circumstances and they say, they were hard, they were difficult, there's no question about it But they rise above those things. They actually mature as a result of those. You say, well, what's the difference? It's not the circumstance. It's not the opportunity. It's the worldview. It's how they look at those circumstances. And so that is the sense. What lens shapes your perspective? If thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light. We're going to talk about that tonight. It's a proverbial statement. Something that we need to really meditate on, dig into. And then the third test, which is also a part of the text we're looking at. is who do you serve? No man can serve two masters. So this whole section is really those three statements. Where your treasure is, there is your heart, what do you love? If your eye is single, your whole body is full of light, what is the lens that you that you uh the grid that you interpret everything through, and then who do you serve? No man can serve two masters. So The proposition of the text is God wants you to serve him with a singular focus. That's what he wants. So let's look at that. First truth we're going to notice tonight is that our worldview functions as a lens that shapes everything in our perspective. Say it again. Our worldview functions as a lens that shapes everything in our perspective. Verses 22 and 23 say it like this. The light of the body is the eye. If therefore thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light. But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness. Now it's very obvious that Jesus is using an illustration here. And because it is a proverbial statement, we've got to really stop and think about what he's saying. So here's some things that will help us. First, it is emphasizing the importance of our eyes. And we know why God gave us eyes. He gave us so that we could see see and what we see is something that we interpret internally and we process internally and then what we have seen and what we have thought about internally it's going to determine what we do, right? That's the whole purpose of our eyes. So he gave us eyes so that we could interact with the world that we live in. And so he uses this illustration. What we see impacts how we think, what we love, and ultimately what we do. Isn't that so true? Something that you didn't even think about, all of a sudden you see it and all of a sudden you can't get it off your mind. You know what I'm talking about? Something like that? Might be a car you saw drive by This this morning I was meeting with somebody and uh walking walking out of the Denny 's and I'm walking across the parking lot I was like, Well that's a pretty sweet looking car right there. The guy's like, uh yeah, that's a really rare car and he's talking about expensive and all that kind of stuff. And I was like, I never even thought about it once until I saw it. I was like, well, I'd be kind of need to drive a car like that, you know, just kind of see how fast it gets. No, I wouldn't do that, right? And just kind of, you know, see how it handled, things like that. Well, as soon as you see something, you start thinking about it. So your eyes are very important. They impact what we think about, what we love, and ultimately what we do. And the word I hear is being used as a metaphor for how we perceive the world around us or our worldview. That is what Jesus is talking about. He's not just saying you see something. He's saying you are interpreting the things that you are observing. It's like it's this grid that everything that you're observing, you're processing it through that lens. Everybody in this room has one of those We all do. And hopefully our worldview is a biblical worldview. That when we look at our circumstances and we observe the things around us, we are absorbing those things. From the perspective of a Christian. From the perspective of someone who realizes there's a God in heaven, He's in control. He made me. I have a purpose. And He's using all these things to accomplish good in His purpose for my life. Shaping me into the image of Christ. Worldview. It's so very, very important. So the illustration is about the eyes, how we process things, our worldview. And then there's a contrast between two Greek terms. Now you're going to see them up there. It's not important for you to know what those words mean. It's simply that these two words are set in contrast in Jesus' illustration. The first of those two terms , haploos , can be translated a couple of different ways depending on the context that it's in. Sometimes it has the idea of single, and that is how it is translated in this verse, single. But it can also have the idea of something that is whole or something that is sound. So if this is being spoken of in a physical sense, we would be thinking of something that is healthy or sound, like a physical eye. But if we're talking about it in more of a moral sense, it has the idea of something that is singular straightforward, sincere. In fact, I I did a a word search on this verse, on on this particular word. It's only found twice in the New Testament. But in the classical literature, it's used in a really interesting way. And I thought this was helpful. The way that it's used in classical Greek is it is to be motivated by a singular purpose, straightforward, sincere, without guile. Isn't that a really interesting way to understand that word. So if we're talking about it in a moral sense, it's like a singular purpose, straightforward, sincere, without guile. It's that kind of an idea. If we're talking about it in strictly a physical sense, it's healthy or sound. And you ask the question, well, which one was Jesus meaning for it to be understood as? I say both. He's using it as an illustration. It's a proverbial statement. He's helping us to understand that if you have a healthy eye, you can see things. If you don't have a healthy eye, you can't see things But I'm not just talking about eyes here. I'm talking about perspective and how you interpret what's going on around you and what motivates you and drives you as a person. That's what he's talking about. The second term, panaras, can be used several different ways depending on its context as well. And it has the same kind of idea. So if we're talking about something that's a physical sense, he'd be talking about something being sick or being diseased. If we're talking about it in a moral sense, it would be an evil or a wicked thing. Metaphorically, it's something that's full of hardship or annoyance. It's kind of interesting how those two words are being used in this illustration. What is the point that Christ is making here? Here is the point of his statement. In the same way that a person's physical eyes can be healthy or unhealthy, so can a person's worldview The grid through which they interpret everything they experience in life, how they look at life, how they look at circumstance. It could be healthy or unhealthy in the same way that your eye could be healthy or unhealthy. In the same way that a person's eyes affect the quality of their life and can radically shape their perspective, a person's worldview affects their quality of life and perspective. A healthy worldview has a simple, singular, straightforward focus. And you're going to see that because he's kind of setting the stage for what he'll say in the next couple verses. An unhealthy worldview is encumbered with many inconsistencies and leads to many unnecessary hardships. Now I'm going to give you an illustration. This is a personal illustration from my life. And this happened a couple of years ago. Actually, it's several years ago now, I think. about it. When we lived in Ghana, we used to have a lot of problems with the power going on and off all the time. And so we would use a generator during certain times of the day. And then sometimes if we were just going to run fans in the house, we're going to try to use AC or something like that, then what we would do is we would actually use an inverter like you'd use when you go camping. And if you're using an inverter, then you charge car batteries and you connect the car batteries to the inverter and then you you use that power right off the inverter. And so we always charged car batteries at our house. It was just something we did all the time. What I didn't know is how dangerous that is. Because one day I was charging a car battery in my office. I'm just sitting there, you know, doing my work, studying for a sermon. We had a wrestling mat out there and the boys were wrestling there, messing around. And I was like, all right, I gotta I gotta take this thing off charge. It's been on charge for like six, seven hours, whatever. And I go over and I grab that thing, and as soon as I touched it, it sparked and exploded right in my face. It like blew the whole top of the battery off. And I had battery I said all over my face, down my legs, my arms, and I actually was blind For over a week. I was in tremendous pain. And I remember, let me tell you, mentally nothing changed. Like all the information that I had studied up to that point in my life, it was still there, right? It didn't go away, it was still there. Physically, I was in the same physical condition I had been before that, with one exception. I couldn't see. Isn't that crazy to think about? And I remember sitting there with with my eyes cold, like you know, I couldn't see and it's it's burning and all that kind of stuff And I thought, man, if I never can see again, I won't be able to read. Like how am I gonna prepare for s like what am I gonna do? I'm gonna be an invalid. Now, physically nothing had changed but one thing, my eyes. And this is the point. If your eye is not healthy, it completely shatters your quality of life And even so, even think of it this way. If a person is born blind, that's all they know, and they learn how to adapt to it. But if a person has lived their life up to a certain point with the ability to see and they lose it, guess what? They are not just going back to zero. They're going back with nothing. And they they are they really flounder in life And so this illustration is a very vivid illustration. A healthy worldview really matters. And this is stated in a lot of other parts of Scripture. I want to give you two examples because I think they really help us to understand what Jesus is getting at. The first one is in Proverbs chapter 4. It's a pretty large section of scripture starting in verse 7, but I want you to notice some of the highlights of what's here. Solomon writes: Wisdom is the principal thing. Therefore, get wisdom with all thy getting, get understanding. Exalt her, and she shall promote thee. She shall bring thee honor when thou dost embrace her. She shall give thine head an ornament of grace, a crown of glory, shall she deliver to thee. The years of thy life shall be many. Now this is a really simple thing. Solomon is saying, do you want to live as prosperous a life as possible? Then you need wisdom. You know what wisdom is? It's the shaping of a worldview. Wisdom is not talking about circumstance. Okay? You can't control your circumstance. There are some things you can control, okay? You make bad choices, you're gonna have bad things happen. That's the way life works. But there's a lot of things in life we can't control. We have no control over them. There are certain things about our health we have zero control over. Some we do have control over. But a lot we don't. The things that people do around us, we can't control those things. But how we relate to those things, now that is something we can control. How we interpret those things, how we how we react to those things, those are things we can control. Why? Because it's all about worldview. And so he says, you need You need to have a perspective that's shaped by biblical wisdom so that your worldview is in a position to actually deal with these things. And so he says, I have taught you in the way of wisdom. I have led you in right paths. When you go, your steps shall not be straightened. When you run, you will not stumble. Take fast hold of instruction. Let her not go. Keep her. She is thy life. That's huge. And this is what I think all of us need to really teach our young people. We got a lot of young people in here tonight. Okay? You need godly wisdom, you need biblical wisdom. He says, the path of the just is as a shining light that shineth more and more under the perfect day. That sounds a little bit like what Jesus is saying, doesn't it? If your eye is single, you're full of light. But he says, if your eye is evil, it's full of darkness. And on the other side he says, but the way of the wicked is as darkness. They know not at what they stumble. Ponder the path of thy feet and let all thy ways be established. You know what Solomon's saying? There's two paths that you could take in life. One is being guided by godly wisdom, a worldview, and one is being shaped by folly. And that folly could be a hardened arrogance, or that folly could just be just completely naivety, but the reality is what you do is going to be shaped by the way that you perceive life That's what Jesus is talking about. Or another example, Psalm 1, this is how the Psalms open. He says, Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners. nor sitteth in the sea of the scornful. His delight is in the law of the Lord, in his law doth he meditate day and night. He shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water that bring forth his fruit in a season. His leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. Now, he is talking to us about the fact that if a person has a worldview that's shaped by the Bible, godly counsel, He's delighting in the law of the Lord. He meditates in it day and night. In other words, the way he looks at life is being shaped by truth. Guess what happens? He's blessed. He's like a tree planted by a river of water, bring forth his fruit in a season, and his leaf doesn't wither, and whatever he does prospers. I mean, we're in July, so it gets hot in July here, right? Kind of got hot early earlier than July here. And um, you know, my garden. I love gardening. And guess what? If I didn't go out there and water every single day, there's stuff that would be dead within two days. In fact, it's it's it's shocking how quickly it happens. And so as long as there's this continual source of water, even though it's hot and even though the environment is harsh, As long as it has the roots down in that water, it's okay. And he says that's what the righteous man is like. What is the difference? He says, but the ungodly are not so. Another way to put it is everything I just stated, it's the exact opposite with this guy. Total opposite. He's like the chaff which the wind driveth away. The way of the just is as a shining light, the way of the wicked is as darkness. They don't know what they're stumbling on. at. Two worldviews. So that first point, so very, very important, our worldview. Boy, I've got to go back a couple here. I've got to go back like three pages, right? Our worldview functions as a lens that shapes everything in our perspective. Truth number two. Don't worry, there aren't seven. It is impossible to have a healthy perspective outside of new life in Christ. Now when we talk about having godly wisdom, you can't have godly wisdom if you're not a Christian. It's really that simple. When the Bible talks about wisdom, he says the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Fools despise wisdom and knowledge and instruction. So the fact is that everything about our Christian life, or everything about wisdom in life, has to be built on the right foundation, and the right foundation is we're right with God. We're new creatures in Christ. And so in verse 23 he says this, if therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness? Now that is a really interesting statement. And there are four facts I want to draw your attention to. I'm not going to develop them in great detail. I just want to state them and then kind of work through what they mean. The first fact is this. The statement is describing a conditional situation. That's why it says if. Okay? There's a condition here. And this condition is understood based on something previously stated. That's the word therefore. So, based on what he's just been talking about here in the Sermon on the Mount, the most immediate context That is the basis of what he's about to say. Fact three. This condition is a regressive condition. Notice the way he puts it. The light that is in thee be darkness. What does that mean? It means that you had access to truth, but you are basing your life on it. It means that there was information that you were exposed to and you walked away from it. I think about the beginning of the book of Proverbs. He talks about wisdom crying out in the street, saying, All you who are simple, come and and taste of what I have for you. And he says, when you refuse Your calamity is going to come. And then it's going to be irreversible. That's what he says. In other words, he's saying, when you have opportunity, don't push it away. When you have access to truth, don't ignore it. That is the sense of this condition. It is regressive. You had the opportunity to see things and you walked away from them. In fact, four, this condition is described as a desperate condition. How great is that darkness! So what is he talking about here? Well, I think that we could actually see this by just looking at what the Bible has to say about the human heart and understanding how we get where we are. The first thing I want to draw your attention to is Romans chapter 2. Everybody in the world has a basic awareness of certain things about God and themselves because they're creating God's image. Listen to what it says in Romans chapter 2. He says, when the Gentiles, and when Paul used the word Gentiles, yes he's talking about this in an ethnic sense, but it's more than just an ethnic sense. He's talking about it as a group of people who were, they were outside of the Jewish people, therefore they did not have access to to the same information that the Jewish people had. They didn't have the prophets, they didn't have the law, they didn't have a knowledge of the ceremonial system and the sacrificial system. They had to hear about those things from outside, but that was not in their culture. So here are people that do not have access to the Word of God, like the Jewish people did. And here's what he says. The Gentiles which have not the law, meaning they didn't know about Moses. They didn't have the Ten Commandments. They didn't have this in their culture. I mean, they heard the stories if they lived around the Jewish people. But it was not a part of their tradition. When they who do not have the law do by nature the things contained in the law, these having not the law are a law unto themselves. Fascinating statement. Which show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and their thoughts the meanwhile accusing or else excusing them. Now what does he say? He 's saying everybody has a basic awareness of certain truths. There are people that, whether they've read the Ten Commandments or not, they know stealing is wrong. They know murder is wrong. They know if they're married and they cheat on their spouse, that's wrong. They know it's a problem. You say, well, why do they know that? Because they have a conscience. You say, well, even if God never said to them through his word, don't do that, they know that? Yes, they do. Now when they read in the scriptures it just awakens the conscience and they have this greater sense of it. That's why when we give the gospel, we we we go through the law of God and we say, God says thou shalt not and have you done this? Yeah, of course I've done this. But they know that. How do we know that? Well, because when somebody does it to them, they don't like it. Do you like it when somebody lies to you? No. No. Do you like it when somebody takes something that doesn't belong to them? It belongs to you? No. Do you like it when somebody treats you like dirt and trash? No. No. Even if you never heard thou shalt not, you know it was wrong. Because it bothers you. And Paul says, if you know it bothers you, then why do you do it? Oh, because you're a sitter. That's what he's saying. I mean that's that's the human art, right? But the first part is we all have a basic awareness of certain things. And the second part is because we're fallen, we have this deep-seated opposition to God. In fact, the way the scripture puts it is we are at enity with God. Romans 8, the carnal mind is enmity against God, not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be, so that they that are in the flesh cannot please God. He's saying when God says don't do something, a sinful heart says, What are you talking about? Let me see how I can get around this. Hey, what you don't see doesn't hurt, right? That's the way that we think He says that mind is at war against God. Romans 1. 18, he says that men hold the truth and unrighteousness. Literally, it's right there in front of them. They say, I don't believe that. They just ignore it. It's like it's like people who they watch the debate on Thursday night and they're like, that guy's doing just fine. What are you talking about? I mean come on guys. Like we all saw it Everybody saw it. These are people who know what's true and they say, I'm not gonna listen to that. I'm gonna ignore it. They hold the truth They suppress it. And that statement in unrighteousness is important. That's the bias. Because they don't like the implication, they ignore it. It says, that which may be known of God is manifest in them. God has shown it unto them. The invisible things from the creature of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they're without excuse. When they knew God, they glorified him not as God. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. You know what that's talking about? It's talking about exactly what Jesus is saying. 1 Corinthians 2. 14, the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God. They're foolishness unto him. Neither can he know them because they're spiritually discerned. You say, well, if that's what's in the heart of people, then how in the world can people have godly wisdom? How in the world can people filter all of what's going on in life through a biblical worldview? How does that happen? Well, it starts with the gospel. Second Corinthians four. If our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost. And him the God of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light Light of the glorious gospel of Christ should shine into them. God commanded the light to shine out of darkness and has shined in our hearts to give light to the knowledge of the truth. What's he saying? You know how people have a biblical worldview? It starts with the gospel. God reaches them in their darkened condition, and he sheds light into it. And it's because of that light they have the opportunity to accept it and receive it and trust in it. And he commands us to repent and believe. 3. 19. Repent, be converted, that your sins be blotted out, and the time of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord. You know what repent is? It's me being confronted with what the Bible says about me and my sin and my brokenness and me being separated from God and God calling me to turn to Him and humbly place my faith in what He did for me And so what happens when a person repents and believes? Ephesians 2. UFE quickened who were dead. He makes them alive in Christ. In times past you walked after the course of this world. You had your conversation in the lusts of the flesh, the desires of the flesh, and in the mind, and were by nature children of wrath. That's what people do when they're not saved. You know, if an unsaved person tells me this is what I'm involved in, I shouldn't be shocked in it. I'm like, like, that makes sense. If a person, you know, gets saved and they're like, well, you know, before I was a Christian, I was involved in this and this and this and this, I shouldn't be shocked in it. by that. People are going to do what's in their heart. He says, but God, who is rich in mercy for his great love with the loved us when we were dead, hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace we're saved. To state it very simply, a biblical worldview starts with the new birth. And so that's what he's saying is if the light becomes darkness, how great is that darkness? You have access to the truth and you suppress it and you ignore it. Guess what happens? You have nowhere else to look. Nowhere else to go. You just get to stumble in the darkness until God gets a hold of your heart through the preaching of the gospel. That's where you will stay. And I think that's the second point. The third truth, God demands absolute, unrivaled submission. Verse 24. No man can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon. Now there are several facts that we find in this statement. The first fact is that those two words Hoplus, panaras, their contrast, the illustration that was talked about earlier, it is really showing us that there's one of two options There's either a healthy eye or an unhealthy eye. There's a good eye or an evil eye. There is a sincerity of focus and a singularity of focus, or there's going to be an encumbered focus. That's what he's saying. It goes back to those two words. It goes back to that illustration. The second fact is you have to make a choice. No man can serve two masters. And I know every person in this room, you have felt the pressure of this in true life at some point, and you have seen it in the lives of other people. Yeah, you have somebody you really care about them and they're they're they're struggling and you know there's a part of them that wants to serve the Lord and there's a part of them that wants to live in the world and what happens is you see this vacillation, they're here a little bit. And then they're here a little bit, and they're here a little bit, and they're and they go back and forth. And you see that struggle in their heart. And you say, when are you gonna get all in? When are you gonna plant your feet on the side that you need to be on? That's really what's going on. We find ourselves in that place too sometimes. It's like we reach this little sticking point in our lives, and that little sticking point is something where God's saying, you've got to submit to me in this area instead of fight me in this area, and you're like, I'm not going to do it. Look at all these other things I'm doing. God's saying I'm not talking to you about that. I'm talking to you about this right here. You know what I'm talking about? I've been there. Everybody in this room's been there. You gotta make a choice. You gotta pick a side, alright? It's one or the other. You cannot serve God and mammoth. No man can serve two masters. Fact three. There's only two options. There's only two options. You see, I'd like a third option. It's like the middle ground. You know, I just want to find that middle ground. Doesn't work. Middle ground is the other side. That's the way it works. It's all or nothing. It's like it's like on the issue of salvation. Someone says, well, I believe that I need Jesus and He's good. I'm glad he died on the cross. I'm glad he rose from the dead. So here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to trust Jesus with what I can't deal with, and then I'm going to give him the rest of what I can do, and he's going to accept me on the basis of those two things together. And you say, no, no, that doesn't work that way. It's all or nothing. It's Christ alone. Who is the weak leak in the chain? It's you. We understand that when we're giving the gospel to somebody. But what about when it comes to this issue of how we live the Christian life? There's two options. Either you serve the eternal God. Or you serve this world. Materialism. When he uses that word mammon, he's talking about wealth, riches , the things that this world has to offer. And the truth is that over the course of our lives, there are times that we find ourselves in this tension. Am I going to serve God? Who are gonna serve self? I could give you very specific illustrations for my own life. I don't know that I want to get into them right now, you know, but I can give you some very specific illustrations where I found myself in this situation. There's only two options. Which one are you going to choose? God or materialism? Fact four, you will choose what you love. Notice how he puts it. He will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. Now, nobody in this room wants to say, well, I hate God. Because I love stuff But isn't that what Jesus is saying? I mean, like, come on, let's just look at his words very clearly. He says, you will hate the one and love the other. Well, what are the two options? Either you're going to serve God or you're going to serve mammon. So what do you say? I love this world more than I love God. I mean that's the bottom line. Or I love God more than I love this world. It's all about your worldview. He will hate one, love the other, hold the one, despise the other. And so this principle is applied in a couple of different places, and I want to just hit these before we close with some final thoughts. There are several places in the New Testament where he hits this. The first one is in 1 Timothy chapter 6. And this is a warning against the love of possessions. And by the way, It's not sinful for a person to make good money, okay? I mean you read the book of Proverbs, it's pretty obvious that people that work hard are honest And they actually are industrially stupid, you would expect them to financially prosper. It is very clear from the book of Proverbs It's not an absolute statement, but it is a generalization. It is an understanding that people who work hard, have a good work ethic, do good work, they're going to be successful in life And people who manage their resources well, they're not just going to leave an inheritance for their children, but even their children's children. A lot of people can't even take care of themselves when they're old. But a wise person can leave an inheritance for their kids and their kids' kids. What does that tell you? They're prospering. So he's not saying that it's sinful for a person to make good choices and actually prosper in life. That's not what he's saying at all. But here's what he does say. Listen carefully. They that will be rich, and that word will means that is a consuming desire. They wake up in the morning and they say, I want to be a wealthy person. I want stuff. They that will be rich fall into temptation. That means there's things that are going to lure them all the time. And a snare. They're going to be bound by that. Covetous heart. They that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and many foolish and hurtful lusts which drown men in destruction and perdition. People will do really foolish things because of their their greed. You know how many people blow their marriages apart because of greed? You know how many people have no relationship with their kids because of greed? You know how many people throw away so much great opportunity in life because of greed? That's what he's saying. People who are consumed with greed, they fall into temptation, they're bound by a snare, they are they're uh susceptible to foolish and hurtful lusts. Because of this, the love of money is the root of all evil. The love of money. While some coveted after they erred from the faith and pierced themselves with many sorrows. But thou, O man of God, flee these things, follow after righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, meekness, fight the good fight of faith, lay hold of an eternal life. You know what that verse is saying? Gotta make a choice. You're gonna serve God or money. That's what he's saying. Flee these things and pursue righteousness, godliness, patience, meekness, fight the good faith of fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life. That's what he's saying You 've got to make a choice. There's a warning against the love for this world's values. 1 John 2. 15. Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man loved the world, the love of the Father is not in him. Do you see how he just contrasts in Matthew, Jesus says you hate the one and you love the other In this passage he says, the love of the Father is not in him if you love the world. He's very clear about this. You've got to choose a side. The lust of the flesh, that's self-gratification. Lust of the eyes, that's self-satisfaction. I do what pleases me, I take what I want. That's what he's saying. Pride of life, self-promotion. It's all about the accolades of people. He says, don't love this world. Don't love its values. Don't love this system. Live for eternity. That's what he's saying. A third example, a warning against self-gratification, Romans 6. Reckon yourself to be dead to sin and alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Let not sin reign in your mortal bodies, neither yield your members as instruments of unrighteousness to sin, but yield yourselves unto God. There's a fourth that I'll throw in as well. A warning against following worldly wisdom. James 1. 5. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, who giveth to all men liberally and abbreideth not, it will be given him. But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. And here's the key. He that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. See, what is he talking about? This is what he's talking about. You have a person that's in a tough situation. They need wisdom And there's two directions they could go here. One is godly wisdom and one is worldly wisdom. And here's the truth. They feel this tension between the two. And their heart is drawn this way, and then it's drawn this way. He says that's called a double-minded man who is unstable in all of his ways. In other words, his soul is drawn in two different directions, and what he's ending up doing is he's saying, am I going to follow this world's wisdom or God's wisdom? I'm going to have to choose between these two. He says, God says, if you need wisdom, ask me. I'm going to give it to you abundantly. It's not going to mock you. I'm not going to belittle you when you come to me in humility and say you need wisdom. I'm going to give it to you. Got to make a choice. So the point is very simple. We have to make a choice. So a couple of questions for us to consider in our closing. The first question, and I know it's Wednesday night, so you might go, Well, we're all Christians here. We're all saved. Well people watching the live stream and I don't know your heart. I mean I assume most most everybody here is saved, but who I mean, this is an honest question, right? Are you a Christian? You say, well, how do I know? Well, do you understand who Christ is and what he did for you? Have you trusted in him alone? It's a very simple question. If anybody has a question and they're not sure if they're saved, I'd love to talk to you. Maybe send me an email. Reach out to me through Facebook Messenger, whatever. I'd love to sit down and talk to you if that's something you're not certain of. Second question. Does your perspective reflect a growing thoroughly Christian perspective? There are lots of Christians. They're saved. They can give you the gospel. They know who Christ is, they know what he did, and they're trusting in him for their salvation. But to be very honest with you, the way they live their life, it does not resemble a Christian wisdom. Does not resemble biblical wisdom at all. It could be because they have friends who have gotten in their ear. It could be because they've gotten their eyes turned off of what they should be looking at. It could be because their heart is divided. And notice that word single, all right? Singular, focus. That's the whole point of these verses. Does your perspective reflect a growing thoroughly Christian perspective? We all have to be growing until the day we die. We keep learning. But are we growing? Question three: What do you love or delight in above everything else? It really amazes me how sometimes people can walk out of a church service and it'll be like the Lord's table and we'll have like had this wonderful time focusing on the death of Christ, his body broken, his blood shed, and the first thing we want to talk about is a football game and he's like You you you're what? I'm like, I think you might have missed something in church this morning. But the fact is there's a reason for that. It's because all they care about is other stuff. It's really easy to do that. Question four. Are you willing to put self-gratification before God, God's will, by justifying obvious sin? You know how many Christians say God is merciful, God is gracious, and He is. So I'll just do this. I'll see what happens. I'll take my chances. Whoa, whoa, whoa. Do you realize how foolish that is? Do you realize how flippant that is of God's grace? It's like that question, shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? He says, God forbid, how shall we that are dead to sin live any longer to it? Are we willing to put self-gratification before God's will, justifying obvious sin? That's a really important question to consider. And the last one. Can I honestly say that I have an undivided devotion to God? It's so important that we recognize from a text like this that God expects our heart, not half of it. three quarters of it, all of it. He wants our entire heart. And if we will live our lives being shaped by a biblical worldview. That is the absolute best way to live. It's for our good. So that's my encouragement to you today. Let's bow for prayer. Lord, thank you for your word. Thank you for the text in front of us. Please take it and use it. Help us to have a truly biblical worldview, a singular focus in our hearts, that we would not be pulled to the side by the cares of this world or a love of riches. or desire to receive the accolades of others, but that our greatest passion and desire would be to honor you and serve you because we love you. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.