Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Today we are continuing in 1 John 5, 16 through 18, and we're looking at a serious topic, and that is a sin and a death. And so let's pick up back in the text where we were yesterday. Let's read verses 16 through 18 together. If any man see his brother Sin is sin which is not unto death, he shall ask, and he shall give him life, and them that sin not unto death, there's a sin unto death I do not say that he shall pray for it. All unrighteousness is sin, and there is a sin not unto death. We know that whosoever is born of God sinneth not, but he that is begotten of God keepeth himself. And that wicked one toucheth him not. Now, when we were dealing with this passage yesterday, we saw that the main point was to emphasize that there are certain sins and sinful practices. that can cause irreversible discipline from God. And so yesterday we talked a little bit about the content of that section, the kind of people that were affecting the church at Ephesus when John's writing this. Today what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to look at really a little topic that is very important to this discussion, and that is how does God relate to people who are sinning and who are sinners? And we need to start at the most basic level, that every person, no matter who they are, where they come from, we're all sinners. We're all sinful, and God is holy and righteous and just. And the truth is that we need to understand how he is able to relate to a person who's a sinner when he himself is righteous and holy. So let's talk about a couple of truths that we find in God's Word before we give our concluding thoughts to this section in 1 John. The first thing is this. All people are sinners and deserve death because they're sinners. In Romans 6. 23 it says simply, the wages of sin is death. In the book of Hebrews it says it's appointed unto man once to die, and after this the judgment. In Romans 3 it says, There's none righteous, no not one. The Bible teaches that every person is separated from God, deserves his eternal, just wrath. There are no exceptions to that. And when we think about how God relates to people, we need to recognize that though that is what people deserve, God does not deal with them immediately in such a harsh manner. In fact, God gives people time. God is patient with them. He's merciful. He's gracious. That doesn't mean that his mercy and grace and patience will last forever. It simply means that if God didn't deal with us in this way, then there would be no one on this planet. That's the reality. So God takes time with people. He gives them a life to live. He gives them opportunities to repent and embrace the gospel. He calls them to repentance and faith. And during that time, what does God do? He deals with people in grace. And so that moves us to a second point. Every person is preserved by God's grace until that appointment time. In fact, in Acts chapter 17, when Paul is preaching at Athens, he says, the God that made the worlds and all things therein, seeing that he is Lord of heaven and earth Dwells not in temples made with hands, neither is worshipped with men's hands, as though he needs anything. Seeing he giveth to all men life, breath, and all things. He lo he goes on later and he says, In him we live and move and have our being. So while the Bible teaches that all people are sinners and deserve God's just wrath, the scripture also teaches that God in his grace preserves the lives of people that ultimately should be judged. And he does that not just so that he can show them grace for that period. But he does that so that he can show them grace eternally through the gospel. In other words, God is giving people space to repent and be forgiven and be saved. This is extremely important. When we come to a passage that's talking about a sin unto death, We need to recognize that God's not irrational. He's not quick and aggressive at people. The truth is he's extremely patient. He's far more patient than we are with people around us. If God was as quick and irrational in his anger as we are often, we would be in big trouble on this earth. So we're talking about a sin that is So severe and so persistent that a God who gives space to people to repent, who is merciful, who is gracious, who is long-suffering, who is measured, is going to take a final step to say. This is enough. I'm going to shorten your days. Before we get to that though, I want to I want you to recognize another thing. God is even able to extend a person's life based on mercy. I guess we could look at it this way. God gives us time on this earth. There's an appointed day that we're born, an appointed day that we're going to die. We don't know the day or the hour. We don't know the way that it's going to happen. But it is possible for God to say, I was going to give a person this period of time. But on the basis of certain actions and persistent ways, I'm going to shorten or lengthen those days. It's interesting, the Bible does talk about people who God extended their days. And he did it out of mercy. It the Bible also talks about people that God shortened their days. And I don't fully understand how that works, how God could say this is your appointed time, but I'm going to extend it or I'm going to shorten it. But we do have passages that indicate that. I 'll give you an example. In Isaiah 38, it talks about Hezekiah. And Hezekiah was a godly king. He lived most of his days really honoring the Lord. But at the end of his life, He became very sick. And the Bible says in Isaiah 38 that he was sick unto death. And Isaiah the prophet came to him and basically said, you need to set your house in order. You're about to die. When Hezekiah heard those words, it bothered him so severely that he pleaded with God, give me time. What's so interesting is that God chose to grant him that wish Now, when he asked for it, he didn't really ask for it with a motive that seems pure, and we see that at the end of his life he actually didn't make good choices. But God extended his life by 15 years What do we see? We see an example of God saying, I gave you a time, and I chose to give you more time. Mercy. The man didn't deserve it, but God gave it to him. On the other side, we see examples of people that God shortened their days. For instance, Pharaoh in in the land of Egypt. God shortened his days. We have the example of Herod, who was proud in front of the people, and they said, Oh, it's the voice of a God, and as he's full of Such pride, what does God do if he smites them? We think about those Jews who left Egypt but refused to enter the promised land. Because of their unbelief, and then God shortened their days. And so for 40 years that group wandered in the wilderness, and only the youngest of those folks went into the promised land. God shortened their days. We think of a person like Judas. We think about the destruction of Jerusalem, where God allowed the Romans to come in and destroy that city because of their rejection of the Messiah. Or the destruction of Jerusalem by Nebuchadnezzar, because king after king led the nation in idolatry and in rebellion against God. What's the point? God can extend a person's days. God can shorten a person's days. We even have examples of godly people who God did this with, like Moses and Aaron. People who really were godly people, but because of sinful behavior, because of disobedience, because of uh a willful rebellion, God chose to shorten their days. God can do that. Then I want to mention something about this concept of chastening. We talk about chastening. Chastening is primarily God training his children. But there comes a point where a child of God can become persistently rebellious, and God can deal with them more harshly or more severely. But I want you to realize that God does this a little at a time. For instance, we have the example in James 5. I alluded to this yesterday. In James 5, 19, it says, Brethren, if any of you do err from the truth and one convert him , Let him know that he which converted the sinner from the error of his ways shall save a soul from death and shall hide a multitude of sins. What's interesting is the passage in James is very parallel to the passage we're talking about here in 1 John. Because the reality is both are believers, or it appears to be that they are believers. Both are experiencing weakness that is apparently going to lead to death. Both of them are experiencing this weakness and frailty that appears to be leading to death. Because of persistent rebellion against God as a believer. And God has appealed to them over and over again through so many different means. And what it leads us to believe What it appears that's being said here is that if this person will respond to those promptings that God's giving, those appeals to them to humble themselves and repent and do what's right. then God will restore them back to health and give them their time that he had allotted to them. But if they don't, he will take them early. I guess we could put it that way. And so that's the idea. But we see in this passage that God is methodical about this. He's not quick to do this. He takes his time. In other words, while this person has been weakened, And while they're in this position where they should humble themselves, God's giving them the time to do that. What they do at that time will determine what God will do next We see that that sense there. And so we see this kind of a thing in lots of places in the Bible. We see the example in 1 Corinthians, where Paul talks about the church. uh going to the Lord's table in a way that is is is disreputable and terrible. And he basically says it's for this cause that many are weak and sickly among you and sleep. And the idea is that if you would judge yourself and the manner in which you're coming to the Lord's table, then God will restore you to health. He'll make you strong again. He won't take you early. What does that show us? It shows us that even when God chastens to the most severe of levels, there's a persistently patient way of approaching people. The last thing I'm going to say is this. God is extremely merciful with people. And he demonstrates this over and over and over again. In Psalm 103, verse 8, it says that the Lord is merciful. and gracious. He is slow to anger, and he is plenteous in mercy. When we talk about this sin unto death, We need to recognize that there needs to be a balance in how we look at it. For the Christian who is persistently rebellious. They claim the name of Christ, yet they push against God's grace. That Christian needs to be warned that that's a very dangerous place to be in. For the Christian, that's very introspective and is very feeble-minded, very afraid, very uh easily Discouraged by a passage like this who recognizes that there are cycles that they battle with on a regular basis as a Christian We need to be reminded that God is merciful and if we'll get back up, God restores and he strengthens and he loves his children. In other words, we kind of need both sides of the balance there. The rebel versus the feeble-minded, the humbled. There's a different approach that's being presented in the scriptures when we talk about this. And so we need to give a couple of caveats at the end to this discussion. Here's the warning. First of all, for those who have a tendency to abuse their authority, To be overly harsh and overbearing with people that they are teaching God's word. Do not use this passage to intimidate people, to get them to do what you want them to do. Just because you have an agenda that you may feel is good, doesn't mean you have the right to press people and terrify them with a passage like this. There's a warning there. A second warning is this. Don't rush to judgment. Don't assume that every time that there is a tragedy or a person is sick. Or that a person may die at a younger age, whatever the situation, that God is judging them. That's not necessarily the case. The truth is that we generally don't even know the real reason behind why something happens as it does Or the answer might be far more complicated than we overly simplify. The truth is we should be cautious not to rush to judgment when we're dealing with a passage like this or situations that we see. A third thing that I want to consider is this. We need to recognize that some people are very introspective. When a Christian is very introspective, they have a delicate conscience. They're extremely conscientious. Every single time someone sins or falls into this uh this cycle of being downcast and then repenting and being restored. There are times that some people become overburdened and come to a passage like this and then become terrified. I want to remind you that God is a very merciful God. He doesn't want to take us out early. God doesn't want to uh to he's he he really doesn't even do this out of a harshness. The reality is that God does it because there is a persistent rebellion. And even when a Christian is caught in this cycle of stumbling And they constantly need to be restored over and over and over again. We need to recognize that God is very compassionate with Christians, even in places like that. But then I want to mention this last one. For the person who names the name of Christ and is high-handedly rebellious, this passage ought to cause us to not just pause, but to humble ourselves. The reality is that if we say we are a Christian, and we truly are a Christian, that means we belong to God. He loves us, he chastens us. He works in our lives. He's not just going to allow us to go on and on and on in rebellion against him. He will deal with us even to the harshest way possible if we continue to press against his good hand. And so when we come to this passage, we need to recognize there's a balance that is to be understood here. The people that John is really focusing in on are more than likely false teachers. They're in a predominant position that's causing tremendous harm to the church and to Christians within the church And he wants the Christians in that church to understand there is a distinction between what he's teaching, which is true, and what they're teaching, which is a false doctrine. And he's reminding them that God is going to deal very severely with these people if indeed they will not repent. and come back to the place that they need to be. I know this isn't the most encouraging of passages, but it is in 1 John. It's an important passage. We need to address it. And the reality is that when we come to this passage, we should always walk away recognizing that God is gracious and compassionate with those who humble themselves. He resists the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. And so when we come to this passage, we ought to humble ourselves. We ought to acknowledge when we have sinned against God and when we have persisted in rebellion. against God. And if we will humble ourselves, He'll show us grace. On the other side, if we are proud, he will resist us And we need to walk away with that balance from this passage. I hope that this passage has been a challenge to you this morning. I hope that you'll walk away having been encouraged and also sobered by this. And that God will use it in your heart today. Tomorrow we'll continue on in our study, and we're really close to the end of the book of 1 John. It's been a good study. It's challenged us and stressed us a bit. And I hope that it has encouraged you as well. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Father, thank you for the opportunity to study this passage together. I know that it's a sobering passage, but it's an important one for us to address. And so I pray that you'd help folks to think about it. I pray that those who are prone to discouragement would not look at this passage the wrong way, but that they would recognize that you are very merciful with those who humble themselves. And you're gracious and you are slow to anger. And those who are in a stubborn position would recognize that they're dealing with a holy, righteous, and just God, and they should never presume against his kind and patient hand We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, it's been good to see each of you this morning, and I hope that you have a great rest of your day. We'll talk to you, Lord willing, tomorrow. Bye now.