Well good evening. I'd like to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church tonight and we're looking forward to our service and uh we're excited to have uh a team from Maranath the Baptist University with us and we're looking forward to them ministering in music and also uh our teens will be having a teen hymn sing in the back after uh the service. So we're looking for Looking forward to that time. A great time of fellowship, a great time of being ministered to in music, and uh just a great time to be all also exposed to the ministry that's there at Maranatha. Before we go to prayer, Bruce Hutchison mentioned to me that there's a student of his, eighth-grade student, who had a pretty serious accident today down in D. C. I guess it was a cycling accident. He's in the ICU down in Washington and he's asked for prayer. His name is Max Shriver. And so when we go to the Lord in prayer, we're going to ask specifically. That the Lord will be working in that situation and don't have a lot of details. He doesn't have a lot of details, but it sounds like it was a pretty significant accident. So let's go ahead and bow together for prayer. And I know that Tyler has our opening hymn and then the Marinatha group will be coming and doing several arrangements this evening. Let's bow for prayer. Father, we're very grateful for how you work in our lives. We're thankful for your kind hand of providence, your protection. We're thankful that you are a God who um who is sovereign and rules. And our hearts are very uh heavy for this young man, this eight eighth grade boy, Max. Uh we pray that you would um have I pray that he would receive the medical care that he needs and that his family will have wisdom as they look at the medical Medical options that they need to take. I pray that you'd help him to recover. And also pray that you would use this situation to bring glory to yourself in a tough time. I pray that you'd bring comfort, help the family to pull together, and I pray that you work in people's hearts, drawing them to yourself. We pray for this service this evening. We thank you for For the opportunity to have the group from Maranatha with us. I pray that you would bless this music, use it to strengthen and encourage us as your people. We pray that you'll bless the preaching of your word and we ask that all that is done would uh point glory to you and that we would be edified as your people. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen Good evening. It is great to be with you this evening. And our song our our team is going to come in a few minutes and we'll sing several different arrangements, several different songs for you all this evening. This evening, we'd like to start with worshiping together our Lord as one body of believers. And even though we're a smaller group in the evenings, uh we can still raise a joyful noise to the Lord. Lord, and he can be glorified through our individual worship. So would you stand with me? We'll sing number forty one in the blue book, worthy of worship. We'll sing all three verses together, and this hymn is one that Draws our hearts together in praise to the Lord. This is this is a response of knowing who God is and what he's done, that we proclaim to each other and to him that he is worthy of any Any possible praise that we can bring to him worthy of worship number forty one. Worthy of worship, worthy of praise , worthy of honor and glory. Worthy of all the weapons, worthy of all the You are creator, you are Savior Savior, you are learning learning and under the All worthy of worship and praise. Worthy of brides, worthy Of fear, worthy of mother, worthy of You are worthy, Father Creator, you are worthy Save your sustainer, you are worthy and wonderful worthy Almighty Say your eyes for some life You are for the world , Father Creator. You are for the Worthy and wonderful Great singing, you may be seated If you're my dream for my danger In a shadow I roy, whom shall I fear when God is with me? Whom shall I fear? He kills me with love. His presence surrounds me completely I shall not be afraid when all of his comforts are like he my lord is His mercy sustained, when all those I trusted forsake me, my God, in compassion we make Whom shall I fear when God stands with me? Whom shall I fear? He shields me with all His presence surrounds me completely. I shall not be afraid. My only one thing I am seeing to the God is beautiful things to live ever morning in crowd and happiness This wonderful praise. When shall I fear when God is with me? Whom shall I bear? He shall be with all, he shall be with home. I shall not leave. Well this is the team. We are the impact team from Marinath the Baptist University. Stop that. We're the Impact Team from Marinath the Baptist University. And we'll introduce ourselves so you have an idea of who we are. We are on a fall tour. We started off in the middle of August, and we're working our way up the East Coast, and we'll be going on this Trip all the way through December 14th, and so we have a long road ahead of us, but we're a decent way down the road as well this far into the tour. This week we'll be in different schools uh different Christian schools in Maryland as well as one other school in uh in Front Royal, Virginia, and we'll be working our way through some of those schools and doing two main things. First of all, encouraging those students to live for Christ where they're at right now. There's a lot of students who don't quite understand that while I'm a Christian now, uh my Mm my living for Him doesn't just need to start when I go to college or after I graduate, but it it should start now that I should be living for Christ and dedicating who I am to Him right now. And so we want to encourage uh and and challenge that kind of thinking with the teens that we visit. We also want to let them know about a good possibility for their future and that being Marinatha Baptist University. Marinatha offers There's many different degrees, and we'll talk a little bit more about it in a little while. But we want to make those those options available to them. We also get to go to churches like this one on Sundays. Sundays and Wednesday nights we're able to minister in local congregations, and that is a great blessing for us, uh as we hope it is for the churches themselves. And our uh our reason for being here tonight is obviously in some way to represent our school and remind you that Maranatha is a great option if you have any kids that you're looking at sending to a Christian university. Marinatha is on uh you know it's it's on And we also want to come alongside churches and encourage and uplift them however we can. We're not here to take over anything, uh we're here to join along with the ministry that's already happening here. Here in the Baltimore area. My name is Tyler Juvenal. I am from Wausau, Wisconsin. I graduated about two years ago from Maranatha with a bachelor's in biblical studies, and currently I'm working on my master's Degree in organizational leadership. And yep, that's that's that's me. Hey, I'm Kennedy DeLeone. I'm from Kenosha, Wisconsin. I'm in my second year in Maranassa. I'm a piano music major and I'm I'm also working on my masters in Bible. My name is Madison Herbster. I am from Watertown, Wisconsin, and I'm a junior studying elementary education. I'm a junior biblical Studies major with a concentration in women's and children's ministries. My name is Tyler Sherbert and I'm from Taylorville, Illinois. From the great state of Wisconsin. My name is Katie Jean and I'm a recent graduate. with counseling and business. From South Bend, Indiana, my name is Jeff Pellichir and I just graduated back in May with my major in biblical studies. I'm just Joseph Dingery and from Westchester, Pennsylvania, and I'm a junior studying accounting. The next song that we'll sing is directly from Psalm 23. It brings out different characters. Characteristics of God, but it all centers around this central idea that He is our shepherd. God is a shepherd to the Christian. And that's only uh that's only a privilege that you can say if If you have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ, you might realize that there's a lot of other religions, there's a lot of other people that claim Psalm 23 for themselves, many other denominations or or religions. as a whole would say, Yeah, the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. It's a very common uh scripture passage, and many people have grown up listening to it and hearing it, and so we might go to it Sometimes, or many people might go to it as kind of a talisma, something to hold on to in a difficult time and really get them through. But it's really only applicable to the Christian. It's only applicable to the one whose sins have been forgiven by Christ because we're brought into God's flock. And that's a metaphor that's used all throughout the New Testament as well. Somewhere that is going to get them hurt. A shepherd would never lead their their sheep to a place that doesn't have good food. And God is just like that in that He leads us along as we Submit to his leadership and authority, he will always lead us to the right place. That's just one of the applications there within this psalm about who God is and his leadership and direction in our lives. So would you listen and think about where maybe God has led you in the past and how He's proven His faithfulness to you, and then replace your trust in Him for the future, knowing that just like Like he's always been faithful in the past, he will continue to be faithful in the future. The Lord is my shepherd and I shall not want, I shall not want, I shall not want, the Lord is my shepherd and I I shall not want, I shall not want for more. He leads by to water and shall I shall not want, I shall not want he read by still water and I shall not want, I shall not want more war Oh could I ask for more? He is enough for having me. He is enough for I shall not want and satisfy By with what he kissed, he will provide us with And I shall not hold We lead through the valley and I shall not want, I shall not want, I shall not want. He leaves through the valley, and I shall not spot, and I shall not spot in the We 'll be no more can train with anybody. I shall not I'm satisfied with my beginnings he will Provide and say for me supply, and I shall not want to He is the dead. He gave me a shine. We want to love all his thirsty calls us Back to my two, back to I think that is real, and I shall not voice, I shall not want I shall not want. I sit at his table and I shall not want. I shall not He is the strength to conquer child. He's faithful and my trust is in my shot Katie Jean and Joey are gonna grab their violins and they're gonna play an it's And it really is a response to knowing who he is and knowing everything that he's done for us that he should be the thing same. or the person who delights our soul the most. There's a lot of things in this world that compete for that spot in our hearts. There's a lot of things that want to take that that Main position or that main place in our thoughts and in the end, what we do, our actions. But really, Christ should be at the heart of everything that we do. He should be the one The one that delights us the most important thing. I'd like to take just a minute or two and tell you a little bit about Maranatha. Many of you are familiar with it already. the ministry we have in Watertown, Wisconsin. And then I'd like to make you uh familiar with a few of the items we have available on the back table. Marinatha is called Maranatha Baptist University. It's been in Watertown Watertown Wisconsin since nineteen sixty eight and it's always had uh about the same type of of mission and our mission statement today is very similar to what it was at the beginning. And that is uh equipping leaders for ministry in the local church and the world to the praise of God's glory. That has two parts to it. First of all, we understand that All Christians are called to some sort of ministry. Whether it be full-time vocational ministry or or whether it be ministering as a lay member in your local church or being involved In sharing the gospel, we understand that all believers are called to some sort of ministry. But the second part is that God has called some people to be in full-time vocational ministry, and God has God has called some people to be in what we would consider to be a secular workplace. For example, nurses or Christian school teachers or public school teachers or scientists or governors Workers. There are so many different avenues of life that God has called His children to be a part of. At Maranatha, we want to help equip and train as many of those leaders as we can So at Marinatha we have 48 different majors and 42 different minors. So they span all the way from business and education, all the way to Bible, pastoral studies, nursing, accounting. We have a lot of information about it back on the table. At Maranatha, we are very passionate about music. Hopefully, we're communicating that to you in some way. More than that, we're communicating to you our love for God and what He has done for us and a little bit more about His character. But at Marinatha, we love music. We love making a joyful noise to the Lord and directing our praise to him through uh through music that that is worshipful to him. We have uh four different CDs back on the table, I believe. Uh this is our newest one. It's called Beautiful Savior. It is a fully orchestrated choral CD. It focuses around who Christ is. Another one back there is called Come To Me. And it focuses around different commands or or or different uh types of instructions that Christ has given us and how he has also fulfilled uh the gospel and how he has fulfilled everything that he was called to do. There are so many different Incredible themes through these songs that are on the CDs. Godly Christian music helps us to recenter our minds on truth. There's a lot competing. Like I said before, there's a lot competing for our mental space. What's going on inside of our heads? There's so many things that we could be thinking about. Godly Christian music helps us to center that on what is real. So we encourage you to look at our CDs back on the table. If you don't listen to CDs anymore. If you don't have a CD player. We're also on Spotify and Apple Music, Amazon Music, wherever you stream your music from, you can probably find us at Maranath Baptist University. We also have different chapel series devotional books. on the back table. And these are exactly what I just said. They are taken from our chapel series on campus. All of our students are required to go to chapel several times a week And what we've done is we've gone through different books of the Bible as an entire student body. And when we come to the end of those books, preaching exegetically through them, we compile those sermons into These are great for two reasons. First of all, as you are taking time on your own to go through the Word of God and your personal devotions, these are excellent study guides as the as you walk through each passage. This one's called Live as a Pilgrim. It is from the book of 1 Peter. So if you're going through that one or maybe the book of Philippians or the Book of James, and you want something to help guide you as you go through, these are excellent. Excellent for that. Secondly, they also tell you a lot about who we are as a university. Everything that is in these books was preached from the pulpit, and so it communicates to you what we're trying to communicate to our students. And that is our heart. Not that we're trying to to push on them our own philosophies of things or of even of Christian life, but rather what does the Bible have to say? And we try to stick as close as we can And so we make those available to you in the back. There are a few different deals running on Oh God, our help is our hope for you To come our shelter from us for me, last and our eternal For thy help and order, for us received prevent from everything you are gone to end with Come and take word your time us for me. We will go to the same You are our rock and our redeemer until creation breaks your name. The thousand teachers in your sight for my living go. Short has always done eyes before the rising star. God our help village first, our whole point is to come We now are God, the life shall last and not return. Haven't declared your time with glory We will we will do the same. You are our God and our redeemer. That's all creation. That's all created. The song we just sang talks about God's consistent character, how he always been how always has been the same and always will be the same. And the song we're about to sing is It Is Well With My Soul. And this was um written by Horatio G. Spafford and he lived during the time of the Great Chicago fire. And he was a wealthy businessman. The fire hurt his business, took away some of his personal property. And later that year he lost his only son. It is at that time that he decided that his family needs a vacation and sent his four daughters and his wife over to England. That voyage that their ship collided with another and he lost his four daughters. And it's through that event in his life that he wrote this song. When peace like a river attendeth my way way when sorrows like sea billows roll. And I don't know what is going on in your life, but I know in my short lifetime it's um been amazing to see how God has been faithful, even though I don't always understand what he's doing. I can look back at those moments and know, hey, he was taking care of me and I can know for the future that he will take care of me. When he's like a river, I tend at my way When sorrows like the brother was wrong was ever my lost What thou hast taught me to say it is well it is well with my soul With my soul it is with my soul My sin promised for me as thoughts, my sin. Not important so the cross and thy priority so With my school, it is always my God. And Lord is the day when those days shall be sight. The cloud he will act as the trump shall resound and the Lord shall descend even. Hey, James Boran. Some with coin so it is It is well wait. And the reason we can truly say that it is well with our soul is because we know who our God is. In this next song, every verse starts with the phrase, I know not. There are so many Things in our lives that we don't know or we don't understand. We don't know what tomorrow holds for us. We don't know when the Lord is coming back. We don't know why He came in the first place to save us, even though we Totally don't deserve it. But the Course comes in with a firm declaration. But I know in whom I have believed. We know the characteristics of God. We know that He's our shepherd and that He will lead us if we push place our trust in him. We know that he is always the same and that he will continue to be the same. So we can put our trust in him because we know who he is. I know not why God's wondrous praise to me Nor why not worry quiet and all reach remote I know as I know it I have being I happy. And I know that he will give me praise with him until my day not Songs. I know not how saying to me, nor why be Me too , for me to my heart Have believed, and I know this I have received, and I know that it will give me pray for him One, two , one day, draw , dog I know that 's why My boy hat 's night or noon date, nor if I walk up with Or me to make all in my And I know it I have received, and I know that he will take me safe with him. We will keep that with our If that was a real blessing to you, would you say amen? I am very thankful for the gift of music. And uh one of the things that I think the older you get you start to appreciate what is actually beautiful in life. And uh there are certain things that the reason that they're beautiful is because God created us. as uh image bearers, he created us with the ability to appreciate uh the good things he designed. And so when I go outside and I uh look at a beautiful sunset and I And I just I'm just overwhelmed by that that beautiful display in color of of God's creation. I'm overwhelmed by that. The reason I can appreciate that is because I'm an image bearer. He's created me with the ability to appreciate The reason is because I'm an image bearer. I can enjoy that beauty because God created me with the ability to do that. And so I'm thankful that tonight not only have our hearts been drawn to the attention of the truths of those of those songs, but we've been able to appreciate and enjoy the beauty of it. The passage we're going to look at for a few minutes this evening is in 1 Corinthians chapter 3. So I'm going to ask you to take your Bibles and let's uh look at this text for a few minutes tonight. Um it's not going to be uh as heavy a message as what we would look at typically on a Sunday morning It's going to be a little bit more of a series of devotional thoughts that I think are consistent with what we've been talking about today. Today is A day where we've been focusing on ministry in our local community. We're in Missions Month and we've looked at several different out there fields. I don't mean like they're out there, but I mean they're beyond our borders. other parts of the world. And the truth is it's easy for us to get in our minds, you know, we're a part of missions. We write a check every month. We uh we read those prayer letters, we do pray for our missionaries, and we should do those things. But one of the ways that we are missional in our thinking, and I think that's the term that was used last week in our evening service. One of the ways that we're missional in our thinking is that we are engaged in our personal lives in missions. And and Every single one of us is fitted very uniquely to reach a very unique group of people. And God's given us gifts, He's given us skills, He's given us interest, He's given us personality He's put us in certain fields. He's planted us in this community. All of that is a part of his sovereign design. He wants us to be serving and ministering to other people. And my job as a pastor and our job as a church is to equip you to do that work. It's not that we would do it for you, but it That we would build you up through the preaching and teaching of the Word to be able to do that work. And we do it together. And so this passage of Scripture is a very important 1 Corinthians chapter 3, and this is what it says in verse number 1. He says, And I brethren could not By the way, I am not uh indicting anybody here by reading this text, but what we're gonna learn from it is very, very helpful. He says, I brethren cannot speak unto you as unto spiritual But as unto carnal, even as unto babes in Christ. I have fed you with milk and not with meat. For hitherto you're not able to bear it, neither you Yet now are ye able. For yet there are ye are carnal, and whereas there are among you envying and strife and division, are ye not cor carnal and walk as men? For while one saith I am of Paul, and another Whether I am of Apollos, are you not carnal? Who then is Paul? Who is Apollos? But ministers by whom ye believed? Even as the Lord gave to every man, I have planted Apollos watered, God gave the increase. So then neither is he that planteth anything, neither he that watereth, but God that giveth the increase. And he that planteth, and he that water Watereth are one. Every man shall receive his own reward according to his own labor. For we are laborers together with God. Year God's building. Let's take a moment and ask the Lord to help us to understand some really important truths about the way that we should conduct ourselves in whatever minute Ministry context God has given us. And He's given us all a ministry context that we need to serve. And let's bow for prayer. Father, help me to communicate the truth. That we find in this text in a way that's consistent with your word, and in a way that the Holy Spirit can take and can impress upon our hearts in a very impactful manner. We recognize that as your servants , It's very easy for us to do the work of ministry with an impure motive. It's easy for us to become fleshly in our approach. It's easy for us to be combative and to uh become very self-centered and even to use ministry as a means of self promotion. Father, help us to learn from this church many, many years ago Ago, I had a great struggle, a struggle that your word wanted to meet, and one that your word needs to apply to our own hearts this evening. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. You may not realize this, but they say the number one reason at that people leave the mission field is not discouragement. It's not document Now having been a missionary and having known a lot of missionaries I'm not surprised that that is the case. I know that sounds really bad, but I'm saying that very honestly. Now I'm not saying that because missionaries aren't people that love Christ, they do The fact that you would be willing to spend all of the time that you spend in training, the fact that you'd be willing to take your family potentially Sell everything that you have, pack up, move to another country, learn another language, uh invest in another culture, and do all the work that you do as a missionary. The fact that you do that means that something very, very profound is motivating you as a person. There's no doubt about that. Missionaries are very driven people. One of the things though that is a is a great temptation amongst people that are in that particular kind of ministry is that though they are driven people, the drive to do the work of the ministry is not all Always purely motivated till the day that they complete their work. Now we're all made of the same stuff. All of us are people that when we get up in the morning and we read God's word, our hearts become over By these truths, we we are we are refocused and we're ready to go about the day. And by the middle of the day, our perspective can be radically different. Is anybody else like that? Okay. It it might just take one conversation One situation, something you hear on the radio, and all of a sudden, this wonderful spirit-filled focus that we had going into the day, it just like on a dime it changes. The fact is that that's what we're made of. We are fleshly people. People who love Christ, people who are motivated, people who are willing to put their lives on the line are made of the same stuff. That they were before they made those commitments. We all are prone to fleshly attitudes and fleshly motives. And so we continually need the word of God to impress upon us. This church was a church that had probably come a very long way from From where they were at their conversion, but they were not in a good place. They were doing the work of ministry with a motive that was extremely self-serving. And really, the core of this passage is giving us One very simple thought. God wants us to minister from a heart that's energized by the Spirit of God, not by our desire to impact the world in a fleshly manner. what's going on. The fact is that there are lots of pastors that they're not preaching all the time because they love Jesus and they want God's people to be energized. As much as they might be building a platform. And you know what? That's eventually going to come out in the way that they preach and the way that they teach and the decisions that they make. There are lots of people that go into Good word for the wrong reason. Or they go in for the right reason, but as time goes on, they get off track. This passage calls us back and says, Hey, we need to serve God in a spiritful manner. That's really what the passage is all about. And I want to remind you that the reason that God created the local church was to help us to not be the consumer who just sits there and enjoys everything, but that we grow Grow together and we mature together and we serve together and we have a singular heart. We see that in Ephesians, where it says that God gives pastors and evangelists and teachers for the work of the ministries, for the perfecting of the saints, for the edifying of the body of Christ. We know this in our minds. I want you to see it kind of laid out in a practical way in the text before. So the first thing l I'd like us to notice from the text is that a spirit filled ministry is one that is selfless, not sell fish. Self less, not sell fish. I was I was afraid that when I said that I'd probably like flip it somehow because you know at the end of the day you get a little bit tired. Spirit-filled ministry isn't about you, it's not about me. It's about him. And it doesn't take very much for me to say it's about him, but it's actually really about me. It's very easy for us to do the work of ministry because as well if we're totally honest. And you know how it manifests itself? It manifests itself when we work with other people. It's true. If we don't have to work with other people, then we don't realize how much of this is actually going into the work that we're doing. But when God puts us in a church context or he puts us in a family context, all of Of a sudden, when a couple of the people that are working together are starting to get a little bit fleshly in the way that they're doing it, it starts revealing itself in the way they interact with one another. the That's an amazing thing. And notice the way that it manifests itself in this particular church. He says in verse 3, he says, there's among you envying and strife And division. Envy, strife, and division. That was what was going on. That was supposed we were supposed to see the opposite of that. He says, you are carnal. That means you're flesh. You walk as man, that means that you're living like a person that doesn't know Christ. That's not actually born again. He's not saying that they aren't born He's not saying that they aren't Christians. He's saying they're acting as if they're not Christians. There's an inconsistency. The word envying. You know what this has the idea of? There was like this territorial attitude about getting praise and getting opportunity And seeing success. You know how this plays out? The way that this plays out is when we do something that we felt really good about and nobody says a word about it. And all of a sudden Sudden we start going, you know, certainly somebody saw what I did. Why couldn't they say something to me about it? I'm sure no one's ever felt that way before. You know why pastors sometimes on Monday mornings have pity parties and they're discouraged, even though they had wonderful Sundays, it's because they didn't get enough back from the congregation. And so they're sitting there on a s on a Monday morning and They're like, they're discouraged and they're wearied and they're like, I don't know if I can do this anymore. And it's because their motivation's a little off. That's really what's going on. The word strife is The idea is that people manipulate because they're trying to protect the turf that they believe belongs to them. You you know in a church context there are little turf wars that go on. Now we always laugh about somebody saying, oh, you know, a visitor comes in and they sit in that pew and all of a sudden they get this look from somebody that that wants walks in about five minutes before the service starts and they're like, What are you doing in my pew? And they're like, I didn't know that you owned this pew. We always laugh about this, okay? It's it's It's kind of a joke that that that people within church context laugh about. But the fact is this turf warfare is a big problem in the church context. Context. It's a big problem. It's a big problem in who gets to teach in a Sunday school and who gets to have an opportunity to minister in this particular area or that particular particular area. In fact, you know how it kind of manifests itself? It can manifest itself when someone will kind of undermine another person so that they don't get into their area. Or maybe somebody younger comes in, they have an opportunity opportunity that somebody older didn't have. The reason I bring this up is not to draw attention to a a very specific situation or our context. It's to say that as someone who has been in a missions context, someone who's been a pastor, I can see this very clearly in situations. That's what Paul's talking about. He's saying there's envy you're careful Territorial. You want praise, you want opportunity, you want to protect your turf. And you're willing to do stuff to make sure that you protect your turf. Division. People seek out allies to promote their own agenda. You know what ul ultimately is one of the most destructive things in a church context It's when people start getting an attitude, this is something I'm entitled to. And then they go to others and they say, Don't you see that I'm entitled to this? And you know what happens? It creates huge problems. This was the issue at the church And all of this could be summarized in one simple statement. You walk as men. Not meaning like men are the carnal ones and women are the spiritual ones. But he's saying you walk like an ordinary man that doesn't know Jesus. You ought you out you walk like a person who is not converted. The way that you think and the way that you're relating to other people in a context of ministry it's completely self-scient. So what is the point of the passage? Well the point of the passage is that we're not supposed to serve in such a way. It's that we're supposed to serve in You know what serving a spirit filled manner does? It actually confronts those fleshly manifestations like envying and striving. life in division and it and it addresses those and it uproots those and all of a sudden the Spirit of God says, Hey, you know what? You're getting really territorial about that. And the way that you can know that is because of the way he responded to that person and that Situation, and all of a sudden you go, you know what? That response is sinful. That response is very dangerous. That response has to be killed by the spirits in angels. And it needs to be replaced with a godly response. That's what sanctification is. It's uprooting these fleshly passions And establishing grace-filled new mindsets, new patterns that serve in a Christ-like manner. That's what he's saying. Instead of envying, what are we doing? We're okay with other people getting opportunities. We're okay with other people We're okay if we're not recognized. It's okay. Because it's all about Christ. We're willing to work together for the glory of God. We're willing to submit to the wishes of others on areas. This is not about right and wrong. This is about Preference. We're willing to kind of lay aside our rights and that feeling of entitlement, and we're willing to do it for the glory of another. We're willing to unite and build up rather than to divide We're living, we're willing to live radically different lives. Let me tell you, when the church has this going on, that is a powerful testimony. Similar to the power of the gospel. This is not going on in the corporate world, folks. This is not going on in the average family context in our culture. This is radically different. This is real living Christianity right here. That's what we need. Second truth. Spirit-filled ministry is passionate about God's Glory. Verses five and six he says, Who then is Paul? Who is Apollos? Ministers By whom ye believed. Even as the Lord gave to every man. That's a really amazing statement. He says, Who am I? Now, a lot of times we kind of think, who am I? Well, let me tell you who I am. He says, Who am I? This is the Apostle Paul. Like, there wasn't, there was not in all of the New Testament a more complicated A more focused, a more seasoned, a more matured man than the Apostle Paul. There's no example that I can think of in the New Testament era. Even more than Peter, and even more than Barnabas, the Apostle Paul was driven, he was motivated, he was selfless, he cared about others, and he says, I'm a nobody. I'm a nobody. Apollos is a nobody. He says, we're just servants. You believed, and we just happened to be like a little piece of that story. Now, humanly speaking, they were a huge part of that story. But in Paul's own mind, humility, you know what humility is? It's not lowering our view of self. It's It's correcting our view of self to reality. That's really what it is. It's us recognizing what we really are. We'd have no opportunity if it wasn't for the self We wouldn't be saved if it wasn't for God's gracious work on our behalf. We wouldn't have the strength, we wouldn't have the mindset, the abilities, we wouldn't have the giftedness, none of it if it wasn't for the grace of God. None of it. And so Paul says I don't care who gets the credit. He knew it wasn't about his own glory or about his own power. His primary concern was He says it's all about as the Lord gives to every man. Folks, this is not the way that we naturally think. Nobody naturally thinks this way. Nobody. I don't care who the person is. They do not by nature put others ahead of themselves The reason that people put others ahead of themselves, and the reason they say it's all about God's glory, not about my glory, and I don't care if I get It's all about him. It's because of the Spirit's work and sanctification. This is not normal. This is something God does in us. And you know what? When you have a group of people that work together with this attitude, it is an incredible thing. It's incredible. It's a powerful thing. It's a beautiful thing. It's a God-exalting thing. Third truth I'd like you to see is that spirit filled ministry is appreciative. You know how many Christians Christians are just disgruntled, unthankful people. I'm serious about that. You know how many Western Christians who live in Beautiful homes, drive nice cars, have a lot of money, have a lot of opportunity. Please don't get me wrong, people in the third world country are like that too. I I you know, I've had many people say, Well, I'm j I just wish that I could I could be as poor as somebody living over in West Africa because and then I'd be a grateful person. I'm like, well having been a pastor in West Africa, I've discovered that people that have lots of money and people that have a little money and people that are kind of in the middle, we all are made of the same stuff. We're fleshly people And we can still fight our turf wars and we can still be proud and we can still be stingy and we can still be very self serving. It doesn't matter how much money you have. It's all about what we do with what's going on inside. But spirit-filled ministry has an attitude of God, I don't deserve I don't deserve to be a part of what you're doing. Thank you. Listen to what he says in verse 9. He says, We're laborers together with God. You are God's husbandry. You are God's building. Now, notice this: who owns the farm God does. Who owns the building? God does. So what role are we playing? Well, whatever He decides to have us do in this process. So that means that we're, you know, cutting vines and and we're we're bringing in the harvest and we're spraying the plants or whatever it is. You know, he uses that analogy of agriculture and he basically says This is God's farm. You get to be a laborer in that farm. You get to be a part of what he's doing. So he says, hey, today we're going to do this, so I'd like you to go out and do that right now. And then we go and we do that. And this is my building, so today you're gonna be driving nails. Today you're gonna be pulling out nails. Today you're gonna be standing up walls. Today you're gonna be drilling in sheetrock. Today you're going to be doing whatever. What's the point? The point is we get to be a part of what he's doing. And one of the things that God teaches us in ministry, especially Especially if we're engaging in conversation with people about evangelism, if we're trying to disciple individuals, if we're pouring our lives into people, one of the things that we learn in that process Is how powerless we are to effectively change a person's heart. Like we're completely powerless. You know, think about the first time that you're Your child, little child, looks at you in great defiance and just says, No. And you're just like, what do I do? Like, can I reach into this kid's heart and change them? No. You cannot. You're powerless. Now, you have the word of God. You can discipline your child. You better correct your child. You pray for them. But the bottom line is that God changes hearts. You give the gospel to people and they look at you like you're from another planet and they're like, Jesus died on the cross and rose from the grave. Like you actually believe that? Yes, I believe that. You believe the Bible is God's word? On on what basis? And they look at you like you're from another planet. And then all of a sudden in giving Gospel conversations with someone, you start seeing this veil is removed. And they see things they didn't see, and all of a sudden the heart's becoming tender, and you're like What's causing that? It's the grace of God. What's the point? All of a sudden you get to say, God, thank you for letting me be a small part of what So Paul says, if it's me, if it's Apollos, if it's somebody else, who cares? It's God. We're not entitled to success or Prestige in ministry. People who see quick and we could say very visible success are often destroyed by that. Think about how many people reach celebrity status, and their lives are ruined, completely ruined by their celebrity status. I mean, why are people on Instagram? Because they want to be an influencer. They want people to see them. They want people to know them. They want to be popular and well known. And what they don't realize is if they actually Reach the status they pursue, it will crush them. It will destroy them. Amazingly, it's not just in the secular context that people are destroyed by success. It's also Also true in this context, in the church context. Because all of a sudden we start thinking it's not about him, it's about, wow, God's lucky he's got me You know how dangerous that is? You know how common that is. He decides what role we play. You know, sometimes We get to see very visible opportunities, and sometimes what we're doing nobody cares. And nobody knows, and that's okay. He decides how successful that role becomes. You have a person that you've been giving them the gospel and giving them the gospel and giving them the gospel and it's like nothing happens and all of a sudden this other person from another si period in their life life comes in and they start having conversation and all of a sudden boom they see something happen right there and you go, What was wrong with what I was saying? Nothing was wrong with what you were saying. It's just that God said they're gonna get to be in that role, not you. That's okay. He is the one who ultimately does the work. And we should be thankful that we get to do anything And his work. What I'm sharing with you is a simple devotional thought. But it's one of the most powerful Important devotional thoughts you will ever consider. It really is. Because we will destroy ourselves if we get into a context of ministry and we do it for the wrong reason. We'll destroy ourselves. We will destroy the people around us. We will harm them sometimes irreparably if it's all about us. We will damage our kids, we'll damage our spouse, we'll damage the church that we're a part of. When the ego gets in the way, it's extremely destructive. So here's the Final question I ask. How do we give of ourselves? Galatians chapter 6. This is what it says. It says, As we therefore have opportunity, great word, isn't it? As we have opportunity, let us do good unto others. You know how we serve others? It's whatever God gives us opportunity to do Now, getting opportunity doesn't mean I am like longing to take a certain opportunity. It just means I'm available. That's really what it means. So for a season of life, God says, Hey, you're gonna get to invest in this person right here. You're gonna have this opportunity right here. And you just step in and you just you give of yourself in the manner that God wants for that season that he wants for his Glory. You say, well, how do I give? Give your attention. That means look and notice when the opportunity comes. Give of your affections. This is something we really we really focus this morning on. The fact is within the church context there is a huge need for us To be emotionally engaged in relationship with others. Now, there is a tendency in all of us to withdraw once we've been hurt And to withdraw so that we don't end up getting slapped on the hand again in a situation. And I understand that. And and by the way, there is nobody that probably experiences that more than the person that's most engaged in the work of ministry. The more you invest in others, the more you will be paid by others because they're sinners and you're a sinner And we have to be willing to give of our affection, give of our strength. We have a lot of different ages in here. The strength you have right now It's just the bottom line. You will not. That is a prediction that I am sure will come to pass. You will not get this season of life back. So please don't waste it. Don't waste your teen years. Don't don't waste your single years. Don't waste those years where you're a young parent. Don't waste those years where you're working with your teenagers. Don't waste those years when your kids are out of the house. Don't waste Those years when you become grandma and grandpa. Don't waste those years when you know there's not a lot left. Every season matters. The strength you have now you will not have in 20 years. So give it now your time. We all have the same 24 hours, but we don't all use the same way. We just don't. There's some people they they they literally spend the vast majority of the twenty four hours on their phone. And if you if you could look at the the the the amount of time time that they spend on their iPhone, uh here was your week, he'd go, wow, that's scary. That's really scary. Just just mindlessly scrolling, filling our minds With nothing that has any edifying ability. Our time matters. Your mind is a resource. Your body is a resource. The way that God has uniquely gifted you, it's a Resource. And so I asked the question: Will you minister for God's glory with a spirit-filled approach Will you do that? I'm not here to tell anybody where and how you're supposed to do that. You got to think about that yourself. Where is God God planted you? How has He gifted you? How has He fitted you? What opportunity has He given you? You've got to make the choice. I'm gonna either step into this or I'm gonna continue to Waste my time. I'm going to continue to waste my opportunities. For those who are involved in the work, I ask you this question: are you getting distracted? Are you allowing the flesh to get in and corrupt a very, very good thing? May the Lord help us to serve in a spiritful manner. That's the That's the encouragement tonight. Let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you for the text in front of us. This is a very simple concept. And it's really at the heart of some of the most personal matters in our lives. Father, help us to be honest with ourselves. Help us to be honest. Honest when we stumble. Help us to be honest where we are leaning and drifting. Help us to be willing to allow the Spirit of God to prick our heart. Hearts. Help us to be willing to turn back to you in repentance, to allow you to change the way that we think about ourselves and our circumstances. Circumstances and the opportunities before us, and how we engage in those opportunities. Father, work a genuine repentance in us and help us to move forward. In a way that's consistent with your will. In a will that powerfully impacts whatever little niche in the building of your kingdom you want us to be a part of. Bless your people. I love these people. I'm thankful for them. They're far dearer to you than they are to me. Help us to work together In the work of seeing you build your kingdom. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. If you could, please, let's pull out our hymn books and the hymn that I'd like us to close with. It's Him 398. May the Lord find us faithful. Let's stand together, please. We'll sing. All three verses of May the Lord find us faithful. God has given us given us the faith in the world A shame of his way in the shape Seek it out to think of this light with a soul girl that said that Be riding determining, researching his word for his life Every day to be We die on the last living dying in honor design of this magic life Love and for the only heart desire He faithful Every day so we listen we die Good song, good singing. Uh I'd like to ask you if Brother Ralph, if you could close us in prayer tonight. Uh don't forget that we have uh teen hymnsing in the back and Obviously parents are invited to that. Um I mean I guess if other people want to join us, I'm I'm totally fine with that. Uh though there's probably a limited amount of food. Now the snows are going, hold on a sec Okay, we weren't preparing for everybody. But um let's all fellowship and uh teens make our way to the back and uh we'll have a great time uh back there of of singing praise to the Lord, fellowshipping and And now make sure that you get back and um uh get to know these folks from Marinatha. Glad that they're here. They're gonna be with us. Well, they're gonna be here uh tomorrow and Tuesday because they're gonna be at Calvary. Um Baptist Academy and they're also gonna be going to the rescue mission. If you're interested in going to the mission with us on Tuesday night, remember six thirty is when we leave and uh when Pastor Chris is driving, they leave at six thirty. So so if you're planning to come, you better let us know. Uh but uh we always enjoy doing it. Brother Ralph, please close us in prayer. Different from your word. The break is all I see if we document there were these troubles or how you pray watch over us, keep us safe in our company going, and use each and every one of us as we can drag by