Good to see each of you. Hope you had a good afternoon and looking forward to a great service tonight. Let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer and we'll get started. Let's pray. Father, thank you again for the opportunity to gather together, and I pray that uh as we share testimonies later on this evening and as Pastor Chris handles the word, I pray that you would uh just work in our hearts in a very special way. Uh thank you for wonderful time that we had with Vacation Bible School for all the the children that you brought out and uh also for the teen rally and just the very sweet time that that we had with that. I pray that you would use these things to encourage our church family and to work in the hearts of the people that were able to attend. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right. Good evening. Let's get started with some singing. Let's open our hymn books to hymn number 445. Hymn number 445. Standing on the promises. Let's all stand. as we sing all four verses of 445. Standing on the promises of Christ my king who eternally praise Standing on the comments that can Will the house or the battery Standing on the mountain of Christ alone , I mean burning my store, over my Lord, standing on the world. I can go across the mustard Standing on the promises I cannot call Lending every moment Great singing, please be seated as we turn back to him number five 397. 397. I'm pressing on the upward way. New heights I'm gaining every day. We'll sing verses one, two. Two and four. I'm friendly God with the other way I'm getting every way. I need that new And hymn number three hundred and fifty-five. Jesus paid it all. 355, we'll sing verses one, three, and four. Great singing. Amazing Grace I think I was for One day One day was in what I could be for to be born on a dram Wells of mine and my exam Justify brandy forever one day of glory. And four seventy-eight and the red book 478 in the red book. It is well with my soul. Let's stand sing the first and the last. When peace like our river are ten and my way, when I see the La que dele völla va na tuincute , voilà, que nos va a la prédica. It was well with my soul, it at one it was. My fault and Lord is the day when my big shall be That was that. And love is well with my soul It is well with my soul Great singing, please be seated Jesus was a man for sending us Jesus my soul friends may fail. My save makes me home. If you are not friends , maybe not be keeping loving way. Let me Jesus water for me. Maybe they are wearing my eyes again because they are my girl. Vöhää kaelöjä valdy. The Ravin Aki. Just walk up eye. The children high so that have me nine or takes me in my violence here, my heart. Have your baby, Hale , David Helping. He be loving, he with me coming. Well I did want to share as a testimony about this week. It was so much fun not just to do the VBS but the team rally. All of it was Very it was so much fun, it was such an encouragement, but boy was it a busy time. And as I was thinking about uh what to preach this this Sunday night, um I I had to pause and I had to think about a passage. And censored. Um And I was drawn to Isaiah chapter six. And as I was reading it and as I was uh preparing uh for the message in the middle of the week, this this passage really kind of refocused my attention on why we were doing the teen rally, why we were doing the VBS. And so I would like to invite you to turn with me to Isaiah 6. And I want you to see there just a an experience that Isaiah had that really, I believe, did the same thing for him in his ministry, sort of a spiritual refocus as he looked into the throne room of God. And as we look in Isaiah 6, we'll begin reading in verse 1. It says, In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw also the Lord sitting upon a throne. High and lifted up, and his train filled the temple. Above it stood the seraphimes. One each one had six wings. With twin he covered his face, and with twenty he covered his feet, and with twenty he did fly. And one cried unto another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The Lord the whole earth is full of his glory. And the posts of the door moved at the voice of him that cried, and the house was filled with smoke. Then said I, Woe is me, for I am undone because I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips For mine eyes have seen the king, the Lord of hosts. And one flew one of the seraphims flew unto me, having a live coal in his hand, which he had taken with the tongs from off the altar. And he laid it upon my mouth and said, Lo, this hath touched thy lips, and thy iniquity is taken away, and thy sin purged. It's difficult as we come into this passage passage to determine really the occasion for which Isaiah is writing It says that it was written in the year that King Uzziah died, or the event transpired in the year that King Uzziah died. And many believe with good reason that this passage describes Isaiah's initial call to ministry, which then would have happened that year that King Ziah died, somewhere around 740 B. C. And others believe that because this is several chapters after the beginning of the book of Isaiah, that this event transpired sometime after Isaiah had begun his ministry as a prophet. And if the latter is true, and I I personally believe that it is, then this event which Isaiah records transpired In order to refocus and recommission the Prophet in light of the glorious God whom he has privileged to serve. And by looking at this passage, we can see that in the midst of ministry, God wants us from time to time to refocus attention upon his glory. And let's do this tonight and see what happens when we seek this spiritual refocus, if you will, by looking into the throne room of God through the words of the prophet Isaiah. The first thing that ought to happen is that we remember what the glory of God looks like. Again, it says in verse 1 But the prophet saw the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up, and his strain filled the temple. In this verse alone, we see that God is ultimately and most gloriously glorified in and of himself At this specific time in Isaiah's life, he was granted visible access into the throne room of God. Whether this was a physical or spiritual experience is uncertain. But in this place, Isaiah's immediate attention wasn't fixed on anything on the side or any of the unique creatures that were flying around the room. Or anything like the river that may have come, that comes from the throne of God, anything other than the one who sat on the throne itself. He was fixing his gaze upon really the Lord God, our Lord Jesus Christ, which is alluded to in John 12. The phraseology in verse 1 is not to be overlooked. It is intentional and it is awe-inspiring You notice, of course, that when he says that the Lord was sitting upon a throne, the usual capital L-O-R -D. is replaced by just a capital L in regular O R D. That's the Hebrew word Adonai. It's the word Lord It's not the covenant name Jehovah or Yahweh that we are familiar with when we read in Scripture with the all caps, L-O-R-D. And it seems to indicate a sort of reverence on the part of the prophet. He recognizes That the Lord, the ruler of the universe, was sitting on a high and lofty throne to emphasize his glory and his majesty and his transcendence over all. He makes note of his his train, the skirts of his robe filled every part of the temple in heaven. Now this is an allusion to an earthly practice where ancient kings, when they conquered another king, they would go and they would cut off a piece of that king's robe and add it to their own. And the longer that that trend became, the more uh revered, more respected that king became. And of course you notice. Our God's train, his robe filled the temple of heaven. God's glory in and of itself is an overwhelming. Vision. And I asked, when was the last time you paused to picture God upon his very throne? It is so easy in the midst of busy ministries and chaotic schedules. To just lose sight of our God and his glory. And when we pause to meditate on our majestic Lord. It is no simple thing. It is no trite thought. It ought to fix our attention in a way that no other thought will. I mean think about it. Why else would we be able to worship him for all of eternity? You know, I had a friend in high school. He asked, wouldn't we be bored just singing and praising God all the time for forever and ever? When you meditate upon how glorious our God is, just our finite thinking on this side of heaven ought to be enough to help us realize No. We can't even fathom the extent of his glory. The reality of God's sovereignty and majesty is infinitely awesome. God is glorified in and of himself. As we remember God's glory, we don't just recognize God's glory in and of himself. We recognize that really all of creation Testifies of God's glory. Notice in verses 2 through 4 that Isaiah makes mention of the seraphimes. Each one had six wings. With twain he covered his face, and with twain he covered his feet, and with twain he did fly. And one cried unto another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. And the posts of the door moved at the voice of him that cried, and the house was filled with smoke. Isaiah's attention is also drawn to these creatures called Seraphim. And they hovered above the train of the Lord there in that throne room and hid their faces from the Almighty You think about that, these sinless creatures who dwelt in the very presence of dwelt in the very presence of God in the holiest of holies. We're incapable of gazing upon the glory of Almighty God. And they were so overwhelmed that they they cried aloud. They didn't stand there singing. They cried. They were proclaiming: holy, holy, holy is the Lord God. They didn't sing for joy. They cried in awesome fear. And so powerful were these seraphines' cries that the physical structure of heaven literally shook at their proclamations of God's holiness. And in the midst of that scene was the visible reminder of God's presence. smoke that filled the temple. We're reminded of that when we read about the incense of the temple, the Shekinah glory that resided on the Temple Mount. All of these parts of God's creation And when we see that those things which were created to be the very presence of God were demonstrating worship through physical trembling, by aversion of gaze. It is a wonder that any creature, particularly redeemed mankind, would lack reverence before such an awesome God. I like the question that Matthew Henry poses in his commentary on verse 4. He says, Shall walls and posts tremble before God, and shall we not tremble? Isaiah exemplifies for us in the following verses exactly how we as sinful mankind should respond in the presence of infinite holiness. So as we look into Isaiah 6 for this spiritual refreshing, for this spiritual refocus. We ought to first remember the glory of Almighty God. But like Isaiah, we should also remember the very sinfulness of mankind. Notice in verse 5, Isaiah's response, then I said I, Woe is me. For I am undone, because I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips. For mine eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. Then flew one of the seraphimes unto me, having a live coal in his hand, which he had taken with the tongs of the from the off the altar, and he laid it upon my mouth and said, Lo, this hath touched thy lips, and thy iniquity is taken away in thy sin. Purged. Isaiah recognizes there in first verse five that the pravity that consumes every single part of man. And he standing there before the infinitely holy one utters despair and He cries out in the Hebrew. He says, Oi, which is translated as woe is me. That's an expression of deep sorrow and anguish. We might say, oh, woe is me. And we can picture Isaiah falling on his knees or falling prostrate on the ground as he realizes his utterly fallen state before the king, the Lord of hosts. He sees how even as a prophet to a wicked, sinful people , He is just as vile as those whom he would later be told would reject the very words of God preached by him. The reality is that while we may have bold access to the throne of grace through Jesus Christ, the same author who penned those very words there in Hebrews Also wrote, It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. A clear perspective of the holiness of God leaves no room for a reverence or flippancy on our part. Because it reveals how unholy we truly are. Nevertheless, we do have access to the throne of grace. And it's only because we have been cleansed by the grace of God. And this is alluded to in those verses as the seraphim. Reach for the altar and pull out a burning coal and approach Isaiah and touch his lips with that fiery hot coal. It is a symbol. Of the cleansing we need in the presence of God. I say experiences really what is one of the most unique moments of scripture. And as the seraph brings this hot coal and places it directly on his mouth, The seraph explains that his sins are purged. Now, on what basis is Isaiah's sin purged? Is it because the seraph burnt his mouth? We know obviously that sin is only removed by God's grace on the basis of blood payment. We know this from, of course, Matthew 9, Hebrews 9, and Hebrews 10. Now there are two views on this passage, as I mentioned. Isaiah is recording either what took place when God commissioned him at the beginning of his ministry. Or Isaiah is recording a recommissioning of sorts where he realizes that the ministry prior was performed with some form of improper perspective. In either case, I would say a hot cold to the lips isn't pleasant This act symbolizes the fiery purification of God's holiness. In fact, we can recognize really that the cleansing of sin in our lives is a direct result of either ours or someone else's pain. We ask, how does this relate to this? How does this correspond? Well, those two perspectives of when this passage was written. Allows us to apply this in two different ways. One way is this. We as we experience the sanctification over the course of our lives as believers. We do in fact experience pain as sin as being cut out, do we not? Many can testify to years of life where sin was an issue. And really, as it was being mortified, it brought pain and at least discomfort. A clear example would be of an addict who becomes who becomes saved and has to deal with a long process of recovery. There's mental. physical, emotional pain coming out of any form of addiction. Another example may be someone who maybe struggles with anger. And over many years feels the anguish of learning patience and long-suffering. Of course, another way this symbol of cleansing could apply to us. Probably the most prominent example is the gospel itself. We can rejoice in the testimony of many Christians for whom the gospel has had a had an immediate transformative. Effects. Lives restored, addictions broken, families reunited. We all know of someone who says my life was immediately changed upon trusting Christ. But where sin is cleansed in the life of a believer, pain is still a catalyst. By God's grace, where we feel no temporal pain in our sanctification as a result, is a result. Of the infinite pain our Savior experienced as he went to the cross. He suffered that we might be cleansed and able to live the lives he purchased. For us. And that is why we're able to move on in this passage to see that not only should we remember God's glory and our sinful humanity, We also ought to remember what a privilege it is to be called of God to serve in ministry. Notice with me in verse eight. Isaiah says, Also I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send, and who will go for us? Then said I, Hear me, send me. And he said, Go and tell this people, hear ye indeed, but understand not. And see ye indeed, but perceive not. Make the heart of this people fat and make their ears heavy and shut their eyes, lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and convert and be healed. Then said I, Lord, how long? And he answered , Until the cities be wasted, without inhabitant, and the houses without man, and the land be utterly. desolate, and the Lord have removed men far away, and there be a great forsaking in the midst of the land. But yet in it shall be a tent, and it shall be it shall return, and shall be eaten. As a teal tree, as an oak, whose substance is in them, when they cast their leaves, so the holy seed shall be the substance thereof. You say, what does this have to teach us about the privilege of ministry? There's three things here that I would like for us to take note here. You notice in verse 8 the very commonly referenced passage where God calls out and says, Whom shall I send? And who will go for us? And Isaiah raises his hand, says, Lord, here am I. Send me. We often focus on Isaiah's response. And it is a correct response. But we sometimes forget that the only reason why he responded was because the Lord provided an opportunity. If we were to believe that this event took place in the midst of Isaiah's ministry, could it be that Isaiah maybe even presumed upon God that he would be called a prophet? That's honestly how many prophets functioned. In Isaiah's day. We know we read about it in Isaiah 30, where many false prophets, before the Assyrians came and and took Israel out of the land. There were these false prophets who presumed upon God and said, all is well. Don't worry, God will take care of you. It could be that Isaiah presumed upon God to speak against these false prophets, and in his pride lifted himself up as maybe sort of a proto-Pharisee, if you will. By experiencing this vision, Isaiah would have realized just how simple he was, and just how gracious God is to allow him to be his. Prophet. Now, whether this be the case or not, the fact remains. Only God can provide the opportunities to minister for For him. And man needs to be willing to seize those opportunities. Now, to be fair, it can be difficult at times to recognize When an an opportunity to minister to the Lord really is of the Lord or is a personal desire. We're not so privileged as to be able to stand before the throne of God and hear him ask, Who will I send? and we could raise our hand and And say, Lord, send me there. Let me do that. I'll do that. But we are so privileged to have the fully preserved scriptures to guide and direct us in our day-to-day decisions. And as opportunities arise as we examine our hearts and motives, we're able to through the lens of God's word. Determine whether we are pursuing ministry out of pure vanity or if we are seizing opportunities given from the very hand of God. Is the Lord who provides these ministry opportunities we're so privileged to be a part of, but he also is the one who determines the parameters of those ministries. In verses 9 and 10, after Isaiah says that I will go, I will do whatever you will, God tells them, okay, here's what you're going to do. In some he says, you're going to go preach, but you're going to preach in a way where they will completely turn their backs against me. You see, that doesn't sound like a very fun ministry to be part of. Isaiah was commissioned to go to the sinful kingdom of Judah in the years that the northern kingdom of Israel would be taken by the nation of Assyria. And even in those days, Judah was a wicked place where the people practiced sort of a pluralistic religion, where they would worship God. To an aff to a degree, while worshiping other gods. Yet God determined that the goal of Isaiah's ministry will be to tell them what they need to what they needed to know in really the most unattractive way possible Do it in a way that causes their heart to be fat or dull. Do it in a way that causes their ears to be heavy, their eyes to be shut. Why? Lest they should see with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand with their heart and convert and be healed. How could God do this if his will is that all people come to know him? You ever thought about that? Why would God have Isaiah Go and purposefully turn people away from God. We of course need to understand that This is a passive response, if you will, where it's not that Isaiah is intentionally trying to turn people off. But rather, by speaking the truth that God has given him, he is proving the decision that the people have already made to reject God God in his justice will allow people to pursue their wicked lifestyle so that he will bring about his judicial will. In other words, he was going to prove that while Judah was giving lip service to God, in reality their hearts were far from them. How would you like to be called to a ministry in which God told you that the whole point of it was to prove how much people hate him? Uh uh we if we're honest we we wouldn't like it. But the fact is, if we were submitted to God in the ministries he's called us to, it is only right that God gets to determine what ministry, how that ministry is carried out. That is why we have a pattern for Carrying out ordinances in the church. That's why we're told how to carry out church discipline in Matthew 18. It's why we are commanded to do things decently and in order in 1 Corinthians 14. Reality is ministry, in any sense, must be conducted by applying biblical precepts and principles. And by doing that, we allow God to determine how we are to carry out the ministry God has called us to. It's the Lord who sets the parameters of what we do and how we do things. He also provides us opportunities of ministry, but in the end, we don't know how things are going to turn out. And ultimately we know that it is the Lord who not only provides the opportunities, who not only determines the parameters of our ministry, but he also foresees the results. That's what we see here in verses 11 through 13 when Isaiah asks, how long am I supposed to do this, Lord? Really he's asking, you know, what is what's what's the point of this? What's the what's the end goal? And God answered, until the cities be wasted without inhabitant, and the houses without man, and the land be utterly desolate. The Lord is seeking the fulfillment of really Judah's ultimate demise. God provides a very ominous answer in this. Until everything is destroyed. We know that in Isaiah's lifetime, Assyria destroyed the northern kingdom. And they even tried to sack Jerusalem. We can read about it in in the Chronicles and in other passages. But it wasn't until over a hundred years after Isaiah's death that Judah would face that similar judgment under Babylon. God tells Isaiah that the results of his preaching will be that people would be cut off for their rebellion. It to be a remnant who will also face the consequences of their nation. That's what's being alluded to there in verse 13. It says, yet it in it shall be a tenth, a remnant, it shall return and shall be eaten. Not they'll thrive, not they'll regrow , says they'll be eaten. As a teal tree and as an oak, whose substance is in them When they cast their leaves, so the holy she seed shall be the substance thereof. The Lord here provides an illustration. We see a tree, an oak, a teal tree. And when you cut that tree down, there's a stump. Now that stump's always been a part of the tree, whether you realize it or not, right? That stump, or that which remains, the substance that is in the tree. That stump is a representative of that remnant. After that The rest of the tree is removed and consumed. Even that stump will be consumed in that judgment You say, how can that be? Well we see this when people like Daniel and uh his three friends were being carried off to Babylon. Now, of course, we may at first think, why would God do such a thing to righteous believers? And the fact is, we see how God used Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego there in Babylon We see that God has an ultimate purpose far and beyond what we see. Unlike Isaiah, though, we're not really told what our years of ministry will will yield We're called to ministry as God provides the opportunities and establishes the means and the hows by which we ought to perform them. And since we do not know the results as God does, we're left to trust that what He's called us to do in the way we should do it will ultimately bring about His glory and His purpose And by recognizing that, we're able to see what a privilege and an opportunity it is. Serve God. This God whom we see as infinitely glorious. Especially when contrast with our utter depravity. So in the midst of our ministry, God wants us to refocus our attention upon His glory. We've done that by looking at Isaiah 6. And we're reminded that while we're faithfully serving Him, We need to be constantly reminded of how glorious our God is, of how sinful we are, and how blessed and privileged we are. To serve God in whatever ministry capacity we are in. Let's continue to strive in whatever ministry God has called us in. to. Here in the church, out in the workforce, wherever you are, that is your ministry. Let's have a renewed focus upon our infinitely glorious. God. Father, we thank you for the vision that you gave to Isaiah. And it is a A very humbling passage. Lord, words can't describe how our hearts fall prostrate to the thought of your glory upon the throne. And ask, Lord, that we would help us to refocus our gaze upon you. As we go about our day-to-day lives, as we Pursue the ministries that you've called us to, Father. Help us to be ever mindful of your glory. And the great privilege it is for us sinners to be a part of God. We give you all the honor and glory and praise in the name of our Lord Jesus, in whose name we pray. Amen. That last verse when uh he talked about uh the tree getting cut down. There is a an apple tree near our house and uh the tree obviously had gotten very diseased and it wasn't healthy and uh one day I drove by and it the tree was gone. It was just a stump. If you drive by that house right now uh there's a tree there again. And the reason it's there is because the stump's not dead. Um the stump came back and um and that really is a picture of what uh happened in the nation of Israel. And uh Isaiah had the unfortunate, if you want to use the word unfortunate, um challenge of being one who preached in a nation that was that was thoroughly corrupted. And uh God had to remove them from the land. And it was a it was a terrible and tragic season in that history. Yet when we read Isaiah and Nehemiah, we We read about the rebuilding of the walls. We read about the temple being rebuilt. And uh this is how God works. And the truth is some some generations uh get to Live through the rebuild and some live through the season leading up to uh difficult times. And whatever season God calls us to serve in, we just need to thrive in it. We need to be faithful. in it and it is the recognition that he is holy and we are broken and unworthy, but he he chooses to place us in in places uh to serve him. That is what sustains us. So that is a very important text for us to consider. We're going to be having a business meeting tonight. So what we'll do is we'll take a short break and after that Come back in. If you didn't get the financials, please make sure that you get those. And also we have ballots because we are voting on uh taking on one deacon and so um if you could uh you know get some water use the restroom whatever you need to do and uh kids the game room is open And I don't I don't anticipate a real long meeting, but uh just want to uh make sure that we uh get a little break and then come back. So let's bow for prayer and then uh we'll come back after Father, we thank you so much for your word. And we recognize that every generation has its challenges. Isaiah lived in a tough time. Israel was a very rebellious nation. The more they heard the truth, the more they turned against it. And he was serving in that season. I thank you for his faithfulness. I thank you for the very rich scriptures we have in Isaiah that talk of redemption and the Messiah and your future kingdom. Isaiah saw the hardship of ministry, but he also saw the glories of prophecy. And some of the richest prophecies in your word are found in that book. Help us to be faithful, to be willing to serve in whatever capacity you call us to. for whatever season you call us to, and with whatever blessings and challenges we will face during that season Bless our time together as we have a meeting in a few minutes. I pray that your hands would be at work in our hearts, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Okay.