And looking forward to our service this evening. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and uh looking forward to having Josh preach uh this evening as well. So let's bow for prayer, please. Father, we're so grateful for the Word of God, the opportunity to sit under the ministry of the Word, the opportunity to sing praise to you and to Just share testimonies of how good and faithful you are. I pray that tonight we would have sweet fellowship together. I pray that you would uh just empower Brother Josh, as he preaches the word, help him to have clarity of thought and to communicate the scriptures effectively. And I pray that just every aspect of our service tonight would bring glory to you and encourage us as your people. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. All right. Good evening. Thanks so much for choosing to worship with us here at Anchor Baptist Church. Please open your hymn books to hymn number 418. Trust and obey. Hymn number 418. Please stand with me. As we get started, we'll sing verses 1, 3, 4, and 5. When we walk with the Lord in the light of his word, what a glory he set on our way. While we do his good will, he abides with us still, and with all who will trust and obey, trust and obey for the There's no other way to be happy in us, but to trust and love Not the burden we bear, not the sorrow we serve, but our call we got threads every pen Neither grief nor our loss, neither brown nor our cross, can expect we trust and obey, trust and obey For there's no other way to be happy in Jesus but to trust and love it But we never can prove the divide of everyone until all day of the For the favor he stores and the joy this thoughts are for them well, shast and all day, shwat and all pay. For there's no one away to be happy and dis but trust and love Then if thou ships wish, we will send that his feet, For a walk by his siding thou win what he says. We will do when he stands, we will go. Never fear only trust and of pay, trust and of pay, for there's no one. But to trust and love Great singing. Please be seated as we turn back to hymn number 183. Lamb of Glory. 183. We'll sing both verses. He will slowly from God that gave and praise and from that. There might be bad dogs, and one black one , if I said , Blas. The one they saw was Christ the man. Three days And hymn number two hundred sixty-two. There is power In the blood. Two hundred sixty two. We'll sing all four verses. Would you be free from your burden of sin? Let's power in the blood, power in the blood, Would you or evil and victory when there's wonderful power in love? There is one the workita in the land there at the working part and the Would you be free from your passion and pride? Just power and the blood, power and the blood, come for a cleansing to come. There is power power. Wonderful power in the blood of the land. There is power. Papa Wandavak and the Prashaplanavama Would you be wiser, much wider than snow? There's power and the blood, power and the blood Since things are lost in its life-giving power There's wonderful power in the blood There is power power Wonderworking power in the blood of the life Discover wonder working power in the present blood of the land Would you do service for Jesus your King? There's power in the blood, power in the blood. Would you live daily and praise interesting? There's wonderful power in the blood. the blood there is pi wonder walking power in the blood of the land there is pi wonder walking power Great singing this evening. Oh Lord my God, when I an awesome wonder, consider all the world thy hands have. I see the stars, I hear the rolling thunder, thy power asks, the universe displayed, then sings my soul, my Savior God to thee how great thou wart how great thou wart then sings my soul my saviour God to thee how great thou wart how great thou And let's turn to the back of the hymn book. It's the first one in the fly leaf, I think, or Lily of the Valley. It's on the back of the first page. The paste it in pages. Lily of the Valley. I have found the friend and Jesus. He's everything to me. He's the fairest subs and thousands in my soul. The valley of the valley and him alone I see all I need to cleanse and make me fully whole And sorrow he's my comfort, and comfort he's my faith. He tells me every care on him to walk. He's the lily of the valley, the bright morning star, he's a fairest of thousand to my phone. Alright, five seventy-one. Five seventy-one When we all get to heaven Sing the wondrous love on Jesus, sing his mercy and his grace In the nations, bright and blessed, will prepare for us of the. . When we all get to have what a day I rejoiced in that will be When we all seized that will fail All right, two sixty five in the red book. Christ arose Long in the great villain sees us my centre When came by coming day, she 's like my lawn Up from the grave he arose with a mighty trial for his voice He arose a victor from the dark man he lives forever with his faith Alright, we'll move over to the blue book, number fifty-six. In the blue book, All I Ever Want to Be All I ever want to be is what you want of me, Lord. I give my life to you, and all my roots and dreams and plants I place within your hands. And give my life to you Here am I, Lord, use me, take my life and will be all I ever want. To be is what you want of me, Lord. I give my life to you, and all my hopes and dreams and plans I place within your hands, Lord, and give one thirty four in the blue book Great is thy faithfulness. Great is thy faithfulness, O God my Father, there is no shadow alternative. Changeth not thy compassion with fail not Apen thou forever will be breaked by faith. Mercy by sin Right, we've got time for a few more. Yes, ma'am. Which one? Twenty four in the blue book All right. Tim. Two fifty one. Two fifty one. That should close us out. That's the red book, right? Looking back, I can see your fingerprints upon my light. Always seeking my best. There were times when your way would make You have never lives. You are always God, your only God. You are always God to me. Though my eyes can't see, of my heart belief, you are always only good. Alright, 251 in the red book 251. Near the cross. Let's all stand listening to the first and the last verse. Jesus keep me. Near the cross. Jesus keep me near the cross there at Crash. And free to all my healing stream close back and back. And backward be my community. Sell my last thoughts upon, rest me on the river Near the cross I walks and wakes oh things crossing a Tell my reason strand just beyond The River and the Cross, and the cross Be my glory, tell my raps and fine Rust beyond the river. Great singing, please be seated. Okay, well it's good to have had uh uh brother Josh Zacharias with us. And uh so Josh coming up and preach the word and uh pray for him as he is getting ready to go to Australia as soon as they let him do it, I guess is the best way to put it, but good to have you. Well good evening. Who was it that requested verse or uh song fifty six in the blue book? Was that who was uh fifty six in the blue book? Was it over here? That is awesome because it's going to go great with the message this evening. So thank you for requesting that. If you're in your uh op open your Bibles to Mark chapter 12, please. Mark chapter 12 And while you're turning there, uh anybody like riddles? Anybody like a good riddle? Let's see uh let's see how how good of uh riddlers we are this evening. Here's a couple quick riddles to get us started. A butcher is five feet ten inches tall with a size 38 waist. He wears a size 13 shoe. What does he weigh? I think I heard it. Meat. Exactly. He's a butcher, so he weighs meat. All right. What is the color of the wind? Blue. Two for two. Alright, good job. We're going. Um two people were playing chess. They both won. How is this possible? No. Good good guess. Exactly. They're playing opposite uh different opponents. Okay, so we're three for three. You guys are pretty sharp. All right. Uh what month of the year has twenty-eight days? All of them. Man. Okay, four for four. I've got one more. Let's see if we can round out at five for five. You see a boat full of people. There isn't a single person on board. How can that be? They're all married. Oh, congratulations. Give yourself a hand. Good job. Five for five in our riddles tonight. Well, hey, when we come to Mark chapter 12, we will see some riddles. or or tough questions Jesus Christ is going to have put to him by the scribes and Pharisees. And so we want to look at this passage here. We're going to look at at first of all the setting. That's going to be verses one through verses two 27. And then we want to look specifically at a scene there in verses 28 through 31. That will be the focus. And then we'll move to the summary with a couple uh verses at the end. But first of all the setting, just to set the stage very quickly, we don't want to spend a lot of time here, but uh if you were to read verses one through eleven, you would see Jesus parable. That begins the chapter here. Jesus gives a parable and really the point of the parable is is pointing out the rejection, the Pharisees' rejection of him as Messiah. And uh so so that's the point of the parable. Uh obviously the Jews, these religious leaders, they have a problem with that. They don't like Jesus pointing out their sin. And so they have a problem not only with Jesus, but then also they have a problem with his popularity. If you look at verse 12, it says they sought to lay hold on him. but feared the people, for they knew that he had spoken the uh the parable against them, and they left him and went their way. And so they got a problem with Jesus and this parable aimed at their rejection of him as Messiah. They also have a problem with the people. They can't really get at Jesus because they're afraid of the people. So what do they do? Well, they come to him and and the g they come to him with these riddles, these tough questions. To catch him in his words, to to uh chip him up, to discredit him as a teacher, uh to undermine his ministry. And if you look at verse 13, uh you see, and they send unto him certain of the Pharisees and of the Herodians to catch him in his words. And so they come with the question. Jesus answers that question beautifully. The Sadducees, they take their turn, they come with the question. And so a political question and a theological question. They come with these two imp uh divisive questions, but Jesus Christ handles them perfectly. And then we come to really the the point of the passage that we want to look at tonight. In verse 28. So we move from the setting now to the scene, and this is the scene between the scribe and the savior. We're going to meet a scribe here in verse 28. Uh so this is the way I envision it. I I don't know if this is exactly how it played out, but but I envision it that that uh the the Pharisees they go to Jesus, they try to trip him off. He answers their question. They can't discredit him. They can't get at him. And so They kind of like a like a maybe a football team, okay? So football's getting ready to start up here. So so the Baltimore Ravens, let's say uh they have been struggling For three quarters. And Jim Harbaugh comes to the fourth quarter and he says, Okay guys, we gotta kinda hudd huddle up here. It's the fourth quarter. The game's on the line. We've got to come up with a new game plan. And that's the way I envision these Pharisees. They're thinking, Well, we tried this this trick question, it didn't work and they're just kind of gathered together, like, what what are we going to do next? Yeah, uh anybody got a good question? Uh what's our our plan of attack to to undermine Jesus? And here in verse twenty-eight, we see a scribe come on the scene. Verse twenty-eight says, and one of the scribes came, and having heard them reasoning together and perceiving that he had answered them well, asked him. And so this scribe comes and he asks Jesus a question of his own. Now we want to note a few things about this scribe. First of all, the scribe's attentiveness. Notice it says, having heard them reasoning together. So the scribe was attentive. He was interested. He was in the conversation. He was involved. He was listening. And so he was attentive. Notice also his attitude, the scribe's attitude. Uh the the previous questioners in the context of this passage clearly had no interest in what Jesus said as as far as a response. They were purely there to try to trip up Jesus, to undermine him. We have no reason to believe in the context that they really wanted a good answer from Jesus. But notice this man, his attitude, the passage, verse 28, says Perceiving that he had answered them well. There seems to be a little bit of a difference here. Maybe this scribe, when he started out, he was with them, he's like, Yes, we need to undermine Jesus. Let's trip him up And and as he heard these questions, maybe he's having a little bit of a change of heart. Um I I don't know his heart, but it seems to me that he's thinking His attitude is is a little more open than the previous questioners. And then let's notice his ask or his question. What was the question that he asked? It says that he asked him Which is the first commandment of all. Now, this uh makes perfect sense because this man was a scribe, and so his specialty would have been the law. He would have been very familiar with the Torah, the the Old Testament uh scriptures of the of the law. And so it it it makes sense that he asked a question regarding the law. And and now this question was debated in that day. Uh the the The religious leaders would sit around and they would talk about roughly six hundred and thirteen laws that they had kind of parsed out of the old uh Old Testament law, and they would argue about which was the the first and the greatest commandment And and so I could see how this question could be problematic. It could be one open to a little bit of debate. And so, you know, Jesus would obviously want to give a good answer here so as not to get himself in trouble with these religious leaders. So this is the scribe and this is his question. But we also want to take it some time to look at the Savior and his answer. The Savior has answered. And this is really what we want to focus on tonight. Really, we've just laid the foundation here. This is the context. This is what's going on. And then this is what Jesus Christ answers. So the scribe asked him, which is the first commandment of all? And Jesus answered him, The first of all the commandments is, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength. This is the first commandment. And the second is like, namely this: thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. There is none other commandment greater than these. Before we look in these verses of Scripture, let's take a moment now and pray to ask the Lord to speak to our hearts tonight. Father, we thank you for your word. Lord, we can be confident, we can be sure that you are a loving God who does want to know us and that you have in your power given us A revelation of yourself, and it's found here in the Word of God, the Bible. And Lord, thank you for that precious gift. As we spend a few moments tonight looking into it, But I pray that your Holy Spirit would uh reveal to us the truth of it and and not just the knowledge of it. But Lord, that you would you would plant it deep in our heart, and may that seed take root and grow and bear fruit in the days to come. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So we want to look at Jesus' answer to this scribe, and basically we want to just kind of take it apart bit by bit. And see what see what Jesus said here. Notice Jesus begins, he begins by uh the statement, the first uh of all the commandments. is. And now Jesus is not saying this is the first commandment that that God gave to Moses on Mount Sinai. He's not talking about first as in uh order chronology. He's talking about first by weight or importance. This is the the first, the most important commandment that God gave. And uh I don't know about you but I I grew up taking uh using uh a Becca Book uh school curriculum And one thing about a Becca Book is they would bold all the important terms in their textbooks, right? And so I knew as a student, if I wanted to get a good grade on the test, I had to learn the bold print terms, right? And I I I remember uh in my educational days uh being taught that you look for words like first and greatest because those are the important things that you will have to know for the test, right? Now, if this were written a Becca Book style, the first of all commandments, that's bull print, all right? That's important This isn't an important passage. This is an important thing that Jesus Christ is about to say. So this is something we need to pay attention to. Also look what he says next. He says, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. Hear. Again, listen up. This phrase, Hero Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord, that is a quote. Actually, verses 29b and 30 are a quote really from Deuteronomy chapter 6. Deuteronomy chapter 6, 4 and 5, that passage is known as the Shema. The word here , that's the English word. In the Hebrew, it's the word Shema. And so that's where this creed gets its name. This creed was a very well-known passage in in uh Jewish times. Uh in fact, devout Jews would quote this every day. So this is a very well-known passage, and Jesus goes to this passage and he says, Hear, listen up, O Israel. Again, we need to pay attention. The Lord our God is one Lord. And this focuses us on the Lord. He is the focus of our love. So listen up here. This is the first commandment, the most important thing. So I hope that this gets your attention. I hope when you look at this passage, you're not just saying, oh, it's another passage, another Sunday night, just No, this is this is big stuff. So what does Jesus say is the first, the greatest commandment? Well he says, first of all, he says, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. We want to take that phrase there, thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and just break it down. The first word, thou This command is given to us as individuals. We are each commanded to love God. You know, it it's not up to our parent , it's not up to our pastor, it's it's not up to someone else to do the loving of God in our family or in our church. It's up to each of us. And you know, it it could be tempting tonight to think about someone else that's away from God and say, you know what, that person They need to love God. Or you know what? There's so many people in our country that are adamant against God. They hate God. Man, I wish those people would love God. But tonight, let's not get caught up thinking about so-and-so and that person. Let's think about ourselves. You, do I love God with all our heart One day a hospital patient spilled a cup of water on the floor. He told the nurse what he had done, and uh she did not wipe up the spill though because according to hospital policy Uh housekeeping staff was responsible for large spills and she thought the spill was large, so she called housekeeping staff. Well when the housekeeping staff got there, uh she thought the spill was small, and so she said, Well, you should have cleaned it up And so the nurse and the housekeeping staff went back and forth on whose responsibility it was to clean up this spill. Well, this patient, he was tired of listening to them argue, so he grabbed the pitcher of water next to his bed and dumped it on the Spill on the floor. And then he said, Now is the spill large enough for you to decide whose responsibility is That's a humorous story, but when we come to this command, this command is not up for debate. It's not something that we argue about or we try to push responsibility onto someone else. We're all responsible. To love God. And and when we think about it, this is a huge responsibility. A huge responsibility. It's kind of like being a tall person. Did you know that? Pastor Porchette, you have a huge responsibility because you know tall people, all the short people look up to them. So they've got to set a good example, right? Alright, I'm not a comedian, so I'll I'm not gonna pick that one up for a night job. But no, think about this. We as Christians, I think the world understands this. We as Christians, we all say that we're supposed to love God and we're supposed to do the Christian thing. And they see us on a day-to-day basis. They watch us. And if our actions are not consistent with a love for God They see that hypocrisy. They they see us not living up to that responsibility. So Jesus begins here, thou, thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. Let's take this personally tonight. Let's move to the next section of this phrase. Thou shalt love. Thou shalt Love. So I'm sure that you have probably at some point heard a good definition of love. Probably many definitions of love. We could talk all night probably about love and the world's concept of love and the Bible's concept and And we could do a whole sermon series on that. Uh so we'll try to to to boil it down a little bit tonight here. Uh for sake of time, let me just give you, if you don't mind, a definition of love that that I have found to be helpful. Here it is. Love is an earnest and anxious desire for and an active and beneficent interest in the well-being of the one loved. Let me say that again. Love is an earnest and anxious desire for, and an active and beneficent interest in the well-being of the one love. I like this definition because I believe it gets at the three aspects of love. First of all, it says love is an earnest and anxious desire That hits the emotional aspect of love. Love is obviously it is emotional. And so it hits that aspect, but also it is a desire. Love is volitional. It's an anxious and earnest desire. Desire is a a exercising of the will, a choosing. And then it it's not only just uh emotion, it's not just a a desire or uh volitional, it's also actional. It says that it is an active and beneficent interest in the well-being of the one loved. And so that's why I like this definition. Love is an eager and anxious desire for and an active and beneficent interest in the well-being of the one loved. Taking that definition then and modifying it a little bit for God, let's let's say love for God is this: an earnest and anxious desire for God and a proactive interest in. Pleasing God. Or really, if we wanted to shorten it even more, we could simply say this: loving God is desiring God and desiring to please Him. So the question tonight is do we desire God? Do we desire to please him above all else? And Jesus said, Thou, you, shalt love, desire , desire to please. Who? Well, right, the next next part that we want to look at, the Lord thy God. God is the object of our focus, He is the focus of our affection. Now the question is not, do you love reading your Bible? Do you love coming to church? Do you love serving in the worship service? Those are all good things, and I hope you do love those things. But primarily, first and foremost, we want to ask the question, do we love God? God is a person. The Bible says that grieve not the Holy Spirit of God. God has emotions. He's the one that gave us our emotions. You know, I wonder how does God feel when we decide that we want to live life our own way? When we don't want to spend time with him, but we'd rather spend our time on some kind of foolish, selfish activity. I've done that Do we love God? A personal God, the God that loves us, that cares about us, that I heard a illustration of a man who loves studying scripture. He was passionate about scripture. He he would talk scripture with anyone. He was just consumed in in in commentaries and and just he loved the Bible. Somebody asked him one day, hey, do you love the Bible? And he said, oh yeah, I love the Bible. I can't get enough of it. And then the person asks them, but do you love the God of the Bible? If the Bible is just a mere academic intellectual Process, thing that we do to feel smart, we're missing the point. The Bible is the way that we get to know God One commentator said, take care not to let it become more a matter of outward form than of inward reality. Is your Christianity tonight more of outward form or is it an inward reality You know, we need to cultivate a desire for God in our life. What does that mean? What does that look like? How do we cultivate a desire for God? Well, just a couple quick thoughts here. We cultivate a desire for God by learning and meditating about God. Think about this. We love him because he first loved us. If you feel yourself at a point in life where you say, you know what, my desire, my passion for God is waning. You know, I don't find myself with a longing to go to God's word, then remind yourself what God has done for you. He died on the cross for your sins. He's rescued you from eternity in hell. He's your creator. He's given you all these good things on earth to enjoy. Start thinking about who God is and what he's done for you. And then put up whatever it is you want to do against spending some time with him in his word. And think what what is more important, what is more awesome? And then choose to go to his word. We love him because he first loved us. Spend time focusing on what he's done for you. Spend time focusing on who he is. He's the perfect creator God of the universe. Hey, you know what that means? He never makes a mistake How awesome is that we have a we have a friend who never makes a single mistake What? We have a a God who is totally good, totally just, totally perfect, loving, kind, true Who wouldn't want to spend time with someone like that? Right? I mean just listen to the news Brother Snow can tell you this. Who's tired of all the hypocrisy and lying and political bantering back and forth? Hey, there's none of that with God. You get love. You get truth when you come to God. Hey, there is nothing on earth, nothing in heaven, no reason not to love God. Not to desire him, not to desire to please him. And that's what Jesus says. He says, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God. Do you love God? Do you desire God? Are you cultivating in your heart and life a desire for God? Let's move on. Let's look at the next word. The next two words with all. And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all. I think probably out of this entire statement, that word all is the biggest word for me. You know, I think all of us would probably easily say, it wouldn't it wouldn't take a lot of convincing to say, I love God. Right? Of course, yeah. We're all in church on Sunday evening. Yeah, we love God. Right? But when you add that little word all, do you love God with all? Your heart. That question takes on a little bit different meaning. When I started deputation uh toward the end of twenty twenty, uh it it it opened up a a wild adventure for me. It it's uh it's been a a lot of fun, a lot of neat things. But one thing that that has been interesting for me is, okay, so I am single, all right? So we've got that established. And uh I don't know what it is about independent Baptist churches, but They love to set people up. And so I would go to all these Baptist churches. I've been in about 125 churches, and I don't know how many uh grandmothers or I I've I've lost count. count. I I I just stopped keeping track. And and I was having pastors like it just seemed like all the time. Like one of the first questions is like, so are you single? Yeah. Anybody on the on the horizon? Okay, so so I was getting I was taking a beating, all right. Uh last year about last August this time. And so I was taking a beating with this and uh so actually I began I actually did start talking to To this girl. Really good girl. Really enjoyed getting to know her. And uh during that time, though, the Lord used um, he brought this verse to mind because as that relationship was developing I would find myself eagerly anticipating, talking with her. I would find my thoughts going back to her. But when it came time for my personal time in God's Word, If I'm being honest, I didn't have that same anticipation. That same eagerness. And God brought The verse, thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart to mind. And the Holy Spirit was working in my heart. He said, Josh, do you love me? Yeah, I'm a missionary. I've given my life to serve you. Of course I love you. But the Holy Spirit wasn't content with that. Josh, you love me with all your heart. If you loved me with all your heart, do you think you'd at least have that same eagerness, that same anticipation for my word as you have for our human relationship? And you know, it's not wrong to have an eager anticipation for a human relationship. But if we have that and we don't have that for God, what's that saying? I'm sorry, I I don't remember your daughter's name. Um Brother Tori Maya. Did you pick verse 56? Okay. All I ever want to be. This is a very good song. I love this song. And I'm glad you picked it tonight. All I ever want to be is what you want of me, Lord. I give my life to you, and all my hopes and dreams and plans I place with in your hands, Lord. Lord, I give my life to you. Here am I, Lord, use me, take my life, and mold me. All I ever want to be is what you want of me, Lord. I give my life to you. And all my hopes and dreams and plans I place within your hands. Lord, and give my life to you. Have you ever truly said that to God? All my hopes and dreams and plans They're yours, God I remember that song because it was probably in my car as I was driving somewhere across our great country from a meeting to another meeting. Thinking about a girl that I didn't want to let go But God was saying, Josh, who do you love more? Do you really mean all my hopes and dreams and plans I place within your hands? Jesus Christ, the greatest commandment is this: thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all with all thy heart. And with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, with all thy strength. This is the first commandment. I don't think there's any reason to to try to parse these words apart, heart, soul, mind. They they all really kind of get at the same same same aspect. That's the internal life, your your dispositions, your attitudes, your emotions, your thoughts. Really what Jesus is saying here is love me, love God with all your being. Every facet of your being. Spiritual, physical, emotional, everything And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy being. That word strength, go back to Deuteronomy, the Hebrew word, it it's It means exceedingly. Love God exceedingly with all you've got. We are to love God exceedingly with all our being. Jesus said, the first of all the commandments is: Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. Listen up. This is important. This is big stuff. And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. With all by heart. Do you love God with all your heart? Now we could probably spend a month talking about how to love God. What does it look like in a practical day-to-day setting? We could talk about the ramifications, the results of loving God. We don't have time for that tonight. But one result of loving God will take place. And it we find that in verse 31. It's Jesus Answer part two. I find this interesting. The scribe asks the question, what is the first commandment? That's in the singular. Jesus answers in the plural. He says, love God, but then he also says, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. You know what Jesus is doing here is he's putting Leviticus 19, 18 together with Deuteronomy 6. four and five. Leviticus nineteen eighteen says, Thou shalt not avenge nor bear any grudge against the children of thy people, but thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Jesus bringing these two verses together shows that the love of neighbor is a natural and logical outgrowth of love of God. These two commandments belong together, they cannot be separated. We see this reiterated in 1 John 4 20. If a man say, I love God and hateth his brother, he is a liar. For he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? And this commandment have we from him, that he who loveth God love his brother also. So we can't really divide these two. We need to look at verse 31. I'll try to be quick here. Let's just break it down very simply. Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Thou again, you. This is an individual commandment to each and every one of us. Again, love, have an eager and anxious desire for and an active and beneficent interest in the well-being of others. So we're to love others. And who are we to love? Well, our neighbor. Somebody asked Jesus one time, who 's my neighbor? You remember that parable? Jesus responded to that question by giving the parable of the Good Samaritan. Right? A man went down to Jericho, he fell among thieves, he was left on the side of the road for dead, beaten, wounded. Well, a priest walks by. He sees this man and he passes by on the other side. Doesn't stop to help. A Levite, same thing, doesn't help this poor man on the side of the road, left for dead. And then along comes a uh uh unlikely character, the Samaritan, right? Samaritans and Jews were no friends. The Samaritan would have been the one you would have expected to pass by on the other side without helping. But he stops and he pours wine and oil into the man's wounds. He puts him on his donkey. He takes him to an inn. He makes sure that his needs are met. You know, that Samaritan didn't live next door to that poor beaten man. Probably didn't even know him. Probably the first time they ever met was when he was saddling him on his donkey. I heard a preacher say it like this. Who's my neighbor? Your neighbor is anyone whose need you see that God has put you into a position to meet. Anyone whose need you see that God has put you into a position to meet. It might be a good exercise for us each and every day to get in the habit of saying, Lord, whose needs are you allowing me to see so that I can meet those needs. Think about Jesus Christ, uh he lived that out, did he not? Mark chapter 1, he cast an unclean spirit out of man at the synagogue in Capernaum. He recovered Peter's mother-in-law from her fever. He cleansed lepers who came to him for healing. Mark chapter 2, he caused the man with palsy to take up his bed and walk. He restored the man with the withered hand in Mark chapter 3 and Mark chapter 4, he calmed the storm for his fearful disciples. Mark 5, he delivered the maniac from Gadera, healed a woman with an issue of blood, restored a ruler's daughter to life. He fed the multitude that had stayed with him for three days in Mark chapter six. We could go on and on, but Jesus Christ constantly meeting needs of people that God had placed within his path. He met our greatest need by hanging on a wooden cross and dying for our sins. And by the way, if you've never been delivered from your old sinful, selfish human heart, you've never received forgiveness of sins, Jesus Christ made that possible for you. I would encourage you to talk to me or a pastor or someone here that can help you get that settled tonight. But Jesus Christ, he's our greatest neighbor. Always helping those around him. What a great example he sets for us to love our neighbors as ourselves. And again, here we we see that we could easily say, yeah, I love my neighbor, right? But then he qualifies the statement, love thy neighbor as thyself. It takes it up a notch. Do you love your neighbor as yourself? Going back to the religious leaders, they like to debate, you know, what's the greatest commandment, what was the most important commandment, but they also like to see if they could boil down the law to a concise pithy statement. Here's an account of the scholar Hillel, one of the a famous rabbi. He was challenged by a Gentile. The Gentiles said, make me a proselyte on condition that you teach me the whole law while standing on one foot. So what's he saying? He's like, you've got one shot to make me into a proselyte, and you better do it quick. Hillel replied, What you hate for yourself, do not do to your neighbor. This is the whole law. The rest is commentary, go and learn. So what did Hillel say? Basically it's like, well, this is what the law is all about. Don't do to other people things that you don't like people to do to you. You might be familiar with the verse of Jesus, Luke chapter 6, verse 31. He took that statement And he flipped it around. He says, and as ye would that men should do to you, do ye also to them likewise. See, Jesus Christ knew that Hillel's approach fell short. Hill 's approach was built on the negative. Don't do bad things to other people. But you know, if we followed Hill 's approach, we could Get in our car on Monday morning, go to work. Sit in our cubicle, do our work, go home Five days a week, we could on Saturday go to the store. We'd go to our, get our groceries, go to the self-check online, never speak to a person. We could live without doing harm to anybody in this world. And we would, according to Hillal, be keeping the law. But you know what's wrong with that approach? You never touch anyone else. You never show compassion on someone who needs help. You never encourage someone who's down. Jesus said, No, it's it's not about not being a bad person. You need to do good. You need to love others. You need to care about others. Show others kindness. See, we don't really we don't want people just to leave us alone, right? We want someone to care about us. We want to know that we matter. We want someone to when we're sick to minister to our needs. If we're going to love people as we love ourselves, we can't just live this life of avoidance. We have to connect, we have to do unto others as that we would have them do unto us. If you're going to be a good neighbor, you have to go out of your way to show love for others. To show them that you value them as much as you value yourself. One lady gave this testimony. She said, Several months ago, as we drove through our neighborhood, my daughter pointed out that the mean lady's house was for sale. This woman had done nothing to my child to evoke such a title. However, in her yard were no less than seven trespassing signs. Apparently my daughter overheard a comment I had made concerning the signs and thus the title Mean Lady was born. I immediately felt convicted for my behavior. I never knew much about the woman who lived down the street except that her name was Mary. She was older and she lived alone. I waved to her when I passed by, but never stopped to introduce myself. This was partly because I was so consumed with my own agenda that I never opened my heart to a potential need. Another reason for the missed opportunity was I simply prejudged her as not having anything in common with myself. You know, this lady, she she did the Hillel thing. She didn't do anything nasty or mean to this this neighbor. But she never did anything kind or loving to her either. Jesus answers this scribe, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. There is none other commandment greater than these. And that brings us to the summary very quickly. The scribe said unto him, Well, Master, thou hast said the truth, for there is one God, and there is none other but He. And to love him with all the heart, with all the understanding, with all the soul, and with all the strength, and to love his neighbor as himself is more than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. What's he saying? A relationship with God is not about religious ritual. It's about relationship Do you love God? Do you desire God? And do you love others? Verse 34. And when Jesus saw that he answered discreetly, he said unto him, Thou art not far from the kingdom of God. What was Jesus saying? You're getting it. You're getting it. So tonight, as we have meditated on the great commandment. I wonder if you're like me and you're challenged by this passage of scripture to examine your heart. Do I love God with all And do I love the people out in this world around me? Do I value them as much as I value them? myself. Father, we thank you again for your word and the power of it. Lord, I pray you would take this passage and put it deep within our heart, Lord. Lord, you've been using it in my life over and over and over. I can't say I've mastered it. Lord, this is a This is a challenging thing. The human heart is bent on self-idolatry. God, forgive us. For putting ourselves where you rightfully belong in our hearts. Help us to love you above all else. As I thought about that command A couple thoughts came to my mind. The first is that the reason that we don't love God as we should is because we have a deficient view of Him. And if we understood His true nature, and we understood it clearly, we have a mind, we have affections, and if we actually understood him as he is, we would truly love him. The second thing that I would say is that if we understood him as he is, and we realized how kind he is to us, what he's done for us , that would further intensify our love for him. And so when we don't love him Um it's really coming down to our view of him as deficient and the way he has acted towards us is something that we are not thinking clearly about. And when we think about our fellow men, We bear his image. There is nothing in all of creation that has greater value to God than the creatures that reflect him. And so all of us, as sinful as we are, and as broken and feeble as we are, we bear the image of our Creator. And he purchased us, redeemed us to himself through the cross. And so that is plenty reason for us to love him and to love our neighbor. And so I want to encourage you, let's get into the Word this week. Let's read the scriptures and ask the Lord to help us to see Him as he is, to truly see his nature, and to think deeply about how how truly kind and merciful and gracious and loving he is toward us. and how he's extended that through the cross and that we will see the true value of the people around us. We get frustrated with them We need to stop and and and think about the fact that these people bear the image of their creator and he loves them. He loves their souls, and I need to love them too. And so that is our challenge this evening. Let's go ahead and let's turn in our hymn book for a closing hymn. Revive us again. Let's turn to him 527. Revive us again. And let's stand together, please. And what's seeing all of these verses and we say revive us again, perhaps what we should be saying is, Lord, open our eyes to who you are Remind us freshly of how you have treated us and how good you've been to us, and remind us over and over and over again of the true value that people are. Around us. Five hundred twenty seven, revive us again. Let's sing it out, please. We praise thee, O God, for the Son of thy love, for Jesus who died and is now gone above. Hallelujah, thy glory. Hallelujah, Amen, Hallelujah, thine the glory , revival. We praise thee, O God, for the Spirit of light, who has shown us our Savior and scattered our night. Hallelujah, thine the glory. Hallelujah, Amen. Hallelujah, thine the glory. Revive us up again. All glory and praise to the Lamb that was slain, who has shown us and has cleansed every stain. Hallelujah, thine the glory, Hallelujah, Amen. Hallelujah, thine the glory, revive us up again on a last Revive us again, fill his heart with thy love, may he soul be rekindled with fire from above Hallelujah, thy glory, Hallelujah , Amen. Hallelujah, thy glory , re by Vasaka. Well I hope that you have a wonderful week. I want to remind you again that Wednesday night uh we will be meeting and continuing our study um on the issue of the family. And uh this week I'm very excited about uh the passage we're going to be looking at and believe it or not I'm already like I've already started preparing for Sunday morning and Wednesday night uh in the week before, uh, which I don't generally have the time to do. I don't know where all this time came from. It's um it's unbelievable. Um Anyway, but I'm really excited about what we're gonna look at on Wednesday night. So if you can make it for that, I hope that you will. And these are really practical studies and I do know that not everyone in our church is raising their kids still. So um I don't want you to think that, oh, if I've already raised my children uh that these are not applicable to me. The truth is uh want to keep it in the back of my mind that this isn't just for our young families that people that haven't gotten married yet. Um this is for all of us and the truths we will look at are they're practical and they they go into every area of life, not just the family, but into every area of life. So I hope that that'll be a challenge. And also don't forget next week after our Sunday morning service we have Apollo Fellowship and I'm really excited that uh Josh and Annie and the kids are going to be with us. And I know Mrs. Moore and your husband, you're very excited about seeing your son and his family. Um really thankful for the work that they have been doing in Ireland for quite a few years. They haven't been back for a furlough in a while. So I'm really excited to see Josh and uh he's an encouragement to me. I love our fellowship when we We talk on WhatsApp, we do our WhatsApp calls, and every time we talk, it's it's an hour and a half probably of our video calls. And so Um, I hope that you can not just come Sunday morning but also be a part of uh the Pollock Fellowship and the Foods always really, really good. Mr. Jenny, can you close us in prayer and uh let's be uh an encouragement and fellowship with one another. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, thank you, Lord, so much for allowing us once again to assemble in your house. Lord, we thank you for the morning worship service. We thank you for for the the music, Lord, that was uh Christ honoring Lord. Thank you, Lord, too, for the for the uh the messages from your word, both this morning and this evening, Lord, that you are a A gracious and loving God that uh really desires us to be uh loving people also and loving those around us. I pray, Lord, too, that you'd be with a young man that was baptized this morning, that you just continue to to work out your will in his life as he continues to grow in the grace and knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. Pray that you just continue to bless him. Pray now, Lord, that you go with us as we go out into our mission field, that we might desire to see others come to a saving knowledge of you. Go with us now to our homes and bring us back safely again on Wednesday night for permanent evening Bible study. We'll give you the praise for that in Jesus' name. Amen.