And let's all turn together to the book of the Psalms. And we are in Psalm 44 today. Psalm 44. The text in front of us is a fascinating passage of scripture. A lot of times when we read through a passage of scripture, we'll sometimes focus in on the things that we really understand. And the things that really resonate with us, and then we just kind of like, yeah, skip over the parts that don't, and then we move on to something else. And Psalm 44 is one of those psalms that I think we need to take the time to really dig into the totality of the psalm in front of us and to really think about the setting for when a psalm like this would be very appropriate and in fact would be very helpful to us this morning. So the title of this the sermon this morning that we're looking at is A Transparent Lament for Suffering Saints. A transparent lament for suffering saints. Let's read in verse number one. Here's what it says. We have heard with our ears. O God, our fathers have told us what work thou didst in the days and the times of old. How thou didst drive out the heathen with thy hand and planted them. How thou didst afflict the people and cast them out. For they got not the land in possession by their own sword, neither did their own arm save them, but thy right hand and thine arm, the light of thy countenance, because thou didst favor them. Thou art my king, O God, command deliverance for Jacob. Through thee we will push down our enemies. Through thy name will we tread them under that rise up against us. For I will not trust in my bow, neither shall my sword save me. But thou hast saved me from our enemies, and hast put them to shame that hated us. And God, we boast all the day long. And praise thy name forever. Selah. Let's bow together for prayer. Then we're going to dig into this psalm this morning. Father, as we open up your word and as we dig into this text, I pray that the Spirit of God would open our understanding to help us to understand the significance of these words. to help us understand the kind of setting when a psalm like this would be exactly how people feel. And Father, I pray that we'd be able to take the text of Scripture and as we understand it properly, We'd be able to understand how it applies to us this morning. How we can take your precious word and how we can live in the light of it. How it can shape our lives. It can mold us. to become more like Christ, how it can instruct us in how to respond biblically in situations that really we don't understand. They're very difficult. They're very troubling. They're bigger than we can comprehend. Yet you have permitted them, and you have a purpose in them, and you will use them for our good and to accomplish purposes in us that are far bigger than we understand. So bless us this morning as we take your word. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. The text in front of us is an interesting passage because It's one of those passages as as I read through it and I think about not just what I've just read, but really the second part of the psalm, and then the third part of the psalm, and then the closing of the psalm. I think that this is one of those passages that I just don't know if I can fully, practically understand what it would be like to be in a situation where this is what I would pray to God. The word is lament. A lament is when someone pours out their heart before God, and in some ways they don't even have the full words or language to describe how they feel. Because there's an astonishment in their heart. There's a trouble that is very deep because their circumstances are very heavy. and are pressing them very, very sorely. In fact, there are some passages in God's word that I think we blush when we read them. We pass over them quickly. We don't think about what they're saying. Sometimes we'll read a section of a passage and then we come to another one and we just we blow right past it. We don't stop and think about it. In fact, a lot of psalms actually fall into this category. There are a lot of Psalms that were written for very specific situations. Situations that we may not find ourselves in at this moment, but we may find ourselves in them at some moment down the road. And so they really help us when we get into places like this. Let me kind of give you an example of what I'm saying. For instance, in this passage of scripture, if we go to Psalm 44, verse 1, it says, we've heard with our ears. Our fathers have told us what work thou didst in their days and the times of old. Verses five and six. Through thee we shall push down our enemies. I will not trust in my bow. Neither shall my sword save me. Now some of those things you could say, I can understand. I can trust God. Because of the things that I've heard. We might say, well, you know I'm not in a battle, so I don't feel like I need to fight an enemy, so I don't know if I understand that part, but but I can understand the idea of trusting God based on what I've heard. But then come to verse nine Thou hast cast us off. You have put us to shame. Thou hast given us like sheep appointed for meat and hast scattered us amongst the heathen. Can you identify with that one? Do you know what it's like to be in a position where you say, you know, God, I can't even make sense of what is going on in our lives? Verses 15 and 16. My confusion is continually before me, and the shame of my face hath covered me. Have you found yourself in a position like that? You know, it's really easy to read the first part of the psalm, but then we come to that kind of portion of the psalm and we go, I don't know about that. Or then when we come to the end of the psalm, where the way that he speaks is he says, awake, why sleepest thou, O Lord? Cast us not off forever. Have you ever felt that? Let me give you another example. We read books like Hebrews, and we come to Hebrews chapter 11 and we call it the the the the the hall of faith because that's what it is. It's all these amazing stories of how God was faithful and God caused people to endure and God caused people to triumph. And we read verse 39 and it says, these all obtained a good report through faith. And we say, be like the people in those verses. But then we read verse 32. We read verse 32. He says, What shall I say the time would fail me to tell of Gideon and Barak and Samson and Jephthah and David and Samuel and of the prophets who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness. Obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, waxed valiant, and fight. Women receive their dead, raised to life again. And we say, walk by faith. God will do amazing things. And then verse 35. And others were tortured, not accepting deliverance that they might obtain a better resurrection. Others had trial of cruel mockings and scourgings, moreover of bonds and imprisonment. They were stoned, they were sewn asunder, they were tempted, they were slain with the sword, they wandered in sheepskins and goatskins, destitute, afflicted, tormented. Of whom the world was not worthy. That's Hebrews 11, too, guys. The point I'm trying to make is this. When we read the scriptures, when you look at everything they're saying, Not just the parts that make us feel warm and fuzzy and happy and we can identify with in our happiest moments, but we need to recognize that Scripture ministers to us in some of the darkest Deepest struggles we will ever encounter. Psalm 44 was written for such a time And so let me give you a summary of what this text is saying, and then I'd like us to work our way through the actual content of Psalm 44. Sometimes godly people suffer unexplainably, and these trying seasons can shake confidence in him and leave them with a desperate need to experience his practical mercy. I hope that's not where you are today. But I cannot promise you you will never find yourself in this kind of a place. I can never promise you that if you live for God and you do what's right and you walk in righteousness, that your life will be simple and smooth and easy and everything will work out just perfectly because that has not been the case for all of God's people throughout all of the history of God saving and redeeming his people. God wants us to follow the pattern of the psalmist when we find ourselves in comparable circumstances. And so in order to do that we need to understand what he's saying. So let's go ahead, first of all, and look at the psalmist 's face. And I love the way that this text talks about the psalmist faith. And by the way, I'm just going to state this on the front because as I go through the message, I will probably misspeak in the pronoun here at some point. But this is a collective. He uses the term we, we, we over and over and over again. He doesn't say me, he says we. So this is a collective sense. This is not just one person who 's sitting there by himself and he's feeling all of these things and he's writing all these things. But this is a group of people who are experiencing this together. And so I think it's important to just make that note because I'm sure as I move my way through the sermon, I'm going to start talking in the first person rather than the third person plural or uh first person plural. I'm going to kind of mess that up. So Uh just keep that in the back of your mind. We have heard. Verses 1 through 3. He says, We have heard with our ears, O God, our fathers have told us what work thou didst in their days. in the times of old. Now, what exactly is this group of individuals saying as they say, we have heard with our ears? What they're basically saying is, God, we remember the words of our forefathers as they told us about our history as a people. So he's talking about the nation of Israel here, and in verse 2 he says, thou didst drive out the heathen, or the nations that were there, the Canaanites. out of the the land by your hand. And verse three he says, they got not the land in possession by their own sword, neither by their own arm did it save them, but because thou hast favored That's favor unto them. So what the psalmists are saying here is that we've heard from our history that there was a time when our people, we were literally in bondage in Egypt And when we were in bondage in Egypt, we were groaning and we were in so much pain and so much agony. And God, you interrupted our history. You sent Moses, and Moses goes and he stands before the Pharaoh and he says The God of the Hebrews says, let my people go that they may worship me. And he says, no. And he goes, okay, this is what's going to happen. And it happens. And then he says, okay, let's let's let's let's find a way to get a little space. And then they go through this ten times. And eventually God leads his people out of Egypt and into the promised land. And God drove out the inhabitants of the promised land, and the Bible says, because of the wickedness of the inhabitants of the land, and he gave that land to the descendants of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob He promised the land. He gave them the land. And so you see stories like Jericho. Why did the walls of Jericho fall down? Is it because of all of the incredible weaponry they had? No, it's because God caused it to fall down. We see all these examples as they conquered the promised land that it is God who gave them the land. And so the psalmist says, we've heard these things. Verse number four is interesting. Because of what we've heard, you are our king. In other words, we submit to you. We submit to your rule. We submit to your jurisdiction. In fact, when we talk about the nation of Israel, they were designed by God to be a theocracy. Their law was the Old Testament law, the Tanakh. And they were supposed to follow that law, and they were in covenant with God, even to the extent that when someone became a king, their job was to handwrite a copy personally for themselves of the entire law. Why? Because their job before God was to obey that law. It was a part of the covenant. And then he talks about How God is their confidence? Verses five and eight. Through thee we will push down our enemies. Verse 6. I will not trust Verse 8, in God we boast all the day long. So you can kind of see something that's going on here. They have heard about their history. And because of what they've heard about their history and they understand their relationship to God as a covenanted people, that he is their king, and all of their kings are under his authority, and his laws are the laws that they're to obey. They are submitting to him. He is their confidence. He is their trust. He is their boast. If I was to summarize it, I'd put it like this way: the psalmist 's faith appears to be very strong. It has been built on the testimony of Scripture. Understanding who God is and how he has worked in the past has caused these individuals to submit to his authority and to rest in his care. And I would say that that is how we're supposed to live our lives All of us every day are to live our lives in such a way. We read the Word of God and we read what it says about God We read what it says about what he's done. We read what it says about his ways. And as we read these things, we say, this God is trustworthy. He is reliable. I can submit to him. I will submit to him. I will trust him. And we live our lives day in and day out under his authority in a way that pleases him. This is how we're supposed to live. That's a good example. But the next section of the psalm is going to take us in a direction that we're going to go, what's going on here? What in the world is going on in the next little portion that we read? Verses 9 through 22 talks about the psalmist unexplainable misery. In verses 9 through 14, he says, that's what I know, and this is how I relate to God, but my experience is not like what I've heard. There might be times in the Christian life that we actually live in this kind of a place. We've heard about things that God has done in the lives of other people, and we say, well, why is my life not working out this way? We read about the stories that we read that we see in Scripture. We hear of God's faithfulness. We go, but that doesn't seem to be my experience at this moment. And I can't even explain why that is. Notice what he says in verse 9. But thou hast cast off Thou hast put us to shame, and goest not forth with our armies. So as these individuals are reflecting on what they have heard. And reflecting on what is actually going on at the moment that they write and sing this hymn, this psalm, they say, we have been cast to the side. Our armies are not victorious. We've experienced shame and misery, not the blessings and not the triumphs of past generations. You don't seem to be going out with our armies. What's going on? Verse 11, thou hast given us like sheep, appointed for meat, and hast scattered us among the heathen. Now keep in the back of your mind that statement. You have heard that statement in other portions of the Word of God. We will come back to it. Verse 13, Thou makest us a reproach to our neighbors, a scorn and a derision to them that are round about us. Now When I read this passage of Scripture, I think it's sometimes helpful to kind of step back and ask, when would this have been written in the history of the Jewish people? And interestingly, when we look at the books of the Psalms, the first portion of the Psalms is kind of associated, the first book of the Psalms is associated with the book of Genesis. But when we come to the second portion of the book of Psalms, it's actually associated with the book of Exodus. I mentioned this a long, long time ago when we uh started the second book of the Psalms. But when we went in that, we saw that when you open up, you see a lot of dark kinds of topics. It's a very weary and a very sad place. But then by the end of the second book of the Psalms, you see this triumph. And it's very comparable to what we see in the book of Exodus. Here are these people, they're in bondage in Egypt. By the end of the book, what are they? They've been delivered from bondage in Egypt. They're at Mount Sinai. God establishes a covenant with them. They are God's people. He will fight for them. He will be with them. You see the triumph of it. This psalm would have been written during a time in Israel's history where probably the exiles have come back. And they have been in a foreign land for over 70 years. And when they came back to the land of their forefathers, they didn't come back to a beautiful city of Jerusalem. They came back to a city that had been decimated, a city whose walls had been broken down, a city whose whose uh fences had been destroyed, all of those massive gates into the city had been burned with fire, the temple had been reduced to rubble, and they came back as a people who had been humiliated. And had suffered great hardship, and in their minds they say, Are you done with us? What we heard is not what we've seen. That's the idea in the minds of these people. In fact, the people that are around them in the land, they're mocking them. You know the story of Nehemiah as he is trying to rebuild the walls of Jerusalem. You have Sam Balat. And Tobias, what are they doing? They are thorns in the side. And all the people that they're influencing are thorns in the side to the people as they're trying to rebuild the walls of Jerusalem. And so people who live that through that kind of history, in their minds they say, have you cast us off? Who are we? Are we your people? Guess what? That same kind of sentiment can be found in the lives of people all throughout history. There are times in history that God's people suffer immensely, and though they are walking in righteousness and striving to do what's right, God allows them to experience great heartache. Verses 15 and 16, he says, My confusion is continually before me. The shame of my face hath covered me. This misery has shaken their confidence. In the Lord. Notice that word confusion. Notice this word continually. Notice that word shame. There are times when God's people look at the circumstances that they find themselves in, and the first word is, I'm confused. I feel so much misery. I feel so much shame. God, what are you doing? Now you don't you don't hear you know churches that like to talk about this, but this is this is the way people live sometimes. Sometimes in God's providence we end up in these very difficult places. And the fact that a person would be confused and question the goodness and mercy of God in such a place would be a very natural place to be. He goes on further. Though we are shaken, we still cling to you And this adds another dynamic that I think is very interesting. Here is someone who has been shaken in their heart by the circumstances and Just barely, they're holding on to God and they're saying, I don't have any other place to go. Verse 17, all this has come upon us, yet we've not forsaken thee. Neither have we dealt falsely in thy covenant. Verse 18, our heart is not turned back, neither have our steps declined from thy ways. You know who this reminds me of? This reminds me of Job. He says, though he slay me, yet I'll trust him. And all discharge Job sin not, nor charge God foolishly. He said, Naked came I, and naked shall I return. The Lord has given, the Lord is blessed, blessed be the name of the Lord. Job didn't understand what was going on. The people that are that are singing this lament don't understand what's going on, but they say, I don't have anywhere else to turn. In fact, when I read this psalm in my mind, I believe that this is spe pe speaking of people who are a remnant and a people who have ul have ultimately rebelled as a people. And when we talk about the church, fa the fact is the church is generally speaking a remnant. While the culture moves in certain directions, the church is supposed to hold fast to the ways of the Lord. And when we have tumultuous history in a nation or a time period, the church is going to live through a lot of those things. Yet we need to remain faithful. Shaking, shaken yet clinging to you. Verse 22 says, we believe that we are suffering because we are doing right now. Now this is an interesting statement. He says, yea, for thy sake are we killed all the day long. We are counted as sheep for the slaughter. This is sad, but this is true. That in history, some of the time, many times, the people who have walked the most closely to God were the people that suffered the most. Through the times they lived. I'm not saying that this is always the case, but there are many periods of history where that has been the case. And so here these people are saying, God, we've heard these things from our ancestors. But what we are living through is totally different. We are confused. We experience shame. We're clinging to you, but it seems as if the more we cling to you, the more we suffer. We don't get it. How would I summarize this? I would say it like this. The psalmist experience was very, very confusing. And you know, you might be here this morning feeling that way. Now, I'm not saying that your circumstances are exactly like these people 's. In fact, I know nobody's circumstances in here would be to the level of these people. We have not experienced this kind of historical drama that these people live through. But the same feelings that they are feeling can be the exact same feelings that we feel at times in our lives. Though they responded correctly to God, their experience did not mirror their expectation. They were humiliated. They felt isolated. Despite these painful struggles, they continued to cling to God's covenant and strove to remain faithful under pressure. This misery led to the conviction that the struggles they encountered were a direct result of their allegiance to God. This is a trying and heavy place to be in life. I hope that God preserves us from such situations. But sometimes He permits them. We then move to the third portion of the Psalm. And to me, this is maybe even more intriguing than the one we just looked at. Don't worry guys, it's gonna get positive by the end. Just give it your heads up, all right. Stay with me. It's actually gonna end very positive. But you've got to get through the material to get to that point. We see the psalmist cry, or maybe we could use another word, the word is lament. In verses 23 through 26, the psalmist. Lays out to God his complaint. And what I find to be very important to note, these verses do not seem to leave us with any kind of comfort. They simply show you a person who is very weary and very troubled and very confused. And notice the way that he puts it. The first phrase is awake, why sleepest thou? Does God sleep? No. You know the story of the prophets of Baal? And there's Elijah on Mount Carmel and he builds this this altar and he says, you know, you you get your shot and you pray to your gods that they would, you know, bring fire on the altar, and then once you're done, then I'll pray to my God and we'll see who wins. As they're trying to get Baal to pour out fire on the altar, he mocks them and he says, maybe your God is sleeping. He goes a little further than that. I'll just leave it there. But he mocks them over and over and over again. And they they kind of fall through with it But even though God doesn't sleep, does it sometimes appear like he's sleeping? Does it sometimes appear like he's not moving? And we think he should? Well, obviously, as the psalmist Write this. That's how they feel. Awake, God, why sleepest thou? Arise, cast us not off forever. Get up Yeah, I I could I could tell you many a times I'll be sitting there at the dinner table, just you know got my got my fork and my knife in hand and I'm ready to eat my meal and there's a little Owen to my left and he's like Daddy I want some milk and ice Daddy, I want some milk and ice. I'm just sitting there, you know, my God, I'm about to get some really good food. Daddy, I want some milk and ice. All right, all right I gotta get up, go get him his cup, pour him a little bit of milk, put some ice in there. Ah, you've done that too. Don't laugh at me. Is that how God is with his children? He's a lot better than we are, isn't he? But here's the psalmist. He's like, God, please wake up. God, please get up and help me. That's what he's saying. That's how he really feels. It almost seems irreverent to pray to God in such a way. Yet this is the scripture. It tells us this is exactly how these people were praying. He says, cast us not off forever. Reverse our circumstances. The way that things are is bad. And I want you to change it. He says, why hidest thou thy face and forgettest our affliction and our oppression? He says Stop forgetting us. So notice how the psalmist prays. Wake up, get up, reverse our circumstances. Stop forgetting us. And lastly, what does he say? Deal with us in mercy. You are our only hope. Our soul is bowed down to the dust. Our belly cleaveth unto the earth. Arise for our help. Redeem us for thy mercy's sake. How many of you in this room Would never stoop to the place where you would get down on your face in the dirt and plead with someone to do something for you because you were that desperate. How many of you would do that? Have you ever done that? Has anyone ever done that before you? You're talking about a person that is in absolute, utter brokenness, no hope. That is how this psalm ends. He says, God, my face is in the dirt and I'm pleading with you, just have mercy on me. This psalm was written for people who really could find themselves in such a place. And when a person finds himself in such a place, this is how they would pray to God. I'll put it like this. The psalmist cry reveals the complexity of trust and doubt and confusion. These people were trusting, but they experienced doubts and pain that were a part of that trust. You know what's possible to trust God and have doubts pop in your head? It really is. Trust is a choice. I'm going to take God at His Word. But when I take God at His Word, I may have some questions that pop into my head. I may wonder. I may get a little weak in the knees. I may get really weak in the knees. These people were trusting. Yet they experienced doubt and confusion and fear and frustration and they expressed it in prayer. But you know what they did? They turned to the only one who could actually remedy their situation. There was no man that could step in and say, hey, I'll help you out and do it. Only God could. They appealed on the basis of not God's justice but his compassion. They didn't say, God, you're just, you're righteous. We don't deserve to be in such a place, so stand up because you're righteous and we're righteous. He didn't do that. They say, God, mercy. It's really important. Because the fact is when we get to these low, low moments, if we're to be totally honest , Nobody in this room is righteous save by the righteousness of Christ. I move to a fourth section. The psalmist demonstrates some facts that I hope we can Take from this passage. The first is that sometimes the righteous suffer without much immediate hope or visible cause. I would say as a general rule, when people do right, there are blessings that follow that. When people sow well, there are fruits that will follow that sowing. But the scripture is so very clear that there are times that the righteous Suffer. In fact, we look at the Sermon on the Mount. What does he say? Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake. Theirs is the kingdom. People who are persecuted for righteousness' sake. It's something that can happen. Secondly, this season of suffering is a test of someone's faith. In the same way that God tested Abraham's faith, he said, Abraham, I want you to take your son, your only son Isaac, the one who you love, up to Mount Moriah and offer them there there as a sacrifice. And Abraham gets up early in the morning. He saddles his donkey, he gets the wood, he goes with his son, he takes the men with him, and he takes a several-day journey up to the land to the mountains of Moriah. God tested him There are times that God tests us. And our circumstances can be very heavy and very severe. And that test is a test of our willingness to trust Him. Difficult periods of history call for specific psalms. And this is one of those examples where there are times that this psalm will be very pertinent to a person. We need historic perspective to shape how we view our own circumstances. The truth is sometimes we think that we're experiencing the worst things in the world, but if we could step back and know what other people have gone through , We'd realize where we are is bad, but nothing like others have suffered. Our only hope in these circumstances Is God's mercy and his unfailing love. And so that moves me to a final portion of this sermon, and that is, where do we find comfort in a time like this? Well, I'm thankful that this isn't the only passage in all of the Word of God that we have in such situations. Because this psalm is to be read in the light of all that God has said about Himself. And all that God has said about what He does. And there are many passages that provide us great comfort, and I want to highlight a few of them in our closing. The first passage I want you to turn to is Psalm 46. Psalm 46, verse number one. Listen to what it says. God is our refuge. and strength of very present help and trouble. Did you catch that? God is our refuge And strength. A refuge is a place that we can sink into and we are protected. Strength indicates that I'm going to have to go through it. And so if God insulates me, he's my refuge. And if God allows me to pass through a thing, he's going to be my strength. The point is that God is with us. When we go through these circumstances. He doesn't abandon us as his children. He doesn't walk away from us. Even as we pass through very troubling circumstances, very troubling seasons, though we may depart from him in our own hearts. He remains faithful to us. Hebrews chapter 13, verse 5. I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. So the first comfort I want to share with you is this: God is always with us even when we suffer. He doesn't abandon us, he doesn't walk away from us, he doesn't kick us to the curb. Even when our heart is not right toward him And most certainly when we find ourselves in places like this, we complain against God a lot. We indict him a lot. We have a lot to say about him. We have a lot to say toward him, but he remains faithful to us. We could take great comfort of that. Secondly, some of life's greatest tests of faith are followed by God's greatest testimonies of faithfulness. Let me say it again. Some of life's greatest tests of faith are followed by God's greatest testimonies of faithfulness. We read this to open up our service, but I want to read to you what it says in Psalm 48. Verse number 8, it says, as we have heard. So have we seen. That's really interesting. In Psalm 44, he says, we have heard with our ears. We have heard what you've done. And then in verse 9 he says, but you have cast us off and put us to shame. That's very different than Psalm 48, which says, As we have heard, so have we what? Seen. In other words, what God's done, He did again. And He did it in my life. So the first truth, the first comfort is no matter what we go through, God's with us. The second is this, sometimes God tests us and then demonstrates his faithfulness. He says, as we've heard, so have we seen in the city of the Lord of hosts and the city of our God, God will establish it forever. Now, this is important because there's a historical context to the statement that's being made. Walk about Zion. Go round about her, tell the towers thereof, mark ye well her bulwarks, consider her palaces, that ye may tell it to the generation following. This God is our God forever and ever. He will be our guide even unto death. You know what this is talking about? This is talking about a situation where here are these people in the city And all their enemies have come up against them. And there's no way around it. This is an ancient siege of a city. And when you see armies lock in on a siege on a city, guess what? You're gonna die. I don't mean you're dying today. I mean you're gonna die a painful slow, miserable death while you watch them just choke off all the opportunity that you have to survive. You can't run, you can't hide, you can't protect yourself. Everybody in the city is going to die of disease of starvation and eventually when everybody's weak and can't do anything, they're going to come in, they're going to destroy the city. That's the kind of situation we're talking about. And here are these people who for months see this siege all around the city and they say we're going to die. And all of a sudden God says, not this time. And he delivers them in a way that is so remarkable that when all the enemies are gone, they walk around the city. What does the psalmist say? He says, He says, look at all the towers, look at the palaces. Look at the walls and remind yourself of something. The only reason they're still here is because God interrupted history. God does that. Some of the greatest tests of faith precede some of the greatest demonstrations of God's faithfulness. And I want to remind you of that. You might be in the midst of a really tough situation. And you are being tested to the max. And guess what God's saying? Endure a little longer. I'm going to demonstrate I'm faithful. And that's what he does. That's what he does. What does it say? This is our God. Tell it to the generation following. It's pretty awesome to think about. Third comfort. God rewards those who endure difficult tests of their faith. 2 Corinthians 4, 17 says, our light affliction. That's a really interesting statement. Our light affliction, which is but for a moment worketh for us. a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. Romans 8. 18, I reckon that the suffering of this present time is not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. James 1 12, Blessed is the man that endureth temptation when he is tried. He shall receive the crown of life which the Lord has promised to them that love him. You know what this tells us? Not only does God stay with us in the midst of the tests, and not only does God demonstrate his faithfulness on the other side of the test. But God rewards those who endure in the midst of the test. And so when we go through those situations, we need to remember God is faithful, God will deliver. God will reward that faithful endurance. And sometimes in life we find ourselves in these situations where that's the only thing that gives us any hope. God sees. God delivers. He rewards. But the fourth is the greatest of all. And that is a text in the New Testament that literally quotes from this Psalm. You remember that little statement that we read in Psalm 44, verse 22? It says, Yea, for thy sake are we killed all the day long. We are counted as sheep for the slaughter. You know where that passage of scripture is mentioned again? Romans chapter 8. And Romans chapter 8 is the crowning jewel of all of those chapters in Romans that talk about the security of the believer. Listen to what it says in Romans chapter 8, verse 31. What shall we say then to these things? If God be for us, who can be against us? He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? It is God that justifieth. Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, yea, rather is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God who maketh intercession for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword as it is written? Here it is. For thy sake, we are killed all the day long. We are accounted as sheep for the slaughter. In other words, as as as Paul is penning these wonderful words, of reminder of God's promises and his faithfulness to his word. He reminds himself of Psalm 44 and he says, you remember that Psalm, that very dark psalm? We've heard this And we've seen the exact opposite. We feel like we have no hope at all. We're laying in the dust saying, God, be merciful to us. And he says And all these things were more than conquerors through him that loved us. I am persuaded that neither death nor life nor angels nor principalities nor powers nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. You know what that passage tells us? Our greatest comfort and our darkest moments is that nothing can take us from the hand of our God. You know why that is? Because he loves us. And his love is a love that isn't rooted in how good we are. And his love is not rooted in how well we've performed, and his love is not rooted in some promise we made. His love is rooted in nothing but his pure goodness and grace. And so here are these people in Psalm 44 who they're saying, God, wake up, stand up, do something, and he says, nothing. Can even separate a person in such a position from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. You may feel like you're in Psalm 44. Go to Romans 8, because that's where we really are. Where we are in our heart might be Psalm 44. But where we are in the courtrooms of our God, Romans 8. Folks, I want to remind you that God is with us through all that we go through. God is faithful when we have been put to the test. He will demonstrate his faithfulness. He will reward those who endure. And he will keep us to the end. May God help us to think biblically, even when we are really, really suffering and struggling. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we reflect on your word, I pray that it would minister richly to a heart that feels like Psalm 44 right now. For whatever reason, whatever the circumstances, whatever has broken someone to this point of confusion and misery and lament. May your spirit comfort them. That there is nothing that can separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. The sufferings of this present world are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. You never leave us, you never forsake us. Take us. May you comfort us with your word today. We ask it in Christ's name, Amen.