The rest of you I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and let's turn together to Proverbs chapter 4. Proverbs chapter 4, and I'll give an introduction. My name is Pastor Joel Porchet I'm the pastor here at Anchor Baptist Church. I've been here for a couple years now. And before uh became the senior pastor here at Anchor, my wife and I were missionaries in Ghana, West Africa. And we were on the field for a little over six years. We're in our seventh year. And the Lord called us back to come here and for us to work here at Anchor Baptist Church, our ascending church. And so we are so grateful that you've come to be with us today. We hope that this first session that Willie spoke on will really be a tremendous help to you The section we're going to look at today, that I'm going to look at this morning, really does overlap a lot with what Willie has already said, and there will be some overlap to what he will say a little bit later. We're looking at Proverbs chapter 4, and we're going to talk about the importance of our heart. The importance of our heart. I want to ask you a question. How would you define the heart? Can somebody raise your hand and tell me what is a heart? And I don't I don't I'm not talking about this in a biological sense, okay? Yes Your soul, okay? And when you say soul, what do you mean by that? Is this something you can hold in your hands or touch? No, it's it's immaterial. You can't see it. Any anyone else give us a definition of the heart? Yes. Your character and your personality. Okay? Good. Yeah. Another one. Anyone else? Your heart? I'm gonna give you a definition in just a moment, but uh before we do that, I want us to look at Proverbs 4, and it's a little bit of a long passage, but I think it's a really important passage. So I want us to really dig into this, and we're going to look at this passage in two sections. Okay? Proverbs chapter 4, verse 13 says this: Take fast hold of instruction. Let her not go. Keep her, for she is thy life. Enter not into the path of the wicked. Go not into the way of evil men. Avoid it. Pass not by it. Turn from it and pass away. For they sleep not except they've done mischief, and their sleep is taken away, unless they they cause some to fall. For they eat the bread of wickedness and drink the wine of violence, but the path of the just is as the shining light and shineth more and more unto the perfect day. The way of the wicked is as darkness. They know not at what they stumble. My son, attend to my words, incline thine ear unto my sayings. Let them not depart from thine eyes. Keep them in the midst of thine heart. For they are life unto those that find them, and health to all their flesh Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. Put away from thee a froward mouth and perverse lips put far from thee. Let thine eyelids look right on, let thine eyelids look straight before thee. Ponder the path of thy feet. Let all thy ways be established. Turn not to the right hand, nor to the left. Remove thy foot from evil. Now, I want to ask you a question. You've heard this passage read. Obviously, we're going to spend a lot of time talking about the content of these verses. But as you are reading this and as you are hearing this. What would you say is the main point or the main theme of the verses that we read? What would you say is the main point or the main theme? What do you think that Solomon, guided by the Holy Spirit, is trying to communicate to his children? Yes. Hold on to wisdom. In fact, the way he says, hold on to it, it's your life. There's a story in the Old Testament about a man who the Bible says when he was in battle. His hand claved to his sword. It's like they had to pry his hands off of the sword because he held so tightly to that sword in battle. And that's really a great picture of what he's saying. Wisdom is something we gotta grasp, we gotta grip a hold of it Don't let it go. That's a major theme. Another thing. Anyone here? Yes. Avoid evil. Okay? And it's interesting the way that he describes evil. is not just as something, but as a path, as a way, a place that people move, a channel that people move through. Great. Another theme that you you picked up here. Anyone? Yes. Say it again? Guard your heart. Okay? Exactly. Your heart is important We're going to talk about that in just a moment. If I was going to summarize the things, I'd basically say this. This passage tells us that God wants us to have a vibrant life. But in order to have a vibrant life, we have to have a healthy heart. God wants us to have a vibrant life, but in order to have a vibrant life, we have to have a healthy heart. It is impossible for you to be a healthy Christian that enjoys life the way that God intended it. And we talk about somebody having joy, someone having peace. Someone having a sound mind, somebody that lives life the way that God intended it to, where they actually know God and they're actually growing in a fellowship with God. It is impossible for you. To have that kind of a life if you have a heart that's not healthy. And I want to talk to you for a few moments today about your heart And as we talk about this issue of our heart, I want you to understand that your heart is something that really guides all the decisions that you make. You know, we talk about social media. Social media is something that is really neither good or bad. It's about what you do with it. Okay? It's something that becomes bad when you use it for evil means. It's something that can be used for tremendous good. And so when we talk about social media, one of the things we have to recognize Is that really what's going on inside of you determines what you do with that platform? Not only is that determining what you do with it But what's also interesting is that social , media is something where you come in contact with content. That content can be picture content. That content can be video content, that content can be words, ideas, philosophies, but the reality is That social media is not just something that we use based on what's inside of us, but it's something we come in contact with that puts thoughts and ideas in our mind and it actually begins to capture our attention and it gets down into our soul and it actually begins to affect what's going on inside of our heart. So really our heart determines what we do with social media, and social media affects what's going on inside of us. And so we have to recognize that this issue of our heart is really important. In fact, to help you understand that, we're going to talk about how much the Bible has to say about the heart. But before we do that, I want to introduce you three questions. We're going to answer today. We're going to look at the first question, and we probably will not get into the second question in this topic this morning, but we'll get into in the afternoon session. But the first question is this, how can I have a h a healthy heart? How can I, how can we have healthy hearts? That's the first question. The second question is: how will the healthy heart affect how I use media? So in other words, once we learn about the heart, we see that the heart is what guides what we say it, guides what we love, it guides what we chase after, we're going to see that what's going on inside affects how we affect how we work with these things. And then the third question is, how can the way we use media affect our hearts? So those are the three questions we're going to look at today. Some of it's going to be in this first session, some of it's going to be in the second session that we have together, but let's get into that first question. How can we have healthy hearts? Truth number one, we must realize that the health of our heart determines the quality of our life. You hear that statement, quality of life, don't you Okay? You know, one of the things that's being talked about a lot because of this pandemic that we're dealing with is people say, you know, this pandemic and all the restrictions and not being in school physically and having to wear a mask everywhere we go and not getting out and doing a lot of the things that we normally do, not getting together with family for Thanksgiving and Christmas, whatever your plans have been or will be They say this really affects your quality of life. What do they mean by that? Do you stop living because you're wearing a mask or not going to school physically? Well the answer is of course not. You're still alive, you're still breathing, you're still living your life, but what they're saying is this the kind of life you're living The quality of the experience of your life is being affected in a negative way by certain factors that we're having to deal with. I want you to realize that if you want to have a healthy life, you have to have a healthy heart. It might be that there's a teen here today that the honest truth is you're a miserable person. You're very frustrated with life. You you you're frustrated with everybody you deal with. Could be mom, could be dad, could be teachers. Could be whoever your pastor is or your youth pastor or youth director, your your siblings. You get into a lot of conflicts. You're frustrated in life. You have a very negative outlook. You're you're very discouraged What is it that causes that? Why is it that the way that we interact with the people around us can be very positive or very negative? It really comes down to what's going on inside And so I want you to see what the Bible has to say about the heart. First of all, I want to mention what the heart is. Now we've had a couple of good answers, but let me give you an answer that I think Will kind of help you to understand this well. First of all, it's this. The heart is that internal part of us that thinks, that feels, and that values. I want you to say that with me. It's the internal part of us that what? Let's try it again. It sinks. Let's try it again. It what? It feels and it values. It thinks, it feels, it values. So what I'm saying is this, your heart really is your mind, it's your emotions, and it's what you want. Your heart is really determining what's going on inside of you, what you think's important, what you think's not important, what you wanna be, what you don't want to be, how people you want people to perceive you, how you don't want people to perceive you. What's going on in your thoughts and what's going on in your emotions and the things that you value, that's really what's going on inside of your heart. And your heart is invisible to people. You cannot hold somebody's heart in your hand and say, oh, I can see what's going on inside there. You can't do that. In fact, sometimes we misunderstand people's hearts. Sometimes we think a person's doing really well and they're actually not. Sometimes a person is really growing and thriving, but we don't really see it. because of our proximity to them or maybe the way that we analyze what's healthy and what's not. The heart's something that's invisible. But once you realize something, the heart actively shapes everything about us. Everything. What you do, what you don't do, what you love, what you hate. Everything about you as a person ultimately is going to be shaped by what's going on inside of your heart. And so if your heart's not healthy, then guess what? What flows out of that heart is not good. And if your heart is healthy, guess what? What flows out of that heart is something that pleases God. God wants every single one of us to live lives that bring glory to him. God wants to shape us into the image of the Lord Jesus Christ. God wants us to know him. He wants us to enjoy him forever. And he wants this to be a tool through which he works in the lives of people. But that cannot happen if our heart's not healthy. Notice what the Bible has to say here in this passage in Proverbs about the heart. Look down with me in verse 13. Look carefully at what it says. It says this. Take fast hold of instruction. Let her not go. Keep her. She is your life. You say, what does he mean take fast hold of instruction? Basically, what he's saying is this: you need to make sure that what's going into your heart is truth. What's going into your heart is godly wisdom. In other words, you need to be very careful that you grab a hold Of things that are true, and you reject things that are not true, because as you grab a hold of it, it becomes a part of you and it begins to shape and mold your heart inside. In verses 18 and 19, notice what it says. It says, the paths of the just are as a shining light. That shineth more and more into the perfect day. The way of the wicked is as darkness. They know not at what they stumble. Now I don't know if you're an early riser or not. I don't set an alarm clock. I just wake up at like 5. 45. It's like my mind, as soon as it wakes up, just can't go back to bed. And so I go and I walk in the morning, and a lot of times I try to walk just a little bit before the sun comes up. So when I start my walk, it's dark. But as I'm walking, maybe the first 10 minutes or 15 minutes into my walk, you can start to see the lights getting a little bit brighter, and it's getting a little bit brighter. And you know, if it goes from dark to light, that means you walked about 30 minutes, okay? And as the sun rises, it gets brighter and brighter and brighter, and you can see more and more clearly. And he says, that's the way that the righteous life is. In other words, as you walk down this path of righteousness, you begin to see life more and more clearly because God helps you to have understanding. But then we have the other time of the day. If you go walking in the evening and the sun is setting within 20, 30 minutes, guess what? It's it's dark. Can't see anything. And he says, that's the way the path of the wicked is. It's like darkness. And people stumble and they don't even know why they're stumbling. They can't even make sense of the problems that they're having in life. And basically, what Solomon is telling them is he's saying, Look, kids, if your heart is healthy, then the path you'll walk on is a path of light. You'll have understanding, you'll have clarity. But if you walk in darkness, it's because your heart is dark. What's going on inside is not healthy. And the results, because you'll stumble and you won't even understand why you're stumbling. And one of the sad things that you see as a pastor is you see people as they get older, the decisions that they make in life begin to start adding up. Okay. And the older they get, the more those decisions add up. And eventually the fruits of their decisions begin to really take root in their lives. And you know, when a person doesn't know the Lord and a person doesn't understand why they're experiencing the troubles of life that they're experiencing, it's because their heart has never been touched by truth. God doesn't want you to be like that. And so he talks about the importance of the heart. The third passage or the third section here in chapter 4 that I'll mention is in verse 23. In verse 23, he says it this way. He says, Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. That's a really interesting statement, isn't it? Keep it with all diligence. Don't be lazy when it comes to this issue of protecting your heart. Don't be calloused. Don't be overconfident. You've got to be diligent to guard that part of you that determines everything about you, everything that you do. Nearly 80 times in the book of Proverbs, Solomon refers to the heart. You know why that is? Because wisdom isn't so much about what you're doing, but it's about what's causing you to do it. That's really important. Wisdom really starts inside of us. It starts in our hearts. It starts in our thinking. It starts in our affections. It starts in our values. And so if you read through the book of Proverbs, two, three, four times a chapter, you're going to see that word heart. Because heart is so important in this issue of wisdom. You know, Jesus had a lot to say about the heart too. In fact, I'm going to mention a couple of passages. In Matthew chapter 5, verse 8, this is what it says: it says, Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. If you want to have the clarity and the ability to recognize the hand of God in your life, if you want to be in a position where you actually know God , And you actually commune with God, and you actually fellowship with Him, then you've got to have a pure heart, a heart that's not divided In Matthew chapter 6 verse 21, he says, Where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. And the idea is that the things that we think about are that excuse me, the things that we think are the most important are really the things that have captured our hearts. You know, when a young person gets on social media and they're really consumed about how people view them And they're really trying to create a perception that's not really consistent with reality, but they want people to think that's reality. , You know what that means? That means that they're really captured by the opinions of other people. In other words, this social media platform is not about God. It's really not about the way things really are. It's about what people want. The truth is that what's going on in our heart really is captured by what we treasure, what we value. A third passage that Jesus mentions is in Matthew 12. He says, out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh. You ever wonder why a person doesn't control their mouth? Well they'll say something like, what in the world was that all about? It's because that's what's inside. You can only hide what's inside so long. When you're in the right environments, when you're in the right set of circumstances, what's really going on inside is going to get squeezed out. And so Jesus talks about the fact that what we say is flowing out of the heart Matthew 13 talks about how an unhealthy heart will not be able to absorb God's truth. He says it this way: These people, their heart is wax gross. That their ears are dull of hearing, their eyes they've closed, lest at any time they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and should understand with their hearts. And should be converted, and I should heal them. You know, this is really interesting what Jesus is saying in this passage. What Jesus is basically saying in this passage Is that the reason that these people don't understand what I'm saying, the reason that they're not hearing, and I mean they're physically hearing, but they're they're not actually internalizing, they're not understanding what I'm saying. He said it's because their heart is set against the truth. You know, if you don't want to hear the truth, you won't hear the truth. Does that make sense? If you want to hear the truth, you will hear the truth. You say that seems so simple. It is simple, but it's true. And Jesus says the reason that you don't understand what I'm saying is because your heart is set against what I'm saying. I want to ask you this question, teenagers. Where is your heart? In fact, in Matthew 15, Jesus said that when a person's heart Is not healthy and they're trying to present it as if they are. What they do is offensive to God. He says it this way, Matthew 15, 7. Ye hypocrites, well did Isaiah say to you, This people draw nigh unto me with their mouths and honor me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. In vain they do worship me, teaching the doctrines and commandments of men. The idea is this, an unhealthy heart makes our service to God offensive. You say, well, Pastor, Since that's true, it's not about if. This is a lot of scripture, folks. This is God's authority. Since that is true, then how can I think correctly about my heart? How can I actually have a heart that is healthy if it's not healthy? And how can I keep my heart healthy if it is? That's a great question. We need to think carefully about this issue of the heart. So I want to talk to you a little bit about some truths that will help us to understand why our heart becomes healthy or not and what's going on inside of us. Let me begin with this statement. Our heart is not neutral towards God. I want you to realize that. Either your heart is against him or your heart is for him. If you're growing toward God or you're pushing away from God, you really can't be in two positions at the same time. It's kind of like what Jesus said. No man can serve two masters. Either he hates the one and he loves the other, or else he holds to the one and he despises the other. You can't serve God and mamm and riches. You cannot have a divided heart when it comes to this issue of God. Either you're pressing toward him or you're pressing away from him. Our heart's not neutral. And I want you to understand that when you were born in this world Your heart was not just not neutral, but your heart was actually pressed in rebellion against God Listen to what the scripture says in Jeremiah 17. It says, the heart is deceitful above all things, desperately wicked. You say that's not me. It is I have five kids. Five kids. My oldest is ten. My youngest, she's a little over a year old. And I love my kids. And I would say generally speaking, in light of all the kids that I know, they're good kids But let me tell you, I know their darkest moments. I know these kids' darkest moments. And I will tell you, watching those kids grow up. There are things that you never have to teach a child how to do, and they do it instinctively. You don't have to teach a child how to be selfish. You don't. You don't have to teach a child how to be dishonest. You don't have to teach a child how to hit another kid or how to bite another kid. You've got to teach them not to bite another kid. And you might have to do it over and over and over again. And you say, well, why is that? Why is it that kids are just naturally doing good things? It's because our hearts are naturally not good. Our hearts are set against God. They're deceitful and desperately wicked. Romans chapter 1 tells us that the natural man does not receive the things of that the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all unrighteousness. of men who hold the truth and unrighteousness. And that verse is really interesting because what it tells us is this. We can know God But the knowledge that we have of him, because our heart is unrighteous, we press down and we suppress that truth and we don't want to think about it. That's what the verse is saying. That's the way that we are by nature. Every single one of us. There are no exceptions Your pastor's not an exception. Your mom's not an exception. Your dad's not an exception. The teacher that you love more than everybody else is not an exception. The most godly saint you know, no exceptions here. We are all born into this world having hearts set against God. In fact, it tells us in 1 Corinthians that the natural man doesn't receive the things of the Spirit of God. Their foolishness to him. So you ask the question, since that's true, then how can I have a healthy heart? How is it in any way possible for me sitting here right now to have a healthy heart? I have good news for you. It's possible. Not only is it possible, it's God's will for you. And not only is it God's will for you, but God's done everything that needs to be done so that you can be in the position to have a healthy heart. He's given you all the tools that you need, teenager. He's given those tools within his word, within his spirit, pressing the Spirit of God into your heart when you trust Christ as your Savior. He puts you around people who know God and love God and can invest in your lives. And the reality is this, God has given you everything you need, all the tools that you need to be able to have a healthy heart. But there is one condition. You have to take those tools up and you have to apply them Once you realize that when a person trusts the Lord Jesus Christ as their Savior, God does some amazing things in that person. One, he forgives them. Okay? As far as the East is from the West, so far as He removed our transgressions from us, we are forgiven. He cleanses us, He declares us righteous. When He looks at us, he says, You are righteous in Christ. He makes us his child. Those are incredible things. But one of the things that's so amazing that God does in the life of a Christian when a person becomes a child of God is he regenerates them. That means he makes them spiritually alive. In other words, he enables them to be in a position to actually obey God and love God and worship him and serve him and know him. He does that in the heart of every single Christian. But there's more. He puts the Holy Spirit in us as well. And the Holy Spirit comes and he resides in each believer. And if you're a child of God this morning, you are a new creature in Christ, you have the Holy Spirit, and you are in the position to have a healthy heart. You are. On the other side, if you're not a child of God, it's impossible for you to have a healthy heart. 100% impossible. Do you know the Lord is your Savior You know, it it is possible there's a a teen here that has a very unhealthy heart and you know it And it plagues you and it troubles you, and you've never come to the conclusion that, you know, the reason my heart's healthy is because it's spiritually dead. I don't have the capacity. I don't have the ability to have a healthy heart because I'm not God's child. On the other side, I want you to realize something When somebody trusts Christ as their Savior, though they become a new creature in Christ and though the Holy Spirit indwells them, that doesn't mean that automatically this switch gets flipped, switch, flip, switch gets flipped. Yes, I said it correctly. And then all of a sudden they stop sinning. And they stop having struggles and they stop having battles with their flesh. The Bible doesn't teach that, folks. What the Bible teaches is that when you trust Christ as your Savior, all the tools are available for you to have a healthy heart. But you still have a flesh you've got to battle every day. In fact, in Romans 6, Paul talks a lot about this. He says we've got to reckon ourselves to be dead to sin and alive unto God. through Jesus Christ our Lord. We're not to yield our members as instruments of unrighteousness unto our flesh, but as instruments of righteousness unto God. And so we have to make a choice with all the tools available to us to actually appropriate those truths that the Bible says are true about us. Call the sanctification. Willie talked a lot about this. He went to Romans chapter 12 and he talked about this. And I want to remind you of what he said. He said in Romans 12, 2, it says, Be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. And folks, that's what sanctification is. That's how a person Begins to have a healthy heart, being transformed by the renewing of your mind. Let me talk to you for a minute about this. Transformation isn't something you do It's kind of interesting. We read those verses, you read them carefully, and you think about what they're saying. It says, you need to be transformed. That means that God does it, you don't do it. So many people think, I want to be a strong Christian, so I've got to do this and this and this and this. You don't do it. God does it. But God does it through you doing what you're supposed to on your side. He says, be transformed through the renewing of your mind. You say, Well, what is that? That's your responsibility. You're supposed to come in contact with truth. And as you come in contact with truth, you know what truth does? It confronts the lies that are going on in your heart. Lies about what you believe is right and lies about what you believe is wrong. Lies about what you love and what you hate, what you value, what you don't value, lies about yourself, lies about God. It can be so many different areas, God's ways. And what does the Bible do? It says, you have a renewed mind. In other words, as truth comes and it confronts lies, you recognize this and you reject it and you replace it with truth. And you know what God does? As the truth takes root in your soul, He transforms you. He changes you. It's an absolutely incredible thing to think about. And by the way, it doesn't happen real fast, it happens slowly. Little bit at a time. I don't know how many of you like to garden. I like to garden. I love gardening. When I lived in in Africa, it was one of the things that I did all I had massive garden. It was like the size of this building right here. It was incredible. And I loved putting that seed in the ground and I'd walk out there day after day after day and it'd just like grow that much. And it'd grow like that much. And it grow like that much. And after a couple of months, then you could go and get some fruit. And folks, that's how it works when you grow. You don't grow like boom like that and then boom like that. You just go a little at a time, day by day by day. As you get into the Word of God and as you read the Word of God, God begins to prick your heart about little things. Every time you get into God's word, there's going to be something that He speaks to your heart about. And as he speaks your heart about that, you know what's happening? He's renewing your mind. He's renewing your mind a little at a time. And as he renews your mind a little at a time, he's beginning to change you a little bit at a time. In fact, the Bible tells us in 2 Corinthians 3 that we are changed by the Spirit of God. So I want you to understand something today, teenagers. Having a healthy heart. Is hugely important. There are no exceptions. You cannot be a healthy Christian without a healthy heart. The way that your life flows will not be healthy if you don't have a healthy heart. It's impossible. And if you're not a Christian, it's also impossible for you to have a healthy heart because you have a heart that's set in rebellion against God If you are a child of God, you're in a position, all the tools are available that you can grow and you can thrive and you can be what God wants you to be. But you are responsible to take God's word and to press it into your heart. I want to talk about a second fact, and this will be kind of the end of our discussion before you go to your lunch. But fact number two is this: what we absorb into our hearts really determines the health of our hearts. That's really important, folks. What you absorb into your hearts Determines the health of your heart. You ever heard the phrase you are what you eat? Anybody hear that? You are what you eat? Well, when I was a teenager, I ate everything. Everything. When I went to Ghana, I ate everything. And I'm eating everything less the older I get. Because I'm starting to learn that everything begins to do things to me that it didn't do in the past. I don't start feeling so energetic. I don't start feeling so healthy. In other words, all that junk food that I've been putting in my body, I'm starting to realize it affects my body. And you know, if it works that way in the physical realm, it works the same way in the spiritual realm. When we eat junk food, spiritually speaking, guess what we have? We have a heart that's unhealthy. If we're not coming in contact with God's word, if we're not coming in contact with rich, deep, sound teaching, guess what? We're not going to be healthy in our souls. Remember what Solomon said. He says, take fast hold of instruction. It is your life. And I want to mention to you again what he says in these verses. He says, My son, verse 20, attend to my words and incline your ear to my saying. Let them not depart from thine eyes, keep them in the midst of thine heart. They are life unto those that find them, health to all their flesh. Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. Put away from thee a froward mouth, perverse lips put far from thee. Let thine eyelids look right on, and Ponder the path of thy feet, let all thy ways be established, turn not from the right hand nor to the left. Remove thy foot from evil I'm not going to talk in great detail on this set of verses in this session, but in our next session, we're going to go point by point through those verses and we're going to talk about how those things affect our heart. And from that, we're going to answer those other two questions. But I really want to draw your attention to two things he says. Attend to my words, incline your ears to my sayings. Let them not depart. Keep them in the midst of thy heart. Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. I'm going to ask you today, Teen. Do you have a healthy heart? There is no point, absolutely no point, and us talking about the dangers of social media And as talking about how to get accountability with social media, and talking about how to use social media for the glory of God if you have a heart that doesn't want it. I mean, you'll be accountable to the truth, but you won't apply it. You'll never apply it until your heart is set to want truth. And so I start with this point. Your heart is the health of your life. I want to encourage you: if you do not have a healthy heart, then ask the question: why? Are you a believer? Have you trusted Christ? If you haven't, you can't do it. You cannot have a healthy heart. If you are, all the tools are Available, but you have to choose to put into your heart the truth so that God can transform you through the renewing of your mind. Any questions about this section? This is a doctrinal section, not that the other section won't have doctrinal elements to it. But I think before we get to some of these practical issues, we have to talk about the doctrines that really these practical things flow from. And like Willie said, you know, you can't go to a verse of the Bible that talks about social media. Yet there's a lot of Bible that talks about the principles behind how we actually handle this issue. So any questions? Any questions