We moved through that. We talked about what Solomon had to say about the heart in Proverbs chapter 4. We talked about what Jesus had to say about the heart. And now we're going to kind of continue on with the second fact that we're looking at. And I'll remind you of what that fact is. What we absorb into our hearts will determine the health of our hearts. What we absorb into our hearts will determine the health. of our hearts. I want to read again the verses that we were going to talk about. That is verses 20 through 27. Here's what the scripture says. My son, attend to my words. Incline thine ear to my sayings. Let them not depart from thine eyes. Keep them in the midst of thy heart. For they are life unto those that find them, health to all their flesh. Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life Put away from thee a froward mouth, and perverse lips put far from thee. Let thine eyelids look right on, ponder the path of thy feet, let all thy ways be established. Turn not to the right hand, nor to the left. Remove thy foot from evil. Now what we're going to look at is a third fact in this section. I'll remind you what the first fact was. The first fact is that We have to think correctly about our hearts. They're not neutral towards God. Either our heart loves God in his ways, or our heart is pushing in rebellion against God. in his way. Secondly, we saw that what we absorb ultimately determines whether or not we have a healthy heart or a heart that's unhealthy. The third fact we're going to see is that we need, or we must take, conscious choice to take steps to lead to a healthy heart. In other words, if you want to have a healthy heart, you have to take measured, purposed decisions, and you have to follow through with those decisions. You know, how many of you in this room play uh some kind of musical instrument? It could be piano, viol. Wow, that's a lot of people. Okay. How many of you play on a sports team? Okay, well a lot of you uh with that as well. Okay, so if you're on a sports team or if you're playing a musical instrument, the disciplines that are involved in getting good at that sport or getting good at that musical talent has to be practiced over and over and over again. If you don't practice, you don't improve. And if you don't practice well, then you establish poor patterns, and they're going to come out in the way that you the way that you actually play Well, in this passage, we're going to see that we have to make a choice, not just one choice, but repeated choices to establish a pattern in the way that we live our lives. You know, we go through patterns. Some of you might wake up at the exact same time every day, or you are told to wake up at the exact same time of day. Is that true? All right Mom comes in, flips on the light, time to get up. Or dad comes in, flips on the light. If you're like me when I was a teenager, dad came in, flipped on the light, said, get up out of bed, said okay, and then like Right back to bed as soon as he walked out of the room. And then he knocked on the door and say, Are you ready? And I'd be like, Oh yeah, I'm getting ready. And I jump out of bed. Do this over and over and over again. Nobody's ever done that, right? Well, that's a pattern. I have an established pattern. That's what I did day after day after day as a teenager. Well, the truth is we have to establish good patterns when it comes to this issue of the health of our heart These verses in front of us tell us exactly what we need to do. And so let's take these one at a time. The first is this. We have to purpose to listen to godly wisdom. Look at what the Bible says in verse 13. It says, take fast hold of instruction. Let her not go. Now I want you to tell me what are some places that you can get godly wisdom? Just raise your hand, give me some examples. So right here. Parents, okay? Church? Yes. Pastors. Huh? Pastors. Pastors. Pastors. Okay. In the back. She said it okay. Anybody else? Yes. From the Bible? Anyone else? Can we say good friends? Okay? I mean if you have good friends, you can get godly wisdom from them. Now generally speaking, you're going to get godly wisdom from people that are older and more experienced because They've been able to live through life and they know what happens when certain decisions are made. They've studied God's word longer. But the reality is there are lots of places that you can get godly wisdom. Mom and dad are a great source of godly wisdom. Your pastor, your church, your Sunday school teachers, those who are teaching God's word. It could be in a Bible class you're taking in your school, whether you're homeschool, Christian school, whatever your situation is. There are places where God gives us access to godly wisdom. We have to choose. To listen. You have to actually choose to listen. Think about that verse where Jesus says that the people's hearts are grow grown cold, and it's because they have a heart that's calloused. If you don't want to hear the truth, you won't hear the truth. A second is we must purpose to choose our activities and associates wisely. Notice what he says in verse 14, he says, Enter not into the path of the wicked. Go not in the way of evil men. Now basically what Solomon is saying is there is a way that people walk in life. In fact, lots and lots of people walk down these paths. And these paths are established by people that could be your friends, they could be your classmates, they could be people that you play with on a sports team, but these are people that you come in contact with. He says Don't walk in the way of the ungodly. In other words, don't choose a path to walk down that you know is going to harm your soul. The people that you're friends with are very, very important influences on your life. It's really true. The truth is your friends shape you in so many different ways. Mom and dad shape you. They shape you a lot more than you realize. The older and older you get, there'll be a day you look back and you're like, wow, where did I learn that? And you're like, oh I just learned that watching mom and dad at home It's kind of interesting how that is. A coach can really influence you. A pastor, a friend. But let me tell you, your friends are some of your greatest influences, for good or for evil. And so, if we want to have a healthy heart, we have to be cautious about who we choose to associate with, who we choose to walk with, the path that we choose to walk down. A third area, it says we must develop the discipline of meditating on the truth. Now, can somebody explain to me what the word meditate means? Can somebody explain to me what that means? Yes. Okay. Alright, so you're focused on it to the point that you know what it means. So you're focusing on you're thinking about it over and over and over again. Does that make sense? Okay, anybody else want to add something? Yes. Pondering on something that you just learned. Absolutely, yes. So when we talk about worrying, you know what worrying is? It's a form of meditation It's a meditation on something that's not healthy. Okay, but but really it's a form of meditation. When a person's worried, they're thinking about how they can't control their circumstances and How all these bad things are going to happen, but they think over and over and over again, they're consumed, and the more they think about it, the more convinced they become that that's reality, whether it is or not Well I want you to realize that meditation in the sense that he's talking about is a good opposite form of that. Rather than me thinking about all these things and how they're gonna ruin my my decision that I'm going to make or everything's going to go the wrong way, whatever it is. I'm thinking about God's truth. And the more that I think about God's truth, the more it digs into my heart, the more I understand it, the more I understand how it applies. In fact, the tool that the Holy Spirit uses to shape us and to mold us and to renew our minds and to transform us is as we dig into the Bible and we think about it and we meditate on it, that's one of the ways that He changes us. In fact He nourishes us Through his word in that kind of a way. You've heard about animals that chew the cud, right? You know it, cows and sheep and goats. Well, what these animals do is they chew on that grass and they swallow it, and then guess what? comes back. Not like Burger King in the middle of the night, okay? I'm talking about that grass comes back and they chew on it again. The question is why? Because they're gonna digest more nutrients. And they do it again. In other words, it actually goes through several different chains where their body draws out all that nutrient. And that's what's supposed to happen in our lives. We're supposed to meditate on truth. He says, let them not depart from thine eyes. Keep them in the midst of thy heart. Think about these truths over and over and over again. Be consumed with God's truth. That's what he's saying. We move to a fourth statement. We must be vigilant. Can you see that word? Vigilant. Let's say it again. What's the word? Vigilant. Can somebody explain to me what the word vigilant means? Yes. It means watching out for danger. Watching out for danger Okay, so let's say that you're in the military. Nobody in here is in the military yet. Okay, maybe down the road a couple years from now, but you're in the military and you're given a post And you're supposed to stand at that watch and any noise that you hear, you're supposed to be alert to know what it is. Vigilance has that idea. I'm looking around. Another word that the Bible uses is the word circumspect. We know that word circumference. It means the outside, okay, circumference going around a circle. The idea is I'm always looking around Now I want you to think about this. We learned before that our hearts are deceitful and desperately wicked. And when we get saved, God gives us a new heart, a heart that's spiritually alive. But we also recognize, because we are growing in sanctification, that there are things in our thinking that have to be changed and so God renews our mind and He transforms us through the renewing of our mind. Well what we need to realize is that as we're growing, we're still being bombarded with things that are not true. And that can attack the health of our soul. In other words, it's not like you get to a point where like, oh, I I finished this battle, it's over, it's done, I don't have to worry about it again. The fact is, as you're growing, you have to still fight to not lose what you've gained. It's kind of like going to the beach. You go to the beach and you'll see this thing called a rock jetty. You know what a rock jetty is? Maybe you go to a place like Ocean City if you're a Marylanders, okay? Or in Delaware you go to the beach there and you see this jetty that goes out into the ocean. The question is, why do they do that? Well the reason they do that is because as the tide is moving one direction, as the wind is blowing, that jetty kind of protects the shoreline so that the shoreline doesn't just wash away. But if that jetty's not there over time, the beach begins to erode and year after year after year, eventually you have no beach there So what do you have to do? You have to take measures over and over and over again to make sure that you don't lose the sand that's there. And a storm comes and it washes it away, and what happens? They have to bring in truckloads of sand sometimes to restore the beach. I want you to realize that in the Christian life, our heart is like a beach head. It's a place where we have to take care of what's inside. We have to feed our hearts with truth. And we have to remain vigilant that we don't lose ground by putting into our hearts things that undermine the health of our soul. In other words, it's a pretty complicated process, isn't it? Maintaining our heart takes work. We have to be diligent. A fifth is this. We can't allow ourselves to get distracted. Notice what he says in verse 25. He says, Let thine eyelids look right on, and let thine eyelids look straight before thee. The idea is don't get distracted. It was kind of interesting. I don't know if anybody here has ever gone golfing before. But if you've ever gone golfing, you go, how hard could it be? To hit a little ball that's sitting on a T. It's not going anywhere, right? It's just sitting there. All right? It's not going anywhere and you swing at it too sometimes. And so you set up and you you you you put your hand down and you you go back to hit the ball and guess what? You hear some noise and all of a sudden it kind of catches your attention And you swing and you miss the ball, or it slices way to the side one way or the other. See, how hard could it be to hit the ball? Well, if you're not focused on the ball, then you're not going to hit it straight. And here's the truth, in life you have to stay focused. You have to stay focused. You can't allow yourself to get distracted. You can't allow things that are around you to catch your attention. You've got to be focused on what God says is right. And making sure that your heart is healthy. Six, we see that we must take time to reflect on the health of our hearts. Here's what I mean by that. There are times that you need to just stop and ask the question, where am I at right now? In fact, you know what's really interesting? We talk about the way that we grow as Christians. For the most part, the way that we grow as Christians is we grow a little bit at a time. In fact, you a lot of times cannot even see the growth that's going on. Maybe your mom or your dad notices that you're growing, or a friend notices you're growing, or somebody that is a spiritual mentor to you notices that you're growing. You may not actually see it as it's taking place. But the reality is there are times in our life that we've got to stop and we've got to ask the question, really, where am I right now? Am I healthy? Is my heart healthy? When I go to church, am I even paying attention to what's being said? When I open up my Bible and I read the Bible, am I absorbing anything? Is this really a time of worship and a time of meditation and a time of growth? Or am I just checking it off on a box and saying, oh, got that done, I'm glad I got that done, or Or I'm stressing that I didn't get it done and I feel really bad. Do you know what I'm talking about? The truth is, there are times we have to stop and say, where am I? Is my heart healthy? In fact, today is really one of those kinds of days. It's a day where we encourage you to think about whether or not your heart is healthy. And if your heart is healthy, I want to encourage you. Keep feeding it with truth. Keep being vigilant. Very, very important. And if your heart's not, then I'm asking you to think about: why is it not? And are you willing to take the steps to correct what's going on inside? Lastly, I'm going to mention this. We need to humbly realize it's God's grace that shapes our heart in a healthy way. Look down at what it says in verse 26. It says, Let all thy ways be established. You say, well who is the one who establishes our ways? Can somebody tell me? Who do you think he's talking about? He's talking about God You know, it's true that you're responsible. What you put into your heart is going to determine and begin to shape the health of your heart. And the health of your heart's going to determine what flows out of your heart. And so you're responsible. But in the end, we realize something. When we stumble and we fail, God doesn't leave us. God is persistent. He's diligent. He doesn't give up on us. You know what it's like when you really kind of blow it? And you go and you ask God to forgive you, and deep down in your mind you go, I don't know if he really does. You know what I'm talking about? You know that the Bible says if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive. Cleanse us from all unrighteousness. You know it in your head, but you don't feel it in your heart at all. You know what I'm talking about? You feel like your prayer is bouncing off the ceiling? I have good news for you. Though you might feel that way, what you're feeling is not consistent with reality. God doesn't give up on you. He doesn't quit on you. He will keep pursuing you. And in the end, he's going to mature you and he's going to grow you into the image of Christ. He's going to make you what he wants you to be. And that ought to comfort you and that ought to encourage you So we've talked about how important it is to establish a healthy heart and kind of the way that God goes about doing that thing I want to move on to those two final questions because these questions are very practical and I think that they'll be very, very encouraging and helpful to you. Question number two is how will a healthy heart affect how we use social media? Now, for the most part, Willie is going to be talking about a lot of the practical issues related to social media. But the reality is there are a lot of things that I'd like to share that are kind of, we could say, principles or their applications that really guide how our heart affects what we do. The first thing I want us to see is this. A healthy heart realizes that media is a tool that can be used for tremendous good or tremendous evil. You know, I remember when I was a teenager, there were certain things that I was like, I'm not going to have anything to do with those things. 'Cause they're dangerous and they're evil. And I would have thought, you know, social media because we didn't have social media when I was a teenager, okay? Just saying, we didn't But I would have said, I'm not gonna have anything to do with that. Well, social media is a part of our lives. We are streaming right now through Facebook and through YouTube. It's part of our lives. It's how we connect with people It's one of the ways that we make connections with people. Our church uses social media during this pandemic when we couldn't actually meet in person for services. We were streaming our services on Facebook. I put devotionals out on Instagram, on Facebook, and on YouTube. We use social media. Social media as a tool is not evil in and of itself. But it has the potential to be used for incredible evil. It also has the potential to be used for incredible good. I can't tell you how many people will come to me at times and say, hey, I was blessed that your church was continuing to need and the thing that you did on your Facebook Live, we really appreciate it, and they talk about it. We have seniors who can't come to services because they can't leave their homes because of their health. And they're able to stay connected to the church through social media. They're able to read things that are an encouragement and they're a blessing to them. They're able to watch videos that encourage them in the Lord, that challenge them, that instruct them. Social media can be used for incredible goods. When we were missionaries in Africa, we had a website that we used strictly to try to connect with people and get people connected to good biblical resources. And it was amazing how many people we met and connected with through social media. Yet I will tell you this: there are people whose lives are completely dominated by social media They can't put their foot their their their phone down for ten minutes. It's like if they put their phone down, they start shaking because they gotta pick it up and they gotta start scrolling again. You know what I'm talking about? If you lost your phone for three days, what would happen to you? Would you have a nervous breakdown? The fact is that social media can completely dominate our lives. There are people that are so consumed with their image on social media and how people perceive them or how they perceive the people around them that their hearts are just dominated by jealousy. I wish I had what they had. I wish I could post the things that they post. I wish I could have enjoyed what they enjoyed, and it might not even be true. Might not be entirely true The fact is that social media can destroy a person's reputation. Somebody can post something that's not true, and in the end, it completely destroys that person emotionally. It can be used for a lot of things. And so the thing I want to remind you with is this. You can use it for good or evil. Purpose to use it for God's glory. Scripture says whether we eat or drink or whatever we do, we're to do it to the glory of God. If I can eat something to God's glory and I can drink something to God's glory, I could probably text something to God's glory too, couldn't I? I could probably post something to God's glory, couldn't I? And on the other side, I could post something that's not to God's glory. We need to make sure that we use these tools for God's glory. A second thing we'll see is this: a healthy heart is honest about its vulnerabilities. Now here's what I'm trying to say here. When we talk about our heart, we need to recognize that what we put in determines the health of what's there. In other words, I have in my heart certain temptations and certain inclinations that can lead me down paths that are very, very dangerous. There's not one teenager in here who doesn't have a heart that is inclined towards fleshly temptations. Nobody In fact, the Bible says there is no temptation taken you but such as is common to man. The fact is if you've been tempted, the person next to you has been tempted, your mom and dad have been tempted, your pastor has been tempted. Every person you know has a heart that has this inclination towards sin because we're fallen people. And you know, we need to be honest about the vulnerabilities that we have as people. There's no one in this room that is beyond the potential to fall into sin when it comes to how we use social media or to draw other people into sin by the way that we use social media. The fact is, we have to be honest about where we stumble. A healthy heart is willing to be accountable to others. I think Willie talked about this. Every person in this room should have somebody that you respect, that loves you and loves the Lord, who you are accountable to in your use of social media. Everybody. I'm including me in that. Okay? I'm including me. You need to have accountability. Accountability doesn't mean that you won't sin Accountability means that you know that you're going to have to talk to somebody about what you've done. And you know what a healthy heart does? It's honest about what's going on inside. The reality is when the Bible talks about temptation, it talks about it as if everybody is affected by temptation. It's like in James chapter 1 it says, Let no man say when he's tempted, not if he's tempted, when he's tempted, that he's been tempted by God. God can't tempt anyone. Everyone's drawn away by his own lust and he's enticed. The fact is, if my heart's healthy, I'm willing to admit that. And I'm willing to take measures to be accountable with others and admit that I'm vulnerable. Next, a healthy heart desires to flee from destructive uses of media. If you know that something is an area of temptation, don't get close to it. Does that kind of make sense? It should make sense. Why would I want to get myself close to something that I know is going to damage me or harm me? We have to put boundaries in our use of social media. It may be that you have to decide I'm not going to get online at these times of the day because when I do I get myself in trouble. Or I'm not going to get online if I'm alone. Or I'm going to make sure that my phone has uh a system that allows mom and dad to check up on what I'm looking at. But the reality is we have to make decisions to flee from destructive uses of media. I want you to think about the story of Joseph. Potiphar's wife came to him and she tempted him and she didn't do it once, she didn't do it twice, she did it repeatedly, over and over and over again, and finally there was a time when they were alone and she said, Let's do this, and he ran. Why did he run? He ran because he knew that the temptation was great and he needed to get out of the place. And there are times that we have to Flee from the destructive temptations that surround us. The last thing I'll mention under this question is: a healthy heart desires to use media to edify others. I hope that you don't just look at media as something that I gotta be careful, I don't use it the wrong way. I hope that you look at social media as a tool that you have the opportunity to use for God's glory. And to bless others. You know, you may have friends that you go to school with who are not believers. Or people you come in contact with in the community, they're not believers And you see, how can I give the gospel to my friends? How can I connect them to tools that will make them ask questions that will make them think about their soul? You know, you can use social media for those things There are incredible resources available on all these different platforms. And so I want to encourage you: use good solid material to edify others By the way, create good solid material to edify others. You don't just have to share what other people have done. You can be creative and you can present your own things as well. So, how can our heart affect how we use media? Our heart is going to affect it in such a way that we see it as a tool. It's going to help us to be honest about our vulnerabilities. It'll make us willing to be accountable to others. It will cause us to flee destructive uses of social media, and it'll cause us to use it to edify others. I then want to use a third question. That third question was how can the way we use media affect our hearts? It's not just that my heart is going to flow out in my use of media, but really the media I come in contact with is going to affect my heart as well. Here are the words that I want you to remember. If you're writing down words, I want you to write down about five words. Here's the first word to write down. The word is entanglement I'm going to come back to this in a second, but once you write that down, the word entanglement is a very important word. Second word, destruction. Very interesting word. Third word, loss. Fourth word, connection. The fifth word, edification. How can social media affect my heart? You know what social media can do? It can entangle your heart. I think about what Paul says to Timothy in 2 Timothy 2. He says, no man that warreth entangleth himself. With the affairs of this life, that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. Paul said, Timothy, if you're going to be faithful to God, you have to make sure you don't entangle yourself. In other words, you're going to get to a point in life where you won't be able to go back and change the past, and it's going to really keep you from doing things for God that you want to do. In other words, the decisions you make now, they could actually be awake to you in the future. And so we have to be so cautious that we don't allow social media to entangle our heart. It can waste our time. It can capture our hearts. It can establish lifelong addictions. You know, when I talk to men who struggle with pornography, And by the way, it happens often when you're talking as a pastor to men. You know one of the things that I find out? They got exposed to pornography when they were 10 , 11, 12 years old. And here they are, 55, 60, 35, 20, and their life is dominated by this lust. And it's something that drags them down, it's something that saps energy from their soul, it's something that affects their relationships, it's something that weighs them down, it's something that makes them feel guilty and miserable. And you say, How did it happen? It happens. When they were young, and it established this lifelong struggle. I want to encourage you, don't allow social media to entangle your heart If it's entangling your heart, you've got to figure out how to put the right boundaries in place through the help of the people that God's put in your life, like mom and dad. like your youth pastor or youth directors, that you can establish good patterns and good practices so that you get victory over this when you're young. The second word is the word destruction. It can destroy others in uncountable ways. You know, one of the things that I see when I look at relationships is that it takes years to build relationships and moments to break them. Takes years to build them and moments to break them. And when you've broken a relationship, it takes years to rebuild them. And the reality is that in social media, by one post, by one share, by one thing that you put out there. You can really, really cause damage to people. I want you to think about this when you're thinking about posting on social media. Ask the question, is this true? If it's not true, don't post it. Because it's a lie. You say, well, I don't know if it's true. Then don't post it and assume it's not true. If it's not true, don't post it. Ask the question, is this necessary? In other words, do I really need to put this out there? It might be true, but it's not necessary. Is this going to hurt others? The reality is that once you put it out there, you can't take it back. You might be able to take it down, but it's been seen. It's affected somebody. Be careful about how you use media. You can destroy people's souls. You can harm them in so many ways by the things that you post. Third is the word loss. It can lead to damaged relationships and wasted potential. You know, God wants to use every person in this room. He really does. He wants you to have a vibrant life. He wants you to walk in fellowship with him. He wants to conform you to the image of Jesus Christ. He wants to bless you and he wants to use you. And the reality is that you have tremendous potential, but that potential can be lost by poor decisions. You know what's interesting? You might be going to get a job someday and somebody looks you up on social media and they go, you know what, I don't know that I want to have this person working for me Look what they posted. You may be wanting to uh marry a young lady someday and her dad goes on social media and he finds some things that you post and he goes, you know what? I'm just not so sure that I'm really interested in this guy being around my daughter. The truth is that the things that we post Can really follow us for years. It is so important that we are cautious about what we say, what we share, what we communicate through social media. Then I have the word connection. By the way, social media should not replace face-to-face conversations. Okay, please don't do that. Don't have a fellowship at your house and then everybody sit around and text one another in the room. Don't do that. Talk to people God designed us to have face-to-face interaction. It's healthy, it's good, it's what we need. But you know one of the things that's wonderful about social media Especially when you think about as you get older. Some of the people you grew up with, they're gonna move to other parts of the country, other parts of the world. Some of them might end up being missionaries. And it was like to be a missionary And the way I stayed connected with my family, the way I stayed connected with my church family and my friends, guess what? It was through social media It was posting pictures. It was giving updates. It was sharing thoughts. Things that had been read. Things that I discovered. And God used that to help me stay connected to people. In fact, it used it to help us to make connections with people. In fact, even over the last several months, our church has connected with people in our community through social media. We had a baptismal service a couple weeks ago And the people that got baptized were connected to our church through online services. That's how they came in contact with that. I had a conversation with an old friend from many, many years ago this week, and asked him how he's doing. He said, I'm doing well now, but several months ago I wasn't. Our family wasn't going to church. God wasn't the center of our family. And we came across your services online during the Easter holiday. And God used that to really get our attention. And to get our hearts, and we're back in church and we're doing well as a family. Social media. I want you to realize God can use this as a tool to help you connect to people. Connect to people who are friends. Connect to people to encourage and strengthen them. Connect to people who don't know the Lord. This is a tool that God can use in your life. And the last word I'm going to mention is the word edification. There is so much blessing, potential to bless and invest in the lives of other people. Take advantage of the opportunities that you have living in the 21st century. Take advantage of these opportunities. This is an amazing time to live. You can get on an airplane and you can fly anywhere in the world in 24 hours. It's incredible. If you wanted to go to China a couple hundred years ago, it would have taken you months. If you wanted to travel across the Atlantic Ocean, it would have taken you months. Five hours to get to London? You could talk to people anywhere in the world. I can I can pull out my phone and I can WhatsApp chat with people on other continents right now if they're awake and they want to talk to me. It's incredible. This is an amazing time to live. It's amazing the potential for good and for evil. evil. And so the thing that I want to challenge you with this morning and this afternoon is that the key to a vibrant life is a healthy heart. Our hearts need to be guided by truth. What we have going on inside is going to affect how we use social media. And the way that we use social media is ultimately going to affect our hearts. I hope this is a challenge you today. If there's anybody that is struggling in an area, maybe you don't know for sure you're saved. Maybe you've trusted Christ, but you're struggling with assurance. Maybe you have confidence you're saved, but you know that your heart is not where it needs to be. Please make sure that you get the help that you need. There are lots of people here that want to help you Your sponsors that brought you, they want to help you. Mom and dad would probably love to help you. I'd love to have a conversation with you. Any of our workers would love to have a conversation with you This is all about God working in your heart so that you can continue to grow into Christ's likeness. Are there any questions that we have in our meeting today about the sessions that we had? Any questions? Want to give you an opportunity to ask questions. Yes, right here. What? I'll talk to you about that later, okay, Drinian. I'll explain it to you later. How's that? Junior high boy. All right. Any question? Questions. We'll say that's content that's not appropriate to be viewing. I'll just I'll leave it at that for now. We can talk about later. Anyone else? Questions All right. Our heart is so important, guys. Let's bow together for prayer and then we will uh prepare for our next session. The uh sponsor should be coming in pretty soon. Our Father, we thank you so much for the opportunity to talk about such an important topic. The health of our hearts is so very, very important. I pray that you'd help each of these young people to recognize how important it is that they guard their hearts, that they feed their souls on truth, they meditate on the truth, that they're vigilant. That they don't let their guard down, that they're weary of the temptations that are so easy to beset them. I pray that when it comes to this issue of social media, you help them to be discerning And very godly in the decisions that they make. Help them to get good accountability. Help them to use these tools for your honor and glory. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen