So let's bow for prayer and then we'll get our service started tonight. Father, thank you for the Lord's Day and an opportunity to dig into the Word, to fellowship with other believers. And I pray that tonight you would speak to our hearts and minister to us, help us to have attentive ears and ready hearts. As we sing praise to you, I pray that our hearts would be knit together as a body. And as we have opportunity to share testimonies of how you're working, I pray that you would encourage us through that. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, a couple of announcements before I forget. I was asked to mention that on March the 16th there's a baby shower. And I did not do that. As often happens, if you come to me and you uh remind me of something before I walk in here, there's about a 50-50 chance I'll forget it. It's nothing personal But I did remember after the fact. So ladies, please, if you're planning to go to the baby shower for Sarah Stitt. That's on March the 16th. There's a sign-up sheet for that. So please do sign up for that. And then also the men's breakfast sheet is also up. So men please remember to start signing up for that. And then some people asked. uh when our spring revival meetings start and they are March the 20th through the 23rd. So on the 23rd , excuse me, on the 20th. We're going to have uh kind of like a potluck fellowship, and I believe it's after the evening service. I've got to go back and look over my notes, but on the 20th through the 23rd is when we have those special meetings, and so I hope that you'll be able to make it to that. That's going to be a great time of uh just uh godly preaching and teaching and a great time for us to uh to enjoy each other's fellowship. So all right, Doug, coming up with our uh hymns and We'll get started. All right. Good evening. We'll start off this evening's song service. with page 463 or so stand with me page 463 as we sing Blessed Assurance all three verses Blessed assurance, Jesus is mine. Oh, what a forte taste of glory divine. Salvation, purchase of God, born of his spirit, washed in his blood. This is my story, this is my song, praising my safe God. This is my story. This is my wrong. I invite back all the way and guess what the we go We can breathe, and with my story , my son , raising my fate for the grave along , with my story. All right, we're gonna turn to page fourteen. As you're looking up on the screen, worthy of praise, it's page 14 in the book. My heart overflows with praise to the Lord. I will lift up my voice to be out of the fear of his fair and not. Amen. Go ahead and have a seat. You may be able to sit down on this one, but you have to look up, because my faith looks up to thee. Page four hundred and seven My faith what 's up to the No more spray coming on. Where did that go as we shall be rolling your living bar? The red is passed by world for me. Testimony time. Okay, well we'd like to take a couple minutes tonight to uh share testimonies of the witness The music that we had this morning certainly touched my heart. And as Pastor said, for me to stand up here in betwe in the middle of it This morning was just I was getting yeah, it was surround sound, it was Dolby 5. 1. Way out there. It was it was excellent. So y'all sing really nicely, page 345, a new name and glory. We'll sing the first verse I was once a sinner, but I came hard to receive from my Lord heart This was freely given And I found that he always kept it There's a new name written down in Gory And Oh yes And the white call they will sing this story Alright, and Judah's gonna play trick the uh song leader, I hope not. Page 122. Whoops, cook Oh my goodness. Yes, we haven't sang this one in a while. As the dear, second verse, page 122, in the blue book. You're my friend and you are my brother even though you are a king. I love you more than it 's all. Much more than anything. You all know my strength and real And you all don't make my spirit real All right. Now we're going to go to the red book, page four hundred and six. And in the spirit of giving the the past Is much time to preach. Oh, okay. Well, we may have to go through this a couple times. Page 406. Stand with me on this one. Play it through once for me. Okay, good. Okay, that's that rings a bell. Been a while. Here we go. Give us the intro. So again, let's do this again. This is a good song. It's not as familiar as I thought it was. Here we go. Go ahead and have a seat, thank you. The bunkhouse wind fails on our go to be so Baby father , baby , birthday. Okay, well let's go ahead and take our Bibles out tonight. And please let's turn to Genesis chapter 12. Again, we're in Genesis chapter 12. We're working our way through Old Testament passages, and we're going to spend a good bit of time dealing with the life of Abraham. And as Pastor Chris said last week, Abraham is one of the most significant individuals in all the Old Testament. And Abraham is a person that's not only important to Christians because It is through the seed of Abraham that God brings the Jewish nation, and ultimately not just the Jewish nation, but the Messiah. But Abraham is also the father of the Jewish people, so people within Judaism look to Abraham as a very important figure, and also Islam as well. But what I'd like us to see tonight is how the Bible deals with this man, Abraham, who was obviously a great man. He's a man that was highly respected, but he was a man that was made of the same stuff that you and I are. Abraham was a sinner. And so what I'd like us to see tonight from the text in front of us is Abraham's folly and God's grace. And I want us to see how Abraham's folly and God's grace point us to the necessity of the gospel and why this is a very important part. of that unfolding story of God promising redemption and ultimately bringing the Redeemer. So with that in mind, let's look down in verses 10 through 20 of chapter 12. Here's what God's word says. And there was a famine in the land, and Abram went down into Egypt to sojourn there. For the famine was grievous in the land. And it came to pass that when he was come near unto Egypt, that he said unto Sarai his wife, Behold, now I know that thou art a fair woman to look upon. Therefore it shall come to pass when the Egyptians shall see thee, that they shall say, This is his wife, they will kill me But they will save thee alive. Stay, I pray thee, that thou art my sister, that it may be well with me for thy sake, and my soul shall live because of thee. And it came to pass that when Abram was come into Egypt, the Egyptians beheld the woman that she was very fair. The princes also of Pharaoh saw her and commended her before Pharaoh. And Abraham was taken or the woman was taken into Pharaoh's house. And he entreated Abraham or Abram well for her sake, and he had sheep and oxen and asses and men servants and maidservants and she asses and camels. And the Lord plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai, Abram's wife. And Pharaoh called Abram and said, What is this that thou hast done unto me? Why didst thou not tell me she was thy sister? She was thy wife. Why saidest thou she is my sister? So I might have taken her to me to wife. Now therefore, behold, thy wife, take her, go thy way. The Pharaoh commanded his men concerning him, and they sent him away and his wife and all that he had. Now, when we read these verses, one of the things that probably immediately should come to our minds is, why in the world did God choose to move Moses to write this particular story? You know, if Abraham is such a great man and he's so integral to the history of the Jewish people, why didn't God just kind of overlook this particular part of the story of Abraham's life? And why didn't he just go ahead and continue on the story without this very difficult detail? Well, one of the reasons I think that this is mentioned is because later on we're going to have a person named Hagar who's going to come into the story of Abraham's life. And Abram is going to make a terrible decision as it relates to this woman, Hagar. And as a result of that, we're going to have really a group of people that became a scourge to the to the Jewish people. And so the descendants of Ishmael and the descendants of Isaac, the son of Thomas, are going to be two groups of people that are continually at odds. And by the way, to this day, there is a continual opposition between these people groups. Well the question is, at what point did Hagar come to join these people? Well, it would have been during this time, most likely, when he went down into Egypt, that he comes back with this person, Hagar. But one of the things that this passage of Scripture shows us is that Abraham was not a perfect man. He was a sinful man. And it really brings lots and lots of questions to mind that I want us to kind of address for a few minutes tonight. In fact, the passage in front of us gives us insights into several very, very important details, and I'll give them to you in just a moment. But before we get into those, let me give you a simple summary statement for the passage in front of us, and then let's dig into these details. Genesis chapter 12 reveals the transparent details That flow from a great man and the consistent goodness of God, and Abraham's journey from ignorance to faith in the promised land Let me say it again. I messed it up. Genesis 12 reveals in transparent detail the flaws of a great man and the consistent goodness of God as Abram's journey from ignorance to faith in the in the promised redeemer. God wants us to see the power of the gospel. He wants us to see how this man Abraham was ultimately going to be transformed as his life progressed. But at this particular moment, Abraham is not yet one who has Trusted in the promise of redemption. God wants us to see how the gospel transforms us. So with it in mind, let's look at a couple of insights that this passage gives us. First of all, There's the insight of how transparent the scriptures are. I'm going to have a little bit to say about this, but one of the things that stands out about biblical history as opposed to the history that people generally record about themselves and their people. Is that the Bible doesn't sugarcoat the flaws of people? It doesn't ignore the sins of men. In fact, the Bible is a Extremely transparent, extremely obvious honest about the failures of the people that God worked through. A second area of insight is what the world is like without a Christian worldview. When we see the way that Abraham handles the situation in front of us, Abraham was a product of his time. Abraham was a man who did not have the biblical instructions that you have and that I have in the Word at this point in his life. And so the way that Abraham responded, a very sinful response, was really the result of someone who had not yet had a biblical worldview that had shaped his life. At the point that Abraham is doing what he's done, Abraham is just beginning to leave idolatry. In fact, when he was in Ur of the Calides and other scriptures, it says that Abraham left idolatry idols on the other side of the flood. And so his entire life he had been an idol worshiper. He was just now coming to the point where he was believing and following the one true God. It's almost like a person who has been an atheist their entire life, or they've been an agnostic their entire life, and now they've come to the point where they're a theist. They believe that there's a God. They believe that there's a judgment. They believe that they actually need to think about the concerns of God. They're not yet to the point where they understand I'm a sinner, Christ died for my sins He rose from the dead. I'm trusting in his finished work. They're theists. I would have to say that that's the way that I see Abraham at this point in his life. He has believed God enough to leave Ur with his family, actually But he's not yet come to understand the promise that was promised in Genesis 15 and then trusted in the promise, which later it will say that he did. We also see insight into the character of a man who's guided by not principle but by his own appetites or his desires. And we'll see that in just a few moments. We see insight into God's grace and how consistent He is. An insight into the journey that Abraham goes on from unbelief to belief, from being a pagan idolater. To being one who is trusting firmly in the promised one, the Redeemer. So with that in mind, let's look at a couple of these truths one by one. Truth number one God's word is brutally honest about human nature. Look down in verses 11 through 13 at what it has to say. It says, And it came to pass that when he was come near to enter into Egypt, he said unto Sarai his wife, Behold, now I know thou art a fair woman to look upon. Therefore it shall come to pass when the Egyptians shall see thee, that they shall say, This is his wife. They will kill me. They will save thee alive. Say, I pray thee that thou art my sister, that it may be well with me for thy sake, and my soul shall live because of thee. Now I want you to notice several specific ways. That Abraham has sinned against his wife, and he has sinned against the people of Egypt that ultimately bring his wife to be a part of their families, and then God intervenes in that time period. You say, well, Pastor, why are you taking time to point out Abraham's sin? I'm taking time because that's what God gave us. He gave us this record. And I think it's important for us to understand that Abraham needed to be redeemed just as much as you need to be redeemed, and I need to be redeemed. And this is showing us The side of Abraham that in fact was a sinful, fallen individual. The first way that Abraham sinned is that he failed to trust God. In verses eleven and twelve it says, It shall come to pass, when the Egyptians shall see thee, they shall say, This is his wife, and they will kill me. Now, let's just think for a moment about why that statement is so significant. In fact, at the beginning of chapter 12, it tells us that God calls Abraham to leave his kindred, to leave his family, and God says, I'm going to make of you a great nation. That's what he says. Now at this point in Abraham's life, and I I say Abraham, he is Abram at this point in his life, but he'll later on be called Abraham. But at this point in this man's life, he has no children, no descendants. So if in fact these people are to kill Abraham, then the promise that God has made will not come to pass. Does this make sense? In other words, if Abraham is saying, the only way I can escape death is for you to lie on my behalf, what he's ultimately saying is, I know that God has promised. But at this moment, I'm not exactly convinced that he's going to follow through what he's going to say. In fact, it's interesting at the beginning of chapter twelve, when God says that he's going to bless this man. It doesn't seem that Abraham really has any conversation with God. That changes in chapter 15. When it talks about Abraham believing on the Lord and it being counted as righteousness, he actually questions God. He actually begins to ask him questions about this promise of seed and how through him all the nations of the earth will be blessed. And it seems that based on the answers that God gives him, Abraham is convinced enough to trust in this Redeemer's promise. But early on in the story, he's willing to obey, but there's no question. There's no faith in promise that's ever mentioned in the text. What we do see is that there's question. And we see that by the way he responds. He didn't trust God. The second, he used his wife to lie to the Pharaoh. Now, it would be one thing For Abraham in this moment to have someone ask me, is that your wife? And he says, Oh no, that is my sister. But that's not what Abram does. He preemptively goes to his wife and says, here's what you need to do for me. I'm not going to say it for myself. I'm going to use you to kind of do interference for me. Do you see what he's doing? That's a terrible way to treat his wife He's supposed to protect his wife. He's supposed to be a leader in his home. He's supposed to be strong. He's supposed to be a man who protects this woman that God has given to him. But that's not the way that Abraham responded. Instead, he puts his wife in a very difficult place where he basically says, if you don't lie for me, then they're going to kill me, and it'll in some way be your fault. I mean that's a pretty awful way to handle this woman. The third way that he sinned in this situation is he failed to put his wife's safety above his own. In verse number 13, it says that it may be well with me and then he puts the little phrase and for your sake but then as he continues on he says that my soul shall live because of thee. It seems like his inf uh he's he's a lot more concerned with his own safety and his own well-being than for his wife's safety and his wife's well-being Now I know that there's a lot going on in the news right now about Ukraine and Russia. Perhaps one of the most amazing things that I have read about in this whole scenario is what happened when the president of Ukraine was contacted by the United States and said, we want to get you out of the country. You know what he said? The fight's here. Give us guns. Give us ammunition. Don't take me out. Give me what I need to defend myself. To defend the people that are under my care. That is what leadership looks like. That's what we're supposed to be as dads, as husbands. That's what we're supposed to be when God puts us in a position of authority. We're supposed to be in the place where we say, you know what It's not about my safety. It's about your safety, and I'm willing to do whatever I need to do to protect and to defend you. Obviously, that's not what Abraham did in this situation. Number four, he failed to live with a faithful distinctiveness as a called-out man. When God calls out Abraham at the beginning, he says in verse number three, he says, I will bless them that bless you, and I will curse him that curseth you. And in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed. That means that if this man Abraham is going to go down into Egypt , And he's going to say, this is my wife. Don't mess with her. And they decide that they're going to try to kill him. Guess what's going to happen? God's going to defend this man, Abraham. Because God has set a promise upon Abraham. He's going to bless him and He's going to prosper him and He's going to defend him and He's going to fight against those who fight against Him. That's what God said in His Word. Yet Abraham failed to live with that faithful distinctiveness as someone who God had called out and said, I'm going to bless you through all the nations of the earth. You will be a blessing. What is the point of what I'm trying to say? It's not to demean Abram. I'm not trying to, you know, let's let's go ahead and let's let's bash Abram. He was a great man. When I think about his faith and other portions of Scripture, he puts us all to shame. There's no question about that. But it's to simply point out that this man Was a sinner, and the scripture was brutally honest, transparent about that. God's word does not conceal the faults of people to present a false impression or a false narrative. God doesn't do damage control for his servants. He speaks truthfully about who they are and where they've been. Truth number two. The Christian worldview transforms an otherwise broken world. One of the things that really stood out to me as I was reading this passage of Scripture Is how much it really reveals to you the thinking of people and the day in which Abram lived. But it's not just the thinking of people in the day that Abram lived, it's the way people think today. Human nature has not changed in thousands and thousands of years. Human nature is consistent. It's sinful. It's broken. And when you get a lot of people together, guess what you have? You have a culture that has unbelievable flaws, unbelievable problems. When we think about the life of Abram, Abram at his worst was simply a product of his own sinful heart. And a product of the times in which he lived. The inconsistencies that we see in Abram's life are a result of him falling short of what God expected of him. And the reality is it was the Christian worldview, or we could say a worldview that was shaped by God's promise and God's character, that he is trustworthy. That is what ultimately gave us the best of what we see in this man, Abram. He fell short in so many different ways. Let me give you a couple of examples. He goes down to Egypt twice to avoid the famine. He goes down, and when he goes down, what does he do? He pressures his wife to lie to preserve his life. He takes Hagar under the uh encouragement of his wife, and he has a child by this woman Hagar, because Sarai is barren, and he believes he can somehow work around God's way of giving a child. He asks God to bless him through Ishmael rather than through the promise. When God says no, he doubts him. In fact, as God is telling him, no, at this time next year, Your wife Sarai is going to have a child. What does Abram do? Well, Abram and his wife, they laugh. In fact, Isaac's name means laughter because that was their response to God. There's no way. That this is actually going to happen, that it's going to unfold the way that you said it is. We see the doubts. I think one of the most, really the saddest stories in the life of Abram is how he treats Hagar very harshly and very unjustly when Sarah resents her because of the child that she had. And so he literally takes Hagar and this child Ishmael, his own son, and he sends him out into the wilderness with some food and says, I hope you make it. What's the point? This man was a sinner. But at his best, he was a product of God's grace. He was a testimony to God's power. You say, what's the point? The point is that the gospel transforms people. I think about what it says in 2 Corinthians 5. It says, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things pass away. All things have become new. Or in Ephesians 2, 8 and 9 it says, It's by grace that we're saved through faith, not of ourselves, it's the gift of God, not of works lest any man should boast. And then he says, We are his workmanship. Created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. I think about that scripture that says, faithful is he who calleth you, who also will. Do it. Or when Paul is praying or he's talking to the churches, he says, I am confident of this very thing that he who has begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. All of those verses indicate something about the gospel. The gospel doesn't just give us fire insurance. The gospel transforms us. The gospel changes us. The gospel literally revolutionizes the way that we look at life. It changes the way that we treat people. As we begin to love God and God's love begins to be displayed through us, we begin to love our neighbor as we love ourselves. And you know what that does? That transforms you as a person. It transforms your relationships. And as many people come to faith in Christ, you know what it ultimately does? It transforms societies. Families, cultures, communities. When we look at human history, the greatest moments in human history where a society reflects the kind of character that you'd want to see in people. It has been a direct result of the power of the gospel transforming the people of those societies. Even when I think about Western society, Western culture, If you were to go back to the Middle Ages, before the gospel really took root during the time of the Reformation, the Western world was dark. The Western world was backward. The Western world was in many ways barbaric. When we see what went on during the Reformation and the Counter-Reformation. And the way that true believers were treated in Europe, it indeed was barbaric treatment. But what's amazing is as the gospel took root on that continent. And as people were transformed by the gospel, the Western world began to flourish and thrive in a way that was completely different than it had for a thousand years before. The Western world began to have values that it did not have prior to the gospel. And by the way, those values are being lost. They're being lost very quickly in our society. And the reason that they're being lost very quickly in our society is because we have no basis for those values. We have no foundation to build these values on. You talk about the strength of the home throughout the greatest moments of Western civilization. What was that built on? It was a biblical view of marriage and family, and a biblical view of family and children, a biblical view of how we how we look at life as as itself. And you say, what was the basis of that? It was it was the Bible. We don't have that in our society anymore. So what do we see? A complete breakdown of the family. A lack of regard for the value of human life. We talk about the debauchery of sexuality in our society. It's because there's no basis. For people to live a morally upright life because they've abandoned the worldview that gives them such a basis Let me give you just a couple of powerful examples of how people's view was transformed by biblical thoughts. Think about in the ancient world how people viewed or did not view women. Yet listen to what the scripture has to say about how we as men are to honor our wives. And how we are to cherish our wives. 1 Peter 3. 7. Likewise, husbands dwell with them according to knowledge, giving honor unto the wife as unto the weaker vessel in being heirs together of the grace of life, that your prayers be not hindered. That kind of thinking was completely foreign. In the time period in which it was written. And when people began to say, you know what, God wants me to love my wife, to cherish my life, my wife, to honor my wife. Guess what that did? That transformed family life in a way that nothing else in the world did. Or think about this passage in 1 Corinthians 7. Let the husband render unto his wife do benevolence, and likewise also the wife unto the husband. The wife hath not power over her own body. But the husband, and likewise also the husband hath not power of his own body, but the wife defraud you not one another. Now, this passage is talking about the fact that there is this mutual deference within the home. This is not something that was a part of ancient societies, folks. The fact that a husband would treat his wife as an equal As someone who had equal value to himself, that he would literally bend his own will to the desires of his wife, was a completely foreign concept in ancient societies. We see that there's an honor here. Or think about this concept of servant leadership. Mark chapter 10, verse 42 Jesus called them to him and saith unto him, Ye know that they which are accounted to rule over the Gentiles exercise lordship over them. He says their great ones exercise authority unto them. But so shall it not be among you, for whosoever will be great among you shall be your minister. Whosoever of you will be the chiefest shall be the servant of all. Is that the way ancient civilizations thought about leadership? That a leader is a servant? Of course not. I mean, look at human history, the strongest survive, right? They dominate, they plunder and pillage. This is the way that people have thought of leadership throughout human history. Yet that's not the way that the Bible teaches. Establishing this unity in unlikely places. I think of what it says in Galatians 3:27 and 28. He says, as many of you as have been baptized into Christ have put on Christ, there's neither Jew nor Greek, bond or free, there's neither male nor female. You're all one in Christ Jesus. What he's basically saying is within the context of the local church, God takes those stigmatizations Those things that kind of put people in a pecking order in society where these are the strong and these are the weak and these are the powerful and these are the ones that have no power These are the people that I will not come in contact with, and these are my people. He removes those distinctions because the gospel gives us equal access to God. The gospel, we talk about individual soul liberty and the individual priesthood of the believer. Those are very biblical concepts, and this is essentially what he's talking about in Galatians chapter 3. He unifies the most unlikely of peoples. Think about the way that people throughout human history have looked at children. Think about China's one -child policy that has been revoked recently because They realize as a society they're not going to exist if they don't start having kids again. Okay? As large as their population is, they're going to have to start having children again. And so they've reversed this policy. But the fact is that when someone could only have one child, guess what? They didn't want a girl. They didn't value women the way that they ought. You think about the reason that many people had children in the ancient world. It was to establish their power, their authority. It was so that they could have people work out on their farm. They didn't think of children as image bearers who had value. They saw them as a commodity. Yet what does the Bible have to say about valuing children? Psalm 127, 3, children are a heritage of the Lord. And the fruit of the womb is his reward. We think about the dignity that's described to all people, Genesis 1. 26. God says, let us make man in our image and after our likeness. The reason that we value other people is because they're made in the image of God. Or the fact that we abstain from a misuse of God's good gift of human sexuality. 1 Thessalonians 4. 3. This is the will of God, even your sanctification. That you should abstain from fornication, that every one of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honor. Or the fact that our homes have eternal purpose. Malachi 2. 15. Why did he make one? Wherefore one? That he might seek a godly seed. The reason I give you all these scriptures, and these are just uh we could say like the tip of the iceberg. is to say something very simple. A biblical worldview causes people's lives to be transformed. A biblical worldview causes people's families to be transformed. A biblical worldview causes communities. And cultures to be transformed. Why? Because the values that we find in Scripture go against the cultural thinking of so many generations. They establish God's will. And how we are to live in this world. And so one of the things we see in Abraham's life is that prior to this shaping of a man, he was a product of his times and a product of his flesh. And we see the evidence of that in these verses. Truth number three, human nature unchecked is in fact self-centered. Look quickly at a couple of thoughts. His misguided view of his own strength and wisdom was evidenced when he failed to trust God. He says, when they think that you're my wife, then they're going to kill me. He had figured it all out, but he was wrong. His impulsive, selfish, selfish desire to preserve his own life at the cost of another's dignity was revealed when he pressured Sarai to lie to Pharaoh. He says Pray thee that thou art my sister. What was that ultimately Abraham doing? It was him at the cost of his wife's dignity saying, Preserve my wife What is that? It's human nature unchecked. It's self-centered. His lack of loving his neighbor more than himself. And by the way, your closest neighbor, guys, is your wife. Ladies, it's your husband. Children, it's your siblings. It's your parents. When the Bible says we're to love our neighbors, we love ourselves. It's not just our neighbors out there, it's our neighbors in the home. His closest neighbor, the one that he needed to love more than any other, his wife, he failed to love her more than he loved himself And so he said, that it may be well with me, and that my soul shall live because of thee. His lack of concern for God's reputation was ultimately revealed as well. When we think about Abraham, we're going to constantly think about Abraham in the context of the covenant. That God made with this man that ultimately was a promise that he would send redemption. So Abraham's life cannot be pulled away and torn away from our understanding of God's plan. And so this man Abram, by failing to respond properly in this situation, really calls into question what God is doing and the life of these pagan people in Egypt. Truth number four, in spite of Abraham's sin, God is consistently good. In fact, I think what is maybe the most profound thing of all the things we read in this is that when Abram sins And his wife listens to what he says and she follows through, and then this mess begins to unfold God in his mercy and his compassion and in his grace steps in and says, I'm going to do some interference here. And I'm going to do it for the sake of Abraham. I'm going to do it for the sake of Sarah, and I'm going to do it for the sake of Pharaoh. I'm going to step in into this situation and I'm going to intervene. And that's exactly what he did in verse 17. It says that the Lord plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai, Abram's wife. Now, by the way, that wasn't the end of the story. God restores these individuals, but he steps in in that moment to get the attention of these people. Something's not right And as soon as they begin to experience this plague, they realize something. This woman is not his sister. This is his wife. What is God doing? God is demonstrating his consent. He's demonstrating his goodness. Aren't you thankful that in your life there are times that God steps in and he interferes in your plans? That he steps in and he changes the direction you wanted to go. In fact, if God didn't do that, none of us would have a salvation testimony. Because it is God interfering in our rebellion and interfering in us stumbling in the darkness, God pursuing us That we ultimately come face to face with the gospel and we place our faith in that wonderful message. We see this over and over and over again in the book of Genesis. And throughout all the scriptures, that God continually pursues people as they stumble in the darkness. History is the continual story of mankind's failure and God's gracious intervention for our good and his glory. And this passage is just one of those examples. God intervened on Sarai's behalf as a matter of grace. And God protected Sarai and might even say the Pharaoh, because the Pharaoh did not realize what he was doing when he took this action. There was a degree of ignorance on his part when he took this action. God was also protecting the Pharaoh in this particular situation. God is always the hero of the story. Not you, not me, not Abraham, God. The final fact I want us to see. And verse truth number five is that our our conversion stories are all unique testimonies to God's grace and power. You know, when I think about the story of Abram , We see a man who the Bible says was an idol worshiper on the other side of the flood. He's living in Ur of the Calades, and the scripture tells us that Abram 's dad decides to leave her, and at some point in the story, God calls Abram to leave his family and to go to a land that he doesn't even know what it is. Well the scripture says that Abram obeys. But then as we follow the storyline, we see that Abram goes down into Egypt and we see all the chaos that unfolds there. And then we see other stories that unfold throughout this thing. And what do we see from chapter 12 to chapter 15? We see God's continual protection of this man. We see him learning lessons. We see that there's a willingness to trust God on some level, but there's still an ignorance of how God is going to provide redemption. And so by the time we get to chapter 15, that is when Abram asks God some questions. How are you going to do this? Are you sure that you can't do it this way? And then God says, you see all those stars? You see all the sand on the seashore? I'm going to multiply your seed like that. And he says, okay. Then I believe. I'm going to trust in what you say you're going to do. And that is when Abram believed. But what's the point? The point is that there was a story that got him to that point. And for every single person that trusts the Lord Jesus as their Savior, He is the door, and you enter through that door, and there's no other way to be saved but through the Lord Jesus Christ. But the reality is the story that gets you to that door for every single person is going to be different. If you grew up in a Christian home You're raised in the church and you go to church week in and week out. You know, the the kind of instruction that my kids get at home In Sunday school, in the church services, they get unbelievable amounts of information, unbelievable amounts of doctrinal teaching. Lots and lots of conversations. There is no way that the road that they take is going to be the same as a person who grows up having never heard the gospel. Having never been exposed to the truth, having never been in a church building, having never picked up a Bible, and they stumble through life, and then at twenty-five or thirty years of age, God begins working in their life. There's no way that those two stories are going to be the same. But you know what is the same? The child growing up in the church comes to the Father through the Son. And the man that comes to trust in the finished work of Christ at twenty-five or thirty years old, he comes to the Father through the Son Repentance toward God, faith in Christ, dependence on his finished work alone, genuine faith, place in the gospel. But the storyline will be different to get them to that place. And we see that in the life of Abram. In fact, when we read the stories of all these different biblical characters, what we will see in their lives are different stories of what brought them to that point. Even the way that Jesus did evangelism, he wasn't, he didn't do it the same way with every person. You know, think about Nicodemus. Nicodemus comes to him, he starts asking him theological questions. And Jesus comes straight to the point. He says, unless you're born again, you won't see the kingdom of God. And he goes, I don't get this. And he says, I thought you were a teacher. I thought you knew what you were talking about. That's how he dealt with Nicodemus. The next chapter, the woman at the well, he decides to go through Samaria and sit at a well and wait for somebody to come and see him. Can you give me some water? You're a Jew. Why are you asking me this question? Well, if you knew who I was, you'd ask me to give you water. What? Give me this water. Go call your husband. Uh well , I don't have a husband. Right now you don't. You've had five and the one you're living with is not your husband What good thing can I do to inherit the kingdom of God? Well, what is the commit what does the b what does the commandment say? Well, you're supposed to love God with all your whole soul and your mind and love your neighbor as yourself. And Jesus says, You've spoken well He says, I've done that. And he says, okay, sell everything that you have and follow me. I don't think I could do that. Why not? Don't you love your neighbor as you love yourself? All these conversations are different, aren't they? Why is that? Because the story that brings you to the door can be different. But what is consistent in all these stories is this. He confronts sin. He talks about who he is. He talks about what he's going to do, and they've got to trust in him, the Redeemer. And so one of the things that I love about the story, the life of Abraham, is it shows us The story of him being a man walking in ignorance to a person who believes that God is going to make of him a great nation, and he doesn't understand how he's going to do it, and then he has faith that is so strong That he believes even if he was to take the life of his son, the son of promise, God was going to raise his son to life. That's the story of this man's life. Abraham's obedience to the call of God was remarkable, but that was not when he believed and it was counted as righteousness. It was simply a part of the storyline. Let me ask you this question, as we think about all these truths that we find this, does this not strengthen your confidence in God's word? God doesn't sugarcoat, He doesn't cover things, He doesn't hide things. He just speaks transparently and bluntly about what's going on. Doesn't this remind you about how powerful the gospel is and how the gospel can transform an individual? How it can transform a family, transform a society. Are you discouraged about the way things are in our society today? Listen, human history's been here many times. And this may not be the last time it's here. The gospel has the power to transform and change. Do you realize what you are if you're not guided by principle? You are a selfish person who could take advantage of others if not guided by the gracious principles of the truth of God's word. And I am of the same Aren't you thankful that God is consistent and that God continues to pursue us even when we stumble and make horrible messes of our lives? This passage teaches us that. And by the way, be thankful that God pursued you wherever you were to bring you to that point of repentance toward God and faith in Christ. This is a wonderful text of Scripture, and I hope that it will minister to you as God sees fit. Let's bow for a word of prayer tonight. Father, thank you for the life of Abraham. It reminds us of your grace. It reminds us of the power of the gospel. It reminds us of your goodness. It reminds us of the uniqueness of every person's story. Yet the fact that there is one way , that is the Lord Jesus Christ. He alone is the way, the truth, and the life, and no man cometh to the Father but through Him Father, I pray that we would get a vision for the power of the gospel and how it transforms individuals and families and societies. Help us to believe in the power of the gospel, to live as if we believe it, as we proclaim it, and as we instruct others in it. I pray that you take these truths and use them for your glory. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen Okay, if you could let's take out our hymn books and turn to our closing hymn 390. And the song is I surrender all. And as I think about Abram being willing to leave Ur, his family, the place where he was comfortable. I think about how he was willing to surrender. I think about how there came a point in his life when he believed the Lord and it was counted to him as righteousness and then One day God says, I want you to offer the Son of Promise. And he did it. He said he was willing to do it. We do learn a lot of wonderful things from this man Abram. And so let's sing this song, I surrender all. Let's stand together. And let's sing the first, the second, and the fourth verses. Of I surrender all to trees of us. So I am holding here and you are you maybe killed it. I look at you all the love and give me the must be created. Worldly pleasures will forsake Jesus, take me now. I survived your own. Oh to Jesus, I soon I give myself to thee, help me with thy love and I hope that you've uh been blessed today, enjoyed spending time with other believers, and it's been a wonderful day. Um I'd like to ask if uh Scott you could close us in prayer, please. And uh Look forward to uh seeing you guys on Wednesday, Lord willing. Lord, thank you so much for this day that you've given to us, the all that was in it. And um Just for the challenge that we've had tonight, we pray, Lord, that uh we might also value the steps that you bring into our lives that lead us toward faith in you. We thank you for that. And we thank you for all that you do in our lives that leads us through very difficult ways. We pray that we would always be pleasing to you in your eyes and that we might glorify you in our lives. In Jesus' name. Amen.