Let's bow together for a word of prayer and then we'll get started with our service tonight. Father, we're so grateful for how kind you are to us. We're reminded that Every single day your mercies are new and we have opportunity to serve you and to walk with you. I pray that tonight as we reflect on the sacrifice of Christ, his death and resurrection, as we uh think about the passage of scripture that Pastor Joshua preached on, that you would work in our hearts and as we have opportunity to just be reminded of testimonies of how you've been at work, I pray that those things would encourage us. And we We ask for your hand a blessing on our service tonight, and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. All right, good evening. We're going to start the song service off on page 336 in the hymnal. Or please follow along on the screen, page 336. Please stand with me. And we'll get our vocal cords and diaphragm stretched out here. Alright. All four verses. For me , we die, for kidding, and the lighting life is we 're going to be. I tell her , for me I forgot, I never think like that. And then they may have been love for me , they may die, for me we live. And I don't know what I think my family is breaking in breakfast and all in my mind. I never liked it, I keep raising. Oh, just a few pages over to page 355. Page 355. Jesus paid it all. And amen. Page 355, all four Hey ladies , the running. All do you buy it and the train of thing You need was it by the morning? Amen Please have a seat. And we're going to turn to page 366. Page 366 with Have Thine Own Way. And we're just going to keep singing until we run out of words I guess that's all four verses, all right? Have thine own way, Lord. Hey all my Christmas coming I 'm gonna say Then I'll have thine till the meet all way Amen. That's good singing. Let's have some testimonies. Okay, well on Sunday nights we'd like to take some time to share test Matom, hogy me hausni hamna omni, no me ha unijemy maunny. Whom humain minimum jim Semm Mun mielestä mun siinä haluan Имамена, имаме, имаме, имали замона, имали, имам Minimal minun. Niin on homma minimal His own hominin hohana. For all in the blue book So everybody that wants to sing out of the blue book, why why don't you all just come up here and uh we'll have a we'll have an impromptu choir. As a matter of fact, there it was in a whole nother lifetime of mine I was in a couple churches that would do that for specials. Didn't have real special speakers, but the pastor would point out a group of guys, we'd come up and sing a song and have a good time. But we're not going to do that tonight. Page 208 in the blue book, that's all the way at the very back. You can't get much further back than that one My faithful love, you know how long it's been since I've played this. Can you play it through for me? Okay. Okay, it's been a while, but let's sing it here ago. I feel like For I still know the plan I have for you That I will lead you in the way I kill the rose Forever rest within my faithful life. Amen. Page sixty-two in the blue book. Oh. I want to know what's going on. I think last week Tori got everything out of the red book. And I'm making up for everything out of the blue book. The steps of a good man. First verse. Though dark in the night, and only the day. The real world of the world The Matter of Holy Land Well Amen. Now back to back of the book, page 162, and second verse. Third? I said third. Okay. Third verse. I meant to say carrying that shelter for you again right now. I remembered most of it. Okay, page 202, still in the back of the book. Page 202, my Jesus Fear. Ah, okay. We'll sing the first and the last one on this one. Please stand with me. Stretch your legs I can be a spell meaning of all right. This is With your ready, I hear my praise and all the Wait a minute, please be safe. On my climate join your birth Well you follow everything I need to do. Oh good evening, and we're going to continue our studying the book of Joshua tonight. In Joshua chapter 7 I give my apology uh for not getting my notes to Mr. Taylor. That's still a new thing for me to get used to here, was saying my notes to someone to put them on the screen. So yours got to listen close and take good notes the old-fashioned way So, uh but we're gonna uh continue our study primarily in chapter seven of Joshua. We touch chapter six just briefly, but while you're turning to Joshua chapter seven, we're gonna be looking at some presumptions. that the children of Israel made with AI. They presumed some things, they assumed some things, and we're going to look at that as we go through this chapter. Most of our time is going to be the beginning of the chapter. And the end is probably very familiar from children's church and things, so we'll touch on some of that, but primarily we'll be at the beginning of chapter seven of the book of Joshua. We'll pick it up in verse 1 of chapter 7. It says, But the children of Israel committed trespass. In the accursed thing. For Achan, the son of Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zerah, of the tribe of Judah, took of the accursed thing, and the anger of the Lord was kindled against the children of Israel. And Joshua sent men from Jericho to Ai, which is beside Beth Haven, on the east side of Bethel, and spake unto them, saying, Go up and view the country, and the men went up and viewed Ai. And they returned to Joshua and said unto him , Let not all the people go up, but let about two or three thousand men go up and smite Ai, and make not all the people labor thither, for they are but few So there went up thither of the people about three thousand men, and they fled before the men of Ai Father, we thank you so much that we can gather ourselves together, assembling of believers, to center ourselves around your word, who to be open and tender as the Spirit of God uses the Word of God. And that the Word of God would maybe a blessing to help us to be more like our Savior Jesus Christ. That we would be open and tender to learn from your word, even in familiar passages. God, would you have your will and your way bring comfort and conviction where necessary in the hearts of lives of your children And we thank you ahead of time for what you will do. For the honor and glory of our Savior Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. One of the first times I made a very wrong assumption or presumed something goes all the way back to when I was in sixth grade. And this was further brought to me. I was thinking about this studying this passage. And then today talking with two other guys on the former wrestling team, it was just like, I have got to share this illustration because it stands out to me and it's helped me learn. And one thing that's wonderful, when you learn something and then you know that there's like Bible to actually back it up, you're like, whoa man, that just like seals the deal for you, you know? But uh so anyway, so something I presumed, sixth grade, how's that a wrestling tournament? And made my way all the way to the finals of this wrestling tournament. And I was looking at the brackets and I was like, I've got the stronger side of the bracket. If I make it to the finals, I should be good. And then I saw the guy that was going to wrestle, and I'm like, I got this. He just looked at me, I mean If I was to categorize him, I'd probably put him in the not so sporty category. I would almost put him in the I mean look at his body. I mean he almost like if he wasn't in a singlet, I'd say like a nerdy type of guy, you know And plus he was from that school that uh they wear these like it was the only one that I can remember, maybe it was others, but only one I don't know, they wore these leggings, so not all of them were knee pads They wore these silly leggings. I thought, what kind of wimp would go and wrestle for that club or that school, whatever it was. So here I am, I'm the finals. I've I've I've all but got this tournament one. I mean this is the end at the the end tournament, the end of the year, and it was the only year I wrestled collegiate in uh in the sixth grade. But anyways, so we're in the finals. I've got this all in the bag. It's as good as over. Sized up my opponent. I got him. So then we start wrestling. And I should have thought to myself, self, he is in the finals. Yeah, I mean he just didn't like get a bunch of buys as I like earned my way and you know he had the easier bracket in my opinion and here is I should have thought a little bit more about this. I started wrestling and I thought, okay I underestimated this guy, and I think he even took me down first. I thought, okay, this guy's for real. So now I'm losing. No problem. There's more rounds to go And as the match goes on, I worked my way back, and we ended up being tied at the end of regulation. So now we're going to overtime. You know, I'm huffing and puffing and I I I was beating myself up almost the whole time. But then I was greatly relieved when As the ref, you know, flipped the little coin, I got to choose. I chose down. I'm thinking, I got this man. I got a reversal on the er guy on the earlier in the match, I can get another one. Reversals when you're on the bottom and you gotta get around the top and get my two points and I can win. This'll be great. So I get down. You have 30 seconds. At least I think that's what it was. 30 seconds. I'm in the down position. He's in the referee's position on top. The ref blows the whistle. I made no time whatsoever. I get around behind him. I snuck around. I get my reversal. I was like, yes, I won. This is so awesome. And I get and I don't know if you've ever seen a wrestling match, but you after the match is over, you know the ref flows the whistle, match is over. I was like, Yeah, you know, I'm getting all excited inside I got the reversal, I clearly won. I go to the center, you know, you shake the guy's hand, and he raises the other guy's hand. I thought, no, no, wait. I'm really upset. I mean I was kind of frustrated during the match, but now I'm really upset. I'm like, no, no, you raised the wrong guy's hand. I've got the reversal. And the ref says, I know. I said, okay, so if you know that I got the reversal, I got the two points, it's tied, I get the points, I win. I mean, isn't that how it goes? And over time, you get the points, you win And the R said, I know you got the reversal. He said, but he said, you grabbed that guy's leggings to help you get around. I said, I did not. He said, I saw, and you can't argue with the ref. I mean, he's already raised that guy's hand. I'm like, there is no way. So we actually, the the match was recorded. And we actually re-watched that part because I was still very hot at this. You know, I I already had the match won anyways, you know, I should have won, blah, blah, blah, blah, and I lost. Very humbling moment in my day. But we re-watched the match, and what happened was as I was getting my reversal, I believe I did a switch actually, but my I think my thumb got caught in his legging, sure enough. And it really it looked like, you know, when it was caught, I think I actually like quickly like shook it to help get around to get my two points. But the ref thought that I grabbed his legging and pulled it to help get around. So he thought that I had cheated and so he awarded that guy the match. I was hot. Even after I watched the video, I'm like, there is no way you can tell that I didn't like grab it. I mean my hand was in class, it was open And my you could tell it's like my thumb got caught. What did Josh Linder learn that day? I already had one. I looked at the brackets, I had the harder bracket. I looked at my opponent, he looked weak and puny. But who lost? Me. I learned a lesson. You don't assume, you don't presume, you don't already win something that hasn't been won. So since that day, as I've taught my children, you don't overestimate, you don't underestimate, you just do your best. And don't think you lost after the first point or two. You just keep going do your best. And I feel like with that presumption, this is a little bit where the children of Israel were. They just came out this great victory at Jericho. The walls are tumbling down. A great, easy victory, and it was a done deal. Saved Rahab and with all her house. Wonderful. So then they come to Ai here as we are reading and they look at it and and Joshua as his has he learned instead of sending twelve spies you know he sent two to check out the land but here he's continuing to send men and he's like we're gonna go check out This city of AI, we're gonna look at it. And the guys come back and the report is, oh, they're but few, they're small, they don't look athletic, they're on the weak side of the bracket type of thing. We got this. We don't all need to go to battle. We'll just send two or three thousand. So Josh, being the great commander that he was, decided, all right, we'll send three. So they presumed some things. But let's look at verse 1 again. So that's where we're going. But let's look at verse 1 and kind of backtrack a little bit. In the accursed thing. Here, the first thing we're going to see is we're either accursed or consecrated. Cursed or consecrated? Are we going against the Lord or are we trying to set our part set our lives apart to live for the Lord? So let's just backtrack. I just want to point out a couple of verses here. to give us some context into why the children of Israel committed this trespass. So in Joshua chapter 6, look at verse 17 with me. And the city shall be accursed, even it, and all that are therein to the Lord. Only Rahab the harlot shall live, she and all that are with her in the house. Because she hid the messengers that we sent. And ye in any wise keep yourselves from the accursed thing. Lest ye make yourself accursed, then you shall take the accursed thing and make the camp of Israel a curse and trouble it. Verse 19 but all the silver and gold and vessels of brass and iron are consecrated unto the Lord. They shall come into the treasury of the Lord. Jump with me to verse 24 of Joshua chapter 6. And they burnt the city with fire, and all that was therein, only the silver and the gold. And the vessels of brass and of iron they put into the treasury of the house of the Lord. So they all, the children of Israel, had some clear instructions. of what to do with the precious metals and all these things. They were to take those and put them in the treasure of the Lord. They were not to keep them for themselves. So their option was to obey and do what God said. Get blessing, or to go against what God said and receive a curse, to be accursed. And so that is what is taking place. That's the background. They're either cursed or they're contrary. Are we going to set this aside for the Lord or are we going to take for what we can get for ourselves? And set apart for the Lord's treasury. I know when I first got into the ministry, sometimes you know you get your first paycheck. I was before I was in the ministry just working, you know, you get your first paycheck and you're tempted to be like. Do what should I really give unto the Lord? I mean I mean I could use that money. Now my change my thinking has completely changed. It's how can I not give? to the Lord. It's all the Lord's anyways. Not just a small portion. And now I it's now I I want to give to the Lord. But here we all have these struggles, and we're going to see, obviously, as we're building towards Achan and what he decided to do. But can we set things apart for the Lord that he's asked? Do we want God's blessing? Or do we want the challenges and the result of disobeying and receiving consequences? Sometimes we choose the hard way. And I also think with this too, that God was using Jericho as the idea of a first fruits, of giving to the Lord first. Their first victory was Jericho. It was the walled city. In comparison to AI, it was much bigger, stronger, and obviously there was a lot more goodies inside apparently. And so what happened is this I think the thought for this too goes back to Exodus twenty-three nineteen In Exodus 23, 19 says, first of the first fruits of thy land thou shalt bring into the house of the Lord thy God. Are we giving to God first? So here they are. They're going into the land. Their first great victory in the land is Jericho. And it's almost like God was saying, you know what, this one is mine. Hereafter, the rest of whatever you can spoil, whatever cities you take, all the land is going to be yours. I'm going to give it to you. But this first city, Jericho, there's some things that are going to come for the treasury of the Lord. Sometimes I think God gives us options to test our obedience really for our own selves and our own good. So first we look at the cursed or the consecrated. Second, we're going to see that they committed a trespass. The children of Israel committed the trespass. Now we're back to Joshua 7. 1. The children of Israel committed a trespass in the accursed thing. So now we know what the accursed thing is. And we know that they knew what it was. And as we get ready for the Lord's Supper, even this evening, I'm just going to say it now, lest I forget, but sometimes we can tend to treat the Lord's Supper like the Baptist confessional. And I struggled with this early on in my walk with the Lord too. I'm trying to think of everything, the hidden things, the things I wasn't aware, and God maybe I'd be right with you and and I don't want to make sure I wanna I and you know you get this like guilt trip on yourself and thinking But and then God forgive me for things I don't know. Well, to help us with that and to see what was here, the children of Israel, there was no question that they knew what the boundary was. They knew what the trespass was. And they knew if they were to take the silver or the gold or anything from Jericho, they knew what would happen. They knew it was disobedience. It was that simple. You obey or disobey. So when we come to the Lord's Supper by the end, and I want us to get our thoughts in this now, let us not treat it like a Baptist confessional, like we're trying to go before a priest and we're trying to name every little thing and the hidden things and the things I don't know of and the things I'm in a The Lord wants you to enjoy And to celebrate what he has done on our behalf and to thank him and remember what he has done for us. And these are like blatant known things. If you have sin in your life that you know you've done it's not right, then surely get that right. But don't put yourself under this pressure of, but but I I don't think I can because there's probably something that I've done that I just don't remember that I think I might have done and then that is not what it is and that is not what's taking place here in Joshua 7. They knew they were all aware. So here it says that they committed a trespass. This is the you saw the wet paint? I'm gonna touch it. See if it's wet. You know it should be wet, but maybe it's dry already. This is the no-trespassing. You know, no hunting. And you're thinking, uh -huh. Why is it always more tempting when you see the no trespassing? Why is it always more tempting when you see wet paint don't touch? Why? Because we're told not to do it and everything in us goes, but I just want to do it. Okay That's kind of almost like it's like don't do it. It's like I know but I want to this is a blatant sin that they knew better. This is the wet paint, no trespassing. They knew what they were doing And I love this passage in James. This it says in James 417. It says, Therefore, to him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. I love that verse. But I don't like that verse. To me, that is one of the most convicting verses in all scripture. Because how do you get away from I know what to do? And I know that I shouldn't do it. And if you do it anyways, it says, to him it is sin. That's rough. That's what's taking place here in Israel. They knew better. They know they shouldn't have done it. God is saying, don't touch the silver, don't touch the gold, don't touch the specifically that he says, it's mine. It's for the treasury of the Lord. So we've seen to be cursed or consecrated. We've seen that the children of Israel commit a trespass. And here, why is it all that we know it's aching? I just want to put this before we go to see Joshua saying the spies But it says the anger of the Lord was kindled. If you look at the end of verse 1, it says, the anger of the Lord was kindled against the children of Israel. And here's what I think happened. They presumed, did when we read through this in the next couple verses, Joshua, they just had a great victory in Jericho. They see this tiny little city. We got this. What we don't see happening here is Joshua seeking the Lord. Should I send 2,000 or should I send 3,000? Lord, maybe you want us to send 5,000. Lord, maybe you want us to march around it a little bit. We see nowhere where they're seeking the Lord in this. And then after we see the defeat, I'm getting a little bit ahead here, but they get the thought. When we have some challenge life, then they run to God, but they didn't ask ahead of time, Lord, what would you have me to do? How many should we send? So here Joshua and the leadership, they're assuming we've got this. Yeah, it's but few guys. And we start Making guesswork of, well, God used this yesterday, he'll use this today. But they didn't even ask, are we right with the Lord? Is anything going on? And verse one of chapter seven is kind of like a narrative like we're gonna give you what's going to happen. You see this a lot in Genesis. Like in Genesis 1, God meant and beginning God made the heavens and the earth. And then he explains what happens. And you see that in Genesis 2. Okay, he said he made everything in six days. Then he just starts describing what he made later in the chapter on that day. So it like gives like a little intro statement and then explains it in detail. So we get a little snapshot in verse one of They committed a trespass. We know what happened, but they don't know it yet. But we know that they're not seeking the Lord of how to take on AI. And after weird instructions, this is my own thought as I think through this, after odd instructions of how to take Jericho, don't you think they'd at least be a little bit inquisitive of how should we take this city? Maybe they did, maybe they didn't, but it's not recorded anything. They just they sent the spies. It's easy. It's ours. Let's go take it. It's ours for the taking. And sometimes in life when things seem easy, Those are the moments we tend to think, Lord, I got this. We don't even need to seek the Lord. I don't even need to seek Him in any of this. We don't even think about the Lord, we just do it. I made that mistake in the sixth grade. Sometimes I'm still learning. So here, we've seen the curse or consecrated. We've seen the children of Israel commit a trespass. Now let's look at Joshua sent the spies in verses two through five. So he sends them in verse two to see uh AI, and they're basically saying, Hey, go up and view the country. And the men went up to view to AI, verse 3. They return to Joshua and they send him, hey, we don't all need to go up. We're gonna send two or three thousand. Because there are but few. We all need to labor. So here's what we're looking at. This is where they I think they really started getting ahead of the Lord. They didn't stop, they didn't pray, they didn't consider. They're going on their own power, they're going on their own strength. Look, we have a lot more. They are but few. Ah, we can send just two or three thousand because we can get them They started presuming they didn't seek the Lord whatsoever at all. Look at what we did in Teraco. Look at what we're going to do in AI. Did they forget already? How often do we forget how Lord has helped us in the past? And once the difficult time is over, we forget the Lord. We can't even stop and thank him for what he did. In fact, out of lepers, only one of the ten returned and said, Thank you, Lord, for healing me. That's just who we are Many times we just forget that the Lord's in there, except when we see trouble, which we're going to get to. So they get presumptive. They don't ask God to be a part of their battle plan. And then actually I want us very quickly, I think this goes well. I mentioned James 4. 17. Turn with me to James chapter 4. I want to look at a couple verses together here in James chapter 4. So I think it fits well with this section too, with kind of getting ahead of ourselves and not allowing God to be in our plans. In James 4, chapter 13, it says, Go to now, ye that say, Today or tomorrow we will go into such a city and continue there. a year and buy and sell and get gain, whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow. For what is your life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time, then vanisheth away For that ye ought to say, If the Lord will, we shall live and do this or that. But now rejoice in your boastings, all such rejoicing is evil. Then you get to verse 17. It says, Therefore, to him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not to him it has sinned. These guys in James 4, they're already going to spend at least a year in this city. They already know how much money they're going to make. They are already going to buy and sell. We're going to make this amount of profits. It's going to be wonderful. And all these things are going to happen. And they're not even there yet. They could get beat up on the way. They could be dead before they get there. Their money could be stolen. But in their mind. They're thinking we're gonna leave our church, we're gonna leave our people, possibly family, I'm gonna uproot everything because I'm gonna make this amount of money in this city and this amount of time, and that's what's gonna happen. And they're already boasting about it. And that's he says, hey, Joseph's boasting is evil. It is wrong. And it's like you know that this is not right. That's what James is encouraging these men. He says, hey, listen. He said Therefore, to him that knoweth to do good, you know you shouldn't leave. You know you shouldn't be living after money to get this gain, to live for the materialism. You know these things, but you're gonna do it anyway, and you're already boasting about it Shame on you. Shame on us. That is what is taking place here. And that fits in so well. I want to give that context to the rest of James 4, along with Joshua here. He sent the spies to get the report. They've already won the battle. We've got it easy. Why pray? Why seek the Lord? Oh, we don't need him. And they're making a big mistake, as we're going to see. And then look at verse 5. And the men of AI smote them about 36 men. I often think about the families of those 36 men. That would be very frustrating. For they chased them from before the gate, even to Shabarim, and thus smote them in the going down, whereof the hearts of the people melted and became as water. Does this phrase that their hearts melted and became as water sound familiar to you? It might. Because in Joshua chapter 2, starting in verse 9, this is what the report that they heard. In Joshua 2. 9, it says, And she said unto them, I know that the Lord giveth you land, and that your terror has fallen upon us. Sounds like Rahab talking to the spies and they're thinking, we can take this. Their hearts are melting. And she continues to say, that all the inhabitants of the land faint because of you. For we have heard how the Lord dried up the water of the Red Sea for you, and have you came out of Egypt, and what you did unto the two kings of the Amorites, and that you were on the other side of Jordan. And then who you utterly destroyed, it continued utterly destroyed, and it continues on. As soon as we had heard these things, our hearts did melt. Neither did we remain any more courage in any man because of you. Why? For the Lord your God, he is God in heaven above and the earth beneath. What was going on there? Their hearts did melt. Why? Because of how the Lord was using Israel. Their hearts did melt. It took away all of their courage. Now what's happening without the Lord? Now the children of Israel, their hearts are melting. They feel like they have no courage because they just lost a battle. And rightly so. So looking at this, we've seen Joshua sent the spies. Now it looks that Joshua rent his clothes in response. How did Joshua respond to this? Look in verse 6. 6 through 9, Joshua rent his clothes and he fell upon the earth, and he's at the ark of the Lord at evening, and they're putting dust upon their heads. And Joshua says in verse 7, O Lord, wherefore hast thou brought us all the people over Jordan to deliver us to the hand of the Amorites, to destroy us? Would to God we had been content to dwell on the other side of Jordan. So Joshua's now asking these questions, and he says in verse 8, O Lord, what shall I say when Israel turneth their backs before their enemies? So their hearts are melting. Why'd you bring us here to die? This almost sounds like repeat of what had already happened earlier with Moses. Oh, you bring us out here in the wilderness is to die? We wish we could have stayed in Egypt. Now here they are under Joshua. There's an amazing similarity between Joshua and Moses. But now they're saying we would have been content to stay on the other side of Jordan. Now think a minute. Did Joshua know better that this land was given to them? Yes. Do you remember the 10 were bad and 2 were good? And if you turn into Numbers, chapter 14, we're not going to take the time to do that now. But in Numbers 14, Joshua was withstanding with Caleb against those who were saying, We can't take the land. Yeah, y it is a land flowing with milk and honey. And look at these grapes. I would have loved to have one of those grapes. I like grapes. That would have been great. I mean just like an apple sized grape. I just pictured it something like that. Maybe not that big, but who knows? It would have been good. It had to have been good. Took two guys to carry it, okay? Those are good grapes right there. When my wife comes in and she's got little grapes, okay, that's nice. But two men carrying grapes? That's good. So the land was great. But what'd they do? They intimidated themselves, and they thought, but we can't do this What two guys said up? Joshua and K, hey, God has given this land. This is as good as ours because God is with us. And he is going to give us this land as he promised. I know there's giants. I know there's walled cities. I know the sons of Anakar. I know that it looks bad. But God is with us and we can take it. It's as good as ours. Same guy in the future. God, why'd you bring us here? We would have been happy to be on the other side of Jordan. You see what happens when challenges come? Same guy. A very similar situation. But he wasn't seeking the Lord as he should. So he rents his clothes and he has this conversation. He's asking these questions. You know, we shouldn't doubt in the dark what we know in the light. When challenges come is when fears and temptations can seem to overwhelm us. And even Joshua gets to that point. He says, I feel like the enemy is going to surround us and they're going to overtake us. And Lord, what are they going to think about your name? Joshua is concerned what other people are going to think about God's name, and I'm thinking to myself, self , but what does God think about the children of Israel? His chosen people that disobeyed, that took of the accursed thing. What does he think about you? Now Joshua, it is a fair question. It is good to think that what will others think of your name? Moses did something similar with that as well. So here we see that Joshua's response was one with questions. He's starting to doubt, and he knows better. He really does. He stood against some of these same people. Mm, some of them are much older and they were much younger at the time, but he took a stand. Joshua knew to trust in God and his promises. We know the same thing. And I encourage teens all the time. If you never learned anything more about the Bible, but you just simply obeyed what you know right now. Right now, if you never learned another thing about the Bible, but you obeyed everything that you know to do right now, it would change your life, it would change your family, and you could change the world. Just by obeying what you already know to do. The children of Israel wouldn't have lost these 36 men. They could have taken Ai had they sought the Lord. A little bit hypothetical, but we know that they lost the first one. And they did it. Because they were setting the Lord aside. We got this. We don't need the Lord. We're not going to seek him. This is the easy one. How many times do we do that? I have been there, done that, bumper sticker, t-shirt. I think I can handle this. God says, I want you to depend upon me. That's what I want. And Joshua is now doubting what he knows. doubting what he was confident in. Don't let trials and difficulties. And sometimes we want to blame God. I remember that You know, there's certain times in our life and people, whether it's 9-11 or other things, people will turn to God or they'll run from God. Off the same challenges. Pastor mentioned it simply this morning. How are you going to respond when these difficulties and challenges come? And I like how God responds here. So Joshua rents his clothes in response, and then verses 10 through 15, God answers Joshua's questions and then gives him instructions. So the Lord in verse 10 says to Joshua, Get thee up, wherefore liest thou upon thy face? Israel hath sinned And they have also transgressed my covenant, which I commanded them, for they have even taken of the accursed thing, and have also stolen And dissembled also, and they have put even among their own stuff. So their stealing, their selfishness. And who are they doing this from? They stole from God. That was supposed to go to the treasury of the house of God. And they took what belonged to God and kept it among their own stuff. A humbling thought with this is. . If we can start thinking of our lives that way, this is, God, this is your body. . This is all I got. I remember many, many years ago. I'm like, Lord, I'm not big. There's not much here. But whatever is here, if you want to use it, then great. I'll be willing to do that. If there first be a willing mind, it's accepted according to man hath, and not according to he hath not. I love that verse. God is not going to take us what we don't have. He's going to use you with what you do have. But here, they are taking of what should have belonged to God, and they're taking it for themselves. Putting it among their own stuff. So he answers his questions, and now he's going to tell them what to do. He says, look They couldn't stand verse 12. He says they couldn't stand before their enemies. They could not. Therefore, the children of Israel could not stand before their enemies. But with God they could have But turned their backs before their enemies, because they were accursed. Neither will I be with you anymore, except ye destroy the accursed from among you. The challenge with this is personally, sometimes we love our sin more than our Savior. But we'll pray desperately, seeking, begging God to answer our prayer. And God is sitting there saying, but you know you have sin in your life. But we're begging God and we're praying and we're getting on our knees even. And we might even have elephant tears, and we're praying and asking God. And God is saying, possibly. But if you know, I'm not talking about the hidden you might have s possibly had some sin somewhere somewhere in your life that I think that someone said that I might have said that they might have understood that I did. Okay. That's not what we're talking about You know exactly, and God put his finger on it, and there is no question. Yeah, I I know I stole I remember the thought I had. I remember the anger I had. I remember what was said. I know what I did. That's what needs to be made right. These are not secret sins here. God is telling Joshua, look, you have transgressed. Israel did what they knew they shouldn't have done. They stole from me. They took of the accursed thing. And unless we get that out of our life, unless we ask God to forgive us and to make it right, how can he bless if we know that we've done wrong? To him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. And like I said, that is such a convicting verse to me because I feel You know, other people will be more accountable. You can be in the college and seminary, you've been in the ministry. I think that God can hold us more accountable. That's a humbling thought and of itself. So we know to do right. Can we be right with God? And when he points out sin, we ask him to forgive us. And here, this is a long process, and I'm just going to make this really quick. But here, this is long process of narrowing down from tribe and by family and by household and by each man. I don't know what was going through the mind of Aiken. But if we're saying, oh , we know there's sin in a camp, God has revealed that to us, but we don't know who. And he narrows it down to the United States. You're thinking, okay, that's getting closer to home. Then he narrows it down to Maryland. Okay. And Rundle County. Anchor Baptist Church. I think if I was Achan, I think I'd be Achin to confess. I mean, I don't know. I don't know if it would have made a difference here, but I'm thinking, okay, it's getting awful close At what point do you I I mean I would have loved to hear Aiken just I'm sorry it was me, Joshua we don't even have to go to it before we even call the tribes. I am sorry. What would have happened? I don't know, because it's not recorded. But the point is, well at what point I think he had opportunities to confess and made a right. He didn't to the very end until he was called out personally, individually. Is that how God wants us to treat our sin? When we know we've done wrong. I mean as a father of four children, one of the challenges of you know when you go to discipline them, and I've had one of my you know children on my lap is to get them to admit that they sinned. Sometimes I think if we can get past that, the only other real struggle after that was now they had to go to the sibling and ask for forgiveness. That was very tough too. But to get them to you disobeyed. Did you disobey? You did. Daddy and mommy saw you disobey. And that almost frustrates you as a father. It's like, how can you sit there? And look me in the face and say you didn't do it when we both saw you do it. I mean the nerve of you, child. You're just like your father How dare you! How dare you I think the sin nature comes down to the Father. But anyways, oh I mean it's you're sitting there, but isn't that how you think God would view us And Aiken, as it gets narrowed down, I mean, at this point, I mean you're already on your dad's lap and he's looking you the face, he's saying, you did it. And and Aiken is like, finally, I mean we can warp you all the way to the end here. And if they they narrow it down and narrow it down And it gets all the way to verse he starts in the morning, goes all the way through And anchored answered Joshua verse 20 and said, indeed I have sinned. It gets all the way down. I was like, Haken, why'd you wait so long, buddy? Indeed I sinned, but at least he did, and we finally got point out had another choice. He did. Indeed, I have sinned against the Lord God of Israel. He knew who he had sinned against. This wasn't something he was wondering about. This wasn't something he was questioning. No, they got the evidence. They dug it out of the tent and the silver is underneath it. They got it all. They brought it right there. Okay And he admits, I have sinned against the Lord God of Israel, and thus and thus have I done. And he told them, I saw the Babylon Garment, and I saw all these things, and his his desire for stuff. Was greater than his desire for his Savior. For God. He rather would take for self. He loved me, myself, and I. More than he loved God. That is, but at the same time, we can pick at Aiken. But many times, aren't you thankful that your name isn't written down for things that you have done for all of the world to know? Forever in the Word of God. The inspired, preserved Word of God. And your name isn't Achan or Judas Iscariot or David with Bathsheba or Moses smacking a rock. I mean, Cain killing his brother. Aren't you thankful that your name isn't written down for all the world to know that your sins that you've committed? Instead, we have the privilege of coming before God tonight. God, there's been a sin pointed out to me. Achet admitted his sin. Now it cost him and his family, and he lost all of his stuff. You know, God is bigger than stuff. God is bigger than our desires and want for self. It all got burned up. They got stoned, it all got burned up. You know, if we could look at things and trust in God and His promises and God, look, this is my life or your life, my life is really yours. These are not my children, they're your children. I'm reminding that self as they get older, you start getting a senior, and they're thinking they're probably gonna be leaving forever, they don't come back, they can go to China or Ireland or Africa. Wherever they end up but that's you know if that's the Lord wants to do, you've got to remind him, those are your kids. I had the privilege of raising them for you for approximately 18 years. I'm trying to remind myself, I'm prepping myself. So help me in the years to come Especially when some guy thinks he's gonna walk her down an aisle and have my blessing. That day, the Lord's gonna come back That's a good promise. I believe it. I believe it. Okay. But for us, can't we just if God points at me, we know we've sinned against God, and we're here at the Lord's table. Try not to treat it like the Baptist confessional and try and think of everything. Lord, you pointed out something in my life. I need to get it right. I know exactly what it is. There's no guesswork. I can be excited that Christ died for my sin. He gave his body. He shed his blood for me. Achan did finally admit it, but he waited till the very end. Would our relationship with God not be a last-minute thing of I only confess because I have to, because I'm trying to get out of trouble? Your kids will play that trick too, then they confess real quick because they want to get out of trouble. Oh yeah, yeah, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. They're real sorry now. Yeah, I'm sure you are. I'm sorry too, because I know what you' Rout of correction is the seat of understanding many times. But could we do that with the Lord? Can we, God, may I not be so presumptive on your presence and your power? What I invite your presence in my life. Even if it seems small and insignificant. Even if I feel like it's an AI and I just it's just a little thing. What do we ask God if the Lord will that we do this or that? And God, you have pointed out sin in my life. Can we ask Him to forgive us and not be so presumptive? As the children of Israel or with AI. Father, we thank you and praise you for you being a good and great God. You've recorded much in Scripture for us to learn from, to draw closer to Christ. And we truly are thankful that you are a God of forgiveness. And as we are prepping our own hearts and minds, I hope that many are just clean before you right now and they can just thank you for what you have done. If there are others where you have pointed out something specific, they know that they have done, a trespass, a sin against you, could they get that right and and and be thankful for the joy of what you've done in their life? And the forgiveness that we can receive through Jesus Christ. Father, we thank you and praise you for being the good and great God that you are. And that we can study your word this evening, and that you can be with your people, and how all this points to our Savior Jesus Christ and what he has done on our behalf. We thank you and praise you in Christ's name. Amen.