Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Today we're back in 1 John chapter 4, and we're looking at 1 John 4, verses 20 and 21. So if you're joining us this morning, I'd like to invite you to turn your Bible to that place, and we will read it and then look at a summary statement of the passage. 1 John 4, verse 20. If any man say, I love God, and hateth his brother, he is a liar. He that loveth not his brother, whom he hath seen, how can he love God, whom he hath not seen And this commandment have we from him that he who loveth God love his brother also. And we come to the passage. I want to give you a simple summary statement, and so here's our summary. John wanted his audience to understand that what we say can be cheap, and the way that we live is the ultimate indicator of what we believe. So basically what he's saying is, look, you can say anything that you want about your love for God and about the state of your soul. But the way that you live day in and day out, the way that you think and respond to people, that will be the ultimate indicator of whether or not what you say is consistent with reality. And so this morning we're going to talk about this concept of how what we do actually speaks louder than what we say. So let's look at a couple of simple Truths that we find in the passage in front of us. The first is this hypocrisy is a universal human problem. Now when we say hypocrisy, we could also say inconsistency, we could also say self-deception. Because the reality is it might be that a person is not trying to put on an air. It might be that they don't realize that what they're saying and the way that they live are inconsistent. It may be that they don't understand that the state of their soul really isn't what they think that it is. So it may not just be hypocrisy, it could just be an issue of inconsistency, or it really could be an issue of self-deception. But in this passage, he's indicating that what we do and what we say need to be consistent. He says in verse 20, if any man say, I love God and hateth his brother, he is a liar. He's very, very simple, he's very straightforward. He's just saying, look, if you say this and you do this, then what you say is cheap. It's not consistent with reality. It's not the way things actually are. But what I want you to realize is this is a problem that is universal. Every single one of us at times falls into this place where we are self-deceived, or we play the role of the hypocrite, where what we do and what we say are not consistent. Think about several examples in the Bible. Think about the crowds that follow Jesus. This is one of the most interesting passages I can think of. In John 2, he talks about, it says, when he went from Jerusalem. During the Passover, many believed on his name. Actually, John chapter 12, I think, not chapter 2. But he said, many believed in his name when they saw the miracles that he performed. But Jesus did not commit himself unto them because he knew all men. This is so interesting. So how these people are just pressing on and following Jesus. He doesn't commit himself to them because he's saying, I know they're saying they believe me and they're acting as if they do, but I know it's in their heart. And so I'm not going to do that. Think about the story of Judas. Here's a man that followed Christ for three and a half years. And in John chapter 12, we see an example of how Judas' real motives begin to come out at a point where there's a woman that's anointing Jesus' feet And when she does this and she's crying and she's wiping his feet with her hair and there's this wonderful aroma in that room, what does Judas say? He says this could have been sold for 300 pounds and given to the poor. And what's interesting is the passage tells us he didn't say this because he cared for the poor. He said it because he was a thief and he had the money bag with him. So interesting We think about how Jesus would go after the false teachers. In Matthew 7, he says, beware of false prophets. He says, by your fruits, by their fruits you shall know them. So he says, it's not what they say that will indicate if what they're saying is true. It's going to be the result. It'll be what they do. It'll be what they practice. In James chapter 2, we're reminded that faith without works is dead. And so James says, show me thy faith without thy works. You can't do it. He says, I will show you my faith by my works. In other words, I claim to be a Christian. I claim that the gospel has transformed me, and you will see it and what I do. This passage just lays it out very simply. Christians who say that they love God, but don't love the people around them don't love God. It's that simple. It's a problem that we need to recognize. If a man says, I love God and hateth his brother, he's a liar. He's deceived himself. He's playing the part of the hypocrite. He is not consistent in his words with what he does. The second truth we're going to see is this. Our devotion to God is ultimately revealed in the decisions that we make on a day-by-day basis. The truth is if I tell people I love God, then they should be able to see that in the way that I relate to the people around me. I'm talking about how we relate to our children. I'm talking about how we relate to our spouse. I'm talking about how we relate to people within the church context. I'm talking about the people that we work with. How we relate to people will ultimately reveal whether or not we truly do love God and the state of our soul is healthy or not. It's interesting. In 1 Corinthians chapter 6, Paul talks about the fact that a Christian's identity can be identified by the way their life has changed. He says, know ye not that the right unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? And then he lays out this whole list of the kinds of people that you won't see in God's kingdom. And then he says it this way, and such were some of you. But you've been washed You've been sanctified. You've been justified in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ by the Spirit of our God. He's saying heaven's going to be full of people who used to be those things. But when they trusted in the finished work of Christ and they became new creatures in Christ, God transformed them. In other words, the power of the gospel was demonstrated in this radical change that took place in their lives In other words, our position and our devotion will be revealed in what we do. The more that we understand God's love and forgiveness, the more we're going to love the people around us. In Luke 7, Jesus says, I say unto thee, her sins which are many are forgiven. She loved much, but to whom little is forgiven the same loveth little. Now he's indicating the fact that when a person has lived this morally bankrupt life and God forgives them They all of a sudden have this overwhelming sense of their need to love God because they recognize how great his love is for them. But here's my question. Is there anybody that God has saved who shouldn't love him? Is there anybody who God has saved who shouldn't be able to look and say, I've been forgiven of so much Well the reality is all of us have been forgiven of so much. And so the extent to which we recognize how much God has forgiven us, and we recognize how great and unimaginably good God's love is toward us, the more we have this sense of that, the more it's going to be expressed in how we relate to other people And so he puts it this way in verse 20, you will love your neighbor if you love God. He says, He that loveth not his brother, whom he hath not seen. How can he love God whom he hath not seen? In other words, it's impossible for you to love God but not love your neighbor, or to not love your neighbor and to love God. They're not possible. In other words, what's going on inside will ultimately be revealed in the little decisions we make on a daily basis. Then we come to a third fact or truth that we find here. There are certain principles, there are certain graces when we talk about the Christian life that are impossible to separate. There are certain things that the Bible teaches that you just can't separate them. In other words, this what you believe and what you do cannot be separated. Belief and practice are going to be integrally connected In Matthew 12, he talks about the fact that a good man out of a good treasure of the heart bringeth forth good things. An evil man out of the evil treasury of the heart bringeth forth evil things. When we talks about a treasury, he's saying all of the stuff inside of us is ultimately going to manifest itself in what we do. So if a person is doing evil things, that means they have a heart that is full of evil. And when a person is doing good things, that means that Their heart is full of good. And the question is, well, what is it that's causing them to be good? Is it that the fact that they're naturally good? The answer is of course not. It's the fact that the Holy Spirit is dominating their thoughts and their passions. And so as a person begins to manifest Christ-likeness, it's the result of God changing them internally. And so we see that belief and practice are inseparable. What you believe will ultimately work itself out in what you do. What's inside of you will ultimately work itself out in how you relate to the people around you. We look at these issues of justification, sanctification, and glorification. If God declares me righteous, he's going to begin to make me righteous and Christ-like And if God started that work in me, he's going to complete that work in me. And Romans chapter 8 talks about this. It says, whom God foreknew, he predestined to be conformed to the image of his son. He says, whom he justified, these he glorified. The idea is that when God saves a person and declares them righteous He immediately begins this work of sanctification in them. , And he guarantees that he's going to complete that work in them. In other words, justification, sanctification, glorification are all an integral part of our salvation. You cannot separate those three things. If God does one, he does all. Very important for us to recognize. We talk about something like repentance and faith. You don't have genuine Christian repentance without genuine Christian faith. You don't have genuine Christian faith without genuine Christian repentance. In other words, when the thinking has truly changed, the result will be dependence on God on that particular matter. And when I'm trusting God Then the result, , then the reason I'm trusting God is because he's brought this change in the way that I'm thinking. Repentance and faith inseparable. And so we come to this issue of loving God and loving our neighbor. They're inseparable. He says in verse twenty one , This commandment have we from him, that he who loveth God love his brother also. If you love God, you must love your neighbor. If you love your neighbor, it means that you must love God. He's saying these two things are inseparable. And so when we talk about the Christian life, we need to recognize that talk is cheap. Talk is only as good as it actually is backed by action. And so the question we should ask this morning is how do we practically apply such a simple yet very blunt passage? So let me give you a couple of very simple thoughts. The first is this. God wants us to be genuine in everything. He wants what we say to be consistent with what we do. He wants what we think about our own soul, the health of our soul, to be consistent with what it actually is. God doesn't want us to be self-deceived God doesn't want us to be hypocrites. God wants us to be genuine. God wants us to have a healthy walk that is manifesting itself in healthy interaction. God wants us to be genuine. A second practical thing. If we love God, and that love for God is real, then we will love the people around us. It's that simple. If I struggle with loving the people around me, that's an indication that deep down inside my love for God is deficient. And you might say, well, how do I stir up this love for God? Well, we stir up this love for God by the Holy Spirit reminding us of how much God has saved us of. We see this love stirred up as we reflect on the love of God. In fact, it's interesting. In 1 John, it says that we love him because he first loved us. Our love for God is a response to his love for us. He pursued us and we respond to that. And so when our love for others is deficient, it's an indication that we have forgotten or we're not reflecting enough or we're not meditating enough on the fact that God loves us and He's forgiven us of so very much. And the last thing I'll mention is this. If our love for God is fervent, I'm just talking about the fact that we love God, but that love for God is a fervent love, then we will have a fervent love for others also. We need to realize that when the Bible talks about faith and works, love for God and love for others, these things are inseparable. If we're going to be genuine, In our walk, we have to be genuine in our heart. And so I hope that this will have been a challenge to you this morning. If it has, please share that. And uh we'll look forward to our next discussion. We are moving into 1 John chapter 5 tomorrow. So we're excited about getting into a new chapter. Hope that you have a great day. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Father, we thank you for the opportunity again. To study 1 John chapter 4, help us to be genuine in not just our walk, but in our heart Help the way that we think and the way that we act to be consistent with our position in Christ. I pray that this little challenge would have been an encouragement to someone today. And I pray that we would take this and we would reflect on it deeply throughout the day. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it's been good to see each of you this morning, and we will look forward to seeing you tomorrow, God willing. Bye now.