Good evening. I want to welcome you to our Monday evening service. It feels like a Wednesday or a Sunday night. I'm not sure what it feels like. And getting a little bit darker earlier today. That was kind of neat getting to see that with the glasses. But anyways, we are here and I'm excited about the opportunity to gather together and to just hear the word of God preached and our hearts and minds would be open and tender to what the Spirit of God would have to us through the Word of God and the man that He has brought for us this evening. So glad that you are here and we're going to open up with our scripture reading in Psalm 97, starting with verse 6. The heavens declare his righteousness, and all the people see his glory. Confounded be all they that serve graven images, that boast themselves of idols. Worship him, all ye gods. Zion heard and was glad, and the daughters of Judah rejoiced because of thy judgments, O Lord. For thou, Lord, art high above all the earth. Thou art exalted far above all gods. Ye that love the Lord hate evil. He preserveth the souls of his saints. He delivereth them out of the hand of the wicked. Light is sown for the righteous, and gladness for the upright in heart. Rejoice in the Lord, ye righteous, and give thanks that the remembrance of his holiness Our focus for this evening is His holiness. Okay, let's all bow together for a word of prayer, and then we're going to sing a couple of hymns together before we have our service, our preaching tonight. So let's bow for prayer. Lord, we're so grateful that tonight we can gather as a body. And I pray that as Brother Gleiser opens the Word of God, that you would fill him with your spirit. That you would move in our midst and move in our hearts. Father, if there's someone that needs to be uplifted because they are downcast, I pray that the Scriptures would uplift them. If some of us need to be convicted, I pray that the Spirit of God would convict our hearts in a very specific manner. We would humble ourselves and that we would open our heart to exactly what you have for us. If there's a way in which our thinking needs to be changed, that repentance needs to be brought into our thinking, that you would cause that to happen. And then I pray that at the end of this time we would respond to the Word of God very swiftly, that we would have hearts that are attentive to whatever it is that you have for us, and then our fellowship would be very sweet together tonight. Bless our singing in Christ's name. Amen. I want to ask you to stand together as we're going to sing our first hymn, that's hymn 68. Our focus is on God's holiness, and this is an old hymn. Great hymn sixty-eight, holy, holy, holy. We'll sing each of the verses together tonight. Holy, holy, holy, for God Almighty. Early in the morning our song shall rise. To thee holy, holy, holy, merciful and mighty Saints adority Cating down their comic crown not several men and A good start. Good singing. He could be singing. And the next offer to sing is another old one. Number five. Oh for a thousand tongues. To sing. Hymn number five, owe for a thousand tongues to sing. Let's really lift this one up as we reflect on God's greatness, God's holiness, God's righteousness. And ultimately the fact that he escaped us. Number five, look for a thousand countries. I break me, please for pray O 'Sweet , I gotta be I bring the back well Let my God comes with me through the broad way , till it has been glory and the broad remote way. And it 's quite front and boy. He price of our witness, he spent the tea , and what can 't mean, it 's one of the warning. Isn't that a great song? I I love I love what you get a little tongue-tied in there. But he says, here did ye death, his praise ye dumb, your lucid tongue Ye blind, ye hold your Savior come, and leap, ye lamb for joy. Isn't that a great stance? there great statement and uh one day people that are blind but have seen the Lord by placing their faith in him they're gonna see him face to face What a great thought. Alright, the next we're going to sing, and this is the one that we're going to sing before our sermon tonight. And I want us to sing a little bit slower and a little bit more. Reflectively, if that's a word, I don't know. I might have just coined it tonight. Be thou my vision. Be thou my vision. 374. Let's stand as we sing it. Let's really sing it out. Beautiful, beautiful song. Three seven four. Now I 'm sorry, I 'll else to me take that on. Have I mentioned I believe me I read? And I will be wrong , which is I become deep. I need everything now and always now and now we can. I came up with heaven , I will So you'll be my big night, and all the Maybe seated. Please let's bow together for a word of prayer again. Ask the Lord to take the word and really work in our hearts. Father, as we think about these songs that we just sang, and we think about the scriptures we've just read. I pray that we would be struck with a greater sense of how awesome you are, how holy, how good, how kind you are. Father, I pray that we would have a greater love and affection for you as the Word of God is open, that you would stir up those passions. And may we hate sin, may we love righteousness, may we love our Savior, and may we glory in Him more and more because of the time we spent together tonight. I pray for your blessing on the preaching of your word in just a moment, and we ask it in Christ's name. Thank you. Pastor Porchet, thank you for your heart coming through in the song service. Hey, great to see you here. tonight. Thanks for coming to be with us and and uh I I I haven't met all of you but I've met a I maybe a good majority of you yesterday and And gotta say a quick hello to a few of you tonight. Hope to meet you after the service when I'm finished here in three hours. I really would love to uh say howdy to you and uh and so if you're not mad at me we'll meet out in the in the foyer hallway out back whatever you call that section out there and uh and come by and say he hey and uh give me your name and maybe I can get a name and a face and get it together. So glad you're here. Hope you've had a good day. I really do. I appreciate I s I tried to say it yesterday how important it is to put it on your plans and prioritize the fact that you're going to come back for the Monday night service because it's unusual. It's not what you normally do. on a Monday evening and I get that. So thank you for making it happen. And if you had to eat on the run and you went through, you know, Chick-fil-A in a hurry or you uh uh you um I y I don't think I've ever gone through Chick-fil-A in a hurry. There's always a long line there. That's that's the problem. Those people are the busiest people in the world, and they're not open on Sundays. I love it. Um Uh how many of you have ever gone to Chick-fil-A on a Sunday and remember gotten there and went, Oh, oh that's right, they're not open. I'm so glad they're not open. You know, and uh I I've done it before. I don't know I'm chasing a rabbit here, I don't know why I'm going this way Thank you for uh putting it in your schedule to get here. If you had to eat in a hurry, you ate in the car, or maybe you haven't even eaten yet. And you wish I wouldn't talk about it much right now 'cause you're ready to get some. Uh uh or if you came straight from work or whatever you had to do. You know, and thank you for uh bringing your your kiddos and yourself and just being here. I really appreciate I want us to use our time effectively. My prayer is that, honestly, by the end of Wednesday night service, that each one of us will leave and say, God met with us. I prayed with the pastors tonight before we came in. I'm not interested in just checking off another service, checking off another meeting. I'm not interested in that. I'm not just putting in time. This is not something that, you know, it's like you just uh you've got a schedule to keep, so you know, you get this done, next next service done, all right, this meeting's over with, what's next? You know, I I try to live every day thinking this may be my last day on earth. I may be seeing the Lord, and wherever I am, I want to be all there And so I long for God to meet with us. And I hope that you'll come service after service with that same heartbeat. I wake up every day with two thoughts on my mind. Number one Where am I? Uh that's the first thing, because I I often forget just exactly where am I this week. Oh, Millersville, that's right. And the second thing is, when do I preach again? Lord, what do you want me to preach? I've been praying for this service all day. All day. Probably even since last night, after the evening service, asking for God's leave. I think we ought I believe that the Lord has led me to John chapter 21. If you'd go there with me to John chapter 21 tonight. If you're familiar with your Bible If you're knowledgeable about the Gospel of John, you know that John chapter 21 is the last chapter. And now that you have found it in your Bible, you can just sort of look over and recognize, hey, yeah, this is the end of John and the end of his gospel writing. Well, he's going to write more. He's going to write those three epistles near the end of our New Testament and then that classic Revelation. We're grateful for that. John was the youngest of all the apostles, all the disciples. In fact, it dawned on me as I studied about his life, I don't know, maybe five years ago or seven or eight, I don't know, something like that. It dawned upon me, it could very possibly be that John, when he became a disciple, a follower of the Lord Jesus, he very possibly was a teenager. 18, 19, something like that. His older brother James was was a part of the crew. They worked for their father, Zebedee, as they uh went fishing every day, every night. And took care of things, and then they uh were asked and guided by Jesus when he said, Follow me, and I'll make you fishers of men. And they did. They leapt the fish in business and became followers of the Lord Jesus John is the only disciple that was not martyred. The other uh uh guys were. They tried to martyr John, but he lived through Uh the their attempt to to to I say they, Rome, tried to wipe him out, and yet he lived through the torture and he lived on, and I'm glad he did, so that we could have the other books that he wrote for us. And historians tell us that he died natural death up in years, probably in his 90s, uh, clearly in his 90s when he finally died. When you come to the end of John's gospel, We not only come to the end of John's writing, of the four Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, John was the one, his gospel was written last. Again, being the youngest. And being guided by the Spirit of the Lord to write when he did, the other three had been written. And the cool thing about John 's writing is The other three were what we call synoptic gospels, that is, they gave some of the same stories. Matthew, Mark, and Luke did, and they gave their own vantage point on those stories. But John introduces to us some other events, some other encounters, some other miracles that Jesus Did that the other three never wrote. Hey, John was the one who told us that Jesus wrought Lazarus back to life from the dead. Man, I love that story, John 11. He tells us about the woman from Samaria in John chapter 4. And many other things are given. The only story that John repeats that the other guys repeated was the feeding of the 5,000. At the end of John's writing, we see a couple of things here that's fascinating to me. This is not our text for tonight, but notice Go back to chapter 20. Look at the last few verses of chapter 20. It says, and many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book, but these are written That you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, that is, the sent one, the Messiah, the Son of God, and that believing you might have life. Through his name. Period. End of sentence. End of paragraph. I don't know about you. It almost looks like that ought to be the end of the book. I mean it says he said he said these that I have written to you this has been written that you might believe that he was the Messiah. He is the Messiah, the sent one, the Son of God. Believing on him you might have life through his name. Boom, there's my book But he's not through. And I'm glad. At the end of chapter 21, this is a verse that just fascinates me. Look at the very last verse. Verse 25, and there are also many other things which Jesus did, the which, if they should be written every one, I suppose that even the world itself. could not contain the books that should be written. Amen. That fascinates me. When I get to heaven, I'm gonna say I want to know about those other things that never got recorded. Somebody tell me about those other stories, would you please? John, come over here. But there's something given to us here in chapter 21. That after all is said and done, and that's my title if you're into titles, after all is said and done, we come to this chapter, and these things have happened. You say, what do you mean after all is said and done? We've had four Gospels in the life of Christ: Matthew, Mark, Luke, John. After all is said and done, it came down to what we're going to read about here in chapter 21. After all the encounters, after all the miracles that you can read in these four gospels. After all of the praying that Jesus did in all four gospels, after all the word miracles, after all the miracles After all the confrontations with the religious leaders who were not believers. After all the parables, after all the teaching, after every book writing about his crucifixion and his resurrection After all that's said and done, we come to the last words of the gospels. Now Jesus will speak again to them in Acts chapter 1. before he ascends into glory. And he'll speak to Saul, later known as Paul, in Acts chapter 9, and he says, I am Jesus, the one you persecute. But these are his last words. Someone said last words are lasting words. Okay, Jesus, what do you want to tell us? Beginning in verse 1, notice what we read. After these things, Jesus showed himself again. To the disciples at the Sea of Tiberias, for what it's worth. That's the Sea of Galilee. By the time John wrote, the Sea of Galilee was now called the Sea of Tiberias. He says that he showed him himself again at the Sea of Tiberius. And on this wise showed he himself. There were together Simon, Peter, And Thomas called Didymus, which means twin. Thomas was a twin. I think that's cool. And Nathaniel of Cana in Galilee And the sons of Zebedee. Now fascinating. Who are the sons of Zebedee? James and John. John, the author of the book that we're reading. John will never write his name. in this rock book. Later on he'll call himself the disciple whom Jesus loved. I'm just kind of throwing some snippets at you to get you to think with me. I love that about the the heartbeat and the humility of John. He said, I'm one of the sons of Zebedee. And then he says, and two other of his disciples. We don't know who that was. Probably Andrew and probably Philip. They seem to be named together. Verse 3, Simon Peter saith unto them, I go a fishing. And they say unto him, We also go with thee. They went forth and entered into a ship, or the ship, immediately, probably one of the family ships. And that night, uh-oh. They caught nothing. Here are these professional fishermen who knew how to catch fish at night. They didn't catch a thing. Why? Because they weren't supposed to be there Peter discouraged, Peter distraught, Peter humiliated because he had denied the Lord three times. I know that some would argue that he said, I'm just going to go fishing for one night. That may be true. He might have been saying, we need to make some money, guys. Who knows what's going to happen now? I mean, now that Jesus is Has changed the plans, you know. At least we can make some money. Let's go fishing. Or maybe he was saying, I'm going to go back to the fishing business. I don't know. He just says, I'm going to go fishing. And they said, Well, we'll go with you. And they didn't catch a thing. Keep reading. But when the morning was now come, okay, they've been up all night long. Jesus stood on the shore. But the disciples knew not that it was Jesus And I wonder about that. I wonder was he just so far away that they couldn't tell it was him? I don't think so. I think Jesus somehow or another was veiled in a in a way. I don't mean literally veiled, but I mean in some way He looked different. There were other seasons, times where people didn't notice and recognize after he rose from the dead, there was an appearance that was a bit different And so there's a stranger on the on the beach up there in the north west corner of the Sea of Galilee. Then Jesus, I'm in verse 5, then Jesus saith unto them, Children, that's a kind word of saying, gentlemen, friends. Have you any meat? You didn't catch anything, did you? I imagine they gritted their teeth. It's just they answered him. No And he said unto them, Cast the net on the right side of the ship, and ye shall find. Now, come on. Don't you think somebody with a bit of sarcasm probably looked out there and said, Oh, we didn't think about that. Cast on the right side of the ship. So glad he's here to help us. Who is this guy up there? They didn't know it was Jesus. They wouldn't have acted that way. I'm just reading between the lines. I'm trying to make these people as human as they were. I think many of us after a weary night of not catching anything and physically tired, who is this guy up there? What can he see? Maybe that somebody said, well maybe he can see a school of fish coming this way. I don't know Let's just take him at his word. Let's try it. So it says there, it says in the middle of verse 6, They cast therefore, and now they were not able to draw it for the multitude of fishes. Therefore, that disciple whom Jesus loved saith unto Peter, It's the Lord. That's who that is up there, Peter. That's our Lord. Well, you know, Mr. Peter, Mr. Impulsive, he's not going to wait for that boat to get to land. Now he's already talked to Jesus. He's already confessed to him. that he was in sin for denying him three times. We read that from, believe it or not, from 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Peter, Cephas, saw Jesus earlier and made things right, but boy, he couldn't wait to get to Jesus. We don't know that conversation. I wish we did. That conversation between Peter and the Lord on the shore. Then the other guys came to shore. Pick it up in verse 9. As soon then as they were come to land, they saw a fire of coals there, and fish laid thereon. and bread. Jesus said unto them, Bring of the fish which you've now caught. And Simon Peter went up and drew the net to land, full of great fishes. 150 and 3. Somebody counted them. And for all there were so many, yet was not the net broken. And Jesus saith unto them, Come and dine. Come on, let's eat breakfast, guys. Come on. And none of the disciples durst ask him, who art thou, knowing that it was the Lord. Jesus then cometh and taketh bread and giveth them and fish likewise. This is now the third time that Jesus showed himself to his disciples after that he was risen from the dead. So when they had dined, Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonas , that's another name for John, lovest thou me more than these? He saith unto him, Yea , yes, Lord, thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my lambs. Can you picture this? Maybe they were all maybe leaning up against various trees or rocks there on the shore and they'd been eating a meal and Oh, maybe a couple of guys are stretching. Oh, their backs are stiff from a night of labor in that boat. Ah, Jesus is over there and he's just, he's been eating some He just sat down. He's been serving them, and he looks over at Peter. Simon, son of John. Yes, master? Do you love me more than these? I don't know the spirit with which Peter spoke. I don't know if he was tepid, or if he was timid, or if he was as bombastic as he usually was. I don't know, but he just said, Yes, Lord, you know I love you. Okay, Pete, and feed my lambs. Now we're going to read it two more times here, and you're going to think that it's back to back to back. I I'm just going to think that maybe there were some conversations that took place. between everybody and there was some time that passed and and so forth and maybe someone's already sawing logs and uh snoring off on the side and maybe somebody else is is whispering, What are we gonna do today? I don't know Let's see what Jesus has to say. Okay. And now we read in verse 16. He saith unto him again the second time, Simon, son of Jonas. Lovest thou me? He said unto him, Yea, Lord, thou knowest that I love thee. He said unto him, feed my sheep. And maybe by this time someone said, Hey, are you gonna eat are you gonna eat this toast? I'm gonna eat the last piece of toast here if anybody else is not gonna eat it. Are we through eating? I'll take I'll put the fire out, you know, and let's get some trash cleaned up and and uh maybe more conversations are going on, and then we read in verse seventeen. He saith unto him the third time, Simon. Son of Jonas, I wonder if Peter's a little nervous at this point. Lovest thou me Peter was grieved, because he said unto him the third time, Lovest thou me? And he said unto him, Lord , thou knowest all things. Thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus said unto him, Feed My sheep. What's going on here? Well, I'm going to tell you something. I'm glad this is in our Bibles. This has been a fascinating account that I've read and meditated on for years. I love this story. I'm so glad John puts it in scriptures for us. I suppose if you'll think about it. Had it not been here, we may have thought later on, why is Peter preaching after what he had done to Jesus? And how he denied the Lord three times. He he really doesn't have any business being in the ministry, does he? I mean I mean what what you know he really he really blew it over here and everything. We would have probably possibly thought that, though that never crosses our mind because We realize that Jesus was reinstating Peter to the ministry in this passage. Some have discussed the choice of words of the word love, and I get it where Jesus said, Peter, do you love me? And the word he used was agape. And if you know things about the original Koine Greek language that that Peter chose not to use that word agape. He used the term phileo, which was a secondary level in common communication that I am strongly uh appreciative of you and I'm strongly much your friend and I I'm associated with you in in a big way. But he didn't say that divine complete agape love. Now I'm just going to tell you my opinion on this. I don't think it's that big of a deal because I could show you other passages where Agape and Phileo are used interchangeably. And for example, John himself refers to himself at other spots as the disciple whom Jesus Phileo At other times he says, I'm the disciple whom Jesus agape. It was a term that was often interchanged. But let's not chase that. It could be that it was a big deal. Because on the third time that Jesus said, Do you love me, he uses Peter's word, do you fill me? But when we read that Peter was grieved, I think you'll read in the language. You find that his grief was wrapped up in the fact that he was being asked for the third time. Do you love me? And when the Bible says he was grieved, you can pretty much agree with that, that that was a word that meant emotionally, passionately, weeping. He said, You know me. It was as if Peter was saying, I'm not very good. I know I have failed. I know I have fumbled. I'm not very good at this discipleship. And obviously I'm not very good as a fisherman either. Well, not without you, but I love you. And Jesus. Said, tend to my lambs, feed my sheep. What's going on here? Now look, we live in a day in which the term love is thrown about. I mean there's poetry. Love poetry. Love songs have been written, let's see here, since uh Adam and Eve. I mean I'm telling you, Adam when he said Oh, he said, This is bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. That's Old Testament Hebrew poetry. He was saying, Woo! Yeah, I this is what I've been looking for. These giraffes and monkeys and uh they don't interest me at all. This is what I've been looking for. And he wrote a poetic Love poetry and love songs have been written since the beginning of time, okay? Hallmark movies have been around for quite a while, okay? You say, how do you know about Hallmark? I'm married. Come on, man We don't we don't we don't watch them much anymore. I mean the truth is I could write for Hallmark. You know, I really could. They're all the same. You throw snow on the ground, boom, it's Christmas, you know, and I mean all this stuff goes. All right I'm chasing a lot of rabbits tonight. My point to you is that we we talk about love and we speak about love. I can remember, do you remember seventh grade? Oh what a crazy time that was. We called it junior high. My buddies began to uh Pear off all around school. Back beforehand it was like girls they got problems Ooh, stay away from girls. Ooh. And then around the seventh grade, all of a sudden guys start thinking, hey, they begin to look different or something. I don't know. And and and you'd see you see some of my buddies walking around school and his girlfriend walking there beside him, you know I got me a girlfriend, you know. And they started putting the squeeze on me. Morris, you got to get a girlfriend. I don't want a girlfriend. You gotta get one. I don't want one. I got one already You do? Yeah. My football. I mean this is all I could ever want. And they put the pressure on me and I failed to peer pressure into every young person in this room. Do not play this silly game of chasing uh someone and and let the Lord bring to you your future mate. But the truth is here I was a little 13-year-old boy. I said, okay, all right, I'll get me a girlfriend. Ladies I apologize for the way I handled this, okay? But I was a 13-year-old seventh grader, so give me some leeway here, would you? I simply looked around the school and I said What's left? You know, I mean what what's available, you know, like a farmer looking at cattle, you know. You know, what what's out here I went to a large public school and the guys, my buddy said, no, Morris, you gotta, you don't, you just don't look around like that. You gotta, you gotta You gotta feel your way through it. And I said, I haven't a clue what you're talking about. And I finally I spotted a girl and I said, Sh sh she looks halfway decent. I said, Who who's that girl over there? And they said, We don't know I said, you think she's in the seventh grade? Because I can't I can't boy if she's in the eighth or in the ninth grade. We were all together. Seventh, eighth, and ninth grade are all in one big school. I said, man, if she's in the eighth grade, I gotta stay in my age category. I mean those eighth and ninth graders, they're ready for college, you know. I mean, I got Stay in my age bracket. And they said, We don't we don't know her. We don't know she's a seventh grader. I said, You think she's already got a boyfriend? We don't know I said, well go find out, but don't let her know you're asking. I said just go find out. So they snuck around, ask a few questions, and they came back and they said, You're in business. You got it. Seventh grader, here's her name, no boyfriend I've already asked for forgiveness, so I asked for one more time of the leeway here. I walked up to this girl nervously and I just simply said, hey I called her by name. I said, My name's Morris. I said, you got a boyfriend? She said , No. Said, you want one? She said, Maybe I said, Well consider it done. And I turned and I wanted to walk away. I I thought, well that takes care of it. And my buddy said, No, you gotta talk to her. I said, Talk to her? I don't want to talk to her. I don't want to talk about And so for about four weeks I'm standing around before school with this girl asking her about her homework and I really didn't care and I I I I went through all the motions. So finally one morning I got I walked up to her and I was doing her a favor. I really was. I just walked up to her and I said, you know, look, you're a real nice girl. I said, you really are. And uh and she could see where this was going. And I said, whatever this thing that we're doing, I said this game, I said, let's don't play this anymore. I said, let's just friends and and she began to whimper a little bit and I said now don't start that we don't even know each other and I said don't and so she took off running grabbed all of her girlfriends and went into the into the girls' office. You know what that is. It is the restroom. And they got in there and they're talking about me. And so for the rest of that day I had to put up with a bunch of angry girls just kind of glaring at me like, you, you, you home wrecker, you or whatever, you know And I said, you'll get over it. If you had to ask me then and if you asked me tonight, Morris, did you love that girl? No. She was a kind girl, sweet girl, she really was, but I didn't love her. Love is an important subject When someone who knows you better than anybody else, excuse me, when someone knows you the best and loves you the most The Lord Jesus, when he asks you this question, disciple, do you love me? When it's all said and done, after all the teaching, after all of the explanations, After all the encounters with other people, after everything you can read in the life of Jesus, it came right down to this. I need to know something, Jesus said. Do you love me? Do you love me? It's as if he looked down in the depths of Peter's soul and he said, Do you really love me? If I ask you tonight that same question, your answer would more than likely, I would suppose, be the same as Simon Peter's. Yes. Of course I love Jesus, Morris. Of course I do. And I wouldn't deny it. I wouldn't doubt it. Peter himself would later write, Whom having not seen ye love. Paul would write in Romans 8, 28, what? And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. Jesus himself said in the Gospel of John, if God were your father, you would love me. Okay, look, a Christian loves Jesus. No question about that. So what's going on? Can I lay some truths on your heart very quickly? The first truth I see from this passage is simply this. Jesus communicates his patience. This may be why you're here tonight. I hope you'll get it Here were some probably nervous disciples who thought we were a bunch of failures. We failed him. We ran away from him. John was the only one who stayed near him at the cross. R Peter denied the Lord. No doubt the the whole heartbeat behind I go a fishing was the idea of I I'm not very good as a disciple. I can't do what I thought I was going to do. So uh but I can be a good fisherman. No, Pete, you're no good at that either without Jesus. Jesus is communicating his patience. When they got to shore, when they got to the shore, did Jesus say, What gives with you guys? I told you back in Jerusalem to meet me here in Galilee, to meet up on the mountain. You can read that in Matthew 28. But he says, you're out here fishing. What what is the deal? Guys, I've been teaching you for over three years. You just don't seem to understand what I'm all about. Maybe I could just take the next 30 days or so that I've got left here on this earth. Maybe I'll invest in some other people who understand what this thing is about following me because you guys clearly don't get it. Do you get a hint of that from Jesus? No, what do you hear from Jesus? Hey, come on. Let's eat breakfast. Come and dine. Come on. Come on. Let's eat. I got some food already going. By the way, where did Jesus get his fish? And if you're asking that tonight, give me a break. We're talking about the Son of God here. I don't know why. He could have whistled and a fish come flying out of the water and he caught it. I don't know. He could have taken a stone without Satan making him do it. He could have said, turn to bread. But Jesus has fish on a coal of fires. The last time Peter saw a coal of fires, he was denying the Lord. And here they are eating and Jesus says, come on, and he's serving them. Why? Because he's saying, I know you failed. But failure is not final. Now please hear me tonight. Jesus is not minimizing the ugliness and the wickedness of sinfulness. Jesus is not saying you can be my follower and then just live any way you want to. It's no big deal because sinfulness It is not the end of the road. No, no, no, no, no. There's clear teaching in the scriptures that when you get away from the Lord, there will be his corrective, loving, fatherly hand. But can I just ask you, who could Jesus use? Who could the Lord use if he didn't use a bunch of failures? We're all a bunch of broken people You ever thought about if the pastor here was looking for someone to fill a role, if he got some of the people who wrote the scriptures to turn in their resume? Okay, okay, let's see here. Okay, Moses, you're quite the leader. Man, alive. You've had a rich history. Oh, man Sweet parents. That's great. That's wonderful. Led all those millions, people. That's great. Okay, it says here that you killed a man in Egypt. Hmm. And you're applying to work with our children? Okay. You know, don't call me, I'll call you. Some guy walks in and says, I'd like to speak at your next couple's retreat about marriage. Okay, good. What is your name? Solomon. Who could you use? What is the point? You say, Preacher man, are you telling us that I can live in sin and God just still will use me? I'll tell you what I'm telling you. Jesus is saying, I know you failed me. And Peter, I know that you have stumbled and I know that you've confessed your sin, but I'm not through with you. And I'm trying to show everybody else around here that failure's not final. I'm looking at folks here tonight, you've struggled with worry. I preached on it last night. You struggled with your temper. You've struggled with lust. You've struggled with selfishness, self-centeredness, self-pity. You've had a problem with covetousness. You've had a problem with being inconsistent with the Lord in your prayer life and in your walk with him. You've got a problem with pride. And the fact is Satan grabs a hold of those areas in my life and in your life and he says to us what? You know what? God is through working with you. God doesn't have any more mercy for you. That mercy bucket that you have been drawing out of, you know, when you were a first time believer you you begin to enjoy the mercies of God and the grace of God but you know at some point in time the Lord's going to look at you and say enough's enough He says to Peter, I know you failed. But I'm not through with you. You may feel like I'm through with you Satan may have whispered to you that I don't want to use you. But just like I called you three and a half years ago to be my fisher of men, I still want to use you. Look, friends, when we get in this position of believing that God can't use us, we'll be less than enthusiastic when it comes to serving the Lord. We'd be less than enthusiastic when it comes to singing in the song service. We'd just be going through the motions. Holy, holy, holy. Because why? Because we're thinking, you know, I what does God want out of me? I take two steps forward and three steps back all the time in my Christian life. I'm just not a very good husband. I'm not a very good wife. I'm not a very good believer. I'm not a very good witness. I'm not very good. I'm so inconsistent and so what happens is The fires of fervent service to the Lord begin to diminish. And we start saying When there's a need for ministry, God can't use me. We're less than eager when it comes to praying Less than eager when it comes to listening to the word of God. We're less than uh uh eager uh than uh what we ought to be as a husband or a wife, and it shows up in our home and in our work and There's no joy because we live with guilt. You know what we need to be? You know what a real every time there's been a real awakening, I've been studying a little bit on this. When there's been a real work of revival , you don't just conjure up this, but there is a brand new energy That a person begins to recognize, I'm free. God wants to use me as his servant. Robert Murray McShane went to the Welsh Islands when he heard about the Welsh Revival over a hundred years ago. And he came back to report to his church what he heard. He wanted to know if it was real. When he got up, the people were anticipating what the report was going to be on the Welsh Revival. Here's what he said. Oh, the singing. It was nothing like I've ever heard before. Tonight, can I say to God's people, Jesus is trying to communicate his patience with us. That ought to be the motivation in my life and in your life to say, oh Lord, I've never been loved like I've been loved. Loved by you. Oh, what can I do for you? God, I want to be all in for you because of what you've done for me. I don't deserve your forgiveness, but I'll be all in with you. The first thing is he communicates his patience. Number two, he calls for priority. Look at verse 15. Jesus So it says, so when they had died, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of John, Jonas, lovest thou me? Notice the next three words. More than these. There's been a lot of ink spilt on paper trying to determine what the these were that Jesus said to Peter, Do you love me more than these? When it's all said and done, it comes down to this, Pete. Do you love me more than these? These what? I don't know and you don't know I've read commentators, I've read people who've written about this, they've tried to dig into the verses, the the writing of the language, and there's a lot of dogmatic comments, but they can't be Somebody has said, and I think this is legit, it could be that Jesus pointed to the fishing gear and the fish still in the net. The boat out there on the on the beach shore. Maybe he said, Do you love me more than these, these, these elements that you were called from? Do you love are you going to go back to the fishing business? Do you love me more than these? That could have been what he was saying. Or Peter had said back in John 13, now Jesus. These other disciples, yeah, they'll deny you. But I shall never, yo no, verily I will never forsake you. I'll die for you. And Jesus, of course, told him You'll deny me three times before the rooster crows in the morning twice. Peter, do you love me more than These other disciples love me? Is your love superior to theirs? Are you really better than them? That could have been what he was saying The only other thing that some people believe he could have been saying was, Do you love me more than you love them? Your friends. Andrew there, your brother, and these guys you've spent time with. Do you love me more than you love them? You say, Morris, what do you think? I don't know. I have a certain lean. But I don't know and you don't know You say, well, what's the point? Here's the deal. Jesus looks at all of us and he says, do you love me more than and he points to any number of things in your life, in my life, and he says, Do you love me more than everything? He's calling for priority. He is saying, am I the literal first love of your life? Do you love me more than your business? Anything wrong with enjoying where you work? No. It's like that's a makes it easier to get up in the morning. Do you love me more than your family? Oh man, what a gift from God Do you love me more than your your your your uh uh your hobbies? Do you love me more than your your hunting equipment? Do you love me more than your technological toys? Do you love me more than your vehicles, your car? Do you love me more than your grandkids? Do you love me more than fill in the blank? What does Jesus point to in your life tonight and say, Do you love me more than this Them? Him, her? Anything? When it's all said and done, Jesus wanted to know something. Am I the first love of your life? To the church at Ephesus, Jesus would write through John later on in the book of Revelation. He said, I know your works, and I know that you've labored for me and you've carried a heavy load. And you've tried them which say they are apostles, and they're not. But he said, there's one area in which you've stumbled. You have left your first love. In the early sermon that Jesus preached in that masterful Sermon on the Mount, Jesus said in Matthew 6 and verse 33. Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And then all these other things will be added unto you. Now the truth is tonight most of us would sit here and say, Morris, I love the Lord. And you're you'd be just like Peter. I love the Lord. He's saying to this, I need to know something. More than this, these, and my the first love of your life. He's calling for priority. And I can't answer for you. I have enough in my own world that I have to keep constant vigil on. And to take my heart, my life. and to keep it cleaned off of all the other things that are vying for the control room, the driver's seat of my life. Good things that get out of place. Jesus said, I need to be in first. I had a college girl come up to me at a Christian camp one time and She handed me her journal. No girl ever allows anybody to read her journal. And she had it turned to one page. She said, only this one page. I want you to read this one page. And I said, Okay. And I read where she said. Lord, I have allowed, and she named a boy, I have allowed him to become far too important in my life. He's taken over the love I should have for you, Lord. But that's changing today. I'm going to have to eliminate my relationship with him because I've allowed him to become far too important. And she said some other very pointed things, and I read that. When I looked up, tears had escaped her eyes, and I said, Is this the truth? She said, it is. And there was a smile behind those hot tears. She says, everything's in order again. And I'm so glad that everything is right between me and the Lord. That was her story. Has there ever been a time in your life where you've had to say, Lord, I'm sorry, I've allowed this to take priority over you? Jesus is first of all communicating patience. Number two, he's calling for priority. And there's one last thing, and I'll just kind of touch it. He clarifies your purpose. All three times he said, Simon, do you love me? Yes. What did he come back with? Feed my sheep. Do you love me? Yes, Lord, you know I do. Kind to my lambs. Do you love me? Yes. Feed my sheep. What's the point? You say, preacher man, God was clarifying that Peter was supposed to be a pastor, a shepherd pastor. You're exactly right He was going to tell, he was saying, Peter, you're still going to be a pastor. You're still going to be a shepherd. You're still going to be my messenger. And he was. But don't miss a principle here that what is Jesus teaching? He's saying, if you really love me, pour your life into other people. It's called, here it is, ministry. Ministry is not just for people who have a title. Evangelist, missionary , deacon, pastor, Sunday school teacher. No, titles don't make for ministry. It starts with the heartbeat of, God, I love you. And what happens is Jesus turns around and he says, what? Then pour your life into my people and make others. More like me, invest in the life of other people. Do we just attend church? Or do we affect the church? What ministry do you personally have? And I'm not asking you that you teach a class or that that you've been asked to be a particular uh take a a particular role in the ministry. That may or may not happen. The question is simply this. Are you involved in guiding other people in the journey of their spiritual development? Peter, do you love me? I do, Lord. then I want you to spend the rest of your life helping my people to take spiritual steps. The most miserable person on the planet is not an unbeliever. The most miserable person on the planet is a believer who doesn't fulfill the giftings that God has given them to use. God has invested into you to cause you to invest in other people's spiritual development. There's no retirement. When you're loving God, there's no retirement from serving other people. We call it soul winning. We call it disciple making. We call it walking into church, not with Well, I hope this'll be worth my coming tonight. No , maybe nobody said that tonight. I hope not. But how often have we been guilty of I hope I get something out of this service Instead of saying, I hope I get something, we need to be saying, I wonder what I can give. What can I do to help others in their spiritual journey? Jesus said, if you really want to know your purpose, serve me by serving others Jesus said in Matthew 25 and verse 40, As you have done it unto the one of the least of these my brethren, you've done it unto me. Romans 13 8 says you have fulfilled the law when you love one another. First John 4 10 says, Herein is love. God sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, We ought also to love one another. Let me just put it on the bottom shelf. When you and I truly love the Lord, we will prove our love for God by investing in the spiritual direction and discipling of other people by serving them, by sacrificing for them, by forgiving them, because people need to be forgiven frequently in the journey of life. When you finish your race and you cross the finish line, you want to hear him say, Well done. You did what I gave you to do. Well Lord I w when did I feed anybody? When did I when did I give drink to you? When did I when did I clothe you? When did I visit you when you whenever you did it to others, you did it as if it was unto me. Jesus even gave the example of washing dirty feet. And he said, I've given you an example. Serve other people. Hey, do you love the Lord? You say, Morris, of course I do. I don't doubt it. And Jesus catches you by the shoulder and he says, Do you love me? Yes. And then he looks down in the inner being of your life and he says, When it's all said and done, I need to know something. Do you love? Me respond our heads for prayer. There's no question that there's much more in our text that we don't see right off the top, but Jesus is calling for priority tonight in my life and in yours. He's also clarifying your purpose on earth To pour your life into other people, to help them in their spiritual journey, whether you have a title or not. When it's all said and done, even when it's all said and done with your life and people are looking at you. At the end of your life, will they say, I am a better person because that man touched me for Christ's sake. That lady drew me to the Lord. And maybe tonight you need to be reminded that Jesus is communicating his patience to you. He's not through with you. But maybe tonight there needs to be some sin confessed. Confessed and repented of. If you're sitting here tonight with unconfessed sin and unrepented of sin, man, don't live like that. Get it cleaned up. Ask God for forgiveness. He'll forgive you. If you mean business with him, and then thank him 999 times. Ask for forgiveness sincerely and 999 times thank him. You don't have to ask God to forgive you a thousand times before he'll ever do it. Get clean. Get back up on your spiritual feet and go forward. Get your priorities in order and find your purpose. Would you stand with me? Let's all stand. Thank you for listening tonight. We're going to make it very, very simple. I just want you to have time to respond to your Lord. I'm not interested in you communicating with me. If I can help somebody, I'd be glad to talk with you at the end of a service. That's fine. You probably don't need me, but if you want to talk, we can do so about something that the Lord spoke to you about tonight. But when the Lord does speak, you need to talk to him. Return back to him and speak to him, praise him for his forgiveness. I don't know what the Lord's spoken to you about. But I'm going to pray. Music will begin. You want to get on your knees? You want to talk to the Lord here? Do so. I mean it really. If you want to sit back down and lean over the pew in front of you and make that your altar, do it. I've seen people get up and leave the service and go find an empty room down the hall somewhere in some churches. I'm not telling you you've got to do any of those things, but I'm saying this. If the Lord is talking to us tonight, if he's talking to you and he's saying, Do you really love me? Then talk to him about it. And let's take time with him And let's respond to him. Father, thank you for these, my friends. I pray that in a special way, we will recognize what it is you're talking to us about. And may your people tonight genuinely get priorities in order if that's what's needed, get sin confessed, if that's what's needed And then determined, I'm going to serve God with a new fervency. I want to help others. I want to help God's sheep in their spiritual journey. I want to invest my life in others. Lord, help us all to be all in. for you, with you, because someday we're going to stand before you. We ask it in your wonderful name. Heads are bowed. Find that place to pray, would you And she begins to play. God bless you. Take the time you need. What an excellent reminder this evening. Really love that passage of scripture. And uh think that in spite of Peter's great failure, Christ still loved him, and he still re-established him in the role that he had for him. And uh We should all be very grateful for that. I thought about singing that song for a closing, and I was really debating, but I still want to go with the one that I'd picked earlier, worthy of praise, because I think it really does. a capture how we should leave this service tonight. And so let's turn to hymn 14, worthy of praise. We'll sing this ver uh song two verses and then I'm gonna ask if Doug can close us in prayer and uh Brother Gleiser uh when he's closing in prayer if you could stand there so folks can go by and greet So we'll sing it out fourteen, worthy of praise. My clothes and bring to the Lord I will give God my voice to the What we have of the king of this prayer and God All my reign You are worthy of all my reign for I have your throat and I will For you are worthy, worthy of praise , I would just be praise while This is And I'm going to kneel alone on you. Dad come and close us prayer. I would just also add that If you need to reach out to anybody, please don't hesitate to do that. Even this week, I've had people reach out to me and say, hey, I need to meet up with you and talk to you about some things. So don't hesitate. If you need to do that, do that. Doug. Let's pray. Gracious and heavenly Father, we thank you so much for this evening. Thank you for brothers gleisers. A message from the book of John. Thank you, Lord, for the mild rebuke that he gives Peter, but then he communicates with Peter that he's not finished with him. and that the rest of the disciples can go on and serve him in faithfulness. Failure, and they can s still get up after that failure and serve him faithfully. Lord help us to take this passage to heart. Help it to apply us to our lives even this evening. Help us to go forth from this place, being encouraged. from the word of the Lord, and we'll thank you for it. Take us to our respective abodes with safety. We'll thank you. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.