And we're going to continue this evening, this Father's Day, in our study as we were going through Kings, and now we're in a divided kingdom. So we're going to focus on 1 Kings chapter 16. And we're going to look at Ahab's beginning of blatant Baal worship. Ahab's beginning of blatant Baal worship. I'll go ahead and read the scripture, and you can follow along with your eyes and your heart. In 1 Kings 16, starting with verse 29. And in the thirty and eighth year of Asa, king of Judah, began Ahab the son of Amri to reign over Israel And Ahab, the son of Omri, reigned over Israel and Samaria twenty and two years. And Ahab, the son of Amri, did evil in the sight of the Lord above all. That were before him. And it came to pass as if it had been a light thing for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nabat. That he took to wife Jezebel, the daughter of Ethbal, king of the Zidonians, and went and served Baal and worshipped him. And he reared up an altar for Baal in the house of Baal, which he had built in Samaria And Ahab made a grove, and Ahab did more to provoke the Lord God of Israel to anger than all the kings of Israel that were before him. Father, as we come before you this evening with this passage of Scripture, could we draw out from your word? Would the Spirit of God apply it to hearts and lives to think about the truths here in this passage? Father, just use me as your instrument this evening, as I have the blessing and privilege of sharing this with your children, as you are our kind, gracious, loving Heavenly Father. And we come to you through Christ's name. Amen. So here in this passage, if you remember from last Sunday, this is really the opposite of last week. Last week we went from King Asa that had it was started off really well and that kind of transferred into Jehoshaphat who started off really well. And all that was going just fine for the most part. You have a father and you have a son learning one from another. Now, just like a battery has a positive and the other side of the battery is a negative. I learned that hard the young way when I was younger, because my mom, you know those nine-volt batteries? Hey Josh, come here. I was the oldest of three. Come here. Try this And I learned what happens when you take your tongue and put it on both of those prongs at the same time. Sometimes it did nothing. Sometimes it tickled. It gave my mother great joy and delight, I suppose. But there's a positive and a negative. So today, unfortunately, is the opposite. Today we're kind of getting the negative of the father-son and what you can learn from one to the other. And that's kind of how I'm looking at this passage a little bit. We have our messages for the next Sunday evenings planned out for months to come and it's neat how it uh lined up. So today, if you enjoyed last Sunday, just flip it around. This is what we're going to learn what not to do, but yet it still comes. From really a father and a son. And we're going to look at that first in verses 29 and 30 of 1 Kings 16, where we see Ahab 's evil above all before him. And I want you to see the phrase, the son of Omri. This phrase is used three times in two verses. So I'll just read it and point it out there. It says in the middle it says Ahab the son of Omri to reign over Israel, and Ahab the son of Amri reigned, and you skip down to verse 30, and Ahab the son of Amri did evil. So three times This phrase is used. So I did some research and I looked it up. This is the only time Ahab's name is used quite frequently in scripture, especially around this passage. And for most of it, not so good things that he was trying to do and accomplished in his lovely wife that supported him, which we will be getting to a little bit. But this is the only time that Ahab here is associated with his father, and it's three times in two verses. And I didn't catch that at first. As I was studying through and looking over this passage, looking for repeated things, the words that are used, I thought, wow, this is. cool. This kind of ties into the whole Father's Day thing because it's definitely associating him with his father. But that's pretty cool. I mean obviously I didn't plan that So I want to just take a brief moment here and look at this, though. So Omri , this is interesting. His dad was a pupil of Jehovah. That's what his name means. It means pupil of Jehovah. And I just wanted to back up earlier, because we're kind of skipping from one uh father-son combo to another, so I just want to back up briefly and just learn a little bit about who this son of Amri is. And so in 1 Kings 16, verse 16, it says, And all the people that were encamped heard say, Zimri hath conspired, and hath also slain the king. Wherefore all Israel made Omri the captain of the host, king over Israel of the Decamp. So earlier in this chapter we're introduced to this guy, he becomes a king, dies, and he gets chosen as the people to be captain of the host. A couple verses later in verse 21, we learn a little bit more in verses 21 and 22. Then were the people of Israel divided in two parts. Half of the people followed Tibni and the son of Genath, and if I'm not saying those right, just correct me later, to make him king, and half followed Omri. But the people followed Omri prevailed against the people that followed Timni, the son of Jinnath. So Timney died and Omri reigned. So first we're introduced, and he becomes captain. Then there's a split and there's divide and there's a squabble. Imagine that. There's people biting for power within a system that's already divided. And so it's like you have a division among a division and people are biting for power. That's what they long for, that's what they desire. It's about me, it's my authority, it's my power, but he thinks the same thing. And then you have armies that oppose each other. May the best man or army win, and that's what's taking place. So at first he's the host, he becomes the king, and he wipes out the other guy, and so now he becomes king, and this is kind of how he ascends to his power, and this is the father that we're looking at to King Ahab. And then more importantly, I want to look at verse 25 and 26, particularly verse 25. It says, But Omri wrought evil in the eyes of the Lord, and did worse. than all that were before him. Now this is saying a lot. So I mean he's making a statement. Not only is he doing evil in the sight of the Lord, he's taking evil to the next level. He's making evil look good. Because if you did evil before, I'm making it. I mean his picture is written in the dictionary of evil. That's what he's trying to accomplish here. And then look at verse 26. For so why he's so evil? Why is he raised up above others? For he walked in all the ways of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and his sin wherewith he made Israel to sin, to provoke the Lord God of Israel to anger with their vanities. So he is walking in the ways of Jeroboam. He's taking to the next step, and he is provoking the Lord. He is being uh making the Lord upset with how evil and how wicked he is. So that's just a snapshot that we see three times. This is Ahab's father. This is his example. This is what he's following. Now Ahab has a couple of choices at this point. As a young man watching his father and you know maybe he knew some of the history, maybe not. As you get older, I've learned sometimes you learn about your family history as you become an adult And you inquire and you learn it's it's very possible here. But the two choices were he can choose to follow the path of his father, kill, destroy, murder, do evil. Or he can learn, you know what, maybe that wasn't so successful. Maybe I can go the other way. But what we're going to see here Is that the decision Ahab makes is he's going to pick up right where his father had left off So we have here, he's taking after his father in verse 30. So look in verse 30 with me. He says, and Ahab, the son of Omri, did evil in the sight of the Lord above all that were before him. So you see what's taking place here. You have an evil king and decide the Lord. He is making a name for himself as being the evilest of evil. Not a good title. Okay? And now you have his son. That is going to take evil to the sun. It's kind of like Solomon and then his son. You know what? We tax the people heavily. And we would recommend, you know, Ray Boom, it'd be a good idea if you lightened, if you lighten the taxes on people, they would love you more to keep money in their pocket. Kind of sounds like you've been written today. If you want to be lower the taxes for the people and if they keep money that they'll like you more, you know what? I'm going to tax them even harder. And what ends up happening? Division So what happens here? You have a father who rises to power due to division. He is doing evil in the sight of the Lord, more evil than all is before him, and now his son is picking up right where he left off. Sometimes the apple does not fall far from the tree. He did not learn. He just became more selfish and more evil. Do see where this is going? He had a great example of what not to do. And he decided, I'm going to do it worse. In some ways, I guess he did better than his father. I mean if he's doing evil, I'm to be more evil. I'm to do better than my dad. And so that is what we see that is taking place. So here instead of taking after a heavenly father instead of looking at what made Israel successful after King David And the lessons that Solomon was trying to apply in the peace that he had, and then the problems he had with his wives, and bringing in all their false gods, and instead of learning of your history, which is a good thing to do. He is learning from his father and taking it to the next step. So we see that Ahab's evil above all before him in verses 29 and 30. Now let's look at Ahab's evil walk and worship. Ahab's evil walk and worship in verse 31. And it came to pass as it had been a light thing for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam. If that doesn't say evil, I don't know what does. So let's just take our minds back for a second. Because now he's being compared to Jeroboam. He considered a very light thing from the walk of the sins of Jeroboam. So I want to take us back just briefly and read the portion in 1 Kings 12, a couple chapters. And you could follow along to remind ourselves what was the sins of Jeroboam, because that's going to help us understand how evil and the direction that Ahab is now taking himself Soon to be his marriage and then the nation. And this is their leadership. This is where they're going. And then we can start seeing, wow Can it get much worse? This guy truly is evil. So we're going to go back to First Kings chapter 12. We're going to pick it up in verse 27. And remind ourselves about the sins of Jeroboam and where this really got started. Going, you know, this is going back. Yeah, Jeroboam and Raboam, the nation of Israel is just being split. It is now a divided kingdom. And we're going to pick it up in verse 27. If this people go up to do sacrifice in the house of the Lord at Jerusalem, then shall the heart of the people be turned again unto their Lord. Even to Rehaboam the king of Judah, and they shall kill me and go again to Rahboam the king of Judah. So remember it's divided. They have a capital. They're used to going down to Jerusalem. He does not want to happen. He's trying to build his own kingdom. He's trying to build up his own authority. He's trying to establish himself as king. Then we get to verse 28. He says, Whereupon the king took counsel. And made two calves of gold, and said unto them, It is too much for you to go to Jerusalem. Behold thy gods, O Israel. And do you remember when he said it's too far for thee to go up to Jerusalem? That's like saying You know, instead of going to Baltimore to worship, I want you to go to like Lancaster. Oh yeah, that's a little bit closer for us. Sure, why not? That's what he's saying. So behold thy gods which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt. And we know the history, not true. It was not some little golden calf that brought Israel out. In fact, it was the cows that died that allowed Israel to get out. as punishment and as God using the great works to deliver Israel. So they know this is not true, but they got so into that idol worship that it was brought in. So that is part what he's doing. Let's continue. Uh pick it up still in verse twenty-eight. Behold thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt. That is not true. And he set the one in Bethel, and the other he put in Dan. So now instead of a place of worship, he's dividing it. He's splitting it to try and make it easier. One was even farther, because when it says even unto Dan, that's like saying way up there, okay? And he made a house of the high places, and he made priests of the lowest of the people. Which were not of the sons of Levi, directly against God's instruction, directly against God's commands. Verse 32. And Jeroboam ordained a feast in the eighth month on the fifth day of the month, like unto the feast that is in Judah. So Judah had a feast. He's going to mimic that, make his own date, and create his own feast. for himself and for his own worship style and to change what God had commanded to do. So he's changing all this. And then he offered upon the altar. So did he in Bethel, sacrificing unto the calves that he had made, and placed in Bethel the priests of the high places which he had made So if we're looking at the sins of Jeroboam, that's going back to the text to remind ourselves this is the pattern that Ahab is following. He's got an evil dad, he's doing more evil. He's considering it a light thing to walk in the sins of Jeroboam. So let's just summarize these very quickly. And I have some kind of some bullet points just to summarize this. So what are the sins of Jeroboam? If we're to take it and make it short and easy. He made two golden calves. He made two new locations of worship. He used non-Lavitical priests And he created a new festival with his own appointed date. He is creating everything new. He had instructions from God, and he decided I'm going to do it my way. I know God's word says this, but I want to do it my way. And before we give Jeroboam a hard time, before we give Ahab a hard time Many times we find ourselves in the same place. God, I have your word. I can read it if I so choose. I can pray about it if I desire. But you know what, Lord, sometimes I just want it my way. I know what your word says, but you know what? I don't want to do it. Sometimes we find our places. Just like that. Lord, it's a Sunday morning. I know I'm supposed to go to church. Do I feel like it? No. Nah. I worked hard yesterday. Stayed up late Saturday night. Sunday morning. Why does it always seem like Sunday morning is the earliest to get up? Is it just me sometimes? Something like that can be the heart. Not not not always. But it seems like especially when you have children. And if there's something exciting going on, hey, we're going up, we're gonna do this. Oh man, sometimes your kids will be up at like O Dark 30. Like Christmas morning, birthdays, stuff like that. They're excited. It's like they can't sleep. But on a Sunday morning, I mean you could have a train go through their room and they don't move. Why is it Sunday morning? Yeah. So all this to say. Sometimes we know what we're supposed to do, but we, for whatever reason, for our own selfish desires, we just choose not to do it. Now he's taking this to a whole new level. I don't think we're waking up in the morning and say, God, I just hate you. I'm gonna do everything you told me not to do and everything you said to do. I'm just gonna ignore it and I'm gonna do my own thing. I don't think any of us here are actually going to do that, but sometimes in our actions, in our brief moments of needing an attitude adjustment, we might find ourselves in this category. So these sins that he has of creating worship, making our own look, it's all about him. Jeroboam was creating his own everything regarding the worship, and by doing so, he's neglecting He's pushing away. He's drawing people away from the truth to himself. That is what he's doing. And in also doing this, he's solidifying himself. As a very evil king that's going to be patterned for all the kings to come. Even Ahab, he found it a light thing to go blatantly against God and his commands. Hopefully, none of us are getting the point where we take what God says lightly. Hopefully, we can learn from the sins, the faults, the challenges of those have gone before us. So, instead of lifting up ourself, what do we humble ourselves and not make little about the Lord and his commands? Sometimes it's just making little truths. or little lies twisted to the truth. We have some truth mixed in there, and that's kind of how it works with worship. With how we treat the Lord and his word, we just take a truth, twist it a little bit, so it still sounds good But yet we're not exactly obeying the Lord. And so that's kind of where Jerobo started. He started going off in his way. And then we find ourselves here with Ahab. So if we go back to verse 31, He says, and it came to pass, as some time is going on, that he became that it became a light thing for him, that's Ahab, to walk in the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nabat, that he took to wife. Jezebel, the daughter of Ithbal, king of the Zidonians, and went and served Baal and worshipped him. So now let's look at this, okay? It's a light thing to walk in the sins of Jeroboam. Now he takes Jezebel to be his wife. Now, a lot of things may come to your mind when we talk about Jezebel. Some of us may just know that name just doesn't sound good. It has a nice ring to it, has a bell in it Okay, and some of us just know there's not a good association. But let's just look a little bit more. First off, Jezebel means Baal exalts. That could be a translation and meaning of Jezebel. And she's the daughter of Ithol. Now, Ithab, his name means with Baal. So her lineage is a lineage is on the side of a false God. So now let's just pause and look a bit at who he is. Look at her father to see what's going on. Because you think, okay, you know what? I know kings would marry sometimes for power, authority. Sometimes they have these marriages to unite them with other nations. What is he doing? What is he thinking? What's going on in Ahab's mind when he's finding it light to walk in the sins of Jeroboam? And now he's marrying Jezebel. So, he was a priest of Estarte. Who is that? It was a god of love, sexuality, fertility, and of war So if you're a leader, it sounds like a great thing to worship. You need men for your army. You want people to love you. You want to be good at war. Okay, this sounds like a good God to serve. So he was the priest of that served this God. But then what happened? Then he came to power by murdering his predecessor. So he murders the guy in charge, so now I can be king, given he was the priest before this. So this is Jezebel's dad. Sounds like a winner. This guy's willing to kill for power, saw teach and work behind you know in the scenes, behind the scenes, being a priest of this false God. So he's not hiding who he is. And so when Ahab is considering marrying Jezebel, she checks all the boxes for you should not marry this girl. I mean she hits all of them. I mean look at her father, a mess. Jeez She's not saved. She works it. It's not just like, okay, here's a here's a girl in a faraway land, and she's willing to follow her mother-in-law and let your God be my God. And I'm gonna go follow you to this new land that I don't know because there's something about this Jehovah that I want to know. That's not what's going on here. Okay not happening. Okay. She knows what she's doing. She knows who she is. She has been heavily involved. So you have you have Ahab He's learning great things from his dad. I'm going to be more evil than my dad. If he's not my dad was evil, I'm going to be worse. Okay, that's kind of what's going on. He's marrying then a woman Who follows this false God, not just a little bit, but hard after him, and he's willing to kill and murder, just like Ahab's dad, for power and possession. That's about self It early is about themselves. So she's checking all the boxes of don't marry this girl. It's incredible. I mean she she's a winner here Uh even with their lineage. And just to give you a look, so let's look at a couple verses with this. In 1 Kings 18, verse 4, so coming up in a couple chapters, just a snapshot, not nothing, not anything big and deep at this point. just for the sake of referencing who Jezebel is to help us out. For it was so, 1 Kings 18, 4, when Jezebel cut off the prophets of the Lord, she loved them so much she cut them off. Okay, that Obadiah took a hundred prophets and hid them by fifty in the cave and fed them with bread and water. So she was so against God and his word and his prophets, she's going after him. She doesn't care. The Lord who I serve other guys. I mean she would serve Baal. She didn't care who the God of Israel was. So what I married one of their kings. That doesn't change what I believe. Later on in Revelation 2. 22, it says, Notwithstanding, I have a few things against thee, because thou sufferest the woman Jezebel, which callth herself a prophetess. To teach and seduce my servants, to seduce my servants, to commit fornication, and to eat things sacrificed unto idols. Just those verses themselves is all the wrong things. There's also one God, Israel, and only one God, and serve no others. Him alone shall worship. But yet she will force others to either kill them or eat meat that has been sacrificed to false idols. This is who Ahab chooses to marry. He is taking very light the sins of Jeroboam. He wants to create his own worship. It's about himself. He doesn't care about the God of his fathers. Well, I should say, his father he's fine with But his nation's sister, his name that you could say like we would say our forefathers and our nation's history. It would do us well As we're coming into the Fourth of July, I love this patriotic season. You know, Fourth of July is coming, and today is Father's Day. I kind of like how Father's Day falls in, all that. A very patriotic time. But it is okay for you to read your nation's history for good or for bad. to learn what we went through. And you can make a lot of argument that as a nation, we have the privilege that our founding was on biblical principles. When you look at it and you study it, a large portion of our founding documents was based off scripture or principles found in the Word of God. We shouldn't be ashamed of that. That's why some want to hide history. They want to change it. They want to make statements like the separation of church and state and make it sound like it's one of the amendments or in the declaration. The problem is it's in neither of our founding two documents. All that to say, it is good to know some of our nation's history, our nation's history. And he should have known the difference too. He was going blatantly directly against his nation's history. King David And in a success under Solomon due to what David was doing. They would have known these things. But he is choosing the evil walk And the worship of Baal, making he knows what he is doing. So we've seen Ahab's evil above all before him. Then we've seen Ahab's evil walk and worship. Now lastly, we're going to have Ahab's evil continues by building for Baal. He's going to add to this. In verse 32, he says, and he reared up an altar for Baal in the house of Baal, which he had built in Samaria. So here, we say he's rearing up an altar for Baal. When I hear the we are reared up, it can tend to be more of an archaic term if you're around your grandparents. Oh, we're going to rear those children. The only varying I did did with my children is on their seat of understanding with a rod of correction. I'm not drawing any pictures for that. If you don't know what I'm talking about, we'll talk about it later. But when you talk about rearing up children, again, I would think that's what I think when I hear the word reared up, to raise and to train. Here, he's building, he's constructing something for Baal, not boys. And this reminds me, talking about history, I want to point us back to 1 Kings chapter 2. Because here you have a Father David. Giving final instructions to his son about things he has learned, about things he wants his son to accomplish and to do, and he's giving final words to his son This is Israel's history. This is what should have been known and should have been followed that is purposefully, blatantly being neglected, ignored, and avoided But let's go back. If we read in 1 Kings chapter 2, starting with verse 1, it says, Now the days of David drew nigh that he should die. And he charged Saul and his sons, saying, See on his deathbed. He's giving instruction to his son. It'd kind of be an important time. He says, I go the way of all the earth. That's a kind way of saying I'm going to die. Be thou strong, therefore, and show thyself a man, and keep charge of the Lord thy God, and walk in his ways Why do you have to be strong? What makes a man? Following the Lord's ways. Why? Because the world doesn't want you to do that. Solomon, this is not going to be easy. I have failed, I have struggled, and now I'm about to pass. I can't help you. I can't encourage you anymore. So listen close. This is what you need to do. Learn from my ways. Follow my instructions as an old dying man giving instruction to his son that's going to carry on and tarry longer. He says Keep charge of the Lord thy God to walk in his ways to keep his statutes and his commandments, not yours, not your ways, not creating your own worship. His judgments, his testimonies, as it is written in the law of Moses, as it's already written, do what you know to do. Sometimes we want to create some new idea. Sometimes we want to do something fancy and something great for the Lord. Obey His word. Follow His commands. Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, soul, mind, strength. That thou mayest prosper in all that thou doest, and whither thou turnest thyself, verse 4, that the Lord may continue his word which he spake concerning me, saying, If thy Children, take heed to their way, to walk before me in truth. With all their hearts and with all their soul, there shall not fail thee a man on the throne of Israel. So instead of rearing up boys and teaching them the commands of the Lord like a king of Israel should do, what is Ahab doing? He's taking his time, he's taking his energy, and doing the opposite This is the little kid basically throwing a temper tantrum because he wants to get his way. It doesn't care what his parents say, doesn't care what his authority is. He's doing it his way because he wants that 25 cent lollipop and he's not stopping till he gets it. He's going to do it his own way. So we reared up an altar or the house of Baal that should not have been there to begin with. Verse 33. And Ahab made a grove. He continues. He makes a grove. And Ahab did more to provoke the Lord of Israel to anger. How would you like that written about you in the internal word of God? That Ahab has about him, that he did more to provoke the Lord God of Israel to anger than all the kings of Israel that were before him. You know what Ahab is good at? He is good at being worse, ungodly, and making the Lord angry than any other king before him at this point. That's pretty good considering his father. That's pretty good considering the sins of Jeroboam. He is continuing to make the Lord. How do you make the Lord angry? Go against his word. How do you provoke him? Go against what he has clearly commanded. Showing forth his power in his way. The Lord is getting frustrated here to provoke the Lord of Israel to anger and to the kings of Israel that were before him. So he made groves, and he's going against the Lord. Now I know this is not the greatest way to start concluding a message, but I'm going to go back to the way I started. In the last two Sunday evenings We have seen a father doing well for the most part, especially at the beginning, in Asa, and doing the same thing to Jehoshaphat. Jehoshaphat picked up where his father had started. He waned a little bit too. But now we have the opposite. We have an ungodly father doing evil, and his son learned his ways. And fathers, our children, especially our boys, are watching. What are we training them to do? Because they are learning. And they're not just learning what we say. They're watching where we walk. They're watching what we build. They're watching what we do. That is what is teaching them You can say one thing, but your actions will speak louder. This is what Ahab learned. That's what Jehoshaphat learned. For good or for evil. So when we're raising children and fathers, it is a very humbling responsibility and duty and yet privilege. To raise children for the Lord. Are we doing it ourselves? Because we can do it good, God's way, or we can do it our own way. And possibly provoke and make the Lord upset and angry for not obeying the words he's given to us. The choice is ours. What are we going to do with it? Wives, mothers, pray for your husbands, encourage them, help them. That's good. Maybe not correct them so much in front of the children. Maybe you quietly pull them aside, hey, I don't think that was the greatest idea. I know, I feel horrible. Or, yeah, uh I know, I'll get it next time. So help them, encourage them Because we need it. It is not easy. And is and husbands, support your wives. Listen to them. It might spare you from trouble. Just saying it's possible. If God wants you to be alone, he wouldn't have said it'd be a good thing for Adam to have Eve. For all that to say, fathers, make good decisions, choose to follow the Lord. He is blatantly going against God's word. Let that not be true of us. Father. I thank you so much for this word. Sometimes it's challenging to read of such evil men and their blatant worship and their blatant marriages and going against your uh clear commands. Father, would we choose to fear you? Would we choose to walk in your ways? Help us as fathers and as mothers to Be in your word and to teach our children to walk in your ways even better than what we do. Father, it is easy sometimes to Indirectly teach them to do wrong or just not make it a purpose to teach them to walk in your ways. Father, we need your help. We need your grace. And what do we learn from guys like Ahab? Would we learn what not to do? And Father, if anything else, we learn that you are a kind, loving God who has made your way clear that we can walk after. It will not be easy, and there will be challenges But with your help, with your word, we can choose to follow you, regardless of the pressures of the world, or even despite the challenges that may be in our family and our home lives. But would each of us choose to walk in your ways? And we thank you and we love you and ask this through Christ's name. Amen.