Good evening. Hope everyone's doing well. Looking forward to a new study. And uh let's go ahead and bow for a word of prayer. We'll sing a song and then we'll get started with our Study tonight. Father, we're so grateful for your word, and we recognize whenever we open it, we are a privileged people to be able to have the scripture. Scriptures in our language to be able to read it, uh, to be able to dig into the scriptures and have so many tremendous tools available to us. I pray that you'd help us to Not take for granted the opportunities available to us. Father, we pray for the young people in the back at Anchor Adventure Club. We pray for those who are in the The English class. Help those times to go very well. And I pray that you'll work in the hearts of the young people. And as we spend time together in prayer, I pray that our hearts would be knit together, that our fellowship around Your word tonight would be very sweet. And as we look at a new topic, a new passage that we'll be dealing with, I pray that you'll help us to get excited about the contents that we will deal with. We ask all of it in Christ's name. Amen. Four hundred and seventy-five is the the uh song we'll sing, rejoice in the Lord. Well sing all three verses. Oh oh we could do it. We disturbed it by Never yourself So I know the box of my skin I told Master and I take it. I love you, and I trust his career. Okay. Well we are going to begin a new series on Wednesday nights, and uh we've spent a tremendous amount of time dealing with topics related to the family. And I hope that the things that we've discussed have been helpful to you. And it's not just been related to the family. Frankly, we've dealt with lots of practical topics. We've dealt with the local church. We've dealt with conscience issues. We've dealt with lots and lots of different issues that we've kind of directed into the context of family life, but that's really not the only thing we've talked about is, oh, this is how you raise kids, this is how you get along with your husband, or how you get along with your wife. We've gotten into lots of different topics. What I'd like to do tonight is start what's going to be a verse-by-verse study through the Sermon on the Mount. And I will tell you that at the rate that I'm going to move through the Sermon on the Mount, we are going to be here for a f fairly significant period of time. I'm not putting We have this yes over here. The passages that we're going to deal with, I think, are some of the most practical and important topics that you can deal with. They really are. And when we talk about the teachings of Christ, there is no sermon that is longer in its record or more expansive in the series of topics that are dealt with than Matthew 5 to 7, Jesus' Sermon on the Mount. This is a passage of Scripture that there's a lot of controversy, and frankly there's some fairly difficult texts to deal with. And I'm not going to shy away from those. I'm going to deal with those texts. I'm going to work my way through those texts. Some of them, you may fully agree with what I have to say, you may disagree, and that's totally fine. As long as you're digging into the word and letting it speak for itself. But what I will tell you is that as we move through this, I think you will find that the topics that are addressed in a circle Sermon on the Mount, they're at the heart issue. They're right at the s the under the surface. They are at the roots of genuine Christian living. And so I'm very excited about the topics that we will deal with. Over the next many, many months. Matthew 5, we're going to read verses 1 through 12 together, and then we're going to start on our introduction to the Sermon on the Mount. Here's what the text says. And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain. And when he was set, his disciples came unto him. And he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness. for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice, be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. Now, in just those few verses that I read There are several statements that when I read them, if you were thinking about what the text is saying, you may have very well said, ooh, I don't like that. I don't like that. Or what are you talking about? Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake or Blessed are the poor in spirit, or blessed are the peacemakers. They will be called the children of God. You say, what in the world is Jesus talking about in these verses? Well don't worry, tonight we're actually not going to answer that question because we're not dealing with those topics tonight. But what we are going to do is we're going to deal with kind of a big picture snapshot of the Sermon on the Mount. And I think it's very important when we talk about the Sermon on the Mount that before we deal in with the little details like Blessed are those who mourn, they're going to be comforted, or blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake. We need to get into an understanding of the entirety of what Jesus is saying because Each of those individual statements, they fit under a big topic, and that is what does a real Christian think like? What does a real Christian live like? In fact, it might be that as you listen to these, you might ask the question, do I actually think and act and live like a real Christian? You may find that you don't. And if you don't, then I think it would be fair enough to say maybe you should ask why Don't I. And I'm not suggesting that you're not a Christian. But I am suggesting that you may very well not be thinking like a Christian, living like a Christian, living consistent with the position that you have. And so I hope that as we work our way through the passages that are before us, They'll be very helpful to you. Because the Christian life is not really about a list of rules. Don't do this and do this. Or here's how you're supposed to look. It's about being somebody and living in the light of who you are in Christ. Very, very important. So let me begin with a summary statement. There are few portions of Scripture more consequential than the Sermon on the Mount. Its length, the complex topics The vivid illustrations that we find are carefully interconnected, making it a passage that we must spend significant time reading. Digesting and carefully expounding. There is no passage that gives us more of the teachings of Christ in one chunk than this passage here And by the way, a lot of the epistles are really Paul or John or James elaborating on things that Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount. Lots of what we read in James goes straight back to the teachings of Christ in Matthew 5, 6, and 7. And I also think it's very helpful for us many times when we have questions about interpretation we go well how did the epistles actually interpret that particular statement when he says if you're right I offend you pluck it out How would Paul have actually interpreted that and how would he actually have dealt with we could say the application of such a statement? Well, that will help us appreciate it. And so we're going to get into all those kinds of things. So let me first of all begin with a couple of thoughts that I think are very, very important as we dig into this passage. First of all, we need to be diligent. 2 Timothy 2, verse 15 says this. Study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. If you remember on Sunday we uh had some conversation about the spadazzo award. Does anybody remember that spadazzo word? You go, what in the world is a spadazzo award? Well the word spadazzo is translated Study to show yourself approved. Okay? It has the idea that we need to dig into the word and we need to rightly divide it or cut it straight. So that what we're doing is actually something that God says is good. In other words, you could take the Bible and you could teach it in a way that is not rightly dividing it. That's actually twisting it, it's actually perverting it, it's actually using it in a way that it was never intended to be used. And so it's so very, very important That we first of all start with being diligent. Secondly, we need to be cautious. 2 Peter 3, 16. They that are unlearned and unstable rest, and that means that they twist or they pervert. the other scriptures unto their own destruction. So a person can take the Bible and because of them not studying it carefully and thinking about it in the original way it was meant to be understood They can twist it and it can become very destructive to them and to anyone else that is sitting under their teaching. And then thirdly, we need to develop discernment. Matthew or Hebrews chapter 5, verse 14. He says, strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age. That statement of full age means that they are matured, spiritually matured. He's not talking about, okay, if you've been a believer for five years, you reach this level of maturity. If you've been a believer for 10 years, you reach this level of maturity. 20 years, this level of maturity. That's not what he's talking about. It's not a time thing. It's a maturity thing. And so you could have a Christian that's five years old, and when it's twenty-five years old, and they're actually at the same place in their walk with the Lord. It's true All right? So he says, strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age, even to those who by reason of use have exercised by reason of use, have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. Isn't that a fascinating statement? So a person develops discernment when they take the tools that God has given them and they exercise them. That means that a person who wants to be spiritually mature is a person who learns the discipline of studying their Bible. It's very simple. It's not the only factor, but it is a huge factor. Or a person that, when they listen to preaching and teaching, they have the ability to say, that's correct. That's not correct. They have developed that through the use of exercising those tools that God has given them. And so part of the way that I will approach this study is to hopefully help us to be diligent, cautious, and develop discernment through exercising discernment. That's what I hope we will be able to do in the study. So first of all, let's talk about the importance of the sermon. Well, who preached the sermon? It was Jesus. If you say that you're a Christian, that means you say, I am aligned with Christ. I am in Christ. I am submitted to his authority. That's what we mean when we say we're a Christian. I've placed my faith in Christ, and now I'm identified with him, and I'm supposed to live consistent with my position in Christ. Now, I want to pause for just a moment and say this. We need to be cautious that we don't draw this, we could say, unnecessary division between the statements of Christ versus the statements of of Paul. Christ. I don't know if you remember when red letter Bibles were really popular. I remember when I was a kid, red letter Bibles are really important. I was like, oh well all the red letters, they're important because those are Jesus' Words. All the rest of them, well, they're Paul's words. No, hold on a second. What we have is we have a record of the words of Christ. But the authority of Scripture is not just, oh well, Jesus said this and Paul said this, so Jesus' authority is higher than Paul's when it comes to No, it's all breathed out by the inspiration of God. The Holy Spirit moved people to write these things. So it's important that we recognize that all of Scripture, every word, it's God's Word. But I also say this. When we look at the teachings of Christ, we recognize that this ultimately becomes the foundation for everything we see in the Bible So we talk about the Old Testament. What does the Old Testament do? It points us to Christ. And it points us to Christ saying, this is who he is, this is what he's going to do, this is how he's going to do it. So it's all pointing to Christ. And then when we go to the New Testament on the epistle side, it's all pointing back to who Jesus is Back to what he did, back to what he said. And so essentially this becomes the focal point of all of Scripture. So it's very important for us to understand what Jesus said. Because what Jesus said is going to be rehashed and explained and expounded and applied all throughout the epistles. That's what we're going to see. And so we need to give attention to what Jesus said. Secondly, I want to mention this. The focus of this passage of Scripture is not evangelism. Okay? So it's very important that we understand this. So while it is true that as we read through these passages, it gives us tremendous insight into what happens in a person's heart when they become a Christian. It gives us tremendous insight into what a Christian looks like as far as their character and as far as their thinking and their disposition and their responses and those kinds of things. It's not given to teach us how to become a Christian. That's not the point. In other words, Jesus wasn't saying, all y'all people, you need to place your faith in me because you're not saved. That's not what he's doing. That is not the intent of the Sermon on the Map. By the way, when we read the book of John, you know what the book of John is written for? For that very purpose. These are written that you might Believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you might have life through his name. The Sermon on the Mount does not have that sense. It says in verse 1, his disciples came to him. So while when he uses that term disciple, what we can assume is that the vast majority of these people, they understand who Jesus is. They have placed their faith in Christ, and they're wanting to grow in their knowledge of who Christ is. They're wanting to mature as believers. I'll say more about disciple in a minute, but that should be the assumption. So, not saying that we can't find tremendous insight into evangelism in these verses. But that's not the thrust. That's not the focus. Alright, third. The focus involves many rich theological concepts that need to be unpackaged and applied. Now I I think it's very common for people to say, well, you know, when we read through the book of Romans, all we see is theology, theology, theology, justification, sanctification, glorification, how do we deal with sin? It's all about theology, theology. But when we go to the Sermon on the Mount, there's no theology. It's just do this and do this and do this. It's all practical. That's the way that people tend to think. But think about this statement. Blessed are the poor in spirit. Theirs is the kingdom of heaven. That one little statement has a lot of theology built into it. It. Because what it does is it tells us about the disposition of a person who is a citizen of the kingdom. If you're a Christian, this is true about you. If this is not true about you, you are not a Christian. It's that simple. You say, well, that's very blunt and that's very brash, and it's true. Okay, if you are not poor in spirit, you are not a citizen of the kingdom. Well, that is built on a theological concept. And built on that theological concept is the nature of how someone is saved. What does it mean for a person to be repentant toward God and to place their faith alone in the finished work of Christ? Well, built into that is an understanding that our righteousness is filthy rags, and there's absolutely nothing that we can do to earn or merit salvation. And so for a person to come to a point where they place their faith in Christ, they have to recognize they have nothing to give God. There's nothing in them that's acceptable. They have to rely alone on what God has provided for them. That's theological, folks. That comes down to our basic understanding of the gospel. Can't wait to unpack that passage of scripture. Scripture, because it's a good one. Another one. It focuses heavily on foundational matters. Verses 17 to 18. He says, think not that I'm come to destroy the law or the prophets. I'm not come to destroy the law, but to fulfill it. For verily I say unto you, till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till all be fulfilled. This is a very common thinking amongst Christians. Well, we're New Testament Christians. So the Old Testament system has been set aside, and that technically is true. Okay? It is true. But there's got to be a little bit more explanation beyond, oh well, it's set aside. We're not under that system, so it doesn't apply to us. We don't need it. We don't need to study it. We don't need to know anything about it. And I say, hold on a second. Jesus did not come to destroy the law and the prophets. He came to fulfill the law and the prophets. Well, guess what that means? That means that if I go to the law and the prophets, I'm going to see signs that Jesus would fulfill. And so there's tremendous value in studying the Old Testament law and the prophets. Or he makes this statement, he says, till heaven and earth pass, not one jot. Or one title will pass from the law till all be fulfilled. So not even one piece of the law, and not one piece of what the prophets predicted, not one of them will fall flat. Jesus will fulfill it entirely. And I can't wait to dig into what a jot the title is and all those kinds of things. But again, not our discussion point this evening. A third one. The practical implication of these timeless truths touches every area of life. Listen to what he says in verses 13 and 14, chapter 5. He says, You're the salt of the earth. Salt. What in the world does Jesus mean by that? Ah, we'll talk about it. Don't worry. You're the salt of the earth. If the salt hath lost his savor, Wherewith shall it be salted? It is henceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out and to be trodden under the foot of men. If salt has lost the quality that makes it salt, it's worthless. It's of no value. You might as well throw it in the street and just let it be in the street. That's what he's saying. And he says, we, the church of God, believers, are the salt of the earth. He goes on to say, you're the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Notice what he says: it cannot be hid. If you're a Christian, And you really have trusted Christ, and you genuinely are a new creature in Christ, you cannot hide the fact that you are a Christian You say, well, how do people know it? Because you're not like them. If you want to be like them, then you don't understand that the distinction is there by nature. It's by nature. And so I I look forward to getting into this particular topic. So don't try to conceal that you're a Christian. Don't try to hide. And I think there's a counterbalance to this. Don't put in people's faces. I'm a Christian. I gotta prove to you I'm a Christian. You have to prove it. Just live the Christian life and people will recognize that you are. That's the way it works. Very important. Practical implications. They touch every single area of life. I love what one of my professors said. This is the way he put it. The Sermon on the Mount presents the followers of Christ with timeless present ethicals, ethics grounded in an eschatological hope. The idea is that the reason that Christians live like this is because they know this is not all there is. Does that make sense? So because I know that this life is not everything, there's a certain way I conduct myself in this life. If I believed this was all there was, then there would be certain things I would be totally free to do. I'd be totally comfortable to do them. I would have absolutely no conscience about them. But when I recognize that there's more to life than this temporal 70 years or 50 years or 90 years or whatever God gives you. It shapes how I live. It shapes how I think. It shapes what I love. It shapes what I hate. It shapes everything about life. And so the Sermon on the Mount is ultimately laying out that simple fact Part number two. Lots of interpretive challenges in the book, in Matthew 5 to 7. And I want to kind of mention a couple of these things on the front side. Because as we get into these different topics and these different sections of Scripture, you will see some of these interpretive challenges pop up. First of all, the timing of the sermon. Is the sermon preached in the Old Testament or in the New? Hmm, question. So, when we read the Gospels, we are reading New Testament books. Okay? In fact, the Gospels were written after some of the epistles were written But the timing and history of when those details were actually taking place historically was on the other side of the cross. So when Jesus is teaching the Sermon on the Mount, he's not yet gone to the cross. He's not yet been crucified. He's not yet risen from the dead. He's not ascended to his Father. They're still living under the Old Testament law. Those laws are pointing to what he's going to do. And I think it's important for us to recognize that. This is when we talk about the dispensational and the administrative aspect of this, this is taking place in the Old Testament. However, that does not mean that what Jesus is saying doesn't apply to us today. The question is, are we going to understand how it applies? We've got to look at this very, very carefully. Okay? And you're going to see this come out in some of the topics that we deal with. For instance, when Jesus talks about issues of the Mosaic Law, he speaks in terms of these are things that they need to be obeying at the time. But when we look at ourselves today, we are not under the Mosaic Law. We're under a different system, a different administration. But there are timeless truths that are rooted under the Mosaic law and rooted under the system in which we live today, and they are timeless. They're in every single generation. Why? Because they're connected back to the nature of God. His perfect character. A second thing: the importance of considering the context in which Christ preached the sermon. What I mean by the context is: who did he preach it to? Disciples. These are people who are following Christ, but their level of understanding was not the same. Even amongst the twelve disciples, were they all believers? The answer is no. The question is: when did Peter become a Christian? When did James become a Christian? When did John become a Christian? The answer is you don't know. Because it never explains. Oh, this was the day that Peter understood the gospel. Most certainly when he says. You're the Christ, the Son of the of God. Most certainly he knows who Jesus is. And so we would have to believe he has faith in Christ by that point. But but when did that take place? Was it when he got into the boat? Was it when he followed Jesus for the first time? The answer is we don't know. And so when we talk about this issue of the disciple, there are some who have embraced the gospel, there are some who don't yet understand the gospel, there are some that are kind of weighing these things. And it's it's a different situation than you and I would face today where you know when we come into the church everyone says, I've placed my faith in Christ I've been baptized. I'm identifying with the Lord Jesus. So to be a member of the church, a member of this body, you have to have a, we could say, credible profession of faith. But Jesus didn't say, okay, you can follow me if you have a credible profession of faith. He just says, follow me. And some of those people understood and they believed, and some did not. And so this is a dynamic that we may have to deal with from time to time. Next, it was preached in the setting of religious hypocrisy and legalism. Jesus hammers this point a lot. Matthew 5. 21, he says this, ye have heard that it was said by them of old, but I say unto you Someone might go, well, hold on. Is Jesus saying that the law doesn't apply? The answer is no, that's not what he's saying. He's saying, You've heard what I say to you. He's saying, the way that you've been taught is wrong. It's almost like a pastor getting up and saying, I know you've heard this passage of scripture preached a hundred times. But I'm going to tell you that the vast majority of the ways you've heard it taught were wrong. And they lay it out and you sit down and you're like He's right. I've heard this so many times. Preached wrong. What he's saying is true. That's what Jesus is saying. But it's a little different. Actually, it's significantly different. Because he I don't say I'm saying to you. I say, I think we've missed what the scripture says. Jesus says, I'm saying to you He is emphasizing his own authority. He's saying the way that the scribes and the way that the Pharisees and the way that those who teach you the Word of God in the synagogue, the way that they expound the scriptures Is wrong. They don't have the authority to say what they say. But I'm the Messiah. I can say it. I'm going to tell you they're wrong and I need to tell you the right way to look at this. And so Jesus, in many ways, is setting this contrast between himself and his authority and the authority of the scribes and the Pharisees and those who handled the Word of God. But really what Jesus is saying is anyone who's carefully handling the scripture, you're going to say the same thing that I say. That's what he's saying. And so, for instance, Matthew 5, additions to the actual law, you've heard it said, but I say unto you, we're going to get there's an entire section where Jesus deals with this, and we're just going to go from one issue to another issue to another issue. And we're going to talk about what the Pharisees were saying. And we're going to talk about what Jesus is saying. And we're going to see how what Jesus is saying is consistent with a correct understanding of what was written in the law. We also see this. The Pharisees and the Sadducees and the religious leaders were ignoring the heart of the purpose of each law. For instance, Matthew 5 28. He says, I say unto you, Whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart. Lots and lots of of the religious leaders were saying, Hey, you know what? I've never cheated on my wife because I've never been involved in the physical act And they said, as long as you do the same thing, you're good. In fact, there was a very uh famous example of this just a couple of weeks ago. Uh Prager U. Okay, there was a discussion about pornography. And the guy who runs Prager U said there's absolutely nothing wrong with it. And on the other side, Ben Shir, they're both Jewish men, they're both arguing about this issue, okay? He says, well The heart of the law is lust. And he was absolutely correct. He's not a Christian. He was not claiming Jesus' interpretation, but frankly speaking, that's exactly what he was doing. And so Jesus is saying it's not just the physical act of murder or the physical act of adultery or the physical act of theft. It's the heart behind it. The person sins before they lift their hands. The person sins before they take the act. There is a sin after a sin after a sin in the heart that leads to the physical act. But they're all sin. That's what he says. And so he says, hey, making this distinction, like, well, there's a physical act and there's a lust in the heart. This is not wrong, but this is wrong, he says, that thinking is completely wrong. And Jesus lays it out. And so what does it do? It shows us that the law of God is more than just a list of rules. It's about more than just rules, do's and don'ts. It's about action that follows the heart. Very, very important. And so a person who is righteous doesn't need the law. They don't need it at all. Did Jesus need the law to be righteous? No. He absolutely did it. Why? Because the law doesn't make you righteous or unrighteous. It exposes what you are And so a whole nother topic we will get into at some point down the road. Looking forward to that one. Using religious practice to insulate us from uncomfortable obligations. Listen to this one, Matthew 5. 23. He says, if thou bring thy gift to the altar and there rememberest that thy brother hath aught against thee. Leave there thy gift before the altar. Go thy way. First be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift. Now, this passage is going to need some explanation. Because it's not saying my brother's holding a grudge against me, and I'm just going to have to do whatever he wants me to do. That's not suggesting what Jesus is saying here. He's saying you've wronged your brother. You know you've wronged your brother or your sister, whoever it is, okay? You've wronged another person, and you're unwilling to deal with it. You just refuse to deal with it. And so to kind of balm your conscience. You give a little more money to God. You pray a little bit longer on your knees. You do something that is a form of religious devotion. That helps you to appease your troubled conscience. And Jesus says religion and religious observation is not a tool to balm your conscience. It's not a tool for you to wipe away your guilt. It's not a tool for you to use to manipulate me. Your religious devotion is completely false. It's a form of idolatry, frankly speaking, if that's how you practice your religious devotion. So what's the point? These are all very practical topics. And we will dig into each of them one by one The style is also very different than our traditional Western approach. What I mean by that is that we tend to use more of a deductive approach. This is how I preach. So almost every time I I I preach You you could almost like follow it like clockwork. Here's a summary statement, here's the proposition, and here are all these points that kind of undergird that main point. That's called a deductive form of teaching. The idea is here's what I'm going to teach you. And now I'm going to prove it to you. But on the other side is what we call an inductive approach to teaching. The idea is I'm not going to tell you what I'm trying to prove. I'm going to ask you all kinds of questions. I'm going to step on your toes a little bit. And as I'm doing that, I'm asking you these questions. I'm making you think I am leading you to what's going to be the final test of here's what I'm actually saying. Now, do we tend to teach that way? No, we really don't. It's actually an extremely effective way to teach. That's generally how Jesus taught. And so the fact is, and that that's because that's an Eastern approach to teaching. And you may not realize this, but there are times that I kind of blend the two together. I d I start with with a deductive statement, but I go to all these questions and all that kind of a thing. That's the way that Jesus taught. What was the parable? It was an inductive approach to teaching. Oh, you've kept the law. Okay. You love your neighbor as yourself. Go sell everything that you have and follow me. That was an inductive type of teaching. It was Jesus' way of saying, that's not true. And as as soon as you start walking away from me, in your conscience you're going, who does this guy think he is? What does he mean I gotta sell everything that I have? And Jesus is like, as you're walking away, aren't you thinking like, oh maybe I don't love my neighbor? So come on back and let's keep talking. That's what Jesus did That's the way that he taught. Oh, do do we have to pay the temple tax or not? Jesus says, give me a coin. Who's on the coin? Caesar. Well, give to Caesar what's Caesar and give to God God, what's God's? And they're like, oh , I don't know about this. Jesus is the master of these things. And so Jesus' teaching is not like Paul's teaching. We love Romans because it's deductive in its approach. There's this logical ordinance, the way that we think as Westerners. But Jesus, he keeps coming right back to this point over and over and over. He asks these questions, he throws out these parables, he throws out these proverbs, he makes us think we have to work. And this is part of what makes the Sermon on the Mount and passages like that so challenging. We have to think. We have to work through the text. And so we see things like, How is someone blessed? Blessed are ye. And he gives you all these different things that you say, that's not a blessed person. And he says, No, actually it is. Because if eternity is real and the gospel is real and this life is not the only thing that there is, then of course those things are true. And so if you believe it, then you're going to accept it. That's what he's saying. Or in Matthew 5. 20, he says, except your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees. You shall in no case enter the kingdom of God. And everybody goes, Well, nobody's as righteous as the Pharisees. And Jesus is like, Very good. And I'm more righteous than they are. So what are we supposed to do? He says, Well, I can tell you. You need to embrace the Messiah. See, these are inductive approaches. What is real worship? Take heed that you do not your alms before men to be seen of them. And they're going, well, I thought that's why we go to church. They don't they weren't going to synagogue, okay? I thought that's why we observed these things, so that people would know we're good believing people. We practice our faith. So that's not why you do it. That's a completely wrong reason. And so Jesus makes these statements to shock them, to make them realize, ah, I don't see this correctly. Many, many analogies we find in these verses. You are the salt of the earth. You are the light of the world. A city that's head on a hill cannot be hid. Behold, the fowls of the air they sow not, neither do they reap, and gather into barns yet your heavenly father feeds them. Are you not much more aren't you not better than they are? These are all wonderful analogies, simple analogies, but not these long sermon illustrations. It's just like, watch a bird. Who feeds the bird? You don't. They don't plan it out. They always have their food. He's like, I take care of them. Well, you're more valuable than they are. That's his point. And then Christ uses languages that can be so challenging to our Western readers. Think about the statements like, if your right eye offends you, pluck it out. Or Matthew 5. 39, I say unto you, resist not evil. Whosoever shall smite thee on the cheek, turn to him the other also. I know everybody in here is going, ooh, I don't want to think about that one. Well well well guess what? He's using an analogy from something that you and I actually don't understand in our culture. He's talking about what happens in a shaman or culture. We're going to dig into that topic a good bit. Or if someone compels thee to go a mile, go with him too. Say, why is that? Well, because the Romans had a law that said you had to go a mile with somebody if they said, carry my stuff for me. And he says, guess what? Go another way. One. Show them kindness. That's what he's saying. We're going to get into all those things. Part three. Almost done. Some of the topics we're going to be examining. The heart of a redeemed person, blessed are the poor in spirit. The nature of true and false worship, take heed that you do not your alms before men. The true blessedness of the Christian. He opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are. The role of the Christian and the church and society. Ye are the salt of the earth. Ye are the light of the world. Thinking biblically about persecution, blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. Theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. And so people are going, yeah, I I've I've made a couple people at work mad at me. Well we're not talking about that. We're saying they hate you because you're a Christian. Not because you're obnoxious. Not because you're an unagreeable person. Not because you don't get along with people. They don't like you because you're a Christian. Because of what your life represents in that work context. Because of what you're not willing to say, what you're not willing to do, what you're not willing to go along with. That's why they hate you. Not because you're a difficult person. But because you're Christian. And the distinctiveness of being a Christian is something that they don't like. And that they hate so much that they will actually come after you. That's what it means. To be persecuted for righteousness' sake. Our relationship with the law, think not that I've come to destroy the law. I say, unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness These are some of the passages. And then the spirit of the law versus a rigid self-righteous application. You've heard it said of old, but I say unto you So why do I take the time to deal with this tonight? Because I want you to be excited about this study. I want it to whet your appetite. I want you to realize that digging into these passages is quite formidable. There's some really tough passages. There's some passages that godly people debate. I don't know if arg is the right word, but they don't necessarily all come down the same place on these things. There are some times that you'll pick up a commentary and read it, and I would just say I don't agree with them. And if I was writing a commentary, they'd say the same thing about me. But I think that what you will find as we work our way through these passages is that primarily the heart of how a Christian thinks. And what true, vibrant Christianity looks like. It's going to come out in these passages. And some of the things that we are really good at just kind of ignoring in our lives Lives, are these passages, they're gonna stick us to the wall. They're gonna back us into a corner and God's gonna say, I'm talking to you. I'm talking about that situation right there that you're playing with right now. I'm going to tell you the way that you think and how you've justified your actions and how you've justified what you're doing. How it does not. It is not consistent with your position. And God will nail us in these issues. Why? Because He loves us. He wants us to live consistent with who we are in Christ. So let's come to the sermon with a humble heart. Let's allow the scriptures to speak for themselves. Let's allow the study to sharpen how we approach interpreting the Bible. Let's be doers of the word, not just hearers only. Let's encourage others to join in our studies. Let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you for the word. And I am looking forward to this passage that we will deal with for many, many months. Father, help us to be a people who are honest before you. Help us to be willing to humble our hearts. Where these scriptures convict us, may we not chafe at such conviction, but may we humble ourselves under the ministry of the Word. Where it challenges us in the way that we think about things. May we be hearers of the word and not doers only. Father, help us to be rigorous students. Help us to grow in our ability to dig into the scriptures. Help me, as I handle these scriptures, to do them with great care Help me to present the truth in a way that is consistent with the text, your intention for that text. Not to twist it, not to add to it, not to cut from it. But to lay it out as it is, we ask it in Christ's name, Amen.