Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church this morning. And if you are visiting with us today for the first time or the first time in a very long time, we'd like to warmly welcome you And I hope that your time with us this morning is a very rich blessing. Not only are we gathered together for corporate worship, but today is also a very special Sunday because today we are remembering the 50th anniversary of our church. And technically today is not our 50th anniversary. It was actually on Wednesday of this past week. But obviously we didn't want to do this in the middle of the week. We wanted to do this on Sunday. So we just gather together and focus our attention on the Lord And what I'd like to do as we open up our time is I'd like to read to you some information about our church And I think that as I tell the story, it's going to be very much abbreviated, but I think it will give you a good sense of how the Lord has been very kind to us. And the fact that we're able to assemble this morning in this place , 50 years from the time that this church was formally organized, it's a testimony to God's faithfulness. It's a testimony to how good he is. And the fact is that there are people in this congregation this morning who have been here since the very beginning. There is an individual who I'll mention at the end of the service. uh who has been here since the very beginning. And um we also have a a good number of church members who have been a part of our congregation for at least 20 years. So That's really a tremendous blessing to consider. So I want to begin by reading from Psalm 37, verse 23. It says this. The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delighteth in his way. Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down, for the Lord upholdeth him with his hand. I have been young and now am old, yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken. The story of our church is one of God's grace and immense kindness. Over the last 50 years, he has seen fit to build, preserve, and strengthen a congregation in this location to be a lighthouse in Anne Rundel County. By his grace, 45 of our current church members have been a part of this story for at least 20 years. One of our current members was one of the church's original founding members from its very first meeting. In April 1973, with the blessing of their pastor, seven families from Granite and Calvary Baptist churches began meeting for informal Bible studies with the desire to plant a church in Millersville. This group seven months later would formally be organized as Community Baptist Church. Eventually their group outgrew, meeting in a home, and they began their very first service on the second floor of the Glen Burney Fire Volunteer Fire Department. The group at the time consisted of 45 people, and later on November 15, 1973, that church was formally organized as Community Baptist Church. From 1974 to 1977, Randy Nosworthy passed the church with the desire to turn it over to a more permanent pastor. When their building project at our current location was completed. Now let me mention this. If you want to know what the building looked like, there are several photo albums in the back there, and some of them are from that time period. in the 1980s and early 90s, and some of them are actually the construction of the building, the this part of the building that we are in right now. From 1977 to 1984, Jim Moates pastored the church, but due to poor health, he turned over the pastorate to Dan McAvoy, who served as pastor until 1993. The years leading up to his pastorate were difficult for the church with a short-lived Christian day school and declining church attendance into the mid-30s. During this time, the church decided to change its name to Anchor Baptist Church. Now, uh, we still receive mail that says Community Baptist Church at this location because This was the location. Same congregation, just a different name. In February of 1993, Dan McAvoy accepted a pastor in Pennsylvania And the church called Andy Counterman, who had planted a church in upstate New York to serve as its new senior pastor. It was under his leadership that the church saw its largest numerical growth and began a more intentional focus on missions and mentoring ministry-minded men. I'll mention that one of the reasons I came to Anchor is because they had a preacher voice program. In May of 2018, the church called our current pastor. That's me. The Porsche came to anchor in 2008, where Joel served as a preacher boy. for two years before being sent out as a church planting missionary in Ghana, West Africa. Without knowledge that there would be a pastoral transition the spring of 2018 The Porsche , 's were in the midst of preparing Anchor Baptist Church in Cape Coast to become an independent, self-supporting, locally pastored church, which it continues to be to this day. On the back of that table, there is a plaque that the church in Ghana gave us. And I would encourage you, maybe not after the service, but sometimes stop and read that. And the things that were written are very sweet to this congregation. And that church sends their greetings. I spoke with The men there recently and they said, do greet the church at their 50th anniversary. And so I will do that now. So they say thank you for the investment of time and energy and manpower. So very weak at the time. Over the years, our church has seen God's gracious intervention in our lowest times, his richest blessings, in our times of growth. We thank God for the thousands of people who have come through our church doors over the last fifty years, the numerous conversions, baptisms, young men now serving as well they're not young anymore, some of them. Formerly young men now serving as senior pastors all around the country, and the missionaries with whom we have partnered Our prayer is that we would continue to see God's good hand in our congregation and that we would be faithful as a church until the day he returns. I've asked Pastor Josh to come and lead us in the reading of our opening scriptures, and then I will open our church service in prayer. I did want to mention before he comes that we do not have an evening service tonight. Because of the the fellowship, I also wanted to mention that our midweek is on Tuesday, not Wednesday this week, because of the Thanksgiving holiday. And also, please come for our leaf raking on Saturday. There are a lot of leaves that have already been raked up, and you don't know that, but they have. And uh we hope to uh finish the job when all the leaves are down. We pray by this Saturday. Pastor Josh will come with uh our opening scripture readings. Our opening scripture reading is found in Lamentations 3, starting with verse 22. It is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed, because his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. The Lord is my portion, saith my soul, therefore will I hope in him. The Lord is good unto them that wait for him. to the soul that seeketh him. It is good that a man should both hope and quietly wait for the salvation of the Lord. Our focus of worship for this morning, let us unite in worshiping God for his great kindness to this church over the last 50 years. Please let's bow together in prayer. Father, we are such a richly blessed people. And we are a very thankful people. And we are thankful above all else to the Lord Jesus Christ, your Son whom you sent to earth to die for our sins. Who paid in full our sins debt. He rose triumphant from the grave, and we stand righteous in him, forgiven and cleansed, and fully accepted in the beloved. Father, I thank you that over 50 years, through every single turn of events, you have been a faithful and loving father to the people of this church. You have strengthened those who are weak. You have encouraged those who are weary. You have motivated those who had the desire to lead, and they did it to the very best of their abilities. Father, when we were in low times you uplifted us, and when we were in times of plenty and encouragement, you reminded us it's your good hand, not our wisdom or might that brought these things to pass. And so, Father, I pray that as we are assembled this morning, our hearts would be filled with praise, that we would exalt you and you alone. that we would recognize your sovereignty over this church, and that we are a testimony today as we gather together of that great relationship that we are so undeserving of Pray for your richest blessing on this time, and we ask it all in Christ's name, Amen. Right, good morning, Acre Baptist Church and esteemed guests. Thank you for joining us in person and joining us online. What an appropriate time of the year to celebrate the 50th anniversary of Anchor Baptist Church. Right before Thanksgiving. And let us lift up our voices this morning in praise and thanksgiving. Stand with me as we turn to page two. Lift your voices with a joyful noise unto the Lord and sing with a thankful heart and attitude, come, Christians, join to sing. Come Christians join to sing. Alleluia, Amen. God, praise to Christ our King. Alleluia. Amen, let our heart and voice bid for his glory joy , praises, his gracious choice. Alleluia Amen. Come lift your hearts out right. Alleluia. It's as well as I killed our guide and friend to us. And it was shall never end allelu , praise the Lord Christ and Just over a couple pages to page six. Keep lifting those voices as we sing, I sing the mighty power of God. We sing the mighty power of God. Amen. Please be seated. I think y'all have the volume turned up to about eleven this morning. Amen. Good singing. Let's turn to page 11. All three verses of come, thou fountain of every blessing. Book 12. Okay. One more pay top. Now all hail the power of Jesus thing Ay men. Oh, I just dare y'all to stand up here when you're singing like that. Oh my goodness. Ah , heavenly choir. Now we're going to go back to our scripture reading. Going to go to Psalms 37. And beginning in chapter in verse 1, we're going to read the first nine verses. Psalm 37, verse 1 through 9. Follow along on the screen, or if you're in your Bible. Fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity, for they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and wither as the green herb. Trust in the Lord and do good. So shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart Commit thy way unto the Lord, trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. And he shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday Rest in the Lord, and wait patiently for him. Fret not thyself, because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass. Cease from anger, and forsake wrath. Fret not thyself in any wise to do evil, for evildoers shall be cut off, but those that wait upon the Lord, they shall inherit the earth May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. Thank you for that. Alright, as we continue, we're going to turn to page five. In our red book, page five, oh, for a thousand tongues to sing and remain seated. The green shiny now doesn't go to the world, and also you come and pray for And amen. Alright. For the next song, do you want to follow along in the book? You'll have to get the blue book sitting in front of you. From the back of the page, follow along on the screen. It'll be up there as well. Page 192. So go to the back of the book and then come forward. Complete in thee. Amen and amen. Please stand with me on this altar. And on verse four we'll have the instruments bowel. Someone can be your friend I may belong to hard and more for me. I laid a fine salvation God I walk I didn't want to protect, I don't know when you die, I thought the job is Thou no winner thee, no more shall Thy voice shall not bring the voice shall be I have no more so I don't think I 'm ready. I am glory. I 'm leaving me. You need your I made all the community wrong by Please be seated. And it's the law and it is for me. With the war we can already show there is no Improvement. From which breath you all around the great home was given. All the time the music brings the music of With the war in the world and all the Oh my god, I'll be working on a little young Our children who are in junior church can be dismissed to the back for your class. And the rest of you I'd like to invite you to turn in your Bibles to Psalm 37 this morning. Psalm 37 And the passage that we'll be looking at is verses 1 through 8. Again, that is Psalm 37, verses 1 through 8. Let's go ahead and let's open up our Bibles and read it together. Here's what the text says. Fret not thyself because of evildoers. Neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity. For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and wither as the green herb. Trust in the Lord and do good. So shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart. Commit thy way unto the Lord. Trust also in him. He shall bring it to pass. He shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, thy judgment as the noonday Rest in the Lord, and wait patiently for him. Fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass. Cease from anger and forsake wrath. Fret not thyself in any wise to do evil. Please lift bow our hearts together in prayer as we ask the Lord to help us to understand this wonderful text of Scripture, but also how we should apply it on a day like today. Let's pray. Father, as we open up the Word of God, I pray that the Spirit of God would impress upon our hearts these wonderful, timeless truths that we have before us. As we think about the times in which we live, it's so easy for us to think that we face circumstances and challenges that are unique to our time that have never ever been experienced by your people in the past. Yet, Father, as we think about this day, 50 years from a culture and a time in American history that frankly was not a lot different than the one we're in right now As we think about the times in which we live, I pray that we would live passionate for your glory. That we would be courageous in our convictions. That we would stand firmly, that we would not be an anxious people, a fearful people, a timid people, a compromising people. But Father, I pray would be a principled people who are passionate about your glory and will be faithful in serving you till the day that we die or the day that you take us to glory. Rapture of your church. I pray that you would work in our hearts this morning. We thank you for all those who've been able to join us today physically in person. Those who would have loved to have been here but cannot physically be here for various reasons. May this time in your word be rich for all of us. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. The text in front of us is a powerful text. It tells us how to live vibrantly in a world that is broken. And as I read this passage of Scripture more than anything else, it gives us a practical snapshot of what it means to walk by faith in a broken world. Every single person in this room, no matter your circumstances, God has called you to walk by faith. Whether you're married and you have no children, whether you're single, whether you are a person who's Your spouse is deceased, whether you have children, whether your children are grown, it doesn't matter the circumstances that you find yourself in today. This text of Scripture is going to tell you how God wants you to live. And the simple way to put it is he wants you to walk by faith. And every generation of Christians has had to walk by faith And those who walk by faith are the people that our lives are really built on the shoulders of those individuals. That's what we find before us in Psalm 37. God wants us to live a vibrant life. No matter our circumstances. But that vibrant life is only experienced by those who walk by faith. Before we dig into the contents of this passage, I want to ask the question How many people in this room were alive in nineteen seventy three? Put your hands up. Put 'em up fast. Hi. Wow, that's a lot of people in this room. How many of you were not alive in 1973? All right. Well, we're about equal, I'd say, maybe, maybe a little more on the alive in 1973 than the not alive in 1973. But how many of you, and I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand on this one, but how many of you who were alive in 1973 and you were old enough to remember what was going on in the world at that time, how many of you remember what happened in 1973? Well, I see a hand right there. Yeah. Well let me share with you, for the sake of all of us young'uns who weren't alive in 1973, and for the opportunity of you to walk down memory lane to rem remember all the wonderful things that happened in that year. I'm gonna remind you of some things. First of all, in this room, if you are above 80 years old, you are in your 30s, and if you're above 90, you are in your forties. I know that we have a couple of folks in here. That were in your 40s in 1973. Some of you were in diapers. Some of you were not even born. Some of you are in elementary school, but I want to tell you 1973 was a year that a lot of stuff happened in America and in the world. A lot of stuff that believe it or not is still impacting us today. 50 years later, Richard Nixon was re-elected to his second term as president. But there was a lot going on behind, I shouldn't say behind the scenes, in the Congress because he was being investigated with what would later lead to the infamous Watergate scandal that pushed him out of office. You may not realize this, but our current president, Joe Biden, was actually in Congress in 1973. He was the first-year senator in the state of Delaware, and he was in his 30s. Forty percent of Americans regularly attended church in nineteen seventy-three If you were to take the younger demographic in America, those who are between 18 and 29, that would have been a lot of you who are in this room right now, who were alive in 73. Only about 30% of those went to church regularly. Actually, that is the current number of all Americans today. And that younger demographic is now below 20%. The United States was a becoming secular nation at the time, and we are continuing to bear the fruits of that secularization that was going on at that time. We've heard a lot about Roe v. Wade. 1973 is when that Supreme Court decision was handled down, handed down. And do you realize that since that date, 65 million American children have been aborted? To put that in perspective, that is the entire population of Texas and California. Yes, even with our leaky borders right now, that is the entire population of those two states combined. A gallon of gas was 39 cents. However, 39 cents went a lot further in those days than it did today. And because of things that were going on in the Middle East, there was an OPEC embargo, and the costs of fuel rose by double within the next two years. There was tremendous instability in the Middle East. In fact, in October, there was a war called the Yom Kippur War, where the nation of Israel was attacked on the highest and holiest day of the Jewish calendar. President Nixon withdrew U. S. military service members from Vietnam in 1973. Over 60,000 service members died in that conflict. Inflation and interest rates were wickedly high in the 1970s. And the SP 500, the standard benchmark for our markets, lost half of its value from The beginning of 73 until the next year in 74. It took six years for the market to reach the highs of 1973. Even the weather was crazy in 1973. Did you know that it did not snow one time in New York City till the last day in January? It only snowed two inches in New York City in 1973. That was the least snowy year in its history where they were keeping records. Who knows? Before they were keeping records, maybe they had at least snowy year than that. And it snowed seven inches in Charleston, South Carolina in a freak snowstorm. Same Yeah, did you know that in 1975 there was a new a Newsweek magazine article entitled, Are We Entering the Next Ice Age? Well, we're counterbalancing it with global warming, right? So why do I take the time to say say all those things? I take the time to say all this. Things are pretty crazy that year. There were a lot of people in churches in 1973 that said, what's going on in our country? The legalization. of the killing of the unboard on the federal level in our country, who would have ever thought that would happen? There are a lot of people that said 40% of Americans, that's a small group of people that still attend church faithfully. And our young people are just, they're dropping off the cliff in our culture. That was the mindset of many people. People were terrified to invest. People couldn't buy houses because of interest rates. You realize in 1981 the interest rate went to 16. 5 %? I was talking to Mr. Jenny, the company that he was working for in that year. They went bankrupt because the interest rates really squeezed them out And they could not continue to function as a business. The 1970s were a time in American history where our college campuses were in great turmoil. There was a lack of patriotism. There was an antagonism towards those who were in government, towards those who are in law enforcement, to those who are in the military, and I tell you today it's the exact same way. Fifty years later. But this church is here because in that year there were some people who decided they wanted to start a church. With all that craziness going on in the world, they decided they wanted to start a church. We would not be here today, meeting at this place, if history had gone in a different direction. And the fact is there are a lot of people living today because they have no perspective of history, they think this is the worst time that this country's ever seen. They think it's the worst the economy's ever been, they think it's the worst that the geopolitical tensions have ever been, they think it's the worst that our political system ever They think it's the worst time of an anti-patriotism and an anti-authority and young people who have no sense of respect for their elders and no sense of God. And I tell you, we're just seeing the cycle of history repeat itself. We have absolutely no knowledge of where we are in that cycle. There may be people who meet in this place 50 years from now, and I guess it's possible I could be alive in 50 years. Maybe not super likely, but who knows? I'll be as old as man back there. Or Carrie Teague. But there could be people meeting in this place 50 years from now. The only way that will happen is if God does what he did this past fifty years. If he continues to raise up a generation, he continues to sustain the church through the highs and the lows. And the gospel continues to be proclaimed in this place right here. And the fact is, it's very possible that that will be exactly what happens. I pray that's what happens. I guess I'd also pray the rapture happens between now and then too, but God is sovereign. He chooses to do it on his own timetable. So I want to leave you with a couple of thoughts this morning that I hope will help put this all in perspective. The first truth that I want us to notice from the scriptures is that history repeats itself. Every generation faces uniquely packaged yet surprisingly similar challenges. Listen to what the scripture says in Ecclesiastes 1 verse 4. One generation passeth away, and another generation cometh. Since I've been the pastor of this church, we have done twenty funerals. Twenty. And the fact is, in another five years, probably another 20 more. I mean, I hate to say that, but it's true. One generation passes And another generation comes. We have kids that are in their diapers right now in the nursery. And they're going to be going to college. And they're going to be getting married. And they're going to be starting families. One generation passes, another generation cometh. But the earth abideth forever. The sun ariseth, and the sun goeth down and hasteth. to his place where he rose, the wind goeth toward the south, turneth about to the north, it whirleth about continually. The wind returneth again according to his circuits. All the rivers run into the sea, yet the sea is not full. Unto the place from whence the river come, thither they return again. The thing that hath been, it is that which shall be. Did you hear that? It's true. Fifty years. The ball hasn't changed a whole lot in this nation. The thing that hath been is that which shall be That which is done is that which shall be done. There's no new thing under the sun. Is there anything whereof it may be said, see this is new. It hath been already of old time, which was before us. There is no remembrance of former things, neither shall there be any remembrance of the things that are to come with those that shall come after. I'll put it like this. Generations come and go. There are natural cycles that continue year after year, no matter what's going on in the world. The fact is that the sun rises and sets and has got nothing to do with what's going on economically in this country. It's got nothing to do with what's going on in the Middle East. It's got nothing to do with what's going on in our college campuses. those natural laws that God has created to govern his creation, where he upholds all things by the word of his power. They continue. There's nothing new under the sun. That's God's word. Tragically, generations rarely remember or learn from previous generations. I would say that the story of history is that those who learn from history lament while those who didn't go and do it again. It's true. Sometimes the most painful thing to be is the most wise person in the room. Because you see what's going on around you and you have no power to change it. Second truth is this, every generation should look at this period in history as an opportunity. I am convinced That a lot of people are weak and apathetic, and they're fearful and they're anxious, and there's no basis for them as a Christian to be such a person. There's no basis for it. You say, well, well, Pastor, there's all this craziness going on in the world. That's right. And there are people in every generation who stand up. In spite of the fears, they go and they do stuff. They build stuff. They create stuff. They raise their families. They do things for God. They invest in lives. Instead of sticking their heads in the sand and being fearful and anxious, they stand up. Those are the people that history is built upon. And in this text of Scripture, Ecclesiastes 11, it says, Cast thy bread upon the waters. Thou shalt find it after many days. Give a portion to seven and also to eight. For thou knowest not what evil shall be upon the earth. If the clouds be full of rain, they empty themselves on the earth. If the tree falls towards the south or towards the north, and the place where the tree falleth, there it shall be. I love this statement. He that observeth the wind shall not sow. That's a lot of people. You know why they don't sow? They're afraid. You know why they don't sow? Because they're not willing to trust God. Take a step of faith and plant those seeds and do the work. He says, he that observeth the wind shall not settle. He that regardeth the clouds shall not reap. As thou knowest not what is in the way of the Spirit, nor how the bones do grow in the womb of her that is with child, even so thou knowest not the works of God. Who maketh all in the morning sow thy seed, in the evening withhold not thine hand. Thou knowest not whether shall prosper, either this or that, or whether they both shall be alike good. I think every person that is in a formative season of life needs to read that text, know that text, believe that text, and live in light of the wisdom of that text. Take reasonable, calculated risks. Realize what is done is done. Do not allow yourself to be crippled by fear of the unknown. Trust God to work through your choices. I know I sound like I'm preaching to college kids. You know what I am? I'm actually preaching to the kids that are gonna be in college in ten years. If there's anything that I could desire to come out of a sermon like this, it's that our younger generation would say, I'm not going to be fearful. I'm not going to be a quitter. I'm not going to be a person who throws away my life. I'm going to trust God and I'm going to be courageous and I'm going to be obedient. I'm going to invest my life in something that matters. And for all those who you've kind of raised your families, you would pray for those who are coming behind you. And that you would look at those who did that before you and say, Thank God for their lives. This morning I was standing in the shower and I was thinking about people that have made a great investment in my life. And I just kind of categorized in my mind, this principle was taught by this person. This truth was taught by this person. And you know what's funny? A lot of those people don't even know that they did that in my life. They don't know it. But if I was to stand here and think about and I and I'm not gonna say their names because I forget somebody, whatever. But the truth is a lot of the people that have made the greatest investments in our lives are not the people that are going to have books written about them. They're just not. They were just faithful people who nobody thought much of. But they they took the time and invested in our lives. Or maybe they were just a faithful example and we watched it. And we couldn't turn away from that example. Because it was ingrained in our minds. The third truth is this: we must walk by faith to be faithful Christians. The Christian life is lived by faith. And in Hebrews chapter 11, verse 6, it says without faith it's impossible to please him He that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Chapter 12, verse 1 Wherefore, seeing we are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight in the sin which so easily besets us. And let us run with patience the race set before us, looking unto Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith. The simple fact of Hebrews 11 and drifting into verse or chapter 12. Is that the writer of Hebrews, who we don't even know his name, that writer of Hebrews said that there are people in your history who were flawed people. Who made bad decisions in their lives. But at key moments in their lives, they chose to take steps that made them vulnerable that were wise in light of eternity. And when they took those steps, God used those steps to accomplish his great purposes. They don't even realize the full extent of what they did. And he said, that's how you live the Christian life, folks. You live it by faith. You rest in God and you make decisions based on what He says even when there are questions in your mind. Even when you don't know how it's going to unfold. Nobody gets married knowing the future. Nobody has their first child knowing the future. Nobody starts a church knowing the future. Nobody starts a business knowing the future. Everything you do, you do with unknowns. And we must be a people who walk by faith. You say, well, where is Psalm 37? Well, Psalm 37 explains to you what walking by faith is. I'm not going to spend a tremendous amount of time. I'm just going to mention these pieces because they are so vitally important. It's like we understand the structure, walk by faith. Psalm 37 is the muscle. It's the bones. It's the skin. It's all of those pieces. It's the filling out of the structure of walking by faith. And here is the first statement I want you to know in the entire Psalm 37. Fret not. I'm going to say this. Worrying is sin. It is sin. I didn't say that it is easy for us not to worry. But it's sin. It's a sin because God wants us to live our lives with a calm disposition that finds our greatest joys and our security in Him. Now listen, if there was no God and our lives were just random chance like throwing a dice, then it would make sense to fret. But we know that's not the world we live in. We live in a world that was created and is sustained and is governed by God. And he works through the people that he's created to accomplish his purposes. Worry is not a problem with circumstance. Worry is a problem in our hearts. It's a problem in our minds. It's a problem inside of us You could have a ship that is passing through tumultuous waters, but as long as the water stays outside the ship, it keeps going. And you could have a ship that's sailing through smooth waters. And it hits an iceberg, and guess what happens? It sinks to the bottom of the ocean. Why? Because when the water gets in, that's when it goes down. And the fact is, that's the way worrying is. Fear cripples many an able-bodied person. It enslaves many an able-bodied person It ultimately leads down a road of untold missed opportunities and waste. Fear keeps people from doing things that matter. And I want to encourage you today, do not fret. Secondly, be not envious. Coveting the possessions, positions, and opportunities of others is a sin. Because God wants us to live consistently contentedly in our current season of life. Coveting is not a problem of circumstance. It's a problem in our hearts and in our minds. There are people who are wealthier than any person in this room. There are people who are more powerful than any person in this room. There are people who have access to more opportunities than any person in this room, and they are discontented. And they are envious, and they're living their lives as someone who wants more and wants to not enjoy the things that they have. And there are people who have nothing. And they're thankful. People whose health is broken. And God has taught them to be thankful for his kind grace in their hardest moments. People who the things that they long for, and God says no. And they choose to accept his answer. They learn to be content with what God has given us. And their greatest delight is not in the stuff of this world, it's in him. Now, I'm not saying that this is an easy thing for us to do. I'm not saying that it is an easy thing for us to learn, but I am telling you, God says be not envious There is no temporal possession or position or opportunity that can satisfy a sinful passion. None. Giving in to sinful passion simply feeds the flesh and sets us up for greater bondage to that passion. If there's something you want and God has said no and you say, I'm going to go for it anyway, when you get it, guess what? You're going to want something else. It's the truth. It's the truth. A lot of us have learned this by experience, sadly. But God's word teaches us we must be a contented people. God wants our greatest sense of delight to be rooted exclusively in Him. And he wants us to freely and lovingly give of ourselves to him and to be thankful for what he has given to us. The third statement: trust in the Lord. Failing to trust God is sinful and it's illogical. Because He wants our confidence to rest alone in Him. Now think about it this way: When I am not willing to trust God, I'm replacing him with something. Does that make sense? The something's usually me, okay? And I gotta ask this question. When you think about what you know versus what God knows, how do you measure up? I heard a laugh. Maybe we should cry. Our knowledge is so limited. The wisest person in this room. And there are some people that there in in the areas of life that you work and in your experience you have tremendous wisdom. And you have learned that wisdom through sweat and pain and sorrow and time and God's grace. But what you know falls short of what he knows. Our motives are often very mixed. His are always an entirely good. Our wisdom is limited. His is infinite. I'll say this, our attempts to control our circumstances falls flat every time. The more you try to control your circumstances. The more painful the fall when you realize you can't. That's a hard lesson to learn in life, but it's true And he upholds all things by the word of his power. He meticulously governs this world. God not only knows what will be, but he knows what could have been. He knows what thankfully did not happen. You you list it, God knows. Trust in the Lord. Fourthly, do good. Do not waste your life. Wasting what God has committed to our trust through an action is sinful. Because God wants us to live an industrious life that righteously, that richly blesses others and brings glory to Him. The truth is every person in this room is living right now in a season of life you will not get back. You are living in a season of life you will not get back. And if you live long enough to be able to look back at this season, you'll either look back at it and you will be thankful that you didn't waste the season that you're living in right now, or you will look back with great regrets. at what you lost because you did not plant and water and sow wisely. You will lament the pain that you experience in the future because the choices you made were foolish. And they were without prudence, without a consideration of God. And so he says, do good. God wants us to be a working people. He's entrusted us with wealth of resource. Time is a resource. Energy is a resource. Physical strength is a resource. the gifts and opportunities that we have. Every person here is uniquely fitted with certain gifts that other people just don't have. But there's other people that have them, but they have them in different proportion than you. And they're a different combination of these things than you are. God has uniquely fitted you with gifts and opportunities and seasons so that you will use them for his glory. The material resources we have been entrusted. The prosperity and freedom of this nation. You know how many opportunities we have just because we're Americans that nobody else in the world has? It's true. I shudder when I hear young people say, Oh, America, I don't love my country. I'm not thankful for my country. Like, really? Have you been outside of this country? Do you realize how people live outside this country? Do you realize the opportunities that you have that they don't have? Do you realize it was paid for so you could have what you have? I'm stunned by the incredible ignorance and arrogance of that kind of thinking. And the bottom line is that God has given us opportunity and we can waste it. If we do not think wisely. Fifthly, delight thyself also in the Lord. Putting anything in the place of God is sin, because he alone is worthy of our central delight. Our greatest joy cannot be realized outside of Him and what comes from Him. In conjunction with this delight in the Lord, he says, commit your way unto the Lord. Presumption is a sin because it has given us, because he's given us his word to shape every element of the choices that we make. He wants us to roll our plans onto his shoulders. He wants us to trust him to bring to pass what is best for us. And then he goes from delighting to committing, and then he has rest in the Lord. Our restlessness is sinful. Because he wants us to disengage from the numerous cares of life, roll those burdens onto his shoulders, and rest in how he chooses to work. Now, some might say, well, these are different times, different circumstances. Well, folks, listen. They're not If you believe that, you believe a lie. And if you embrace that lie, you'll regret it. And we're here today because there are people that in history didn't do that. Or at least they didn't do it in the most significant moments of their lives. But this last one is fascinating. He says, cease from anger. Unjustifiable anger is sinful. We often take up offenses that we have no right to. We take up offenses that we have no ability to address. God never gave us that jurisdiction. And so you know what we need to do with those things? Leave them with those whom God has given the responsibility to deal with them. We must learn to stop allowing the sins of others to tempt us into sinful response. Walking by faith is the foundation that is expressed in these verses. And so I ask this question to you. Do you walk by faith? As you think about your life in those key moments. Are you doing what the Bible says here? Or would you say, you know what, I actually do the exact opposite? And and by the way, if you do the exact opposite in one area, you probably do it in multiple areas. You just haven't analyzed it long enough to see that. Because they're all kind of interconnected with one another. It's the same foundation, it's God Himself. It's the same standard, it's His written word. And the fact is, when we fail in one area, we're ultimately failing in all of these areas because they're just various expressions of the same basic principle. Walk by faith. There's a fourth fact I want you to notice, and don't worry, there's not not a whole lot left. There are rich blessings that flow to those who walk by faith. It's not easy to walk by faith. Just look at Abraham's life. How many times did he tell his wife to say she was his sister? Twice. He did. What did he do when she said, Why don't you take Hagar? He said, Alright, I'll go with that. Really? Abraham made some terrible decisions. In fact, the decisions that Abraham made at some of those key moments in his life, they yielded painful consequences. But there were also key moments in his life that God and his grace brought back to him. And when he was in those moments, you know what he did? He trusted. He trusted. Every single example in Hebrews 11 is like that. They were flawed people. That if it was all dependent on their goodness. Fall short. But God was persistent in their lives. God was patient with them. He loved them. He continued to work in their lives. What is the result of a life that is built on walking by faith? Psalm 1 says it this way, blessed is the man whose delight is in the law of the Lord. You know what that word blessed means? It means happy and joyful. Maybe another way to put it is: this is a person who lives a quality of life that is rich. And that's why he's happy. It says nothing about how much he has, it says how he relates to what he has. He is blessed. His delight is in the law of the Lord. He is like a tree planted by the rivers of water that bringeth forth his fruit and his season. His leaves shall not wither. Whatsoever he does shall prosper. Those who walk by faith live rich lives. I didn't say they are materially rich. Some are and some are not. I didn't say that they get all the stuff that they want. It's that what God gives them, they recognize they didn't deserve it, and they're thankful for it. They live rich lives. Their lives are a blessing to other people. In verse 4, he says that he will give you the desires of your heart. Literally, God takes a person who delights in him and he shapes their heart to love what matters to God. That's what it's saying. He shapes their heart to love what God loves. I would add, and hate what he hates. To love what he loves. He will guide their steps into the way that they should go. Verse 5, commit thy way, and he shall bring it to pass. You say, what's the conclusion? I want to encourage you, let's evaluate our time in history objectively. I am so grieved when I see people Who fall short of what is available to them. And they don't have to do it. Or the fact that they have done it doesn't mean they have to stay in that that that mindset. Today, you can turn in the right direction. You can establish a new pattern of life because you turn to God and you walk in his ways. Let's learn from those before us who took risks and made investments that ultimately have brought us to the place where we are today. This is a beautiful building. I didn't build it. Hardly anybody in this room built it. Somebody did. Actually, several of you were involved in this. And this building sits on a piece of property that was that was bought in the 1970s. Ironically, bought from a person who, when he died, left us more money than what we bought the land for. Probably didn't know that. It's true. The fact is we're here today because there are people that live their lives and we're standing on their shoulders. And we ought to be thankful for that. They were all imperfect people. And the ones who are still here, you're still imperfect. And so am I. Fifty years from now, there'll be people talking about us. They were imperfect, but They were faithful. God used them. We stand on their shoulders. Let's walk by faith, not anxious about the future. Not discontented by our circumstances, trusting God, investing our lives in the good of others, delighting in the Lord, committing our ways to Him Resting in him, resisting the temptation to sin in response to the sins of others. May God help us to learn from the past and to appreciate it. And may we be faithful, wise, and strong in this moment that God has given us. I'd like to ask you, let's bow together for a word of prayer. We're going to thank God. How kind he's been to us. Father in heaven, we are an immensely And richly bless people. Sadly, we don't even realize the full extent of that blessing that we enjoy. We can assemble in this this wonderful auditorium. We've used this land for fifty years as a church. We have families who have raised their children, now have grandchildren. Some even great grandchildren. And this is the place where they raised them. We see many people hear the gospel for the first time. Place their faith in Christ because of a sermon they heard in this church? Or because of someone who knocked on their door from this church, or someone who invited them from this church? or an advertisement they saw on their door or an advertisement they saw online. We are a very blessed people, and I pray that we would never get over that, and we would not cease to be grateful to you. Forgive us where we have fallen short. Forgive us where we have become entitled. Forgive us where we have become proud. Forgive us where we have become fearful Help us to embrace a thoroughly biblical view of the time in which we live, and help us to walk triumphantly in the light of who we are in Christ and what is before us. Father, I pray that this church would be a faithful congregation till the day the Lord Jesus calls his church home. And I pray that you would just continue your blessings and that we would be faithful with what we're given. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. Just a moment our choir is gonna sing what is gonna be well it won't be our closing hymn, but It'll be our closing special. But before we do, I want to mention a couple things. First of all, the way that we're going to dismiss everyone because of the number of folks that we have, we're going to only dismiss those who are 55 and above. When we close in prayer. Okay? And then we're going to sing a a hymn. And that's going to give our seniors a chance to get back there to get some food. Find a nice table. There are padded chairs, and they are not for my family. They're for our seniors. Okay? So please make sure that you get a nice seat. All right. Uh there are a lot of pictures out there that you can enjoy. Um I would encourage you to enjoy them after you've eaten if you're a senior, because you'll miss that opportunity to get there I also have a special presentation that I'm going to have one of our deacons do after the choir special. And um so Mr. Jenny is the one who's going to do that. He's also going to close us in prayer and he's going to dismiss our seniors. Did you catch that, Mr. Jenny? I'll try to help you if you forget. And if I don't forget. All right? So that's what we're gonna do. The choir is gonna sing, and then after that, Mr. Jenny, I'm gonna come up here and I'm gonna mention some things. He's gonna do a special presentation. He's gonna close some prayer. Seniors will be dismissed. And then we'll sing another special or uh sing another uh hymn before everyone else is dismissed. And such shall now be all Challenge is our grandmother is playing over no boundaries All right now Nothing a very good thing around will We know how well we were born and once and broken our shame and called us. Now we bear his broad day. Every spin of crime we have ever done is no matter for giving us more. Nothing ever can nothing ever will overcome the Lord our God. We are best new out of darkest night , we don't see the And the king come on by the home. Nothing ever can nothing ever will come to Lord Our God is victorious, he always wins We always write the love, we raise the run, we always win, we always wake my love. We lost her she was priced and wanted to be a very important thing. For me , I'm not going to be able to do that. We will read Following his gospel call, and when the story and we know Jesus wins, or in dark enough is God. No we never heard, not me never well, cover from God, not we never had nothing ever will As I mentioned at the beginning of our little history lesson, we have one church member In our midst who is there at the very beginning. And her name is Carrie Teague. And she is sitting right there in the back. I'm not going to ask you to scan, Miss Carey. If you want to, that's fine, but I will not ask you to stand. But I asked Mr. Jenny if he would Give you something that it's a very small thing, but we're thankful that today You get to be here for this moment. And I'm sure 50 years ago you did not dream that you would. So Mr. Jenny. It's my uh distinct privilege to present a recognition to a very special person in our congregation this morning. This is a certificate of recognition. This certificate proudly presents to Carrie Tig in recognition for her 50 years of faithful dedication to Anchor Baptist Church, its members, and our Lord and Savior. Signed by Pastor Joel Porchet and signed by Pastor Josh Flinder, our assistant pastor. Carrie, I present this to you in recognition of fifty wonderful years. And not only that, but something else. Good man. Look at those flowers. Thank you so much for your years of service. It has been a privilege to know you. I I'm sure you are glad you were able to do it. And I also knew her husband. Right. Yes, yes. Very good. Thank you so much. For your years of service. Mr. Jenny, can you close us in prayer? Thank the Lord for the food. And after he has finished, uh, we will ask those who are 55 and above. Uh you guys can be dismissed to the back. If you don't want to meet admit you're 55 and above. That's okay. But you have this opportunity. And uh and then while they are heading out, we will sing our closing hymn to give them time. to uh to get settled. So Mr. Denny, please close us in prayer. Thank the Lord for the food. Let's pray. Heavenly Father. How can we possibly give you thanks for the years of service that Anchor Baptist has had the privilege of serving you in this community. We're so thankful for the souls that have come through Anchor Baptist Church, those that have been saved, those that have been baptized here, those that have gone off to to preach and to be missionaries. Actually we have had an impact on practically the entire world, Lord, with missionaries that we supported for many, many years. We're so thankful, Lord, for the for your grace and your mercy that you've been so kind to us here at Anchor that we've had the privilege of seeing souls come to a saving knowledge of you. We're thankful, Lord, too, for what you've done in Pastor Joel's life, Lord, having gone to Ghana from here, Lord, and started a church there in Cape Coast Thank you for the souls that were saved there and is now being carried on by nationals. We thank you, Lord, for bringing him back to us. Pray, Lord, that you would just continue to bless he and his family and our other pastoral staff. Pray, Lord, now that you would just continue to guide and direct us throughout the day. Thank you, Lord, too, for the food that's been prepared in the back. We want to invite everybody to uh to stay for that, Lord. Pray, Lord, that you would also uh bless the food that's uh uh gonna nourish our bodies so we can uh better be a a servant and uh uh praise to you. I want to uh first of all uh Thank you again for the privilege we have of honoring Mrs. Carrie Tigg and her many 50 years of service here at Anchor Baptist Church. Thank you this for this in Jesus' name. Amen. Like to dismiss the seniors. Anybody over ninety years of age can go first. And over eighty next. And over yeah.