Uh let's turn to John chapter one. Let's begin with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, I do want to just thank you for today, Lord. Lord, I'm just so thankful for how good you are to us, Lord. We're blessed beyond belief, and just so thankful that we have a God in heaven who just loves us beyond belief, Lord. And so much so that you sent your precious son to die on the cross for our sins, Lord. And I'm so thankful that that sin penalty is paid in full, Lord. And I'm just thankful for all that you do for us, Lord. And I just pray now that you would just help me, empower me, strengthen me. Um I just pray that you would give me the words to say. Uh help me to do what I can't do on my own. And thank you for this opportunity. I pray that we would be not just hearers of your word, but we would be doers. And I just pray that this message would just be able to touch our hearts Me included in a special way. I just thank you for all that you do, and I pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, so When we think about an introduction, an introduction is very important. So important that without it, you don't have a relationship with someone. somebody. And you might not really put much thought into an introduction. I know I don't most of the time. And the thing is a good introduction can can really m make something go a lot uh smoother and a bad one can really set you off with somebody. Um for example, if I was coming here and Pastor Joel got up here before here and said, Hey, we found this guy just outside, we're gonna just give him a chance, you guys pray for him. Um I don't think I think a lot of you would probably be skeptical about what's gonna come out of my mouth. But if Pastor Joel comes up here and he says, Hey we have a church planner, um you know I've already called him, I've I've been able to talk with him Um I'm thankful that he's able to be here. We're looking forward to what he's gonna have to say tonight and looking forward to the preaching. You know, it's gonna set you guys at ease and be like, oh well Pastor Joel approves of Jordan, then we're gonna approve of him as well, most likely. And so it goes a long way, a good introduction. Um, but we need that introduction. And I know, look, I've I've been a husband for two months now. I'm a husband in training, and I'm sure that everyone else in here is a husband is also a husband in training, no matter how long you've been married. Uh but one thing that I know that slips my mind sometimes, hey I lived my whole life um up until you know a a few months ago as a single man. Um I only had to introduce myself beforehand. And now I have to introduce me and my wife. And sometimes I forget to introduce my wife. And she's so kind and so gracious with me. Um usually she'll just be like, Hey Jordan, I I I don't think I was able to to meet that person. person. Would would you mind introducing me? And she's so sweet about it. And so but I know as guys sometimes that can be something that, you know, we're just so excited to talk to somebody and And sometimes we can forget to introduce our wives, but without that introduction, uh we don't have that relationship. And that's why um even Risha when she kindly reminds me, it it means a lot to be introduced to someone somebody because without it you don't have that relationship you don't have that that connection it's not formed yet. And when we think about an introduction, the most important introduction uh that each and every one of us is gonna have in our lives Is an introduction to Jesus Christ. And without that introduction, we don't have a relationship with Him. And so it all starts with With an introduction. And we're going to be looking at the passage today where a brother introduced his brother to Jesus Christ. And it's um, I love this passage. Um, I feel like when I read it It's so sentimental to me because this is my testimony in a lot of ways. My brother introduced me to Christ when I was 17 years old. And so I'm excited to be able to be here and to be able to preach from God's Word and just be able to, Lord willing, see what God does with this message tonight. And without further ado, we'll look at this introduction. We'll be looking at John chapter 1, starting in verse 35. This is just going to be a simple three-point message. And the title of this message is And He brought him. to Jesus, which we will see in the text here. But looking at verse 35, it says, again the next day after John stood And two of his disciples, and looking upon Jesus as he walked, he saith, Behold the Lamb of God. Okay, so in the previous verses leading up to this to these verses, um John is telling others that the that Jesus is the Lamb of God, that he is the Messiah, um he is the one that has come to take away the sins of the world. He's no longer telling others that the Messiah will be coming shortly. He's now telling them that the Messiah is here. Jesus Christ is here in the flesh. That's why he's so excited. We see that exclamation point at the end of verse number 36 that behold the Lamb of God. I mean, this moment would have been the most exciting moment in history. At this point, John was able to see um his Savior that he had been uh preaching and teaching about uh for for years to come, just telling people that the Messiah is coming shortly. That Jesus Christ, the one that they're looking forward to, that will save the world of their sins. He's coming And now it's no longer he's coming. He's saying he's here. He is here right here. That's Jesus right there. And so he's excited about it. And now I don't know about you, but when good news happens to me, I mean I'm excited about it, and I want to tell people about it. Me and my wife we're together a lot of times, so usually if something happens, I'll just look at her and be like, Risha, did you see that? Like we we both experience that together, right Uh but before we were married, um we were doing long distance and I would call her and I would just be so excited just to tell her, you know, hey, God just did this in my life. Can you believe that this happened and I'm really excited about it. I I I don't think I would ever call her with good news and say, you know, hey Risha, you wouldn't believe what just happened. Like I'm so excited about this. Can't wait to tell you. She'd be like, Jordan, are you okay? You don't sound too excited about it. Um and our emotions, how we present something, even our tone of voice, it it describes, you know, when we are excited about something. And it really helps someone understand how excited we are about it. And even as reading this, I believe that we should read our Bibles with emotion as well. And we can even just picture them. Just visualizing how excited John would have been here to see his Savior face to face in this moment. Just how exciting uh that would have been. And when we're thinking about you know being excited um to see Jesus and um how John was and just how excited we should be when we tell people about Jesus Christ as well. We should be able to do it with that passion, to be able to do it with expression. You know, we shouldn't go up to someone with a big old frown on our face and say, you know, guess how good my God has been to Christ is us their Savior. And our goal is to be able to show him, to show people just how much God has been has meant to us and how good He has been to us. And of course there's going to be hard days. There's going to be days where it's going to be hard to smile. There's going to be days where it is hard to show expression. And on those days, people want to see the the real you. They want to see That reality that even as Christians, guess what? We're not always gonna have the best day of our lives. But what is written on our hearts, knowing that we have the joy, the joy of Jesus Christ, not based on our circumstances. But we have the joy of Jesus Christ in our hearts. You know, what's written in our hearts, it should be shown on our face as well. And so And just to be able to be real with people, to show that expression, to be able to tell them that God has been good. And one of my favorite Psalms is Psalm 23. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. life. And when we think about that um expression with that um with that verse there in Psalm 23, um I feel like a lot of times, I know I even thought this. When I became a Christian, I thought it was just going to be peaches and cra I thought everything, you know, I was gonna have the best day of my life every single day, and that, you know, God's gonna be showering with me with blessings, which he does, but that I would never have a bad day. But that's not the reality. The reality is that when we look back, we're always able to just see, as hindsight as 2020, we're able to see just how God, how good God has been in our life. lives and those trials and those circumstances where maybe we didn't understand, where maybe we had no comprehension of what God was doing, but were able to look back and say, you know what? God didn't forsake me. God didn't leave me. He was there with me during the hardest times of my life, and I'm so thankful that I'm not going through anything in this life alone, and that I have my God by my side at all times. That's what that surely goodness and mercy that follows us all the days of our lives. That's what it looks like in a Christian's life. And so just to be able to show that expression when we're talking to someone, when we're talking to someone about our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, to be able to do that in a way to present Him well and to present Him accurately, and to be able to tell someone just how much God has done for us. And now when we think about John to Bapt John the Baptist, he knew his role here. He was the forerunner of Christ, meaning that he was the one that would tell the world. about the coming Messiah, about Jesus Christ. And he knew that he was not the Messiah. Nor did he ever try to claim to be the Messiah. He knew what God had called him to do and he He did it. And we even see here in verse number thirty-six here, um, when he says that, if we look in the next verse in thirty-seven it says, and the two disciples heard him speak and they followed Jesus. You know, these are John the Baptist, these are his disciples at this time. But John, he knew his role, he knew his place. And like any good teacher, um, he saw that the master teacher I was right in his presence. And he wasn't going to try to keep his disciples to himself. He knew that they were going to learn more from Jesus than they would ever learn from him. I mean I could be up here preaching and teaching. If Jesus Christ walked through the door right now, you guys wouldn't care about anything I have to say anymore. Um we you guys would just be focused on him because he's the focal point of all history. point of our lives. He's everything to us. And John knew that. He knew that for his disciples as they saw Jesus Christ for the first time. And that's where it leads us to our second point. That first one is there he is. The second point is come and see. And we'll look in verse 37 here. It says, and the two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus. Then Jesus turned and saw them following. And saith unto them, What seek ye? They said unto him, Rabbi, which is to say, being interpreted, Master, where dwellest thou He saith unto them, Come and see. They came and saw where he dwelt and abode with him. That day, for it was about the tenth hour. Okay? So they heard Jesus speak. First They heard they had secondhand knowledge about Jesus Christ. They were able to hear about Jesus through John, hear all these amazing things. Just a great introduction, as I was talking about before. They would have heard just all these marvelous miracles that Jesus has done, how Jesus was going to be the one that would uh save them from their sins. They'd be able to have a home in heaven for eternity, all through Jesus Christ. And so they're they're looking forward to that and they're excited about that. But that was just secondhand information. And so now they see Jesus Christ in the flesh and they decide to follow him. It's no more second hand anymore. They're able to follow Jesus Christ for themselves. They're able to make that decision to follow him. And the thing is, it's that simple. It's that simple for us as well. Think about when you got saved, when you accepted Christ as your Savior. Someone probably told you about Jesus. Jesus Christ. I know that that's how it was for me. Told me about all these amazing things that God had done for them, that Jesus had done for them in their lives. And, you know, I got a little curious and I just started to think, well, you know, maybe Jesus could do that same thing for me. me that he's been doing for everybody else. Uh and you know, I inspected that. I I I looked a little bit more and then I made that decision to follow him. And to put my faith and trust in him. And that's how it goes for us. And so we see just how simple it is, even here in the text here. And when we think about them hearing about Jesus, Romans 10, 17 says, so then faith cometh by hearing. and hearing by the Word of God. Okay? So if faith comes by hearing and hearing what? The Word of God. Who is Jesus Christ? I want you to keep your place here, but I want you to just turn over one page to the left. And let's look in John 1 -1, just the first verse of John chapter 1. It says, In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning. With God. And I want you to jump down to verse number 14. It says, And the word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father. full of grace and truth. The message that is being sent here is Jesus Christ. It's the same message that we're telling about. Telling people today, it's not a new message, it's not a different message. It's that Jesus Christ has come and that He is the one that saves that saves us from our sins, that has saved us from our sins. sins, and he is the word made flesh. And so we're able to see who they're hearing about. They're hearing about Jesus Christ, the Word of God here. And so what does Jesus do when these disciples they ask him where does he dwell at? He turns to them and he sees them following, and he asks them what does what seek ye or asking what are you looking for and they reply where does where where dost thou dwellest meaning where are you standing They're trying to figure out where where's Jesus at? Where is he gonna be at? And I don't know if you've ever wanted to know more about somebody, to maybe to get to know somebody a little bit more, but you kind of have to do that right. Um if you're trying to get to know somebody more, maybe maybe it's a coworker that you you feel like, hey, I could be a good friend with them. Maybe it's a a special love interest. I know that's how it was for me and Risha. Um I remember um in our early stages when we were interested in each other, I wanted to know what her schedule was like. Um I wanted to know, you know, when she would have some free time in the day for us to be able to talk on the phone to where I could get to know her better. I wanted to invest in that relationship. And that's what you have to do. You have to be able to invest in a relationship. Once you're you you have that introduction, it doesn't stop there and it never should stop there. To be able to invest in that relationship afterwards. And we see the disciples trying to do that immediately with Jesus. We see how intentional they are about getting to know Jesus Christ here. And a funny illustration with this, after I graduated from Pensacola Christian College, I went to Chattanooga, Tennessee, and I did a pastoral residency program. program at a church there. One of my best friends there, his dad, was probably one of the most sociable guys I've ever met in my entire life. And on a Sunday night service like this, he had He he would do this. Um around this time um he would try to go up to someone maybe he's barely even talked to or maybe he's talked to a couple times before, and he would go up to them and ask them, Oh, so so what'd you have for dinner tonight And sometimes they would tell him, um, and if they did tell him, and he would see, he would say, okay, I see how it is. I wasn't invited. And they would feel bad and start scrambling and say, oh well, you know, and and that he would be able to set up a future meeting with them through that. And I don't recommend doing that or anything. Uh but vice versa, if he asked them to and they said they haven't eaten anything yet, he would also see if they would be able to come over to his house. Um he would invite their family over to spend some time with with him and his family to get to know them better. And now the moral of that story, I'm not recommending anybody do that unless you're just inviting someone over. Don't invite yourself over to somebody's house. Um, but feel free to invite someone over. But the the moral of that is to be intentional. You know, we need to be intentional with our relationships today. When we're at work, you know, we all have circles in our lives where we have people who don't know Jesus Christ as their We have unsaved people who have not accepted Christ as their Savior to where maybe we've never even presented the gospel to them before. Um I was just on a a plane just a couple weeks ago. We were flying down to Florida for um a field conference with BIMI and I sat next to a guy on the plane um who was probably in his mid-40s, early fifties. Um said he grew up in Taiwan and that he was he was Buddhist, but he was more Buddhist in name. And when I started presenting the gospel to him, I asked him if he had ever heard that before, and he said he's never heard anything like that. that before. And I asked him if he had any co-workers who were Christian. He said, Yeah, I think I have a couple. And it just broke my heart just to know that, you know, he's gone forty plus years of his life without ever hearing a clear presentation. You know, I don't think we should ever assume that someone has heard a clear presentation of the gospel. I know for me it wasn't until I was 17 years old That I didn't hear the glorious gospel, the greatest news that I ever heard in my entire life. I never heard it until I was seventeen years old. And just to think that we live in a world where where people don't know, they're looking for truth, they're searching for love, and they're searching for it in all the wrong places, and we have the truth. How how selfish do we have to be that to hold that truth to ourselves. You know, we have a lost and dying world out there, and and the least we can do is tell them, tell them that there is a better way, that there is hope, that you can have a purpose And life, that you can have a home in heaven for eternity. And it all starts with an introduction to Jesus Christ. My prayer is that you would pray even tonight That God would put someone on your heart. Maybe it's a family member. Maybe it's a mom, dad, maybe it's a sibling, maybe it's your kids, maybe it's somebody in your life, coworker, friend. I I don't know. You know, and it's between Between you and God, that God would put someone on your heart that you'd say, Hey, you know what? I don't know if I've ever shared the gospel with them. And I pray that you would just you would just do it. You would just try. Just pray that God would help you, that He would give you the boldness in order to be able to present that best news that they will ever hear in the their entire life. And a lot of times we can get get in our heads and say, think of all the worst that could possibly happen. But the reality is, usually the worst that can happen is They can just tell you no. They can tell you no, I don't want to hear it. But the best that can happen is beyond our wildest imagination. God could really get a hold of their heart. He could um save their soul from an eternity. In hell. And they would be on their way to heaven. They would have a new life in Christ, a new purpose, a new hope, and their whole lives could be turned upside down for Christ in a matter of seconds. And it all starts with an introduction to Jesus Christ. I just pray that it would be our prayer tonight that we would pray for boldness in order to be able to do what we can't do in our own with introducing someone to Christ. And when we look back at what what Jesus says here in verse number Number 38 , when they ask where he's where does he dwell at in verse 39, he says, he saith unto them, Come and speak And it says they came and saw where he dwelt and abode with him that day, for it was about the tenth hour. Okay? So he says, Come and see, he invites the these disciples to come to know him more. And they come and they stay with him the whole day. This would have been the best day of their entire life. They get to spend a whole day with Jesus. Oh, what I would do to spend a day with my Savior. to see him face to face. I'm so thankful that that glorious day will come one day where we will be able to meet our Savior. We'll be able to see him face to face and we'll be able to spend an eternity with him in heaven, just how glorious that day will be when we're able to do that. But let's look at this 10th hour significance here, okay? So this was either Hebrew or Roman time. If it was Hebrew time, it would be about 4 p. m. The tenth hour was two hours before sunset, which would have been at 6 p. m. Or it was Roman time, and that's really simple for us because that's what we go off of today. So it would have been about 10 a. m. here when they were able to Um be with Jesus here. But regardless of the time, this meeting with Jesus was so significant that John recorded it in his gospel. Why is that? You know, I believe that down to the hour, this was when it stopped being that secondhand knowledge. It stopped being that head knowledge they know about the the coming Messiah. Messiah, they know about the the Lamb of God that is going to save them of their sins. It stopped being all that secondhand information. They were able to inspect, they were able to see Jesus for themselves, and I believe down to the hour that's when it stopped being head knowledge. it became heart knowledge where they accepted that this is not the messiah, this is their messiah, this is their personal savior. This is the one that has saved them from their sins personally, and it became a personal relationship at this point for these two disciples here. And just as Jesus is telling them to come and see for themselves, guess what? He's doing the same for each and every one of us in here as well. He's done that for all of us. And if you don't know Christ as your Savior, He's doing that for you tonight. And I don't know if you remember down to the hour where you got saved, but I remember it was it was August when I was seventeen years old. I won't ever forget that night. When I when it it stopped being head knowledge for me, it stopped stopped being I know about God, I know about Jesus, it stopped being all that and it became I know that He is my Savior. I know what he has done for me, and I believe by faith that he has done all of that for me, and that my sin debt was paid in full that night. and just to see what Jesus Christ has done in my life. And I would just encourage you, if there hasn't been that hour, where you could say, I know for sure I put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Maybe you don't know the hour, but you know that that has happened. Maybe you're in here tonight and you say, I don't know. I don't know if there's been a time in my life where I can say for sure that I've put my faith and trust in God. Hey, it's the six o'clock hour right now, about to be the seven o'clock hour. Let that hour be your hour where it stops becoming had knowledge. It stops becoming all the excuses of why not to accept Christ as your Savior. And it becomes that hour where you say, hey, I'm tired of doing it my way. I'm going to try it your way, God. And you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. If someone hasn't done that in here tonight, I want to encourage you to not let another hour go by. You know, the sobering reality is that if you were to die in the next hour, Without Christ as your Savior, you would spend an eternity in hell. And that breaks my heart for you. God doesn't want to see anybody sent to hell. I don't want to see anybody sent to hell. He wants to be able to see Anybody and everybody come to a saving knowledge of his son Jesus Christ and spend an eternity with him in heaven. And so I just pray that that would be Um that that would be your hour where you can say, Hey, I I I I stopped just saying, you know, I'll wait till tomorrow, I'll I'll put it off, I'll put it off, and you just said, Hey I'm going to let this hour be the hour. And so when we're looking back in our text here, we we had There He is, we had come and see, and now we have go and tell, starting in verse number 40 It says, one of the two which heard John speak and followed him was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, and it says he first findeth his own brother Simon Simon, and saith unto him, We have found the Messiah which is being interpreted the Christ, and he brought him to Jesus Jesus. Okay, we find out here that one of the disciples was Andrew, who is Simon Peter's brother, and we see the love and care that Andrew had. for his brother. It doesn't say that um he finished his whole day uh of fishing and then he went and told his brother Peter about Jesus Christ. It doesn't say that, you know, after a long day he went and washed up, had dinner. And then he went and told his brother about Jesus Christ. No, it says, this is God's word, not my word. It says that he first findeth his brother, his own brother. Simon, this was so important to Andrew. He knew that he had just met his personal Savior, Jesus Christ, and he knew that he had been saved from his sins. Couldn't wait another moment to tell his brother because it was that important to him. He cared for him so much. And whenever I read this, almost it it almost just brings me to tears every time. Because this is my testimony. This is how it was for me. Um I didn't get saved until seventeen years old. Um I was uh my parents they got divorced twice. By the time I was nine, I didn't grow up in a Christian home. My parents are both Christians, but they were um far away from the Lord at that time. And I didn't grow up going to church or anything like that. And it wasn't until I was seventeen that my brother started dating his now wife. Um and they she was going to an independent Baptist church. Um and she invited my brother. He started going with her. And those first couple weeks, I saw some change in my brother and I thought, well, he's just doing this for this girl. I know my brother. I've known him my whole life. You know, this can't be Real. And a few months went by, and I thought he's either the most dedicated man in the entire world, or something's changed here. Um and in those months, every single week, week after week, uh my brother invited me to go to church with him. him time and time again and I told him no time after time after time. And I'm just so thankful uh that I had a brother who didn't give up on me. You know, that didn't after one or two times say, Well That's it for Jordan. You know, it's never once crossed my mind that I thought, you know, I would have I wish he would have invited me one last time one less time. Because if he would have, I wouldn't be here standing in front of you all today. You know, I wouldn't be on my way to heaven today. And I'm so thankful that I had a brother who cared enough about me um to not want to see his little brother spend an eternity in hell. And it meant that much to him that even when I was mean and nasty to him, told him I we've already tried church, I'm glad it works for you, it's not gonna work for me, that he just responded with grace every single time. And I I'm just so thankful. And um one of those times when he invited me to go with him, I finally told him, I said, Josh, I'll go next week. And he said, Okay, I'm going to keep you a man of your word. And I said, all right, whatever that means, I would soon figure out what that means. He come into he came into my room the next week and he said, Jordan, it's time to go to church. I said, Josh, I'm not going. I tried to give him every excuse of why I wasn't going gonna go, but he was not taking no for an answer. And we went back and forth. I said I'm not gonna go. He said, yes you are. I said no I'm not. He said, all right, I'm gonna beat you up. And and he came over and he punched me in the leg a few times and I said, All right, Josh, I'll go to church. And I got up, uh, I got ready, I went down to church, and I just remember it was like an experience I had never um exper experience before. Everyone in there uh was coming up to me, they were being nice, um they were saying all these nice things about me, just uh saying that they were so thankful that I was uh that I was there tonight. And they're saying these nice things about my brother and they had a gematorium in there and um they had a a basketball court and I love basketball and I was like man if this is what church is I love it and um and I remember we had a preaching time as well and I rem remember just was probably a what what was uh twenty twenty 25-minute message. It just felt like it went by so fast. I just wanted to keep hearing that pastor just talk uh from God's Word. And um I don't exactly remember what he preached on, but I told my brother I wanted to come back that next week. week. And he said, You do? I said, yeah. And I came back that next week and I'll never forget what the youth pastor preached on that night. He preached on waiting to get saved. I'm at 17 years old, that's exactly what I was doing. I was thinking I could live my life um however I wanted to live it. I didn't have to be accountable to anybody or anything and I could do whatever I wanted to do whenever I wanted to to do it. Um but that night he brought the sobering reality to my attention that if I were to die without Jesus Christ as my Savior, I would spend an eternity in hell. And that scared the daylights out of me. And he didn't have to do anything to convince me I I was a sinner. I knew that I had sinned against God. And I knew there was nothing I could do in myself to save myself. And that night I put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ. I accepted him as my personal Lord and Savior. My life has been completely transformed and changed ever since that moment. But it all went back to an introduction. It all went back to my brother introducing Me to Jesus Christ, um inviting me to church, and um not giving up on me. And you know, there's probably people in here tonight that have witnessed to family members uh that have been able To witness to maybe even their children, brothers, sisters, cousins, friends, whatever, go down the list, you name it. You've probably tried. I just want to encourage you to try again to not give up. I'm just so thankful that I had a brother who who didn't give up on me and um that who was persistent and even when I told him no he just showed me that that That love that only came from Jesus Christ. And he's able to show that to me each and every time. And I'm so thankful for that. And you know, when we look at this when we look at this verse, you know, a lot of times or this passage, um, we don't think of Andrew that much when we think about the Bible. Um we think about, you know, Peter has two books written after him, and uh we think about all the great things that Peter did, but he would have never been able to do anything for Christ. If it didn't start with an introduction to Jesus Christ. And so thankful that Andrew introduced his brother to Jesus Christ. And I'm so thankful that I had a brother who introduced me to Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. And more importantly than anything today, you know, I just want to be an Andrew. I just want to be someone who can introduce others to Jesus Christ. Just tell them all the great things that He's done for me. for me. You know, I might not uh amount to much in this life. Um I I would love to be able to start a church for God and be used of Him in a magnificent, mighty way, but I'm okay with just being an Andrew. It's just telling you People about Jesus Christ, telling them what He can do for them and all the things that He's done for me. And I pray that that would be our prayer tonight. You know, we're all of us in here, we might not be a Christian that goes down in the history books, but we can all be an Andrew tonight. We can all be somebody who just tells somebody else about their Lord and Savior Jesus Jesus Christ. And that's my prayer tonight is that we would all just do our best to be an Andrew, just to be faithful messengers, because God has been so faithful to us. Let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, I want to thank you for today, Lord. I thank you for your grace. I thank you for your mercy, Lord. I thank you for your long suffering, Lord. I thank you that That your will is that no one should perish, Lord. That you just want each and every person and the whole entire world World just to be saved and on their way to heaven. And we know, we know you don't send anybody to hell, Lord. It's their sins. That will send into hell, Lord. And I'm just so thankful that we have a solution to our sin problem here on earth, Lord. And that solution is your Son, Jesus Christ. Christ and His shed blood on the cross of Calvary, Lord, where he paid that sin debt in full so that we wouldn't have to, Lord. And I just pray that you would um help us just to realize what what you've done for us, Lord. Lord, and that when we see people, Lord, that we would see them as a living, breathing soul, Lord, and that that soul is going to spend an eternity either in heaven Or in hell, Lord, and that we would be burdened for the lost, burdened for the lost people that we personally know in our lives, Lord, and that you would give us the boldness, the courage, the word. Lord, just to be able to tell somebody just about your goodness and and what you can do for them, Lord. And we're just so thankful just for everything that you do do for us and our lives. And we're so thankful that even after salvation, Lord, you don't give up on us. You're here to walk with us step by step every single day, Lord. And just so thankful uh for your love Love and your grace and your mercy towards us, Lord. We love you and we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen