Tonight we'll be looking at verse 11, but I will read verses 9 to 11 together before we get started. Out of this manner, therefore, pray ye, Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. And here's the phrase we'll focus on tonight. Give us this day Our daily bread. Give us this day our daily bread. As we open up this passage and as we think about Christ's reason for mentioning this statement , It's because God wants us to express our absolute dependence upon Him for our daily needs. Our absolute dependence upon Him. for our daily needs. And the question is, how is it that we can pray correctly in this area? So I want to explore that question today. But before we do, I want to get into just a reminder of the progression of the prayer and the studies we've been doing. The first thing that we saw was that we need to understand ourselves when it comes to this issue of prayer. Before we come to God, we need to think about the tendencies that we have As sinful human beings to come to him in a wrong way. And so what does he do? He he warns them about coming to God with impure motives and various other things. The second thing that Christ emphasizes in the Sermon on the Mount is that we need to come to God with a knowledge of who he is. And so our understanding of God, it kind of shapes and forms the way that we come to Him. And we come to him as our Father, who is in heaven. The third thing that we see is that we need to start our prayer with adoration and worship. And that was an excellent little study there because we talked about the fact that prayer is not just asking God for things. Yes, it is true that prayer is asking God for things. But the first thing that he mentions is our need to worship and adore and express the greatness and the glory of God. The fourth thing that we mentioned was that our first priority when it comes to petition is the kingdom of God and eternity. He says, After this manner pray ye, our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done. The last one was a focus on God's will. Prayer is not just an expression of need and dependence and an expression of worship, but it's also an expression of humility. And saying, I am going to submit to what you want, God. So it's not about me bending God's will so much as it is me expressing my desires and then beginning to recognize what God actually wants. So that was the progression of the prayer to the point where we are tonight. So tonight we're going to look at this statement. Give us this day our daily bread. There are three truths that I want us to look at tonight, and I'll begin with this one. Truth one, we need to ask God for our daily needs. Very simple, right? We need to ask God for our daily needs. Now, what is it that keeps people from asking God for their daily needs? What do you think? Pride? Sure. Distraction, maybe? Okay. I think probably one of the biggest things that keeps me from prayer is I get distracted. You know, my mind gets focused on other things. As soon as I get up in the morning and I and my feet hit the floor, my mind is already thinking about, okay, I I need to do this today and I need to do this today, and I have to conscientiously stop and ask the question. What am I doing? I've got to start with my need before God. So pride, I think another one is that sometimes people doubt that God will actually give them what they need, what is good. Throughout human history, people have lived day to day. And so when he says, give us this day our daily bread, This is what I get in my mind. I remember I was talking to somebody, you know, not too long ago, and I said, yeah, in Ghana we would buy bread every day. Like we would go to this little shop and if you went there at the right time it would be hot and um if it was hot I would buy four because three would go to the house and I would eat one myself Okay, that's how it always went. If I was hungry, I would definitely eat one uh myself. Now these weren't huge loaves, they're like about, you know, this size. And they're, you know, light and fluffy and they tasted really, really good. But when I think of the fact that every day we would go and get our food, that's how people have lived throughout most of human history. Most people didn't have a freezer and a fridge and they went to Walmart or Giant or they ordered online their groceries. You know what I mean? uh and a truck came and brought them their groceries. That's not the way people have lived. In fact sometimes people have lived hand to mouth. They literally go out and they Catch their dinner, they harvest their dinner. They live day by day in dependence upon God's provision I was reading a missionary prayer letter uh I believe it was yesterday, and they said, pray for our people in Papua New Guinea. We're in the middle of rainy season, and during rainy season the produce rot because it's so wet. And you know, I know what that's like to try growing your garden in the tropics during the rainy season and your stuff just begins to rot. The truth is that we do not recognize our daily dependence upon God for our physical need like people have throughout most of human history. You know, the harvest was a festive occasion in most cultures because the people 's survival was tied into the harvest. If it didn't go well, they starved. I remember reading about a very unique summer in New England in the 1700s. It was called the summer. That wasn't one. Okay? They never really had a normal summer in growing season. Believe it or not, in June and in July, they had frosts. And they even had snow in June and in August. They were never able to get enough time to get a harvest in almost anything in many of the New England communities. And people were starving. In fact, in one community, there was a man who worked particularly hard to get a little bit of barley. And there is actually a monument in his community to this day to recognize how he suffered and struggled so that that community didn't starve to death. We don't understand this like many people do, but the reality is we are dependent upon God for our daily provision. Even though we live in a land of plenty, there are still times that God will bring us to that point where we recognize our dependence on Him. This is kind of a funny little example, but you know, I'm a pastor, I preach and I teach, and obviously I don't sound very good today. Okay What happens when a pastor can't speak? How's he gonna do his job? You know what I mean? What if somebody is an academic and they read and all of a sudden they go blind? Can they continue to do that? I remember when I had a a battery explode in my face, um, I guess it's about two years or a year and a half ago. And I was blind for a few days. I could not see. And I remember the first time that I could actually see again And then I remember when I was able to see well enough with my eye that had been most affected by the battery acid to actually read something. And I remember in my mind going, wow. If I could not see anymore, how would that affect me? And my ability to do what I've always done. When he talks about give us this day our daily bread, he's not just talking about food. He's really just talking about all of our physical daily needs. In fact, there are some scriptures in the New Test and the Old Testament that talk about in Leviticus nineteen, don't defraud your neighbor, do not rob him his wages, because um that he that he hired, shall he abide with thee all night until the morning? That law, it's actually a law in the Old Testament saying, if somebody works for you, you pay him at the end of the day. Because if you send him home without his wages, he's going to starve. He's going to be hungry. You understand what I'm saying? That's the way people have lived. In James chapter 5, he says, Behold the hire of the laborers who have reaped down your fields You've kept back by fraud, and they cry, and the cries of them which have reaped are entered in the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth You have lived in pleasure on the earth and been wanton. You have nourished your hearts as in the day of slaughter. He has not condemned, you have condemned and killed the just. So what those scriptures are expressing is what some people have experienced, the struggle to survive day by day, hand to mouth, people who employed that did not pay, and people suffered physically because of that. But I have this question Think back to the beginning of the prayer. He says, after this manner pray you, our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. You remember earlier on he says, don't think that God will hear you because you have spoken it over and over and over again. He knows what you need before you ask him. Since he makes statements like that, later on in the chapter, he makes this statement, don't worry about tomorrow. God knows what you need. If he clothes the lilies of the field, which today is and tomorrow is gone, well, he'll take care of you. So here's the question. If God already knows what we need, he's committed to meeting our need, why does he tell us to ask? Why does he do that? You ever thought about that? I want you to think about this for a minute. What would happen if you always gave your children what they asked for? You never told them no. You never allow them to experience any kind of hardship at all. You protected them, you insulated them, they never scraped their knee, they they never experienced any kind of pain when they fell down. They never were hungry. They always had more food than they could imagine. Everything was given to them. They never had need or lack of anything. What would happen to that kid? Yeah, it's true. Yeah. Well, yeah, you're thinking you're thinking like what's gonna happen when they're an adult, okay. And you kick them out of your basement and like the one guy, right? No. The point that I'm making though is this if that child never experiences any kind of hardship Any kind of consequence for their actions, they're going to be proud, they're going to be self-absorbed, they're going to think that they're invincible. And the reality is that God doesn't want his children to be that way. You know how easy it is for us when we experience God's blessing, all of a sudden we forget that it's God who has given us those things. It could be financial blessing. It can be we're growing spiritually, maybe we're getting victory over sin. And we begin to start becoming very self-absorbed. We become to be very self-reliant. We become very proud. And what does God do? When he sees that, he allows us to be tempted. Sometimes people ask, why did God let that painful thing happen to me? It's because he wants you to understand your limitations. He wants you to understand that you need to depend on him. He doesn't want you to be proud and lifted up and arrogant. He wants you to be humble and meek and Christ-centered, not self-centered. Why does God allow us to suffer and go through deep valleys? Here's the answer. If we don't experience difficulty, need If we never do that, we will never understand our true dependence on God for everything. And he will never get the glory that he rightfully deserves in our lives. Paul expresses this in Philippians 4. He says this, I have learned. I love that phrase because what it tells me is that Paul did not automatically understand. What he's about to express. And when he expresses what he now understands by learning in a schooling sense, he's going to express how God taught him that. Listen to what he says. Philippians 4. 12, I've learned in whatever state I am therewith to be content. I know how to be abased. I know how to abound. Now you know what's interesting? When things are rough, there are certain tendencies we have. To sin. And when things are extremely good, there's another set of tendencies that we have to sin And so God doesn't always give us leanness. He doesn't always give us material blessing. He allows us to go through both factors so that we mature and that we grow. So he says, I've learned. How to be content, how to be abased, and how to abound. In all things I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need, I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. The reason that Paul learned how to handle blessing and learned how to handle hardship is because God allowed him to go through those things. And I see aloud, it was for his own good. The reason that he learned to depend upon God and to find his strength in God is because God had to put him through those tests. The test of blessing is a real blessing. It's a real test. And the bless of hardship is also a huge test. 2 Corinthians 12, 7 to 9, he expresses a similar idea. He says, lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of revelation, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh. Now this is a very interesting statement. God, okay, God gave it to him. But God was not the one who ultimately initiated what he experienced. Actually, Satan was the one who initiated it, but God in his providence governed it. Is that not an interesting concept? Satan's purpose was to cause hardship and pain and suffering to Paul. So he says, the messenger of Satan buffeted me. But from God's perspective, it was so that he would not become proud or arrogant He says, This thing I besought the Lord three times that it might depart from me, and he said to me, My grace is sufficient for thee. My strength is made perfect in weakness. So Paul is asking God to remove this thing, and God says, no, I'm not going to do that. I want you to draw upon my grace. I want you to become a stronger, mature disciple of Christ. And the only way that can happen is if you pass through these waters. So he says, most gladly therefore I'll rather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Why do I bring all this to our attention? I bring it to our attention to say this. No matter what your circumstances are right now, I can promise you. God is going to bring situations into your life that are going to show you your need to depend on Him. And when He does that, don't become angry at Him. Don't say, why are you letting this go into my life? Why did you let this person do that to me? Why did you let me experience that hardship? Don't do that. Because the reality is he has a purpose in it. Maybe somebody meant evil towards an individual, but God's purposes are far greater. And he in his providence, he guides and works through those things. The reality is we are dependent upon God for every aspect of our lives. And so what does Jesus say? Pray, our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. We're dependent on God in so many areas. Let me mention a couple of them. Family needs. Psalm 127, 1 and 2. Except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that build it. Do you want to see God bless your family? I do. I want to see Him bless your family. I want to see Him bless all your families. I want to see Him bless my family. But if all we do is work and work and work, and we say, I'm going to get biblical principles and I'm going to put them into practice, but we are not truly depending on God's grace and strength, and we're not humbly dependent upon Him. Even though we are obeying him, there's going to be a lack in that thing. We're dependent upon God. Lamentations 3 22 to 24. Our very existence is dependent on God. It's of his mercies that we're not consumed Because his fashion b his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. Colossians 1:17. This universe is held together by the power of Christ. By him all things consist. And that's not just talking about the created order, but it's the holding together of the created order. Not only did God make this world, but he governs and he guides and he moves and he keeps things moving in order. We not only have family needs, spiritual growth, John 15, 5. He says, without me you can do nothing. And he's talking in the context of providing fruitfulness as a Christian. Dying gray, Psalm 23, 4. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. You know, most people don't think about death very much until they get sick or something happens. But the reality is it's amazing how God's people who have lived their lives, they have run their race with patience. When they come to their final days, it is amazing how God gives them a special and unique grace that people who do not know the Lord have no concept of. You know, we're going to talk about uh Barb Ratless's funeral. It is going to be Saturday. And I I didn't know Barb well at all. I mean, I knew her casually in my time at Anchor. But I remember when I went and visited Barb a couple weeks ago, came to her house, she could not speak, she was confined to a bed, she was in a lot of pain. She had a little a little uh board, dry erase board, and I I could tell you that she did not communicate one negative thing to me in nearly an hour of sitting at her bedside talking to me. Not one negative thing. Now I'm not suggesting that she never had negative thoughts. I'm not suggesting that to a person that she was closer to, she didn't sometimes bear her soul to them and what she was going through. But I gotta tell you something. That's a phenomenal thing. And we are dependent upon God when we walk through that season of our life. Trying circumstances, Hebrews 4. 16. Let us come boldly to the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. That statement really encompasses all kinds of problems that we will experience in our Christian walk. Guidance needs Psalm 37, 1 to 5. He says, fret not thyself because of evildoers. Commit thy ways unto the Lord. Trust in him. He will bring it to pass. You know, a man's heart plans his way, but the Lord is the one who guides his steps. The lot is cast into the lap, but the whole disposing is of the Lord. It's an it's an interesting thing. People make decisions. And in their arrogance they say, it's my own opinion. It's what I want to do. And it's what they want to do. There's a God in heaven who's working behind the scenes. And it's a phenomenal thing to consider. Physical needs. Psalm 124. 1. If it had not been for the Lord who was on our side. Then we would have been swallowed up quickly when their wrath was kindled against us. He's talking about the nation of Israel. They had horrible enemies all around them, and they wanted to destroy the nation And he said, if it wasn't for God being our defender, we would have been destroyed by our enemies. I'll stop there, but the truth is this. We need God on a daily basis. Physical needs, emotional needs, spiritual needs. And when he says, give us this day our daily bread, he's saying you need to express your need. The second truth I want to point out is this. We need to realize God's provision is day by day. Now this kind of came out in the Lamentations passage. He says, His mercies are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. Matthew chapter 6, 24-34, that whole section, I'll summarize it by a couple of key statements. You cannot serve God and mammon or riches. Therefore I say to you, take no thought for your life, what you will eat, what you will drink, your body, what you'll put on. Your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of these things. Therefore take no thought for the morrow. The morrow should take thought for the things of itself. Listen to the phrase sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof Basically, what Jesus is saying is don't allow tomorrow's burdens to encumber you today. Don't let them hold you back. Don't let them discourage you. Don't let them weigh you down. Focus on today. Nas tomorrow. You know, there have been a couple of times in my life where I've been through some heavy situations where I kind of was in that kind of a situation. I remember there was a a an issue that we dealt with in our church in Ghana. It's been about a year ago now probably. There were two individuals who were really at each other badly. And they were people that should have not been in that uh situation. They should have had the maturity to handle things differently. And when we tried to get in there and try to help them work out those issues, it became more difficult. And the two families kind of like Pulled up on two sides. I don't know if you're in Sunday school, but Eric made a comment about um a family. He didn't want to tell me who it was. I knew the story. He forgot I was involved in dealing with it But the reality is, this husband and wife were at tremendous odds with one another, but because they had a newfound enemy, they were fighting together against their new enemy. Sorry. So you ask the question, what is the point? Well, when I had to get into that issue, I had to meet with a lot of different people. And I had to meet with a lot of different people who were acting really carnal. Okay? Really carnal. And not only were they acting really carnal, but they were feeling very vindictive towards one another. And because they weren't thinking very rationally and they were thinking kind of vindictively, if they were to act on some of the things they felt like doing, they were going to cause a lot of grief and hardship to the church. You know, a lot of people know these folks. A lot of people are connected to them. It really affects church life. And I can remember talking to different people, some pastor friends that didn't know these people at all. But I asked them, what do I do about this situation? And it was so clear to me. It was really simple. You just have to take one conversation at a time. Because you don't know how it's going to go. You can't worry about the next conversation. You just worry about the one you got to have right now. And you know what's interesting? If I were to have focused on the entirety of that situation, I think that the pressure would have been too much to bear But when I stepped back and with godly counsel and the Lord's help began to sort of focus on one day at a time, it was so neat to see how God worked out the details. I remember things that I was very, very concerned about. And you know, you're going into this conversation, and in your mind you say, Here's like the ten different ways it can go. And in your mind you've planned out every single possible scenario. Like if they say this, I'm gonna say this, and then if they answer this way, then I'm gonna go here. You know what I'm talking about? You ever done anything like that Like very consumed, okay? Stayed awake at night thinking something. Yeah, I didn't sleep a lot some nights. That's true. That's very true. And you know what's amazing? What I anticipated happening did not happen in one of those conversations Not one of them. Now, I'm not saying that it always happens that way. Sometimes how you think something will go, it does go that way. It can happen that way. But the idea is this. You are only meant to handle today's problems. And God is going to give you the grace and the strength that you need today to handle today's problems. He doesn't want you to carry tomorrow's loads. He doesn't want you to bear all the possibilities. You know, God knows not only what happens, but what could have happened. What would have happened if this scenario had played out in that scenario? He knows all the different possibilities. We aren't like that. We couldn't handle that kind of information. And so what does he say? He says, just worry about today. Tomorrow will come. Tomorrow is going to be today when it happens. And then you can deal with it. This is what we call walking by faith. We trust in God's goodness. We trust in his wisdom, his power, and his providence. We have to draw upon his grace on a daily basis When he says, let us come boldly before the throne of grace, that we may find mercy and grace to help in time of need, he's saying, draw on the grace for today, today, and then tomorrow when it comes, then you do the same thing. God wants us to just follow him step by step. But that's not easy. But you know what's interesting? God made it that way This kind of brings us into an issue of worry. What is worry? Well, worry ultimately is how we respond in our hearts emotionally to certain lies we believe about God. Worry is really rooted in a series of lies. I know that sounds kind of blunt, but it's true. They're not true. And we embrace them. We believe in our heart that God's not good. And because we think he's not good and we've embraced that lie, we worry about how he's going to handle the situation. We believe that God is not able to handle the situation correctly. And so because we doubt his ability, again, worry begins to crowd into our minds. We think that God doesn't care. When it talks about God's mercy, it means that God looks down at us with pity and compassion and tenderness. You know, it's sort of like you walk into a room of a person who has had a terrible ox. I remember this very well. Eric. Had a situation in Ghana where he nearly died. When we first came to Ghana, it was our first Christmas. My parents came and visited. And after Christmas break Eric got a motorcycle. And he was so excited about his motorcycle. And Enoch, who was another young man in the church, He and Eric were riding their motorcycle down the highway to work one day. Of course, Eric had his helmet, but his friend didn't. And a car cut in front of them, and they t-boned a taxi going down a highway, and uh both men landed on their heads on concrete. And I got a call from Conrad. That's one of the guys who was here actually. He said, You need to go to the hospital. Eric and Enoch are dying. That was what he told me. I remember walking into that that room and it was it was horrible. There was blood everywhere, there was just a dirty mess. And Eric was laying on a trash bag just in a pool of fluid. And Enoch again, he was laying on a trash bag in a pool of fluid. And you know, IVs and everything in him. And I walked up and I I grabbed his hand and I said, Enoch, are you okay? And he's like, I'm dead. I'm like, no, actually you're not. We are talking right now. I'm dead. He doesn't even know what he was saying because he was essentially just he wasn't there. But I remember the emotion that I felt when I saw him in that condition, and it was pity. It was like my heart just ached. I wish I could help him. Well, the reality is that when God sees us in our fallen condition and in our struggles, God has pity and compassion on us. God doesn't gloat in our failure. We gloat in each other's failures. You know, like that guy, he he really did me dirty one time and he's getting it back and I like it. You know what I mean? We do that. God isn't like that. He's very tender, he's very compassionate, he's very kind. But we doubt God's care for us. We embrace this lie. He doesn't care We embrace the lie that suffering has no redeeming purpose. When we suffer as Christians, there's hope because God uses suffering for redeeming purposes. He has a purpose and a plan when we suffer. He's not letting us suffer without some reason behind it that has good potential. He's trying to accomplish a purpose in us. And so when we embrace those various lies about God, we begin to worry. Worry doesn't accomplish anything. Most of the things we fear, they never happen. Worry typically intensifies the sting of those fears if they do occur. So because I was consumed by it and what I thought would happen, happened, now I'm really in trouble. Because I'm already emotional. I'm not thinking about it. I'm not thinking clearly. Worry takes our eyes off of God. In fact, worry can even become an addictive pattern in our heart. It's like we just, it's like, it's like a person who's an addict in some area. I mean, we can be addicted to anything. We can be addicted to ice cream. You know? Eat a bowl of ice cream every single night at a certain time. It doesn't have to be alcohol or drugs or pornography or something like that. I mean those things are strong addictions that people deal with. But thought patterns can become addictive as well. Emotional responses, people who explode in anger all the time, can become an addictive pattern in their hearts And worry is like that. God wants us to combat worry and fear and pride with daily confessing our need to depend on Him in every single area of our lives. Give us this day our daily bread. The third truth I want to mention is more of just a practical one. And that is this. We need to be cautious not to embrace an unbalanced trend. In the area of materialism. You might say, why in the world would you bring this up? I think when we read a scripture like Give Us this Day of our Daily Bread, we get in our minds That if I have a good job, I need to give away all my money, I need to sell all my clothes, give it to the poor. and live a very simple life and not have anything materially because if I don't do that, then I won't be able to understand this issue of dependence on God. Have you ever thought something like that? I know when I was in college, we would have all kinds of conversations. And we would go to the library and we'd pick up books. We'd pick up a book like George Mueller. And we'd read that book and we were like, you know what, if I'm gonna go and be a missionary, then I will never raise support. I will just pray and pray and pray and God will provide the need somehow. Now it's true that God did that with Mueller But we have nowhere in the Bible that we're told to do that. Just because God in his kindness worked in Mueller 's life that way doesn't mean that God had to work that way or that God's going to work that way in your life I'd read stories like John Bunyan's conversion. John Bunyan's conversion is a very complicated, a complicated thing. If you're an introspective person, I'd encourage you not to read Grace of Balance the Chief of Sinners, because you will be messed up in the head when you get time. I'm serious. Because John Bunyan was was he was beyond help in many ways. It's the grace of God that he finally saw the sufficiency of Christ. And he turned in humility to trust Christ. But when somebody reads about John Bunyan 's conversion to faith in Christ, They may say, I was seven years old, and I was broken in my heart over my need to trust Christ, and I did. I didn't experience what John Vin experienced. I must not be a real Christian. And they go through those kinds of thoughts. I think about some of the famous missionaries. You know, there are a lot of missionaries who have lost their families. A lot of them. A lot of kids whose mom and dad went to the mission field and they're now agnostics. They don't want anything to do with God. And their parents had this mentality, you know, C. T. Studd, he left his wife and he left his kids, and he left cricket, and he went to Africa, and he worked in Africa, and you know what happened? He lost his family. Look at Billy Sunday. The reason we had prohibition in America was in a major part because of Billy Sunday's preaching. Yet his son was an alcoholic. I want to encourage you with something very simple. Read biographies, but read them cautiously. Because those people are just like you and me. Okay? There's some areas in every one of your lives that are quite admirable. And there are things that are worthy of emulation. And there are other things that they're not. And that's the best of God's servants. All these people had blind spots. When I read about Martin Luther saying, if you haven't spent four hours in prayer before you start your day, you're a heathen. Go ahead and try that, Joanna. See how long you function. Four hours in prayer. But God's word never tells us to spend four hours in prayer a day. I think it's very important that when we come to a passage like this, we do not run to an extreme in our thinking on things. Even in our day, we have on one side the prosperity movement that says God's going to make you healthy and wealthy and wise. Because God blessed Job and He blessed Abraham and He blessed Solomon. Yes. And he also blessed Jeremiah and Isaiah and oh yeah, I forgot about those guys And he did say foxes have holes and the birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his hand. The truth is that when we study the Word of God, we see that God financially blesses some people. And that is their test. What will they do with that blessing? And other people, they go through hardship and struggles. And that is their test. How should we view financial prosperity? Because you know what? Let's just be really honest. In this room, we are among the richest in the world. You might say, well, for the cost of living in Maryland, uh Yes, but I'm telling you, I lived in a country where the average person made a couple dollars a day for work. And they lived off of that, and that's how they live their lives And you were wealthy if you made 20 bucks a day. You were really wealthy if you made 20 bucks a day. Listen to what Paul writes in 1 Timothy 6. Godliness with contentment is great gain. We brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry nothing out. Having root, food, and raiment, let us therewith be content. They that desire to be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and to many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown them in destruction and perdition. The love of money is the root of all evil. Flee these things. Follow after righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience. Fight the good fight. Lay hold on eternal life Charge those who are rich in this world to not be high-minded or trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy. That they do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, willing to communicate, laying up in store for themselves a good foundation When I come to a passage like give us this day our daily bread, I do not want you to get the impression that God wants you to sell everything you have and to live in a pup tent. So that you can depend on God for your daily bread. I don't want you to sit in your pew and say, I feel guilty because I live in the most prosperous nation in the world. Okay? God in his providence puts you in this country. And the reality is that the blessings he's given you are not a curse at all. The truth is, God never says that it's wrong for somebody to prosper. What's wrong is what we do with it. He says, first of all, no matter what you have, be content. Secondly, be responsible. You are a steward. You're to manage whatever God gives you. Three, be generous. Be humble. Don't trust in those things. Don't become proud and arrogant and compare yourself to other people. Be focused. Don't let those things distract you from what is eternally significant. And be thankful and enjoy what God gives you. If God has blessed you, realize that that is from his good hand, it's not a bad thing. And enjoy it as a gift from him. You know, if my wife makes a nice meal, I say thanks, hon. This is really good. And I appreciate it. I don't go, man, I can't eat this. There are people in China and Africa that don't have food like this. I can't eat this. No But some people get in their minds sometimes that because God has blessed us, that it's wrong for us to enjoy those things. But here's the last point that's very important. Trust God no matter what He gives you. Because the reality is there's going to be a day when you're going to face the need. You're gonna face the need. You're gonna face it on a sick bed. You're gonna face it through some emotional situations you're dealing with. You're going to face it in your work situations. You don't know when you're going to face it, but the reality is this. You are dependent upon God for every single need you have. And so let us keep the right balance. We have to be dependent upon God day by day for everything. At the same time, if he blesses us, don't feel guilty for that. That's from his hand. He wants you to manage it and he wants you to keep it in perspective. It is part of the test. You know, one of the things that God gives to the church, he gives people who teach. That's their gift. He gives some people the gift of mercy. He gives some people the gift of administration and discernment. He gives some the gift of giving You can't give if you don't have anything. It's that simple. The reality is all those gifts work together for the benefit of God's people. And so let's keep this in proper proportion. May God help us to be humble people who regularly express our utter dependence upon Him for our daily provision. Let's bow our hearts in prayer. Father, I ask that you help us to be people who recognize we are dependent upon you. Help us not to be proud, not to set our minds on uncertain riches, but to trust in the living God. If we go through leanness, help us not to become angry at you. But to realize it's part of the the growing process. If we experience material benefits and blessings, help us not to become proud and stingy, but help us to be gracious and humble. And to use those things for the advance of your kingdom. Father, help us to be people who live each day recognizing our dependence upon you. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.