Your Bibles and turn to Matthew chapter six. Now our Bibles do have a lot of hymns in Psalms. And we we even have some hymns in the epistles actually. Matthew chapter 6. Okay, I'm going to do something dangerous, and I'm going to ask a question to open up. Does anyone remember the general topic? That we addressed last week. That would be very general. Excellent, Bruce. Let's go a little bit more specific than the Lord's Prayer. And what was the specific topic? Yes. Okay, yes. Okay. Yes? Our position? Okay. That was connected to our father? How we approach him? Yes. Okay, I asked the question. Is prayer only asking and receiving No, actually in in the scriptures we find various different forms of prayer. We've seen confessions, we've seen adoration. We see thanksgiving, and then we see supplication. And we talked a little bit about that acrostic. But last week we focused primarily on adoration And the phrase was, Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. And so what we what we mentioned last week was that when we pray, And I'm not suggesting that we always have to pray by beginning with adoration. I'm not suggesting that. There are times that we simply cry out to God in our situation that we're dealing with. But what I'm talking about is when we are going to pray, we have set aside time. We're going to focus on the Lord. This could be the time that we get up in the morning and we read our Bibles. We have a time of meditation and prayer. But we plan to spend time worshiping God before we get into our requests. And so that is really what Christ is saying. We start at a position we are praying to our Father in heaven, and we begin with adoring and worshiping Him for who He is. Tonight we're going to look at the next phrase or two. Matthew 6, verse 9. After this manner, therefore pray ye, our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. And here's our focus tonight. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. There are two phrases we're going to focus in on tonight. The first one is Thy kingdom come, and the second, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. And I wanted to take this little section and I wanted to kind of Summarize what Christ is trying to communicate. He wants us to keep our priorities correct when we come to prayer For this reason, he tells us to pray for the advance of God's kingdom before we get into our personal, physical, and spiritual needs. Now, I'm not suggesting, and Christ is obviously not suggesting here, that it's wrong to pray for our own personal, physical, and spiritual needs. Obviously, he's going to mention several of them later on. We see lots of examples in the Bible of us of people praying for physical and spiritual needs that are personal, not necessarily for other people. But what we see is that in the Lord's Prayer, he emphasizes first, Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. And I believe that the order that Christ mentions that is significant and it is important. So let's look at those two phrases tonight. The first truth that we're going to see this evening is that the advance of God's kingdom should be a higher priority to us than our personal needs or desires. The advance of God's kingdom Should be a higher priority than our personal needs or desires. Again, I'm not suggesting that our personal needs and desires are unimportant to God Or that we don't have a right, or we it's not right for us to go into God's presence with those things. Not suggesting that at all. But when we talk about priority, what we're saying is this is where we start. And we start here and then we move to those other things. Now let me ask you a question. Why do you think, starting with the phrase, thy kingdom come, thy will be done, why do you think that that Is the top priority. And how do you think that, question two, affects what we pray for after that? So two questions. Why yes, go ahead, Bruce. Uh-huh. It's showing them that um the eternal more important or will be more important than the the present for them especially seeing that I don't I'm not sure what the time period is in Sure. Okay. Expression for C high Tax collector versus Okay, sure. Okay, good. How how would that being the starting place affect the way that they pray from that point on? And I guess I'll answer that if I am going to answer that, but I I wanted to get you thinking, yes. Okay. You know, it is possible for us when we are coming to pray that the thing that is a burden on our heart when we start may not be the burden when we close. It's possible that that kind of a thing can happen. That's one of the reasons why it's so good for us to pray through Scripture sometimes. Because as we pray through Scripture, God begins to kind of shape our desires and the way that we are going to pray. So let's look a little bit at this statement. The advance of God's kingdom should be a higher priority than our personal needs or desires. Properly focused priorities are a major emphasis in the New Testament. And I want to give you a couple of examples. So we're going to look at several passages. The first passage is Matthew 6, 33. So in the same sermon, the Sermon on the Mount, after Jesus has talked about this section dealing with the Lord's Prayer, he's going to move to this statement. Listen carefully to what he says. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. Now, of course, I'm just taking that verse and I'm not pulling it out of its context because I want you to ignore its context just for the sake of time. But in that section, he's talking about worry. And let's all be honest, we worry about a lot of different things. He's not saying that we don't plan for the future, he's not saying that we don't make good decisions. about physical things. That's not what he's suggesting. But what he's saying is we don't become burdened by those things, consumed by those things. Rather, we seek first dealing with priority the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and then God will address those other things. He'll take care of those other things. We go to Luke chapter 12. Luke chapter 12, Luke is recording basically the exact same teaching of Christ. He words it a little differently. The truth is Christ probably taught this many, many times in many, many different contexts. But this is what Luke records, Luke 12, 29. Seek not ye what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink. For all these things do the nations of the world seek after. And your father knoweth that ye have need of these things, but rather seek ye the kingdom of God, and all these things shall be added unto you. Now that statement kind of gives us a little bit of the context. But the point is that Christ emphasized that before we think about our physical needs We need to put the priority of God's kingdom ahead of that. A second example, go to 1 Timothy chapter 6. 1 Timothy chapter 6. Now, Timothy is a godly young man. And Paul sends Timothy to Ephesus, and there are a lot of problems at Ephesus. And the responsibility that Paul is going to give to Timothy at Ephesus, it's pretty serious. He's going to face tremendous amount of pressure. And when he's addressing Timothy, listen to what he says in 1 Timothy 6, verse 6. He says, godliness with contentment. is great gain. For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can take nothing out. Having food and raiment, let us therewith be content. But they that will be rich, and the word, the phrase will be rich has the idea, it's something that consumes them. It's a focus of their attention. That is a strong, intense desire. They that will or desire to be rich fall into temptation and a snare and many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction. The love of money is the root of all evil. And then he goes on and says this, but thou, O man of God, flee these things and follow after righteousness. Godliness, faith, love, patience, meekness. Fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life, whereunto thou art called and hast professed a good profession before many witnesses. Now it's interesting in that passage, this is really very much parallel to what Jesus is saying in Matthew 6. Now the way that he describes it, he doesn't say seek first the kingdom of God. Instead, he uses the phrase, lay hold on eternal life. In other words, live for the kingdom of God. Live for what is eternal. Live for what you cannot see. as opposed to riches and the temptations that follow a love of money. He says something similar later on. First Timothy chapter 6, verse 17 to 19. Here's what Timothy is supposed to teach to the people that are in the congregation. He says, charge them that are rich in this world, that they might not be high-minded, nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God. who giveth us richly all things to enjoy. Now I just want to pause. This is not really a a major part of this lesson. But I think it's worth saying, when he makes the statement, he giveth us richly all things to enjoy, I want you to understand that God is not in heaven going, what is physical has no value. Your uh having a nice life is something that you shouldn't desire at all. He's not suggesting that. God does give us good things to enjoy. God created a beautiful world. God created marriage and family. God gives children to couples and the many blessings that come out of that. Our relationships have value. So this world is full of a lot of blessings. But the point that he's trying to make is don't allow the fact that you are rich materially be something that makes you proud or something that you trust in. He says, but rather they must do good , ready to distribute, willing to communicate, laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come. that they may lay hold on eternal life. He uses the exact same phrase. Those three passages, the Matthew and really the Luke passage, the parallel, and the two Timothy passages are essentially talking about the same concept. We need to prioritize the kingdom of God and eternal life above the physical world. Not that the physical world is evil. Not that the blessings and the joys that we experience in this world are evil necessarily, but they cannot be our priority. They cannot be the thing that consumes us. They cannot be the thing that we lay hold on and we pursue. And it's a big issue in the New Testament. I also want to come up with a second, I think, question that's very important. What exactly does he mean by the kingdom of God? Have you ever thought about that? What does he mean by the kingdom of God? Or it's also the phrase the kingdom of heaven is used also in the Gospels. What is he talking about? Well there's a little book. I think it's in our library. I shouldn't say little. It's like about that sick. Written by a guy named Alvin McLean. It's called The kingdom of God, okay? I think it's the greatness of the kingdom is is that is the title of the book. And basically what Alvin McLean does is he takes the entire Bible, Old to New Testament, and he goes through every single passage. one by one, and he develops our understanding of the kingdom of God. There's a reason that the book is That's sick. Because there are a lot of different aspects to the kingdom of God that are described in both the Old and the New Testament. And so what he tries to do is he tries to take those passages, explain those passages, and then he puts them in an outline form, and he gives us kind of a broad and general understanding of God's kingdom. Can't do that tonight. But I just want to narrow it down to three simple things. God's kingdom, first of all, will one day be physical. Whether you realize it or not, Christ is going to come back, and he's going to rule and reign on this planet. He's going to do that. In fact, in the Old Testament, there are a lot of scriptures that talk about this. And I understand that there's a lot that we don't understand about that. Okay? I'm not going to suggest that I've got it all figured out. But the reality is, when Christ comes at his second coming, he's going to come to establish his kingdom In fact, this is probably the first thing when the word kingdom was spoken of to the disciples, this is probably the first thing on their mind. Because when they heard the word kingdom, they thought of messianic prophecies. They thought of Isaiah, they thought of Ezekiel They thought of Jeremiah. They thought of Micah. They thought of those passages that were dealing with the kingdom of God. Listen to what the Scripture says in Acts chapter 1, verse 6. When they therefore were come together, they asked of him, saying, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel? He said unto them, It's not for you to know the times or the seasons which the Father hath put in his power. Do you know what they were thinking about? They're thinking about those messianic prophecies. And those prophecies were not just null and void. They were still there. Those promises had been made, and God's going to fulfill those promises. When they heard and thought about the kingdom of God, there's a reason that they wanted to replace Judas With a twelfth apostle, because they believe God is going to establish his kingdom right here and right now. When Peter was preaching at Pentecost, he refers to Joel's prophecy and the day of the Lord. The reality is that part of God's kingdom is when he will come at his second coming, and he will establish a kingdom on this earth, and he will rule and he will reign. And so that's one aspect. And I won't go deep into that, but it's there. If you want the book, come by and I'll pass it along to you. Second point, his kingdom is eternal. It's not a temporary kingdom. And listen to some of these passages. And this is probably the first thing that you think about when you hear the word, the kingdom of God. You think about heaven. Okay? Acts 28, 23 to 31, it says this. He, Paul, expounded and testified the kingdom of God, persuading them concerning Jesus. Both out of the law of Moses and out of the prophets, from morning until evening. Now, how would you describe what Paul was doing when he was under house arrest? Preaching the what? The gospel, he was evangelizing a lot more deeply than maybe you and I would with a Romans road. Paul is going through the Old Testament and he is laying out a case to Jewish uh unbelievers that Christ is the Messiah. He's expounding the kingdom of God. He's preaching the gospel to people so they will be saved. Some believed the things that were spoken, some believed not. Paul dwelt two whole years in his own hired house and received all that came in unto him, preaching the kingdom of God and teaching those things which concern the Lord Jesus Christ. He's talking about the eternality of the kingdom of God. When not just that physical kingdom, but heaven, if you will. In Isaiah 9, verse 7, it talks about Christ, and it says, Of the increase of his government and peace, there shall be no end. Upon the throne of David, upon his kingdom, to order and establish it with justice and judgment from henceforth even forever. That's another aspect of God's kingdom. There is a physical kingdom that is coming. There is an eternal aspect to the kingdom of God. And then there's also a spiritual aspect to the kingdom of God. Luke 17, 20 When he was demanded of the Pharisees when the kingdom of God should come, he answered and said to them, The kingdom of God cometh not with observation, neither shall they say, Lo here, and lo there, but behold, the kingdom of God is within you. John chapter 18, 36, he says, My kingdom is not of this world. Now, obviously, there are passages that talk about God's physical kingdom. So he's talking about a different aspect of the kingdom of God. And he's talking about the spiritual aspect of the kingdom of God. You say, well, why is that important, Pastor Joel? The reason is that if we're going to pray, thy kingdom come, we need to understand what we're praying for. We're asking Christ, even so come, Lord Jesus. We're praying for his return. When we talk about the kingdom of God, we're talking about people who are coming to faith in Christ, and we're praying for conversions. We're talking about people growing spiritually. We're talking about people becoming more like Christ. And we're talking about his rule in the hearts of his people. So when we talk about the kingdom of God in eternity, there are a lot of different aspects to that. And this is what we are to pray for: the kingdom of God. That is the first priority. We then come to a second truth, and I think this one is also very, very important. Not only is the advance of God's kingdom a higher priority than our physical and spiritual needs, not that those things are unimportant. But the second aspect is this. The advance of God's will should be a higher priority than the advance of our own will. Did you catch that? The advance of God's will should be a higher priority to us than the advance of our own will. Now, when I get on my knees and I pray and I ask God to do something, obviously I'm expressing my desire, my will. But I need to keep something in my mind. What I want may not necessarily be what God wants. And so I want to talk for a few moments about God's will. There are two aspects to God's will that I want us to think about tonight. The first is God's sovereign plan. And the other is God's moral will or his law. God's sovereign will. What exactly do I mean by that? This is what I mean by that. What God allows to happen What God stops, and the direction and the timing of how God moves in history Let me say that again. What God allows, what God stops, the direction and the timing of how God moves in history. That's what I mean by God's sovereign will. You know, God has a plan for what is going on in the world today. Let me give you a couple examples. In 1 Chronicles 28, David talks about an experience that he had in his walk with the Lord Listen to what he says in 1 Chronicles 28, 2. The king stood upon his feet and said, I had in my heart to build an house of rest for the ark. Do you know this story? David wanted to build the temple. Was that a good or bad desire? It was absolutely a good desire. He goes to the prophet and he says, I want to build a temple for God. Why is it that I live in this wonderful home and God does not have a temple for us to worship him in? Why? This is not right, he said. And David was right in his assessment And so the prophet says, Hey, go and do it. That night, God comes to the prophet and says, You need to go back to David, and you need to tell him something. I don't want him to do it. Was there any scripture verse or command in the Bible That said, you shall not build the temple. There was nothing like that. So that is an example of God in his sovereign plan saying I know you want to do this, David. This is a good thing, but you can't do it. And I have reasons for it, and so I'm forbidding you from doing this thing. He says, I had in my heart to build a house of rest, but God said unto me, Thou shalt not build an house for my name. How do you respond to God when he does a thing like that to you? That's what I mean by God's sovereign will. How God decides to move and work in our lives. Some of that is mysterious and we don't understand it. Sometimes it's very troubling and it's difficult for us to understand. I gave an example the other night when we were looking at the book of Philippians. And I asked the question, how did Paul end up going to Philippi to plant the church at Philippi? It's because where he wanted to go, God said, no. I don't want you to go there. I want you to go here. And when Paul obeyed God and he went to that other place, you know what happened? God blessed it. And God built a church at Philippi, and it was a wonderful church, one of the strongest of all the churches that we know about in the New Testament. Sometimes God says no. Sometimes God changes what we think should happen. Let me give you another interesting illustration. Daniel chapter 4, verses 30 and 31. This is Nebuchadnezzar. Now, Nebuchadnezzar is the strongest human being on the planet at the time he's living. There was nobody who had more authority than Nebuchadnezzar. Nobody who could do what he wanted more quickly and more efficiently than Nebuchadnezzar. This is what it says. The king spake and said, He's looking out over the city of Babylon. He says, Is not this Babylon that I have built for the house? of the kingdom by my might, by my power, and for the honor of my majesty. That guy's head is just it's huge. Unstoppable, right? And while the word was in the king's mouth, there fell a voice from heaven saying, O Nebuchadnezzar, to thee it is spoken, the kingdom is departed from thee. Boom, just like that. Nebuchadnezzar thinks, I can do anything I want, and he is gloating in his power, and God says, I'm gonna shut you down right now, and you're not going anywhere. And he became a madman. And he lived out in the field like an animal for quite a period of time. And to me, one of the most amazing parts of that story is not what God did to put him out in the field. But that God restored him back to his kingdom. Because obviously the people that were working for Nebuchadnezzar, they wanted his job. They wanted his power. And You know, someone might have wanted to depose him, and he comes back and God establishes him. What's the point? The point is this: Nebuchadnezzar was a wicked man. And did some really bad things for a very long period of time. You know, read the story about what Nebuchadnezzar did when he brought his armies against Jerusalem. The kind of suffering that went on in that city, you, if you lived in that day, would have been just like Jeremiah going, why? And God says, I have reasons. And you look at God and you say, Why do you let this man move on and do what he does? And one day you know what God does? He sits him right down. And we have in our Bibles the testimony of Nebuchadnezzar saying, I'm not the most high. There's a God in heaven who lifts up and he puts down and nobody can stop him. And Nebuchadnezzar was humbled. And so we see God giving a leash to Nebuchadnezzar, and we see God jerking the chain back. And he can't do anything. God's sovereign will. We don't understand it many times. Even looking back, sometimes we don't understand it. That's part of what he says, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. I think another great example is In Ezra chapter 1, Cyrus sends the captives back to the land of Israel. Imagine this. He has taken the nation of Israel, and for 70 years they have been in captivity. And their land has been wasted. The temple's been destroyed. The walls around Jerusalem have been destroyed. He's removed the brightest and best of their people. Why in the world would this man decide to send people back there to rebuild the walls and to rebuild the temple? Well, he tells us. And Ezra 1 it says, in the first year of Cyrus, king of Persia, the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah was fulfilled The Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus, king of Persia, that he made a proclamation. The Lord God of heaven hath given me all the kingdoms of the earth. And he that charged me to build him an house at Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Can you imagine that? This guy To fulfill prophecy, God moves in his heart. It's not like Cyrus thought this of his own Will. It's something that God worked in his heart. The thought didn't come from Cyrus. It came from God moving him. And he was so pressed in his soul that he makes this proclamation. Why do I bring all this up? The sovereign will of God. The sovereign will of God is a mysterious thing. It's not something we can fully understand. What God allows can trouble us many times. When he hinders and stops things that we want to do, that troubles us. When he allows things and doesn't stop them, we say, where is justice? Or when God takes time and he doesn't move as quickly as we want him to, we struggle with that. And so when Jesus says, Pray, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. He's saying, submit yourself to the sovereign will of God in your life. Joseph had to go to Egypt, and he didn't understand it until the end of his story. And it's a beautiful story by the end. But in the midst of it, it was a terrible thing for Joseph. There's a second aspect, and that's God's moral will. What God says is right and what God says is wrong. You know what's amazing about what God says is right and wrong? He allows us to make decisions. That's phenomenal, isn't it? God says, don't do this, and we look at the world and see people doing it everywhere. And we are guilty ourselves. There is none righteous, no, not one, none who understandeth or seeketh after God. The fact is, what God says is right and what God says is wrong, people throw it off and they ignore it. And it isn't until a person is brought To humility before the cross, and he sees his sin. And in repentance, he turns to God and trusts in the finished work of Christ. And the Holy Spirit comes to indwell that person. And they become a new creature in Christ. It isn't until that point that the Spirit of God begins to move and work in their heart the way that He would like to. And even then, as Christians, how many times do we resist what God says to do? The Old Testament law was applied within a nation. Anticipating the Messiah, the New Testament, is applied within the context of strangers and pilgrims living in a pagan world in which we shine as light. God 's word tells us do this or don't do this. And when we say thy will be done, we're not just submitting to God's sovereign will. But we are submitting to his moral will. And we're saying, God, in my life, I want to do what you say is right. In this particular situation, I want to sit down, I want to examine the facts, I want to see what the Word of God says, and I'm going to purpose to do what is right. This is what he's saying. So I ask you the question. Is this where we start? God's kingdom, highest priority. God's will, highest priority. Let me give you just one or two or three. Three Let me just give you three practical applications. The first word that I want to emphasize is priority. I want most what God wants most. I want most, but I cannot see, but will I will one day see. God's kingdom isn't something I'm watching. Okay? I don't see Christ sitting on a throne right now. But you know what's amazing? When we interact with people and we present the gospel to people and We have the opportunity to spend time in discipleship with a young believer, and we see the Spirit of God open the heart of an unbeliever and they place their faith in Christ. We see the advance of God's kingdom. When we see a young believer who is struggling and who is stumbling, and we come alongside of them and we work with them and we disciple them, and that young believer might be our own children. Not just somebody outside, though obviously we should have a heart for those outside, but that's even our own children. And when we see that young person beginning to grow in the knowledge of the truth, Or that not young person, but that young believer, somebody could be 60 or 70 and be a young Christian, like a babe in Christ And we see that growth, and we see when they come to a very difficult situation and they submit themselves to the Word of God, or when we see them take a step of faith, and the trying of their faith is producing patience in their heart. We see the advance of God's kingdom. But one day we'll see Christ face to face. We'll see him face to face. face. And at his judgment seat he will say, Well done, and this was wood hand stubble, not well done. This is gold and silver and precious stones. This is the role that you will have in my kingdom for eternity. And we will be able to experience the blessings. of those things. We will not just see the advance of God's kingdom in conversions and growth, but face to face. God will make all things new, a new heaven and a new earth. We will experience the creation as God intended it for eternity. Priority. The second word is humility. I want his will more than I want my will. I want him to press others to do his will also. You know, the more I interact with people that do not know the Lord, The more I see the complexity of their lives, the more convinced I am of this simple thought. God's way simple, and God's way is best. God 's way is simple, and God's way is best. In the Proverbs it says, The way of the righteous is as the shining light, and the way of the ungodly is darkness. And they do not know what they stumble at. And that is a perfect description of a person who walks with God, who understands what life is all about. And a person who does not know the Lord, and they experience pain and suffering, and they don't even realize why. Humility says God's will is the priority. And the third word is trust. I will trust God to do what is right, even when the timing and the direction that He seems to be moving things don't seem logical or just to me. This is a very significant part of our Christian walk. I mean, look at Job. I mean, we have the benefit of seeing the whole story. We see Job suffering. We know why Job suffered, and we see the end. God bless Job. But Job didn't know why he was suffering when he was. He had no idea that God was demonstrating to Satan that Job was a faithful man. And that Job served God with a pure heart. He had no idea that that was why he was suffering. He had no idea that God was going to turn his pain. To glory. He had no idea. And I don't know what God communicated to him after the fact. Job didn't write the book, you know. We have a tremendous blessing because we look at Job's life and we see the whole picture as much as God allows us to see it. But Job didn't have that. His wife certainly didn't understand that. He didn't understand it. His friends didn't understand that They were part of the problem. The way they came along and helped him was more painful. Look at Jeremiah. Look at Isaiah the prophet. Look at Ezekiel. Look at Paul. These people suffered. And today they're in glory. And they're experiencing the blessings that God will give them. Not only because Christ died for their sins, but because they ran their race with patience and steadfastness, and they were faithful. I want to encourage you this evening, when we come to pray, let's start with the priority of God's kingdom and the priority of God's will. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer, and then we will divide up and pray together as a church family. Father, I confess to you that there are many times in my life that I've not understood your ways, and in fact, I was Miserably, miserably distrusting of you. And I think everybody here can confess the same thing. And so could Job, and so could Jeremiah, and so could Isaiah, and so could Elijah. Some people that God you use them mightily But they went through moments of tremendous weakness. And I pray that you'll help us to begin with the right priority when we come to prayer. Father, help us to bend our knee to your will and help us to live for your kingdom, which is real, but we cannot see it today. But how we live is significant. To the role that we will play in that kingdom. Father, help your people to be faithful and encouraged by this text. Help us to be better informed in how we pray. And would you guide us in these areas? We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.