I think sometimes when it comes to issues like prayer, we need to be reminded again and again of some of the basics of what Christ taught us about that very important spiritual discipline and really a very important expression of worship to God and an integral part in our growth as Christians and even as a corporate body. So tonight we're going to begin by looking at five verses. Matthew chapter 6, verses 1 to 5. This is what Christ said. Take heed that ye do not your alms before men, to be seen of them, otherwise ye have no reward of your Father which is in heaven. Therefore, when thou doest thine alms, do not sound trumpet before thee as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets. That they may have the glory of men. Verily I say unto thee, they have their reward. But when thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth That thine alms may be in secret, and thy father which seeth in secret himself, shall reward thee openly And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are, for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men Verily I say unto you, they have their reward. You know, it's interesting. Jesus is making this statement in a culture that was extremely religious. And that culture was extremely religious because God was the center of everything in the Jewish culture. And you know what's kind of interesting? The heart of their entire city really was the Temple Mount. This is a nation that had experienced all the miracles of the Old Testament that we read about. This is a nation that had the Word of God, the Old Testament. This is a nation that had the prophets. This was a nation that went into gross idolatry during the time of the kings, and then they end up in Babylonian captivity. And then after 70 years, they begin to come back to their homeland. Well, after those events, the nation of Israel became a much more devout and religious nation than they had been formerly But their religion was not one that was genuine and one that was real. In fact, they didn't understand the scripture They didn't understand the nature of Christ's ministry. When Christ came, the majority of the nation did not recognize him as their Messiah. They didn't understand the nature of his ministry. And so Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount is addressing a lot of misunderstandings about people's relationship to God. And one of the heart issues that he spends quite a bit of time from verse number one , chapter six, all the way down really into verse number 15, he talks about the issue of prayer. And really, even beyond verse 15, he talks about fasting, which really has a connection to prayer. So what I'd like us to do tonight is I'd like us to begin where Christ does And look at our heart attitude, we could say the attitude that we have about ourselves as we go into this issue of prayer. There's a couple of questions I'd like to answer tonight. They're simple questions. The truths that we will unpackage are also very simple, but they're things we need to be reminded of. The first question is this: why are the instructions we find in this text necessary? Second question, what are the dangers or the primary danger that we face in this area of prayer? Three, how does Christ warn us about that danger? And fourth, how do we respond to Christ's warnings? So let's take those questions one by one as we see what God's desire is for us in the area of prayer. And to put it very simply, he wants us to have a very humble view of ourselves and a singular focus. when it comes to this issue of prayer. And the singular focus is Christ. It's not us. It's God. So let's look at the first question Why are these instructions necessary? Before I answer the question, I want you to kind of speak and tell me what you think are some reasons that we would need instruction like this. Just come out with an idea or two. I guess we just read the text, so maybe you'll even bring one or two things from what we saw. But what is a reason or a couple of reasons That we need this kind of a warning from Christ. What do you think? Let me ask this question. Is religious devotion something that is pretty typical in the world today, or is it a very unusual thing? Very typical. Yeah, it's true. You go to Europe, well, Europe's a little different today than it was in past generations. But you know, there still is religious devotion even in Europe. Let me throw a curveball at you just to think about. Religious devotion hasn't doesn't have to be what happens in a church building. or what happens in a mosque, or what happens in a monastery, or something like that. You know, religious devotion could even be in a cause that we don't necessarily think of as religious, yet if we analyzed it, it would find the exact same kind of, we could say, qualities of a religious devotion. The reality is that we as humans are always looking for a greater cause. We really are. And we're constantly looking for greater causes that are outside of what God says is the cause we should be living for. Religious devotion. So what is it that causes us to need this kind of a warning? What do you think? What is it about us? Yes. Pride? Okay, but where does that come from? Pride isn't something you hold in your hand. Where does that come from? Yeah, it's true. Guilty as charged. But where does that come from? What is the root of that? That is a symptom, or that's an expression of something. What causes pride? What causes my son in the back to be crying right now? I'm just gonna guess it's him. I don't know. Yes, exactly. Exactly. I was going to say good, but good's not the right word. True. Yes. The reason that we need this kind of teaching is because there are two things that affect how we view religious devotion or as Christians our walk with God. One is our background, where we've come from, but one is what's inside of us, our indwellings in nature. You never teach a child how to sin. Never. You might show them ways to sin. But you don't teach them how to sin. Okay? You might show them expressions of sin, and they kind of imitate those things, but you don't teach them how to sin. You never teach a child how to be selfish, you teach them how to share. You never teach a child to speak the or to tell a lie. I mean, when they get caught and you know they start looking around and looking down, well, they they just naturally do those things. You don't have to teach a child, you know, to hit somebody or to bite. Some kids that's their thing, you know. That's so that's awful when your kid bites somebody. When they bite their brother or sister. You don't teach kids how to do that. They just they do it. You teach them not to do it. There's something inside of us That is broken, that is fallen. We have a sin nature from the moment we come into this world, as David said, in sin, my mother conceived me. He was a sinner the moment he walked into this world, or crawled, or laid there. And so I want you to think of two passages that are very, very important that have application to us as Christians. And are the reason that we need a statement like this. The first one is this, Romans 12, 1 and 2. He says, I beseech you, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. holy and acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And listen to this next phrase. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed. By the renewing of your mind. You might say, well, why do I draw our attention to a statement like that? The reason I draw our attention to that statement is because it teaches us that God does not zap us with biblical thinking. We don't naturally get biblical thinking just because we place our faith in Christ. That moment of conversion where we understand our sinful condition. And we turn in humility and repentance to Christ, and we trust alone in his finished work, and we recognize who he is and what he's done, and we depend exclusively upon the gospel message We don't instantaneously become biblical thinkers. Okay? There are things that we know inherently at that moment. This is wrong. I shouldn't do it. This is right, I should do it. But there's a very limited part of that. We don't understand how to think biblically through issues. We don't understand how to study our Bibles We don't understand that this right here is right and this right here is wrong in some complicated situation. We have to grow Day by day, moment by moment, over the course of weeks and months and years, we become more and more like Jesus Christ as He matures us progressively. Well, there's a reason I say that. Because where you are in that progression kind of affects how you view prayer. How you approach God in this area will change as you mature in the Christian life. It makes sense that way. Then I want you to go to Colossians chapter 3. And this one I will just mention some of the highlight phrases or verses here, but I want you to get kind of the big picture. In Colossians chapter 3, verse 1, it says this, if you then are risen with Christ, seek those things which are above. Now, he makes a command, a statement as a command, because we have to make a decision. We have to choose to do this. It doesn't happen by nature. If we then skip down, he says, set your affections on things above, not on things of the earth. He obviously makes that statement because we don't naturally do that. We have to be commanded to do that. We have to think and choose and make decisions and develop patterns. Then he says in verse 5, mortify or put to death your members which are upon the earth. And he begins to talk about the expressions of our fallen nature. In other words, how is it that your flesh expresses itself? And he he he just mentions a whole list. And whether we like to admit it or not, um we got some sins on there, okay? We might not be all of them, okay? But we're on that list because we've all got a sin nature and we all have tendencies towards certain kinds of We could say fleshly appetites or fleshly responses. You know, one guy is naturally very angry One person is naturally bent towards lustful responses. One person might be bent towards very proud responses or contentious responses or covetous responses. These are all just different expressions of the same root problem. You need to kind of understand like how your flesh manifests itself. Because, you know, what Eric, the way that your flesh manifests itself, and the way that Mr. Archibald and the way that mine and and and and and the tidquist, my wife, you know we our flesh doesn't manifest itself the exact same way. And so sometimes we kind of like we look at this guy over here or this lady over here and we really kind of focus in on the way that their flesh is s revealing itself. And we compare it. Well, let's not do that. You know, expressions of our fallen nature is is wrong and it's ugly no matter how open and easy it is to see it. He then says this, not only put off or mortify or kill your fleshly appetites and expressions. But now put off these anger and wrath and malice and blasphemy and filthy communication. He says in verse 10, put on the new man which is renewed in the knowledge after the image of him that created him. Do you see what he's telling us to do? This is not something that just zaps into us. We actually have to develop godly disciplines. We have to make conscientious decisions. And I won't continue in the passage. I just want us to notice that The reason that Christ has to tell us how to approach prayer is that even though we're Christians, we have a new nature because we're new creatures in Christ The Holy Spirit indwells us. God is now our Father. He disciplines us. And anybody ever experienced that before? Oh, Billy has. So have I So have I. And by the way, when God disciplines you, it should be something that really humbles you because it reminds you that He's your dad. You know, that's a that's a special But even though we have those things, a new nature, the Holy Spirit, and the discipline of our Heavenly Father, we still have a fallen nature. Our body is not yet redeemed. We are justified in Christ. We are growing in Christ's likeness, but our body's not yet redeemed. That doesn't happen until we put off this corruptible body. and we receive a glorified body. And so as long as we live in this corruptible body, the body that gets sick, the body that feels aches and pains, that's the same body we sin in. Until we get out of this body We are going to continue to struggle with this. And so Christ understands that, and that is why we have this particular instruction. Let's move on to question two. What are the dangers that we face in this area of prayer? Well, here's the truth. Pride is always a serious temptation to those Who seek to be devoted to God. You know it's interesting. It doesn't matter, you know, how much you go to church. It doesn't matter. You know, you can be a pastor, you can be a deacon, you can uh have raised kids who are doing very well. Fundamentally you still are the same person in many ways. You still struggle with the same kinds of things. You can grow and you can mature, but you still have within you the potential to do tremendous harmful things. I mean look at David. What a godly man, yet what a terrible fall. So let's keep this in our minds. Even though we can walk with God for a long time, we can do things right, we can still fall into this temptation of pride. And Christ understands that. So let's look at what he says in verse 1. He says, He's talking about giving. Verse 2, he says, don't sound a trumpet before them as the hypocrites do in the synagogue, that they may have glory of man. Verse 3 says, let not your left hand know what your right hand does. And I'm going to comment on that one in just a second. It's kind of weird. Like, does your left hand and your right hand do they have a mind? It's actually an expression that they used in their language, and we'll kind of explain what what what that means. It's kind of an idiomatic expression. Verse 5, he says, When you pray, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites, for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets that they may be seen amen. All those verses kind of hit the same thing. Just because you're religious, and of course these people don't know their Messiah, but he's telling us, I mean, he's telling his disciples. He's saying don't be like them because you can do the same thing. He's saying there is a danger when you pray that you become proud. There are two tendencies that he mentions The first is a desire to be seen of men. You know, how many I I remember this when I was a teenager. We used to have these like uh these checklists of things that we did in our youth group. It's like, did you bring your Bible? Did you quote your memory verse? How many times did you read your Bible in the week? Man, I lied on that so many times. It's true. I just submitted it. I did. Man, like I did it four times. Okay, twice. Nah, four, you know. You can lie about reading your Bible? I mean, come on. I'm a pastor now, right? I'm a missionary. Yeah. And my my my youth leader probably could tell by the kind of teenager I was that I was lying on my thing, okay? You know, but wh what is that? Because I was doing it. Because I wanted to not live bad. Like I didn't want my youth leader to look down and go like, so Joel read his Bible one time this week? Like he spent five minutes in prayer once this week. Wow, that's really bad. Like you you haven't memorized your verse in like three weeks. Come on. I didn't want my mom to know about that kind of stuff, you know? But you know what's amazing? The teenager becomes an adult and has the same mentality. It's like Man, I guess I gotta put something in the offering. I want that thing to go by and you know so like with a closed fist you just kinda there was nothing there or there was like, you know, just something really small. Because you didn't want anybody to think anything weird of you. Or, you know, I mean, I haven't been to church in a couple weeks. I better go. Somebody's gonna give me a call and ask me why I haven't been around. Now, you know what? We're all human, right? Don't we have these tendencies? And so we can do the right thing. We can do a good thing, but we we do it for the wrong reason. And prayer is one of those things where there is a tremendous temptation. I mean, like you can kneel down here and and really look like you're praying and you're just falling. Asleep. You know, and we can do that stuff because we want others to see us. But then he mentions that second one. That's the one I want to mention. Don't let your left hand know what your right hand is doing. We can also do it for ourselves, for our ego. Let me give you an illustration of this. When we came to Ghana, it was you know it was a brand new church. So the people in the church were very, very young Christians, the ones that were there. And in Ghana, there's a lot of prosperity theology. It's rampant. It's really, really a big problem. And it's a big problem here too, but it's really big in Ghana. It's very, very influential. And I remember sometimes we would sit down and in our Sunday school class, instead of just talking about the Bible, instead of actually focusing on what the Bible was saying, as soon as that lesson started to get a little bit on the toes, Some may be like, hey brother, I'm just really glad we're not like those charismatic churches. We don't preach prosperity theology and they just start going off on we don't do this and we don't do this and we don't do this Because you didn't have to think about like what the Bible was really saying about yourself. And you know we are masters of that. A lot of times we will do the right thing either because we want other people to see us, or because it's really for our own benefit. I put that money in the offering and I go, you know, God's really lucky he's got a giver like me. Now you don't tell anybody that, because they would think that's conceited, but you tell yourself that. You know, I mean missionaries. Okay, I can say this because I've been a missionary. You know, you you everybody gets talking and man brother we we're suffering for Jesus. We don't use an AC in our house. That's not very smart in Ghana. You need an AC. Well, why is she using an AC? Because you can't afford it? No, because it makes you feel this like sense of pride. I'm just giving silly illustrations, but I think if we were really honest with ourselves, we have a tendency towards that. And and and my desire tonight is not to make everybody get so introspective they walk out of here and they feel miserable because man, for the last so much that I gave for my and And they start having these conflicting and not that's not my point. My point is just to draw our attention to the fact that when it comes to issues of worship, we need to do it for God. Well, you do it because we love the Lord. And if our motivation is we don't want somebody to think we're bad people, or we want somebody to think we're a good person. Or for our own ego, we are just balming our own, you know, kind of making ourselves feel good. We we we are doing it for the wrong reason. And we gotta ask the question, what is at the heart of that problem? And you know what the answer is? Our fallen nature, our flesh. And we've all got the same thing. And so we've got to address it at the root problem if we want to correct that issue. We then come to a third question. How does Jesus warn us about this issue? The truth is that God is not pleased with self-focused worship. He says in verse 1, they want to be seen. Verse 2, they want the glory of men. Verse 5, they want to be seen of men He he repeats it multiple times. This is this is just a very short statement, yet he he says it in repetition. Do you get the idea he's really trying to make a point? That he understands that this is a tremendous temptation, that he understands that his disciples aren't quite getting it. Maybe the reason that he says it three times is we only pick up about a third of what we hear. So one of those three we get it, right? It's kind of interesting. Repetition is the key to learning. He warns us because he knows. that this is something that we struggle with. You know, it's not just prayer that really is on the the mind of Christ here. It really goes into every area of of of worship and every area of ministry. I remember when I was in college having a conversation with my dad. It was my sophomore year of college, and I decided, you know, I've been very lazy about some things. My my roommate, he always reads his Bible in the morning, and And I'm sleeping and I'm gonna go sit out in the hallway with him and read my Bible. And I I I I got this just ridiculous list of how much time I was gonna spend reading and praying and I had a extensive list and I remember telling my dad about it and my dad was like, Joel, he said, I'm glad you want to read your Bible. And I'm glad you want to pray. And I'm not trying to discourage you, but I don't think you're looking at this the right way. I remember it kind of bothering me a little bit. I'm like, my dad doesn't want me to read the Bible. But that's not what he was saying. He was saying, Joel, you're looking at it the wrong way. You're looking at how much time you spend doing those things, and you're viewing that as sort of like a level. And he said, that's really not what it is. Reading the word and prayer is about fellowshipping with God. It's about communing with Your Savior. It's about growing in your knowledge of Him. And the reality is a lot of our sin problems would be corrected if our hearts were more, we could say, attracted to our Savior. He warns us because he's not pleased with self-focus. So I want to just bring this to a very simple couple of thoughts. How do we respond to this? Well, the first thing I want to encourage us to do tonight is examine our attitude toward God when it comes to worship. When you come to church, why do you do it? Why do you do it? If you get an opportunity to do something in the worship, you know what is really kind of motivating you I just want you to think about that. And if you come to the conclusion that it's a little bit self-serving, I don't want you to think like, wow, there's something really wrong with me. I'm an unusual person. The reality is all of us struggle with that temptation. I do. You know, when I get up and preach in the pulpit and I'm handling the Word of God, there's always a tremendous temptation to let that become my identity. It's true of all of us. So let's examine our attitude towards God when it comes to our worship. Two, let's be very cautious that there is a temptation to pride. Let's be cautious of it. You know what's what's tough about pride is that when we become proud, we don't see it. Like if you tell a person, I think you're proud, they will be very defensive about that. Like they will not receive that because pride makes itself unapproachable. When we get in a position of pride, it's very hard for us to see it. And the only way that we're able to see it many times is God has to bring circumstances into our life that expose our attitude And then we reflect back, and then we realize that we had pride. Do you understand what I'm saying? Like when we're in the middle of it, we don't see it. Everybody else can see it. But circumstances, by God's providence, bring us to a point of humility, and then we look back and say, that's why I had that problem. That's why I did it that way. That's why I said that. That's why I responded that way. And so let's be very wary, very cautious. Ask the Lord to help us to constantly have a heart that is close to Him so that when pride begins to creep in, we begin to recognize it. Or let's develop patterns where we listen to other people who love us and care about us and have enough courage to actually say, I'm a little concerned about that. What I'm seeing is Concerning. We need that. Three, let's keep the focus of our worship specifically prayer Not on us, not on others and how they perceive us, but on God When we preach, when we teach, when we play, when we sing, whenever we're in any part, when we give the gospel to a friend, when we sit down and have a a discussion about someone in discipleship areas. Let's keep in our heart a passion for God's glory, not our glory. And it is amazing how easy it is to just shift very subtly. To begin to be in a position of pride. My last observation is this: let's make sure that everything that we do in worship is genuine, it's real. You know, I remember listening to Michael. He is the guy who is uh one of the guys who's gonna be pastoring at the church in Cape Coast. Michael was um he was uh in his final year working on a doc on his degree at the university. And um he was an eye doctor. And uh Micah Colbert had a problem with his glasses. He went to a guy to get his glasses repaired. The guy messed him up, so he referred him to Michael. And he went and met Michael and they got to talking. And in the course of conversation he found out that Michael was a pastor, he was a missionary, and he was working with a church and through uh But circumstances and and God's work, that young man came to church. And this is what he says after his salvation. He said, When I came into that congregation, the thing that struck me was that the people were gentle. It's kind of a like that was a major factor in him Embracing the gospel. Obviously that wasn't everything, but it was a big factor. He said I walked into there and I looked around and I was like, these are genuine people. Like when they shook my hand, when they greeted me, like they they weren't putting anything on. They were real. And the reality is that we as a church need to be genuine. And we as individuals need to be genuine. And we will really have a very powerful testimony for the cause of Christ if we're genuine. Nothing put on. It's real. What you see is what is there. The first lesson in our study on prayer is this. Have a humble heart. Think correctly about yourself. Let's think correctly about ourselves. Next week we're going to look at the second part, and that is let's think correctly about God. What is the way we should think about God when we approach him in prayer? You know it's interesting. What you believe about God affects how you pray. It affects the confidence that you take to your knees. It affects the kind of things you ask God about. It affects the attitude that you have when it doesn't seem like he's answering your prayer. It it affects a lot of things. So next week, God willing, we will look at the second part, and that is thinking correctly about God and the area of prayer.