Matthew chapter six and uh I'm gonna start with a question. Dangerous, right? So what did we talk about last week? Does anybody remember the general topic uh of our study last week? I'm gonna make sure that my phone's off. It'd be kinda odd if you know my phone goes off. You guys would hear my ring or that'd be embarrassing. Telling my it's my wife telling me that she loves me. No, it's not true. I mean she does love me but but she that's not my ringer Well I'm gonna get myself in trouble now, man. I'll tell you what. So Matthew chapter six. Uh Matthew chapter six. Does anyone remember the the basic idea of what we were looking at? Yes. Yeah, Janelle, go ahead. That you know what? If you take notes, that's not cheating, because it's your work. Now if you if Chad wrote the notes and you're reading Chad's notes, then you gotta you gotta cite Chad, okay? Okay, go ahead. Um I have why are the instructions in the test necessary? I guess I'll get this topic that I will remember everything. You got it. Think correctly think correctly about yourself when when we go to prayer. And not just prayer, but really any area of worship. Prayer is just one, we could say like a subsection of worship. But we we want to approach prayer and really all aspects of worship. We want to approach it with a right view of ourselves. And that really was the main point. So tonight, the main point is God wants us to understand. Him when we approach him in prayer. So last week we were talking about how we how we view ourselves when it comes to the issue of prayer. Tonight we're going to look at how we view God. And this is really going to be an interesting topic, an interesting study. So I'm going to go ahead and read verse number six, and then we'll read down to verse 9. Here's what Jesus said. But thou when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy father which is in secret, and thy father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly But when ye pray, use not vain repetition as the heathen do, for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking. Be not ye therefore like unto them, for your father knoweth what things ye need before you ask him. After this manner, therefore, pray our Father, which art in heaven. Hallowed be thy name. Now, again, another question. I want you to think of an example we have in the Old Testament of people praying. who were not believers. Can you think of any examples of people praying in the Old Testament who are not believers? Yes. Prophets of Baal. Prophets of Baal. Yes. Okay. Is there anything distinct about that particular uh passage that kind of catches your attention? Yeah. And then a line up in home. Okay. Okay. Okay, that I that's true. Yeah. Okay, anything else? Another example? Yes. Okay, sure. Good uh good example. Any any others? Yes? Well, um that's a debate for another time. But uh but I think that that story is very intriguing because what you see is you see The people afraid of the nation of Israel coming in, they know the power that they have, they know that Israel's God is going to bless them, and so they go to this guy, Balaam. And they try to get him to basically bring a curse against Israel. Very interesting. So there's some things that we find in the Old Testament that actually What's interesting is if you go to lots of different cultures, you find that there's a very similar approach to prayer. Number one, we gotta get God's attention. Okay? We've got to get his attention. So we've got to be loud. We gotta maybe suffer and do some things. We gotta get enough people together to get some commotion to get his attention. There's an attitude that he doesn't really know what's best. And so because he does not know what's best, I have to convince him that what I think is best. There's also another attitude that, okay, I want this, and since I want this, and I don't have the power to get this, then I have to, we could say, manipulate somebody who's stronger than me, who has the ability to make this occur, and through that I can get him to do that. Now, you might sit down and say, well, we as Christians would never do those things, would we? But you know, if we were really honest and we thought about how a lot of times we as Christians approach prayer, You might find that there's a little bit of similarity between the way that those who don't know God approach prayer and how we do sometimes. As we get into this study, I think you'll maybe understand a little bit more about what I'm saying. But I want us to ask three questions as we approach this passage. The first one is: how do people tend to few God? 2. How should we view him? And 3, how does our view of God inform the way that we pray So first of all, how do people tend to view God? And when I say people, I'm talking Christians and non-Christians. I just want to use it in a very general sense Two, how should we view God? And then three, how does our view of God inform the way that we pray? So in this passage, we're going to see that the reason Christ gives us instruction is he wants people to understand that when you approach God, there's a very specific way that you need to approach him. And the way that you approach, it's not like there is a formula that you follow But there is an attitude towards him. There is a view of him that should shape and focus the way that we come to him. And so that's the whole purpose of this section. So I want to start by answering that first question. How do people tend to view God? And here's the first truth: men are masters of creating their own version of God. Is that not true? Men are masters of creating their own version of God. In Romans chapter 1, verse 18, this is what it says. The wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. And then it says, who hold the truth and unrighteousness. And the idea is that they press down or they suppress the truth. And then it says, because that which may be known of God is manifest in them, God hath showed it unto them. So he's basically saying that if we were to look at things objectively, we should be able to understand what God is like. We should understand his wisdom, his goodness. We should understand his providence. But because we, by nature, as sinners, suppress the truth, we begin to have a misinformed and false view. But it actually goes deeper than just our perspective is skewed. He then goes on to verse 21 and says, that when they knew God They did not glorify him as God, neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish hearts were darkened. That word imagination is important because what it's basically telling us is that when people think about God, instead of viewing him as he actually is, They have a tendency to imagine him to be what they want him to be. Whatever is useful to them. Or however they relate to other people or relate to themselves. They begin to actually form God in their thinking after their own image or the image of somebody that they know or the image of something that they want. He then goes on to say this, professing themselves to be wise, they became fools and changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like to corruptible man. You know, if we had the ability to go to many, many different cultures and sit down and just observe how people view God. What you will discover is that if you want rain, there is somebody that you go to to get it to rain. Okay? If you want a blessing, there is somebody that you go to to get that blessing for you If you want to get even with somebody and you want to punish them, there's somebody you can go to to Bring that on them. You know what's interesting? It's not just like we find this in you know Asian cultures or African cultures. Read our, you know, read the stories that we read to our kids And you'll discover that even in European culture, it's pretty much there, okay? It's there. Why is that? Because we by nature, we want a God, a being who's stronger than us, who's more powerful than us. To do what we want him to do. And really, at the heart of all that is a self-centeredness. We want to have a God who can do what we want, one who we can manipulate. one whom we can shape the desires and the thinking and the agenda of that individual and we want to control him. Well, you know what's interesting? Jesus understands that that's human nature because notice what he says. He says, when you pray, do not use vain repetition. As the heathen do. They think they will be heard with their much speaking. Did you see what he just said? And we have the example of it. We have Elijah with the prophets of Baal. We have the example of Balaam and Balak. And Balak believes if he can get Balaam to say the right thing enough times, then he's going to be able to curse the nation of Israel. He really believes that. And that's a very common thinking in the world today. And it certainly has been for all of human history. So then the question is, why are we how do we need to see God? The truth too is that we need to see God as He has actually presented Himself in His Word. He says in verse 6, pray to thy Father. There's a relationship there. He says in verse 7, he says, don't use vain repetition because you think you will be heard by your much speaking. In verse 8, your father knows the things that you need before you ask him. That tells us something about God. He knows some things, he knows what's good. Even before you ask, he already is aware that this is something that you need. And so when you pray, it's not like God is sitting there going, Oh, I didn't know that you needed that. He knows that. When you ask him for something that's good, it's not like you've convinced him now that it's good. He already knew that. James chapter 1 is a great example of this statement that Christ has made kind of being broken down. In James 1, 5, this is what James writes. If any man lack wisdom, let him ask of God that giveth to all men liberally, or freely, or graciously, or abundantly And he abradeth not. So it's kind of like let's just all be kind of honest. When you have little kids You're tired, you're busy, you're focused on something, and a little kid comes up to you and is like, Daddy, I want this. And you don't listen. And they say, Daddy, I want this. and you don't listen. In fact, three or four times you don't even hear it. But then then you realize that there's this tug and this, Daddy, I need this, I want this. And then finally out of frustration and say, fine, I will do that for you. Has anyone ever been there before? Good Chad, you're a good man. Well, I've been there before a few times. God isn't like that. So when you come to God, it's not like he says, okay, fine, I'll do this for you. I'm tired of hearing this. Fine, I'm going to do it. He's not like that. It says he gives liberally and he does not abrade or he doesn't make you feel terrible for what you have asked for. He's very good. He then goes on to say in verse 6, let the man ask in faith nothing wavering. So he emphasizes the fact that we need to have confidence when we go to God. He says in verse 17, every good gift and every perfect gift is from above. So it tells us that if there's anything in my life that is good , I can contribute it to God. He's the one who gave it to me. If there's anything that is complete, God is the giver of that thing. He then says there is no variableness, neither shadow of turning with God. That means he doesn't change. It isn't like one day you go to God and He says, this is how I look at this issue, and then a few months later, a few years later, because of circumstances changing, All of a sudden, God's character has changed on that issue. And the way he views that issue has changed. God isn't like that. We can know what he is like. He is stable and he is unchangeable. And then it says in verse 18, of his own will he begat us by the word of truth. And that is emphasizing God's love and his grace toward us. So you say, why do I go to that text? Really, James is unpacking what Jesus says in Matthew 6. In fact, a lot of the book of James is really James unpacking the Sermon on the Mount. It's very, very interesting. But think about some of what he's saying. First of all, God is good. If somebody is good, doesn't that affect how you approach them? You don't have to be afraid that they're going to do a bad thing to you when you come to them. God is all wise. So when we come to God in prayer, we don't have to sit down and say, okay, I know what's best. I have to prove to God that This is the best thing. I have to convince him. I have to manipulate him. If I can get him to listen to me, then he will go ahead and do. We don't have to approach God that way. In fact, it's really wrong to approach God that way He's all powerful. So when we come to God in prayer, we shouldn't in our minds go, I wonder if God really could accomplish this. I wonder if he could do this. He absolutely can. And we know that God is loving and He is responsible. Okay? I have kids. And I do love my children. And there are kids that are not my children, and I love them. But I have no responsibility to school them, to feed them, to buy them clothes, to buy them shoes, to make sure they stay in my house. I have no responsibility in those areas. I'm not their dad I can love them, I can be burdened for their soul, I can be kind, I can be benevolent to them, but I don't have a responsibility to them because they're not my offspring. They're not my children But when we talk about God being our Father, guess what? It's more than just He loves us. He has a relationship to us that involves the responsibility to take care of us. It's kind of an amazing thought. You know, and it uh this is something I shared with several of the young men in Ghana that I worked with. They didn't have dads. You know, their dad died when they were a kid, or they had a dad, obviously, but they never they never met him. I remember one guy said, I don't think my mom even knows who my dad is. I mean that was, you know, his o his honest statement there. He said, I don't even know. She doesn't even know who my dad is. And um I remember talking to those guys and saying, well, the scripture has a lot to say about God being a father to the fatherless. And so there is a relationship there. He loves those people who don't have an earthly father. And he feels a personal responsibility. to care for them and to meet their needs. When we come to God in prayer and we see him as our father, a good father, that affects how we approach him. The last thing I mentioned is that he is capable of doing what is best You know, when we talk about God's providence or his sovereignty, what we mean is that while God allows people to make decisions, there are limitations to what people can do. And while God allows people to make decisions, and sometimes those are very evil decisions and they're very hurtful decisions, when he allows that, there is some redeeming element to what he has allowed. Now I'm not saying we always can figure that out. I'm not saying we don't have tremendous wrestlings many times with that. But God, in his providence, allows things in the lives of his children that he's going to use and accomplish for his purposes. I remember there was a there was a uh a man I'm dear friends with him who had formerly been a missionary and the circumstances surrounding him coming off of that particular field, they were they're they're very hurtful. to this guy. And I remember we were sitting down and we were talking about this and and he he said to me, he said, there's no way it could have been God's will for me to have left what I was doing. And he, you know, he just he struggled with that whole that whole concept. And I said, well, it may be true that you were not treated correctly. That is very true. It may also be true that you didn't respond well to that runk as well. He said, that's true too. And I said, but you have to accept that God in his providence allowed you to go through what you did, and he has purposes in that. And so rather than questioning God and saying, I don't think it's fair, you must have stepped aside for a few minutes, you need to recognize that he had a purpose in that And he was fully able to stop what went down and all those things, but there was a reason. And so you have to humbly come to the Lord and ask him to help you with that. And uh I don't know if it helped them or not, but but the reality is that that's true. God is sovereign. And there are things that we don't understand, but we have to rest in the fact that if God allows something to happen There's a redeeming element to that. And the greatest redeeming element to that is the maturing of God's people. You know, one of the things I tried to share with that guy is. That what God's most concerned about with you is not where you are, but what you're becoming. You know what I mean? That's that's what he's really concerned about. And so this situation is about what you're becoming. Well, we come back to this area of prayer and we say, God is good, he's wise, he's all powerful. He is loving. He is responsible. And he is capable of doing what is best as the sovereign Lord of all things. That's how we need to see God. So when we think about the prayer requests that are on our sheet, when we think about the circumstances that are burdens to our heart, and we're not going to share them with anybody, but they're there, we have to keep in our minds. This is God 's character. This is his nature. And when I come to him, I'm coming to him on the basis of who he is, and I'm approaching him in the way that I'm approaching him. on the basis of who he is. And that is the whole point of what Jesus is saying in Matthew chapter 6. We then come to a third truth, and that is That a biblical view of God will make the way that we pray different from the way that those who don't know God pray. Now we don't pray because we're trying to make ourselves distinct. That's not the point that he's saying. The point is that if you know God and you don't know God, those two individuals will not approach Preaching the same way, they won't approach singing the same way, and most certainly they will not approach prayer the same way. Even two Christians, truly saved individuals, One who has a very rich view of God, and it's correct, and it's biblical, and another is very immature in the faith, has not grown, has not grasped these truths, those two individuals will not approach prayer the same way. Now please don't misunderstand me. God cares about that person's prayer just as much as this person's prayer. And God meets us where we are. And in our immaturity many times, God still is very gracious and he listens and he answers our prayer. But as we mature in the faith, we need to come from here to here. And that's really what Jesus is saying in Matthew chapter 6. But notice what he says. But thou, verse 6, when thou prayest. But means there's a contrast. They pray this way. You need to pray this way. Verse 7, he says, but when you pray, do not use vain repetition as the heathen, for they think. Again, he's emphasizing The way that they come and the way that you come is very different, and the difference is the way that they think versus the way that you think about me Verse 8, he says, Be not ye therefore like unto them, for your father knoweth. We've got to keep this in our minds. The way that we pray as Christians is very distinct because of our understanding of God's character. So, how should we pray? Let me just mention some very general but practical things. First of all, we need to pray on the basis of thought You say, why would you say that? Don't people think when they pray? No. There are many people who don't think while they pray. It's true. If you could sit down and you could listen to a person pray, you would say they say the same thing over and over and over again, and it's almost as if it's just a rote, memorized They haven't thought it through at all. It's very, very common. And even in in in Christian circles, we we we will some I mean truly born-again individuals. Who will just use vain repetition over and over and over again, saying the same thing again and again and again. They're not even thinking about what they're saying. Let me ask you a question. If you were going to your boss about a request, would you come that way? No. If you were coming to your spouse about a request, would you come that way? No. Uh if you were trying to get a job, would you talk to somebody that way? No. The reality is if there's something that's really important to us, we really think it through. We think about what we're gonna say. We want to say it the right way. There's deliberation in our minds. Well, the reality is when we come to God in prayer, we're talking to the Creator. And we should think about what we're saying to him. Not saying that there are times when we pray. And I mean we are in a pressure situation. We don't even know what to say. And the scripture says the Spirit of God helps us in those situations. But when we pray, we should pray with our minds engaged, with our understanding, thinking rationally, coming to God with reasonable, thought-out requests. A second thing, we should be very reverent and respectful to God when we come to Him. You know, I'm not suggesting we have to always get on our knees. Okay? I'm not suggesting that at all. In fact, in the Old Testament, a lot of times they they they lifted up their hands and they lifted up their hands. to heaven. There were times that they got on their face before God. But the reality is that there should be something about the way we approach God that has some reverence and some awe. We are approaching God. And that's a very serious and holy and awesome thing. A third thing is humility. We need to keep our limitations in perspective. I remember when I was in college, you know, I read a lot of books on prayer, had a lot of conversations with other, you know, preacher boys in college about prayer. And we got some really interesting ideas in our heads sometimes about prayer. But one of the things that I could say was a real problem for me personally was that I started getting this mentality that If God's will and mine were different, and I twisted God's arm hard enough, his will would magically become my will. That's not how we should approach God. The reality is anytime that we come to the Lord in prayer, we need to keep in mind that we may not have all the facts. Well, we definitely don't have all the facts. We don't have the perspective of God and these issues. Sometimes the things that we're asking for, if God actually gave them to us, they'd actually hurt us. And we don't know that at the time. And so when we pray, while we are coming to God believing that this is what we should ask for, there should always be this sense in which we are submitted to God saying, I don't have all the facts. I could be wrong here. And as I begin to pray, I begin to recognize God clearly is going to answer this prayer. He is working in this situation. Or I begin to start to realize That's what I'm asking for really isn't the best. God actually changes how we view those issues. The last thing I want to mention is confidence. You know, some people say, how can you be humble and confident at the same time? Does that seem a little odd? Humility and confidence? They can be laid side by side. They absolutely can be laid side by side Because the confidence that you have isn't really about you. It's about God. In fact, really, confidence in God when you come to prayer. is actually one of the most humbling things you think about. Because what you're doing is you're recognizing if he doesn't work, I'm in trouble. So there needs to be confidence in the Lord. Confidence in his wisdom. Confidence in his goodness. Confidence in his power. Confidence in his providence. Confidence. And God. Very, very important. So you say, Pastor Joel, how would you kind of summarize all this? I put it this way: God wants us to approach Him thinking correctly about Him. He wants us to approach him thinking correctly about him. And so my question is Is there anything in the way that we approach God in prayer? And I'm not talking about what we say necessarily or the posture that we take physically when we pray, but I'm talking about our perspective, talking about our attitude. Is there something or some things that God might point and say that needs to change? That needs to be brought and corrected so that when you pray, you're praying the way that you should. May God help us to be people who pray in a way that pleases the Lord. Let's bear our hearts together. Father, help us to have just an awesome sense of your glory and your power. And help us to be very humble in your presence. And help us to be submitted to your wisdom. Help us to recognize that You definitely have the ability to do whatever you choose to do. And when you don't do the things that we think you should, then we need to adjust the way we look at the situation. And I pray that you'll help us to do that. Father, help us to be humble individuals. Help us to be very prayerful. And help us to be confident in the God that we're approaching. That you know what is best and you will do what is best in all these situations. As we come together this evening in prayer, I pray that you'll really unite our hearts And that we will really bear one another's burdens, uplifting these various needs to your throne of grace. And we look forward to how you will work in these many, many sit situations for your honor and glory. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.