Okay, please take your Bibles and turn to Matthew chapter 6. Matthew chapter 6. We've been studying the sermon, or we've been studying Christ We could say the the prayer that Christ is is laying out here in Matthew chapter 6. We've been studying this for some time. And now we're coming to the end of our study on the Lord's Prayer. So I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to read it again, and then we're going to look at one question tonight. And that question is, why do we pray? Why do we pray? Let me read Matthew chapter 6, verses 10 to 13 again, and then we will look at that topic or that question. Jesus says in Matthew chapter 6, I'll start in verse 9. After this manner, therefore, pray ye, our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. Let's ask the Lord to bless our study tonight, and then we'll look at the conclusion of our study on the Lord's Prayer. Father, as we open up this text, I pray that you would give us clarity. I pray that the truths that would be presented, they're very simple, would be very instructive and helpful to us. We ask that you would help us when we pray to be praying out of a motivation from the things that will be mentioned tonight. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Over the last several weeks, we have looked at a couple of different questions. The first question is: how do we pray? And there were four aspects that were mentioned in this text, not just the chapter 6, verses 9 to 13, but really we start in verse 1 and moved all the way to verse 13. The first thing we see is that we pray from a perspective of awe or worship or reverence. We recognize God's position before us. And so we pray. out of awe. A second aspect of how we pray is that we pray in a way that is not seeking to manipulate God. And one of the things that Jesus said is, don't pray like those who don't know God. He uses the term heathen, or that's how it's translated in our English version. But the idea is don't try to manip manipulate God. Don't try to twist his arm. Don't think that by praying lots and lots of times this vain repetition that somehow you're going to get God's attention and now he's going to let you do something that he originally did not want to do. Or now he's going to move in a way that he was really opposed to, but now because you've manipulated him, you've been able to get his attention. Don't pray in that way. Thirdly, don't pray from a position of distrust. And that was something that he really emphasizes. God knows what we need, and God is good, and so we can trust him when we come to him. in prayer. And then the fourth aspect of how we pray is we pray with a focus on God's kingdom. And so before we ask about our daily needs and our wants and our wishes We want the kingdom of God to move forward. And so we pray in that way. So we ask the first question, how do we pray? And we've taught that over the last several weeks. Then we come to a second question. What are the things that we should pray for? What are the things that we should pray for? And there were six items that were mentioned. First, thy kingdom come. We mentioned the focus on God's kingdom. That was the first thing. Second, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. And so it's not our will being imposed on God's will. We are rather submitting ourselves to God's will. Fourthly, or thirdly, it's give us this day our daily bread. And so we talked about the fact that we should ask God for our daily needs. And it's not just food that we're talking about, but food was what was being mentioned in the text. Fourth, forgive us our debts. We obviously sin against people, and we sin against God, and we need forgiveness. And so we need to ask God for forgiveness. Fifth, lead us not into temptation. The idea is we're asking God to preserve us from being in circumstances where we face temptation. And lastly, deliver us from evil. There are times that we recognize God will allow us. to face temptation. God will allow us to be in the midst of temptation, but we're asking Him to deliver us from that evil. And so those are the things that we have covered over the last several weeks. How we pray and what we pray for. Tonight we come finally to the question: why? Why do we pray? And the answer is in the rest of this text. For Thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever and ever. Amen. Now if you're looking down your Bible and you're puzzled you don't see that there, that's not in our modern translations, okay? Because there's a text variant there and I Don't want to digress too much into that, but the idea is in some manuscripts we do find that final part of the Lord's Prayer, and in some we do not. So in some translations you'll see a footnote And then it'll be in the footnote. In some translations, it's in the text, but it's in italics. So I'm just drawing your attention to the fact that it's there in case you're wondering why that is the case. But what people believe is that that is actually a quote or a reference to a passage in the Old Testament. And I will mention it in just a few minutes, but that's in 1 Chronicles 29. But that's kind of the explanation, okay? So if you're wondering why you don't see it there, why it's in italics, why it's in a footnote, it's because of that uh textual difference between some of the manuscripts, okay? And also, when we go to the Luke passage, it's not mentioned. So that's why you don't see that. But anyway, let's get into the text as to why we should pray. First of all, we should pray Because God is our Father. Because God is our Father. If someone is your Father, don't you expect certain things of them? Don't they expect certain things of you? Isn't there some kind of a relationship that brings a sweet? Now I understand that there are some fathers who are not loving Who don't take responsibility for their children. I do understand that. But when we when God uses the term our father, he wants us to think of our relationship to God in the sense of a healthy Godly Father. One of the reasons that we pray to God is because of that relationship to Him. And what does He say? He says in verse 9, Our Father which art in heaven. He says in verse number one, he says, you have no reward of your Father who is in heaven. Verse 4 he says, Thine alms may be in secret, and thy Father, which is in secret, will reward thee openly. Verse 6, he says, Pray to thy father. Later on he says, And thy father which seeth in secret will reward thee openly. Verse 8 Be not therefore like unto them, for your father knows what you need Do you see what's going on? He mentions six or seven times in this text the word father. One of the reasons that we pray to God is because he's our Father. If you're not a believer, if you're not a child of God, then you don't have that reason, do you? You don't have that motivation. But if you are a child of God, then you have that motivation. Let's talk for a few minutes about this concept of father. God is responsible for us because he's our Father. Think about what Jesus says in John chapter 10 Now I know that the context is not talking about our daily needs, all right? It's talking about something different. It's actually talking about our security in Christ when we're saved. But in John 10, 27, he says this. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. And I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. My father which gave them to me is greater than all. And here's the phrase, no man is able to pluck them out of my father's hand. So what you see is you see God basically saying the reason that you have security as a Christian is because God has taken it upon himself. He feels personally responsible to hold and to preserve and to keep you. It gives us a little bit of a sense into how God views his children. There's a passage in 1 Peter, it says that we are kept by the power of God unto salvation. Again, we see God takes this sense of responsibility to hold and to preserve his people In Romans chapter eight, verses fourteen and following, he says, as many as are led by the Spirit of God or the sons of God You've not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba Father. Now that's a wonderful little illustration, a wonderful little picture, and I want to kind of give you this picture. When you hear the word abba , It's not an English word, is it? But what does it sound like? Does it sound like a word that uh an adult would use or that a little kid would use You ever heard a kid ABA , ABA, AMA, Mama, Dada? You you hear we know what I'm talking about? Okay. Why is it that a kid uses a the a Because that's how they talk. They haven't really learned the ability to say mommy, daddy. So it's Mamma, Dada. And so even even when a a child is learning how to talk and they're referring to one of their siblings They'll use uh it'll kind of sound like their name, but it doesn't sound like their name. You know what I'm talking about? Well, this this word abba is what a little child would call their daddy. And you can kind of see how it's almost like it's almost like, da-da! If you will, that's kind of the idea. It's a term of endearment. It's like the little child who loves his daddy, who has this confidence in his daddy, that's how he called out to him. That's really the idea there. And you can even see it in the way that the the the word sounds. It sounds like something a little kid would say. And so we see that God, one of the reasons we go to God as our father is because he is, and because as a little child, he's attentive and he cares about our needs. Another reason is because we are dependent upon our Father. Acts 17, 28 says this: In Him we live and move and we have our being. Now that statement is a general statement about all humanity, but we're part of that, aren't we? We are dependent on God Lamentations 3. 22. It's of the Lord's mercies that we're not consumed, because his compassions fail not. They're new every morning, dependent on God. Psalm 103, 13, like a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. He knoweth our frame, he remembers that we are dust. Great is thy faithfulness. And in Colossians 1 it says, by him all things consist, or they're held together. Do you not get the sense that God feels this responsibility to us and we have this need toward Him? And so one of the reasons we pray to him is because he is our Father. And I want to mention this also. God has an affectionate love for us because we're his children. Colossians 3. 12, he says this, put on as the elect of God, holy and beloved. If you will, if you look at it in the original language, it has the idea of this. Because you are elect and beloved, you are the elect ones, you are the beloved ones, you are to put on certain That's really the idea or the sense that we find in the original languages. That word beloved is a powerful word. In John chapter 16, it says that the Father Himself loveth you. First John 3, beloved, what manner behold what manner of love the Father has bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. One of the reasons we pray is because God is our Father. He loves us. We're dependent upon him, and he has a sense of responsibility to preserve and protect and to work actively in our lives. So that's the first reason we mentioned. The second reason is this: we need to pray to God because we live as citizens of his kingdom. It says, For thine is the what? The kingdom. And we spent a lot of time when we were dealing with this in another passage of what we mean by God's kingdom. We could say it's his rule. We are a part of God's kingdom. And God rules this entire universe in his own sovereign way. I mentioned that the statement at the end of the Lord's Prayer that we have in our Bible is a reference to 1 Chronicles 29. And here's what it says. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty. All that is in heaven and earth is thine. Thine is the kingdom, and thou art exalted as head above all. We are citizens. of God's kingdom. We are citizens in in God's kingdom, if you could, as the sovereign of the universe, he rules in this universe. We are citizens of his kingdom because we are born again and we have an eternal inheritance. We're going to experience his eternal kingdom in heaven. We're going to experience his physical rule on earth when he establishes his kingdom at his second coming. So his kingdom really encompasses a lot of different things. But let's think about the significance of God being the ruler and how that is a motivation for us to pray. Psalm 147. Great is the Lord. Great in power. His understanding is infinite The Lord lifteth up the meek. He casteth down the wicked to the ground. What is significant of that about that passage? It tells us that when somebody gets We could say lift it up and when somebody gets put down, God is the one who ultimately is behind those kinds of things We we say it's his providence, his sovereignty, his power. Ephesians 1 11 it says this, in whom we've obtained an inheritance predestined according to the purpose of him who worketh all things after the counsel of his own will. God is one who takes circumstances and he works and he weaves and he moves in those circumstances. Remember the story of Joseph. You know, Joseph seemed like he had a pretty bad situation in life, didn't he? And at the end of his life his brothers thought, he's gonna kill us because the tide has turned and now he has an opportunity to get even with us. And when Joseph really does have an opportunity, what does he do? He says, You meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. If you will, the reason you did that is because you had evil intention. The reason God allowed you to do it is because he had a good purpose. That's providence. Because God rules, we go to Him in prayer. Because that means He can move and work in our circumstances. And Daniel 4, I mentioned this passage several, it could be like two months ago now. I don't even know how long it's been. But it's the passage dealing with Nebuchadnezzar. Nebuchadnezzar, the most powerful man living, was humbled. Can you imagine this mighty king eating grass in a field? I j I can't imagine it. But to me what's even greater than the fact that this powerful, mighty man oh I mean uh can you imagine Donald Trump? Okay? Getting to the place where he becomes like a wild animal in the field. And then He's brought back to his position when he comes to his senses? I mean, can you imagine? Oh, if if if Donald Trump lost his mind There'd be lots of people that would be just thrilled to let him stay that way. Okay? Well there were people that were like that about Nebuchadnezzar, were they not? You know, I mean, he was a pretty hated guy, I would think, by some people. To me, the most marvelous thing is not that he was brought low, but that he was re-established. And God did that to demonstrate That I, not you, Nebuchadnezzar, I'm the one who lifts up and puts down. You have a kingdom only because I've given it to you. And that's a powerful thought. But this is what the man says after those events. It says, I bless the Most High and praised and honored him that liveth forever, whose dominion is everlasting. You know, Nebuchadnezzar recognized I was ruling and now I was put down and now I'm put back. God was on his throne the whole time. There are kings that I have crushed and I've replaced. And I'm going to be crushed and replaced one day. But he continues, and he understood that. It says, all the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing, and he does according to the his will in the armies of heaven. And among the inhabitants of earth none can stay his hands. Those who walk in pride, he's able to abase. The reason that I pray to God is that he is sovereign. He rules. We are a part of his kingdom. And he can move and he can lift up and he can put down and he can allow something to continue and he can stop it He has the ability. When we are talking about the concept of evil, we saw that God governs the nature of temptation and evil. He governs how long it goes, its duration. He governs how intense it becomes, the timing of when it happens. His reason for allowing things to happen as they are, when they do, how hard they come, all those things fall under his dominion, his rule is providence. And we don't understand it fully, but it's true, it's there. There's a third reason that we pray. We pray to God because He's able. He's able. There are things that you and I can't do. And to God they're nothing. They're absolutely nothing. It says and the power that's the next little phrase When that passage in Daniel was recorded, Nebuchadnezzar recognized, he said, all the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing. And none can stay or hold back his hand. If God's purpose to do something, you and I can't stop it no matter how hard we try. He's able. In 1 Samuel chapter 2, Hannah talks about this. She says in verse 1 or verse 2, she says, There is none holy as the Lord. There is none beside thee, neither is there any rock like our God. The Lord killeth, the Lord maketh alive, He bringeth down, He bringeth up. He maketh poor, he maketh rich, he bringeth low, he lifteth up, he raiseth the poor out of the dust, he lifteth up the beggar from the dung hill, to set them among the princes, and to make them inherit the throne of glory. Imagine that. She's talking about God's power, his might, his ability. If God was not all-powerful, what would be the point of praying to him? If God was not the ruler, what would be the point of praying to him? If God was not our Father who loved us and cared for us and had this sense of needing to provide and protect his children and this affection and love for us, then we would say, I don't know if I want to pray to him. But all those things are true about God. In Psalm 113, he says this from the rising of the sun to the going down of the same, the Lord's name is to be praised He is high above all nations, his glory above the heavens, who is likened to the Lord our God, who dwelleth on high, who humbleth himself to behold the things that are in heaven and earth. Did you catch that? He humbles himself to behold the things in heaven and earth. He raises up the poor. He lifts the needy from the dung hill, that he may set him with princes. This is basically a reflection of what of what Hannah was saying as well. God is able. I want to give you just one final reason. That we should pray to God, and that is because God wants to be glorified. God wants to be glorified. You know, there are times that God allows us to walk through circumstances, and one of his highest motivations, perhaps his greatest motivation, is that he will be glorified. That he will be glorified in your eyes, that he will be glorified through your life, that he will be glorified in the presence of those who behold the circumstances that are going on. God desires to be glorified in all things. And he's worthy of all glory. And God can't give his glory to anybody else. Listen to some of the texts that are here. Revelation 4. 11, thou art worthy to receive glory and honor and power, for thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they are, and they were created. God made you and He made me for His glory. To proclaim His majesty and his goodness and his perfections and his beauty and his wisdom and all those things Revelation 5. 12, worthy is the Lord the Lamb that was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing. Psalm 115, verses 1 and following, not unto us, O Lord, not unto us, but unto thy name give glory. For thy mercy, for thy truth sake, wherefore should the heathen say, Where is now their God? But our God is in the heavens, he has done whatsoever he hath pleased. God is worthy of our glory and our praise. But this perhaps is one of the most wonderful texts of all. Isaiah 48. For thy name's sake will I defer mine anger. For my praise will I refrain for thee, that I cut thee not off. He's talking about the nation of Israel. I have refined thee, but not with silver. I have chosen thee in the furnace of affliction. For my own sake, even for my own sake, will I do it. How should my name be polluted? And I will not give my glory to another. I am he, I am the first, I am the last. Mine hand also hath laid the foundations of the earth. These are majestic scriptures talking about God. When you and I think about prayer, there's a reason we should pray. Because God's our Father. We have a relationship to Him. He loves us. Like the little text: Abba. We cry, Abba Father, like a little child. And he looks at us as his beloved child. He preserves and protects and keeps us. We pray to him because he is the sovereign, the ruler. We are a part of his dominion, if you will. And he has the ability to do whatever he wills in heaven and on earth. We pray to him because of his might. He is able. And Hannah experienced that firsthand. She couldn't have children. She was barren for many years. And God gave her a child. He did what he desired. And lastly, for God's glory, God wants us to pray so that he can move and demonstrate his his goodness and his greatness and his wisdom and all those things. Christ wants us to pray biblically, and this is why he teaches us how to pray, what we should pray for, and this is why he gives us the reason that we should pray. My question is, do we pray this way? Do we pray this way? As we go to prayer, let's keep in our minds what has been a wonderful study. Of Christ's prayer in the Sermon on the Mount, the Lord's Prayer. And as we move to a new topic next time we meet, let's not forget these wonderful truths.