Okay, again, please take your Bibles to Galatians chapter five. Galatians chapter five, and we'll be looking at verses twenty-four up through chapter six, verse three. Galatians 5, 24 through 6, verse 3. By the way, wasn't that a fantastic hymn? The one we just sang, so much rich doctrine. And really when when Wesley wrote that hymn, he kind of covered from us coming to understand the gospel and if you will the light coming on and we see uh what Christ has done for us and we see us uh in light of his righteousness and his glory and our sinfulness. And we see that and we are just overwhelmed by what Christ has done for us. He talks about no condemnation. Now I dread. He talks about the chains. falling off. That is a wonderful, wonderful hymn. And it really covers a lot of rich doctrine. And I think it's a very appropriate hymn as we come to this text, Galatians chapter 5. Verses 24 and following. Think about that statement that the hymn says, My chains fell off. Just keep that kind of in the back of your mind as we look at what Paul writes to these Galatians believers in the region of Galatia in chapter 5, verse 24. He says this. They that are Christ have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts. They that are Christ have crucified the flesh with the affections and lust. You know, when when the writer makes that statement about our chains falling off, really that's exactly what he's talking about. It's talking about the fact that when we came to faith in Christ, the power of sin was broken. Now that doesn't mean that we stopped having this battle with indwelling sin. But its power and its authority over us was broken by the power of the gospel and by that new nature in Christ. And when he talks about this, he continues in the next verse, he says this, if we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. And again, he's talking about the power that we have to overcome temptation and sin. So with that in mind, let's kind of see the whole reason that Paul wrote this section and then ask the question, what exactly does God want us to do? So let's begin with the question, why did Paul write this particular passage? Since Paul has been addressing the issue of false use of the law, And pride in one's ability to live godly in the strength of his flesh, he reminds these Christians that they are sinners Who desperately need one another in community to grow by the Spirit's sanctifying power in their lives That is the main crux of what Paul is saying. He's writing to a group of people that have a pride problem. People that think that they can live the Christian life and the strength and in the power of their flesh. They think that somehow the law is going to help them to become godly. And Paul has to explain to them that that's not the case. Why does he do that? Because God wants us to approach the Christian life in humility. As we come to the Lord's table, and as we remember the death of Christ, as we remember his body that was broken for us. As we remember his blood that was shed so that we could be redeemed, this should cause us to be very humble people. Because what we're realizing is if it wasn't for this sacrifice, we'd have nothing. We'd have absolutely no ability to live this Christian life. So what I'd like us to do tonight is I'd like us to just go ahead and look at several very simple propositions that we find in this text There, I'm not going to tell you how many because I don't want to get discouraged at how many are there, but I'm actually not going to develop them that much. I'm just going to state them and make some very simple observations about those propositions But there are several. The first proposition is this, God's people have put to death their fleshly passions. God 's people have put together put to death their fleshly passions. Notice what Paul writes in this text, verse 24. They that are Christ's Have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts They that are Christ have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts Let me put it in real simple terms. Your natural inclination before your conversion, and by the way, not just before your conversion, but after you trust Christ and after you become a new creature in Christ. That natural inclination that you have in your responses to situations has been affected by indwelling sin. I'm reading a book right now as I'm preparing for the Monday night study that we're going to be doing. And I if you come into that, I hope you're reading that first chapter too. And one of the things that he really emphasizes in that book is that we are sinners and apart from the grace of God, we don't have the power. We don't have the ability to have healthy marriages. We don't have the ability to cope with life. unless we recognize what we are. And having a biblical perspective of self is one of the greatest helps to us being able to resolve conflicts with one another. another, to have good relationships with one another, to have strong marriages, our natural inclinations are affected by indwelling sin. And so when he says those who are Christ have crucified the flesh, with the affections and lust. He's basically saying this. Your natural responses have to be put to death because your natural responses are affected by indwelling sin. A second thought is this, the you that God wants you to be is radically different than the you that you are by nature. Did you understand what I'm saying? The you that God wants you to be is radically different than the you that you are by nature. We all have unique personalities. We all have unique gifts and interests, and you know we all have unique weaknesses, struggles, battles. What God wants you to be, Christian. is something that's very radically different than what you are by nature. Your flesh is a very dominating influence in your life. until you come to place your faith in Christ. And even after conversion, the flesh continues to be this area of battle. The you that God wants you to be is not a slave to sin. But rather it's an image-bearing person set aside for God's glorious purposes and freed to walk in newness of life. Let me kind of use this illustration as we think about this point. I know a lot of us use technology on a regular basis. And, well, maybe all of us, I guess, apart from the little kids, right? And even they, you know, use technology to some extent. You get a laptop, and when you use that laptop, it's quick and it does what you need it to do. You get a brand new phone. And it's quick and it does what you need to do. But what would happen if you got a piece of technology, maybe you got an Apple phone, maybe you got a laptop, and it came from the factory with a built-in virus. What would happen? It would be a problem, wouldn't it? It would be a huge problem. Well guess what? We all, if you will, are born with a built-in virus We have this thing called indwelling sin, and it affects every single aspect of our being. And so the first proposition that we find is this: God's people have put to death their fleshly passions. Christians, as we come to the Lord's table, let's remember this very simple fact that the you that God wants you to be is drastically different than what you are naturally. God wants you to be like Christ. God wants your passions to be dominated by the Spirit's work. not your flesh. God doesn't want you to be a slave to sin. He wants you to be freed to walk in newness of life. We then come to a second proposition, and that is this: God's people have life by the Spirit. God 's people have life by the Spirit. Notice the phrase, if we live in the Spirit. Apart from the life-giving power of God's Holy Spirit, when He regenerates us, we are spiritually dead. We are separated from God. We don't have any spiritual life at all. We don't have an ability to recognize truth and error like God wants us to. We don't have the ability to comprehend spiritual truths. We are separated from God, and if you will, we are a blind person walking through life, not even realizing what we are stumbling at. Separated from God, blinded by our own darkened heart, we cannot and will not come to God apart from His gracious work through the Holy Spirit. When we come to the Lord's table tonight, remember something. If it wasn't for the grace of God, you would have never understood the significance of those elements. You weren't seeking for the Lord. You weren't trying to figure out how to be saved. God brought somebody to you. You were going your own way in rebellion and you didn't even process it in that kind of a way. Yet God sent through his people the gospel to you And as the gospel was preached and proclaimed, maybe over a series of messages, maybe it was in a meeting, whether it was through Sunday school, vacation, Bible school, I don't know what the story is to how you came to faith in Christ. But God's Holy Spirit opened your eyes to understand the weight and the significance of those truths. And if it hadn't been for the Spirit's work in you, you would have remained dead in your trespasses. And in sin. We stumble in the darkness of those who have no hope apart from Christ I want you to imagine for a moment what it would be like if you were a blind person who walked in that door right there. A blind person, and your objective was To get, oh, let's just say through that door right there, a blind person. You didn't have your little cane and you had to walk through this auditorium. What would happen? You would be constantly hitting things, bumping things. You would you'd get hurt. And you know that's how a lot of people live life. They are stumbling in the darkness, and if it wasn't for the grace of God, they would not understand. They would not have hope. They wouldn't have been saved. And so proposition number two is this. We have life because of the Holy Spirit regenerating us in the gospel Proposition 3, God's people have vitality in the Spirit. If you will, that word vitality has the idea of they have a healthy, energized life in Christ. Every person in this room that has trusted in the Lord Jesus has eternal life. You possess that gift. You are alive in Christ. But that does not mean that every person in this room is equally healthy in that life that they possess. It's like this in the physical realm. Think about when you go to a hospital. All those people in that hospital who are going through surgery, they're seeing a doctor, they're getting their medication, they're alive, right? But are they as healthy as you are right now sitting in your chair? No, they're not. You know, if you watched a football game this afternoon, you saw athletes who are in amazing physical condition. Are you as healthy and strong as some of them? Nope, not at all. The reality is that though we can be alive, we're not all equally strong. We're not all equally healthy. We're not all equally vibrant. And the reality is that God's people have vitality And they have energy and they have a healthy life and a healthy walk only by the Spirit's work. He says this in the next phrase. Let us also walk in the Spirit. He says that we are alive in the Spirit, and he's referring to regeneration. In this next statement, when he says, let us walk in the Spirit, he's talking about the Holy Spirit being the one who strengthens and energizes and guides and enables us to live the Christian life as God wants us to live that Christian life I love using the garden illustration because I think it's very, very appropriate. How many of you had a garden this summer? Okay , coup not too many, wow. How many of you had a really good healthy garden this summer How many had a not so good and healthy garden in the slide? A couple hands going up. Well, you know one of the things that I've learned in my gardening experience Is that that plants need a couple things. They need the right amount of lights, they need the right amount of water, and they need good, rich nutrient soil. You can give them the right amount of sun, no water, and guess what happens? Death in a s It's a very slow and cruel way. You give them the right amount of sun and you give them the right amount of water, but the soil that they're in, if it's not nutrient-rich, guess what happens? You get a lot of yellow leaves, you got a a lot of vines that don't grow very strong, a lot of fruit that's that's not very healthy and it's not very vibrant. The reality is if you're going to have a good healthy garden, you've got to have the right amount of sun, you've got to have the right amount of water, and you've got to have good nutrient-rich soil and the right pH nonetheless. God's people can have life, but that vitality, if you will, is something that comes by the Spirit's work. When you put fertilizer on the plant that energizes and that strengthens that plant, when you give it the right amount of water and you give it the right amount of sun, that strengthens and that energizes that plant. And the reality is, Christian, if we're not dependent on the Spirit of God, if we're not walking by His power, we're like that plant. That's not getting the right amount of sun, not getting the right amount of light, not getting the right amount of water, not getting the right amount of nutrition, and we're going to be A week And we're going to be very deficient. We're not going to grow like God wants us to grow. We not only have life by the Spirit's work. But that vitality of life is stimulated and maintained by the presence of the Holy Spirit who indwells us. My health as a Christian is rooted in the work of the Spirit. The quality and the quantity of the fruit that is produced in my life as a Christian is rooted in the work of Christ through the Holy Spirit. The disposition of my heart, being a loving, settled, joyful Christian experience, is only possible if we are rooted in the strength that comes through the Holy Spirit indwelling us. The degree to which I mature in the faith and the rate at which I grow and progress in that sanctification is directly dependent on the work of the indwelling spirit. I want to ask you, Christian, are you walking in the Spirit? Say, Pastor Joel, how do I do that? You need to be in the Word. It's the word of God that the Holy Spirit uses to strengthen and develop us as Christians. And that is, if you will, the the watering that he gives us. That is, if you will, the um the strength that he gives us through the light, like the uh like the plant. So Proposition 3, God's people have vitality in the Spirit. We move on to Proposition 4. Don't worry, there aren't 10. We're actually pretty close to the end. Proposition 4. God's people are still fallen. Look down in your Bibles and notice the next section. He says, let us not be desirous of vainglory. If you will, he's saying, don't be puffed up and don't be proud. provoking one another and envying one another. Question, is that not how a lot of people live their Christian life? Proud? Provoking the people around them and envying the people around them. Why does Paul have to make a statement like that? Don't desire vainglory. Don't provoke others. Don't envy others. He says in the next section, brethren, if a man is overtaken in a fall, ye which are spiritual, restore such a one. in a spirit of meekness. Why does he have to talk about us as people who can be overtaken in the fault? And people who are prone to these things. It's because though we have the Holy Spirit, though we have life and we have what we need to be healthy, vibrant Christians, at the same time, we're still fallen. We've not arrived. We will not arrive on this side of glorification. If you will, we are stuck in the middle of already saved but yet not glorified. And that's where we are in our Christian life. I can see that I'm saved and I'm going to be with the Lord forever. But you know what? I'm not there yet. I'm in the middle of this battle, if you will, and I need to put on daily that armor that Paul tells us in Ephesians chapter 6 to put on. I'm in the middle of a war, if you will, in my soul. We are people who need to be well equipped to respond to failure and temptation. And we will not respond properly to failure and temptation and when people mistreat us if we forget the fact that we're still fallen creatures. And we are already saved, but yet not glorified. As Christians, we are realists, not naive deniers of human nature. How do you view yourself, Christian? It's a real simple question. Do you see yourself the way that the Bible presents you? Do you see someone that yourself as someone who needs to be warned to not be envious and not be provoking other people? And not be proud and puffed up. Someone who can be overtaken in a fault. Somebody who needs godly people to surround you and strengthen you and enable you to walk in the Christian life. Do you see yourself in that kind of a way? This is how the Bible presents us. We come to a fifth proposition, and we are nearly done with the section. God's people need each other. God 's people need each other. You know, one of the things that's wonderful about the Lord's table is it not only signifies for us to remember what Christ did for us. But it actually also signifies what we have with one another in this congregation. We are coming together as one body. We are coming together to focus on one message, the gospel. We are eating this in communion with one another and with Christ. This is a local church ordinance. This is not something that we just do in our house like I want to remember the Lord's table, so I'm going to go ahead and have this at my house. We do this in the church because not only does it remind us of what Christ did for us, but it reminds us of the bond that we all have one with another in Christ. God 's people need each other. He says, ye which are spiritual, restore such a one. When I fall and when you fall, we need people around us who are godly who can come alongside us. and strengthen us and restore us and point us back to Christ. We desperately need that. You know, a lot of Christians think they don't need the local church. Their mentality is it's just me and my Bible. I don't need the church. I've got my Bible and I'm okay. But folks, that's just not true. We grow in community. We need each other. And so when he says, ye which are spiritual, restore such a one. When you fall, if you're not a part of a gospel preaching assembly, if you're not connected to godly people, you're going to fall and you aren't going to get back up You're not going to have people to come alongside of you and strengthen you as you walk through this Christian experience. You cannot grow outside of Christian community. You need the church. And the church needs you. I gave this illustration a long time, and that was the illustration of the coal pot. I I know that. Doris, you really like that illustration, but it's so appropriate. You know, in in Ghana , most of the people cook with a coal pot. And basically what it is, is it's just a little pot, and you get these And and they're local coals. They're not like your, you know, your Kingsford briskets, okay, guys? They're not quite on that level. And basically what they do is they have the certain kind of tree that they go out, they cut down, and then it just kind of smolders and it becomes charcoal. And then the ladies will come and they'll take that charcoal and they'll put it in that coal pot. Well you know how they get all those coals burned? They basically go to their neighbor and say, Hey, do you have some hot coals? And some of them, they're tough. They can actually pick that coal up in their hands. And they can put it in the coal pot. I've seen people do that. They they don't have normal ability to feel things anymore. Because they've done that so many times. But if you take that one hot coal and you put it in the middle of those coals and you just give it enough air and you blow on it, you know what happens? Eventually those other coals around it, they will begin to get hot too And eventually that coal pot will be nice and hot and you can cook your soup on it, you can cook some meat on it, whatever you need to cook, you can cook it on there, and that one coal that was in the middle of those other ones causes the other ones to become hot. But you know what happens when you take that one coal that's hot with all the other coals and you remove it and you set it to the side? You and I won't do it by our hand, but in a couple minutes you'll be able to pick it up and it isn't going to be hot at all. Because it stays hot when it's around those other coals. But when you isolate it and you pull it away and you set it to the side, it stops being hot. It stops being able to have that quality. And you and I are just like that. We will not stay healthy as Christians if we isolate ourselves out from God's church. We will not continue to, using the analogy, be on fire for God. I guess a little bit of a pun there. We will not continue to be that way. If we pull ourselves out from God's church. You know, when a when a Christian is really struggling and he's gets in himself plugged into a good, healthy, vibrant gospel preaching church where people are walking with the Lord. You know what happens to that Christian? They begin to grow. They begin to mature. They begin to have a much more healthy outlook on the Christian life. They begin to become vibrant Christians because they have planted themselves in a place where they're going to be around other godly people. When a person who's a part of a good gospel preaching church decides to remove himself, for whatever reason, it has devastating consequences on his walk with the Lord. We are all people in need of change, helping people in need of change. It's a book that I'm reading, and that is the premise of the entire book. We are people in need of change, helping people in need of change. We must be cautious and humble in how we approach other people's problems. We need to be capable at the same time, we need to recognize that we are also made of the same stuff He not only says, ye which are spiritual, restore such a one, but the last proposition I want to mention is this. God's people need to be humble in their perspective. He says, In the spirit of meekness, considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted, if a man thinks himself to be something when he is nothing, he deceiveth himself. That's a really important point right there. A lot of times when we think we've arrived as Christians, we get to this place where we think we don't need anybody, and everybody needs us. It's a really dangerous place to be. We get to where we think we don't need anybody, and everybody needs us. And when we get to that place, we have set ourselves up for a hard and painful Fall. He says, in a spirit of meekness, he says, don't approach people in pride. He says, consider thyself, lest thou also be tempted. Don't have too high an opinion of your own flesh. We are all fallible creatures. If a man thinks that he's something when he's nothing, he deceiveth himself. I want to give you a little illustration that I think kind of paints a good picture. The other day we took our kids down to Kinder Farm Park. And they were having a blast at Kinder Farm Park. And one of the things that I saw there that the kids really enjoyed was a little balancing beam. Okay? Alright? This bouncing beam is, I don't know, about about that wide, about as wide as your shoe, and it's it's only about that far off the ground. Okay. And I saw my kids, you know, they're walking on it and all the other kids are walking on it. And I thought, I can do that too. So I you know, I'm walking on that beam and I left and I told Deanna, I said You know, I can walk on this thing fine when it's all that far off the ground. But what ha what would happen if it was three feet off the ground? Just boom. I would fall over. But I I observed something. The kids, when they started out, would be really cautious. You know what I'm talking about? They'd be really cautious. And they're just very deliberate one step at a time. And after they go down that thing one or two times, they become less cautious. They walk a little bit faster and they walk a little bit faster and then the next thing you know they're running on it. And this one little boy decided to be a genius, and he tried to run down that beam and he fell and he really got hurt. Actually, I felt bad for this little guy. And you know, a lot of times we're like that. We are really cautious initially about certain temptations and certain pitfalls. And after we go through those things in a very cautious manner, as time goes on, we become extremely self-confident. And we get to a place where we throw caution to the wind, if you will. And we set ourselves up for tremendous failure. When Paul writes, ye that are spiritual, restore such a one in a spirit of meekness. Considering thyself lest thou also be tempted. If a man thinks himself to be something when he's nothing, he deceiveth himself. Remember those kids running down that beam. When you go to help other people with their problems, remember something. You're made of the same stuff that they are. Don't think that you're above and beyond the pitfalls of others. Again, we are all people in need of change, helping people in need of change. God wants us to approach the Christian life humbly. As we come to the Lord's table, as we take this bread and remember his body which was broken for us, let's remember that if it wasn't for that body, we'd have nothing As we take up that juice and remember the blood of Christ that was shed for the remission of our sin, let's remember that apart from that shed blood, we have nothing, Christian. Let's approach the Christian life in humility. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer as we prepare to take up the elements. Our Father, as we think about this text, we're reminded that what you want us to be is very different than what we are by nature. We're reminded that we're prone to pride and we're prone to neglect you. We're people that desperately need to be a part of a healthy and vibrant community. community of believers, or we will not grow and we will not mature as you want us to. Father, I pray that tonight as we Come to this time of remembering your death and your resurrection, your body broken, your blood that was shed. I pray that this would cause us to be very humble and very grateful. And may we worship you with tremendous joy. And may we be humbled by this time, strengthened by this time. We ask that you'll take this text and burn it within our souls and strengthen us through it and warn us through it. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.