And so it's just one verse, and then we will dig into the passage. Matthew 6, verse 9. This is what our Lord said. After this manner, therefore, pray ye Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. After this manner, therefore, pray ye, our Father, which art in heaven Hallowed be thy name. What does the word hallowed mean? It's kind of an old, huh? Esteemed, okay, nice word there. Any other synonyms? Honor , revere, good. So good words Any others? Sacred, good. Yes. The Greek word has the idea of to be sanctified or to be set apart. So there are two phrases in this verse that we're going to mention tonight. The first phrase I'm actually not going to spend as much time on because last week We kind of got into that a little bit already. But that is the phrase, our Father, which art in heaven. I want to ask the question, why is it important that Jesus starts with that statement, our Father, which art in heaven. What does that indicate? A child of God, good. Relationship, yes. Okay, sure. He's aware of everything that's going on. Yes? Anything else? Yes? Okay, good. Good. Um anything significant about the first thing that he faith, our father? Is that what? Okay, sure, sure. Okay. So it's interesting. The first thing that Jesus states is our position. So the basis of us coming to God in prayer and having the confidence that He's going to hear what we say, that He's going to actually, we could say, move in those situations. begins with our position before him. And by the way, we didn't earn that position. I am a child of Joel Porch Jr. and I had nothing to do with it. Absolutely nothing. I didn't pick that family. I didn't pick my genetics at all. Okay? Now what I did with that afterwards some of those decisions, that's on me, but I you know, I got nothing to do with the family. That was something that was of the Lord. The reality is we are in that position because of God's action toward us, not because we chose that family. God is the one who gave us birth. Of his own will begat he by begat he us by the word of truth, it says in Peter. And so he begins with that statement, our Father, that position. But I want us to think for a minute about how we should view God. He wants us to view him as somebody who has a relationship. He wants us to view him as somebody who has responsibility for us, someone who loves us, someone who is good towards us. And we got into a lot of those things. last week. So I'm not going to dig deeply into that, but I just want to make those simple observations. I also want to make this statement. When we pray, we don't pray to the Holy Spirit. We don't pray to Christ. We pray to the Father. How many times have you you heard somebody Say dear Jesus and then they proceed to pray. Or Holy Spirit, please come and you know work in our midst today. I'm not trying to be overly critical or picky about that, but the reality is that is not really the appropriate person of the Godhead that we should be addressing. Not that God is up in heaven going, ah, you said Christ instead of Father, so I'm not going to listen. But frankly speaking, there's a reason we should understand that. I want to give this illustration. That is from Ghanaian culture, and I love the illustration. So let's say that you have a young man or young lady, a younger person who does something that is very inappropriate and insulting to a person who's a lot older than them. Could be like their grandfather's age, somebody there's their father's age. It's somebody that's got some, you know, 20, 30, 40 years on them. Well, this is kind of interesting. If that young person realizes that they've done wrong and immediately they're going to know it, they cannot go to that older person to make it right. They can't do it. In fact, let's just say that there was an offense and an older man, he's sitting on the porch in front of his house, and that younger man comes because he wants to talk to him and say, hey, I'm so sorry. I plead with you forgive me. You know what that guy will do? As soon as he sees him coming? He'll stand up, walk in his house, and he will not even speak to that younger man. It's kind of an interesting little situation, isn't it? So if there's a situation like that, this is how the younger person handles it. They go to their dad, they go to one of their uncles, they go to somebody who's who has a relationship with that older man. Who is respected by that older man. And they plead with their father or their uncle or this older man and say, I have done wrong to this individual. Please go to him for me. Speak on my behalf. And so then that older man, after hearing the case and probably rebuking the younger man or saying some things to him, he will go to the older man, sit down with him, he will explain the whole situation And then the older man will say, okay, you can bring that other guy now and he'll meet me. It's a really interesting concept. And it's it's it's very common in their culture. And I love using that illustration when we talk about the gospel. The reason that we have to trust Christ, the only reason we can come into God's presence is because of our union with Christ. And if it wasn't for Christ coming on our behalf and us standing righteous in him, the Father would never accept us. Well, when we think about this issue of prayer, the application or the situation, the illustration actually still applies. We can come to the Father because of the mediator, Christ. There is one mediator between God and man, the man, Christ Jesus. And so when we come to this issue of prayer, we pray to the Father. through the Sun, and we are moved and guided by the Holy Spirit. That is the appropriate way that we come to God in prayer. So the first phrase, our Father which art in heaven. The second phrase, hallowed be thy name. We've already gotten a couple of different words that I think are good synonyms. I have the this the idea of a set apart, being reverenced, being put in a position of awe. That is the idea of holiness. The first thing that Jesus states in the Lord's Prayer is that you come to your Father and you say, hallowed be your name. I want to ask a couple of questions. As we think about the statement. The first question is: Is prayer simply asking for something and getting something? Is prayer just asking for something and getting something? I remember when I was in college, there was a very popular book. that I bought in the the bookstore and the book some of you are laughing because you know what I'm about to say. It's called Prayer, Asking and Receiving. And the premise of that book is that that is what prayer is. It's asking and getting something. And I remember one of my professors saying, that is prayer, but there's more to prayer than just that. In fact, we find so many examples of other kinds of communication to God that fall in the category of prayer. Second, how prominent is this concept of adoring and worshiping Christ, our God the Father, in prayer? How often do we find that in the scriptures? Third, why is it such an important starting point? And fourth, what are the specific ways that we can pray in this way? So, first of all, the question is prayer more than asking and receiving? The answer is absolutely yes, it is There's a little acrostic that I've heard many, many times, and it's the acrostic acts. Have you ever heard this? A-C-T-S. A stands for what? Does anybody know? Adoration. C stands for what? Confession. T stands for S stands for You guys are good, man. You could teach them a class, Bruce. Acts, A-C-T-S. So he begins with adoration, confession, thanksgiving, and supplication. And I remember in hearing some lectures and teaching on that That individual, I think it was R. C. Sproul actually, who I heard give it, but I'm sure it's not just him who's done it. He was explaining those various aspects of prayer. In fact, we find all kinds of examples of prayer. Think about Hannah, Elijah, David, Job, Christ in the garden at Gethsemane, Jeremiah. How did those individuals Pray to God. I think one of the best ways to describe it is they were pouring out their heart because they were grieved, facing some tremendous challenges. Think about Hannah. She she can't have a child, and her husband has decided to have two wives, and there's this rivalry between the two, and she is uh she is stigmatized Because she cannot have a child. And she's being abused by this other woman. And there's tremendous emotional drama going on in that house. And it says that she wept in bitterness and she poured out her heart to the Lord. I think of Elijah after he was running for his life from Jezebel. And I'm not saying that it's a great example of our attitude toward God, but God chose to preserve that in his word so that we can see even godly people come to places where their backs are in the corner and they pour out their heart before God and they just weep in bitterness. Look at Christ in the garden. He was sweating drops of blood because of the agony of his soul. And that one is important because you know Hannah 's a sinner, Elijah's a sinner, Christ is not. Christ experienced the emotional grief and bitterness of facing the cross. He understood what he was about to experience. And he was going through great internal turmoil, and he's pouring out his heart before the Father. Look at the book of Job What a tremendous example. An entire book dedicated to somebody who is in grief and they are just going through all kinds of internal struggles and they are not being We could say counseled properly by their friends, and it adds insult to injury. Jeremiah, David. We have examples of communion with Christ, or with God. We see many times that Christ, he went away to pray and could commune with The Father. A lot of the Psalms that we read, David's Psalms, are prayers of communion with God. They're expressions of worship all throughout the Psalms. Expressions of thanksgiving. Psalm 51 is a confession of sin, and it's a very thorough confession of sin. Romans 8 is an interesting one. In Romans 8, it talks about us not knowing how we should pray, and the Spirit makes intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. And I think what he's basically saying is this: there are times that you are so overwhelmed that you do not know how to put into words how you feel and what you're experiencing. You can't communicate it. But God knows what's inside. And God doesn't sit down and say, well, if you can't verbalize it, I'm not going to listen to you. No. The Spirit intercedes on our behalf with groanings which cannot be uttered. So prayer is more than just asking God for something, isn't it? There is a sense in which prayer is like sitting down sometimes with your closest friend, the person who you can say whatever you need to say to them, and they just listen, and God does that. He listens. He lets us pour out our heart to him and then in the end he says, Do you remember this and this and this? And that emotional release and then shouldering that burden on the grace of God is something that we desperately need. And we find ourselves there sometimes. So prayer is more than asking and receiving. Truth number two, the scriptures are full of many examples Of worship through prayer and adoration through prayer. I want to just give you a couple of highlights, okay? First of all, there's uh Hannah's prayer in 1 Samuel chapter 2. Hannah 's now had a child. And this incredible stigma that she has been carrying, it has been released, and she is a joyful woman And it says, Hannah prayed and said, My heart rejoiceth in the Lord. Mine horn is exalted in the Lord. Verse 2, there is none holy as the Lord. There is none beside thee, neither is there any rock like our God. She is not asking God for anything. She is expressing in prayer the great honor that she has of knowing this creator , the incredible God that He is, His strength and His providence and His care for her. He says, the Lord killeth and maketh alive. He bringeth down to the grave. He bringeth up. He maketh the poor. He maketh the rich. He bringeth low. He lifteth up He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, he lifteth lifteth up the beggars from the dug dung hill, to set them among princes, to make them inherit the throne of glory. The pillars of the earth are the Lord's, and he hath set the world upon him. What is she expressing? She's expressing that God is the creator. And that the creation, as messed up as it is, God is still governing while giving people freedom to make choices, He is still governing in the affairs of the world. He's holding everything together. David in 1 Chronicles 29, I I love this passage. In fact, I would encourage you, go to this passage Underline it, circle the little details of it, and from time to time when you come to the Lord in prayer, when you start out, meditate on this and worship God through this particular prayer. This is what David says. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty. All that is in heaven and earth is thine, thine is the kingdom, O Lord, and thou art exalted as head above all. Riches and honor come of thee, and thou reignest over all. And in thine hand is power and might, and in thine hand it is to make great and to give strength unto all. David is expressing God's sovereign care. But not just that he is the ruler, but that he is good in how he chooses to rule and govern. Perhaps one of the most interesting of all of them is in Daniel chapter 4. This is Nebuchadnezzar. I love this story. I go back to this story so many times. In Daniel 4, 34 it says this, at the end of the days, for context God has humbled Nebuchadnezzar. Nebuchadnezzar is the most powerful man in the world. The Babylonian Empire was the golden empire, okay? He was wealthy, he could do anything he wanted, he could have anything he wanted, nobody could stop him save God himself. And God warns him in a dream. He says, Your days are numbered, and if you don't humble yourself and start treating people properly, you don't know when it's going to happen, but one of these days you're going to lose your mind. and you're gonna become like an animal and you're gonna graze in the field. But at the end of a period of time, something pretty surprising is gonna happen. All those people who used to serve you who probably wanted your job Would have killed you and removed you if they had the chance, they're gonna reinstate you. I mean, is that not an unbelievable thing to think about? I mean, this guy was not a kind individual. At the end of the time, God reinstates him. And Nebuchadnezzar is totally humbled by this experience. And this is what it says. He says, I bless the Most High. And praise and honored him that liveth forever, whose dominion is an everlasting dominion. His kingdom is from generation to generation. Notice the details of what he's expressing. I'm not the most high. This is the same guy that that made an image and said, if you don't bow down to this image, I'm going to throw you in a fiery furnace. And just to prove to you how nasty I am and how much I don't like people pushing against my authority, I'm going to make it as hot as possible so I can make an example of you. And the people who are going to throw you into that pit, they're going to die in the process. He was not a nice man at all. Yet he blessed the Most High. He praised and honored him who lives forever. He realizes that he is going to die one day, but God is the king, is going to live forever. There is no end to his rule. He recognizes that one generation is going to come and another generation is going to go, and God is going to continue to be working and keeping things going the way that he chooses to. He says, I praise and extol and honor the King of heaven, whose works are truth, his ways judgment, and those who walk in pride he is able to abase. Do you get what he's saying? He's praising God as a man who is a very unlikely candidate. The last one I want to mention is Mary. And this is Mary's magnificent, I think is how you say it. Maybe I didn't say it right. But listen to what Mary expresses when she gets the word that she is going to give birth to the Messiah. My spirit hath rejoiced in God my Savior. He hath regarded the lowest state of his handmaiden. Behold, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed. He that is mighty hath done great things, and holy is his name. You know what's interesting? What she's expressing is different than what Nebuchadnezzar is expressing. Nebuchadnezzar is focusing on the power of God's sovereignty, and she's focusing on the mercy of God's sovereignty. She says, He's my savior. He's regarded the lowest state of the handmaiden. That's what mercy is. Mercy is you look at a person in a pitiful situation and you show kindness and compassion to them. That is what mercy ultimately is. And she's expressing that. He has shown strength with his arm and scattered the proud in the imaginations of their heart, put down the mighty from their zeeds, and exalted them of low degree He has filled the hungry with good things. She's talking about God's providence, but she's emphasizing the merciful side of God's providence. Not necessarily the rugged side that Nebuchadnezzar is expressing, or David is expressing, the kings, but Hannah and Mary are emphasizing the mercy and the kindness and the compassion of God. And his justice, how he steps down into situations that are so unjust, and in his own timing, he makes those issues right My point is this. If we sat down and we opened up our Bibles and we went through all of the prayers we find in the Old and New Testament, we would find countless examples. Of adoration and praise and worship and prayer. So the third question is this: why does he start there? And here is the third truth: Adoration and worship. Are what move us to pray. You know, I've seen this many, many times in the epistles. Theology is the starting point. Practical Christian living is where Paul or Peter is always going. Look at the book of Ephesians. Full of deep, rich theological truths. He doesn't start with practical things like be angry and do not sin. Let not the sun go down upon your wrath. It's not where he started. But him that stole still no more. Let him work diligently with his hands. He's going to go there, right? But he doesn't start there, why not? Because he wants to start with theology. He wants to inform their thinking about doctrine And once the foundation is laid with correct doctrinal thinking, then he's able to move into practical applications. He's always wanting to go there, but he knows that's not where you start. And the reality is that is exactly what Christ is doing in the Lord's Prayer. Our Father which art in heaven, he's talking about doctrine. You're in a position before God. He's your Father. You are in Christ. You can come to Him on the basis of your position in Christ. Hallowed be thy name. You need to know God. You need to know who you're talking to. You need to reverence and put him in awe. Theology too practical. But then what will we do? Give us this day our daily bread. Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Lead us not into temptation. Deliver us from evil. He's going to get to some very practical things in prayer. But he starts with adoration, worship, if you will, the theology side In our Philippians study, we've seen that just the other night. How many times he mentions the phrase in Christ, in Christ, in Christ. Because that position is connected to the practical living. Position, adoration, God's will, our daily needs, forgiveness. That is the order that Christ goes through in this prayer. And I want to give you an example of this. Ephesians 1. Ephesians chapter 1 is Like a doxology, it is like a prayer, it is a very rich theological passage. And this is how Paul starts his letter: Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Who hath blessed us in all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ? From that statement He goes into all kinds of intricate details about how God has blessed us in spiritual places in Christ Jesus. We got a lot of rich doctrine in that passage. Then as we move our way through there, what does he do? He comes to verse 15 and says this. Wherefore I also after these things pray. The idea is this. I've given all these things because this is the motivation for why I pray for you. That's really what he's saying. What I know to be true about you, what I know to be true about God, what I know about his character, after that that time of praise and worship to God. Now I'm going to come to the practical issues that you are facing with. And I want to express it. I pray for you. That's where we start in prayer. Now I'm not suggesting that every single time we get on our knees, we have to have 20 minutes of adoration. That's not my suggestion at all. But what I can say is this, if we set aside time in the day, which I encourage you to do, and by the way, that takes discipline, spiritual discipline. Time discipline. It's not easy. And uh making sure your kids aren't running crazy. You know? Like in our house, like everything gets kind of planned out around the kids' scheduling many times. But if you're going to set aside purposeful prayer, may I encourage you to begin where Christ begins the Lord's Prayer. Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name Begin with adoring our Lord, praising God for who he is. We should plan to worship God like we see in these scripture examples. Spend time alone with the Lord and praise him for his trustworthiness. For his sovereign care, for his mercy, for his grace toward us and salvation. I can't remember. I think it was Jerry Bridges. He really would emphasize this in a lot of his books. But he would say: we need to preach the gospel to ourselves every single day. And what he's saying is, remind yourself of God's kindness toward you. And he said, if we don't think about the gospel. Then we will not respond correctly to each other. But if that is the meditation of our heart, and we are expressing gratitude and praise to God based on what He has done for us in Christ. He said, it's going to radically shape how we relate to one another and what we do and how we pray and all those things. Meditate on God's justice. God's holiness. Those statements, the trustworthiness of God, the sovereignty, the mercy, the grace of God, particularly in the area of salvation, God's justice, God's holiness, all those examples that we looked at. are saturated with those things. And it is interesting, the positions of the people that we talked about Their personalities affected what aspects of God's character they were most inclined to notice. There's a reason that Mary noticed the mercy of God. It's true. And there's a reason that Nebuchadnezzar noticed the power and the eternality of God's kingdom. You get what I'm saying? And so even our personality and the experiences we've gone through, they're going to shape what aspects of God's character we are most inclined to notice. And to reflect on and to praise God for. So, what was the purpose of all of this? Well, Christ wants us to understand the kinds of things that we need to be praying about. That's why he states a list of items in the Lord's Prayer. He wants us to know how to pray. The kinds of things we should pray for. And God wants us to pray from a position of awe and reverence to Him as our Father. And so this evening, as we come together and pray, let's pray with that in our minds. Let's bear our hearts together and then we'll look at the prayer sheet. Father, we thank you for our time together this evening. It's a blessing to be with your people. It's a blessing to have our minds drawn to these truths. And it's also an encouragement to realize that your word is full of examples of people who've experienced the exact same things that every one of us has experienced. Today, whether we are experiencing great joy and gladness and we are prone to pride, or whether we are overwhelmed and we are broken and we are hurting There are examples of people in your word who are very godly, who you use mightily, and experience the exact same temptations, the exact same struggles, the exact same burdens. Father, help us to take great comfort in the fact that you worked with people like that and that you do care about us. and that you are a merciful God and you come alongside us and you know exactly what we face. Father, as we come to prayer, I pray that our hearts would be drawn to adore you and to worship you and to magnify you. And as we come to the specific requests that are on our heart, may we ask for those things with a great confidence in the one that we are addressing. We ask that you'll bless this group tonight, and we ask that you'll bless the rest of our week in Christ's name. Amen.