And if you could take your Bibles and turn to Matthew chapter 6. Matthew chapter 6. Now it's been several weeks since we have looked at the Lord's Prayer. And so just to kind of refresh our minds, I'm going to read the entire Lord's Prayer, and then I will just make a few comments about the last message that we did from our study on the Lord's Prayer. So Matthew 6 verses 10 to 13. After this manner pray ye, our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, in earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. The last time we met and discussed the Lord's Prayer, we saw this purpose Christ is telling us to ask his Father not to lead us into temptation, but to deliver us from evil, so we can be preserved from stumbling in the Christian life He wants us to pray to his Father that he would not lead us into temptation, but that he would deliver us from evil. so that we would not stumble in the Christian life. And last time we met, we talked a little bit about what he means by temptation. And so there were a series of questions that we asked. Why does he tell us to pray the prayer? Not the prayer, but this prayer, okay? What responsibility does this prayer assume? And what does this prayer tell us about temptation? And so we answered those first three questions, but we left off a fourth question. And that was the question, how does God deliver us from evil? And so tonight I want us to focus on that question. Answering the question: how does God deliver us from evil? You really can't answer it with just one simple answer. There are actually several different factors, or we could say elements, into how God delivers us from evil. So let's look at that question. How does God deliver us from evil? The first thing we're going to see is this. Oops, I was going to do more intro than that, but I'll just continue. The first thing that we see is this God delivers us from evil through several different means. I will mention one at a time and then try to develop them. The first means is this. He tells us how to think about temptation and evil so we can guard our hearts. and respond biblically. He tells us how to think about temptation and evil so that we can guard our hearts. and respond biblically. Now this is not the only way that we're delivered from evil, if you will, okay? Let's say that you have a health situation. Can you be delivered from that health situation by being informed biblically? I mean if you could, then you wouldn't need to go to the doctor. Okay. So being informed biblically doesn't remove the physical circumstances that we feel when we get sick. It doesn't remove the circumstances that we're in. It simply helps us to know how to cope or how to deal with those circumstances. And by the way, just because we know in our heads How we should be responding doesn't mean that we'll actually be able to put that into practice. And it doesn't mean that we'll consistently put it into practice. So I can know theologically how I should think about a set of circumstances, but I may really struggle, I may vacillate, I may for a period of time be very victorious, I may be thinking properly. I'm experiencing victory and then something sets me off and it brings me down and I have to refocus. That's the kind of experience that we deal with But it's very important that we think biblically as we deal with evil and temptation and difficult circumstances, because how we think is a major factor into how we are delivered from evil or temptation. You know, let's say something really bad happens to us. And all of us along the course of our lives are going to experience very difficult circumstances. That is not the only aspect of that circumstance that can be evil. Not just the fact that this bad thing happened to me, but how I respond to that thing. How I cope with that thing may add additional difficulty or you might say might help me to have grace and strength and grow and mature through that particular thing and may give me the ability to be able to help others through that particular thing. So we start with this first means. This is not all, but this is very important because this informs us, this helps us to act correctly in circumstances. Ephesians 4. 22, if you have your Bibles turned there. We'll look at several scriptures as we go through this because this is going to be more like a topical study within that statement. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Ephesians 4 22 says this: put off concerning the former conversation. And Conversation is not meaning talking, okay? Talking is part of that, but it has the idea of our manner of life, how we live. Put off, if you will, the old way of life. The old conduct, if you will, the old man which is corrupts according to deceitful lusts. Now if something is deceitful, what is it primarily attacking? What part of your person is primarily being attacked if something is deceitful? Your mind. Exactly. So that's very important. Because that tells us that this has something to do with the way that we think. And then he says this: he says, and be renewed in the spirit of your what? Your mind. So one of the things that Paul writes to these Christians about is he says, you have to put off the old conduct, the old conversation, the old manner of life. the old man which is corrupted according to deceitful lusts. In other words, the reason that you did those things formally had something to do with the way that you thought. You were deceived. And you have to replace that with a renewed spirit of the mind. In other words, you have to take the old, you have to remove it, and replace it with what is right. Very, very important. The first means that God uses us to deliver us from evil is he approaches the way that we think about stuff. And if we can think correctly, then that is a huge factor into us, we could say, overcoming or having victory in those kinds of circumstances. Because the way that we think is the most critical and most important thing. So let's look at a couple of different aspects of how we can think about evil and temptation. First thing is this: instruction one from the Bible: we have to take responsibility for our sin. We have to take not just partial responsibility, but full responsibility for our sin. Now please don't misunderstand what I'm saying. I'm not suggesting that when I sin It wasn't a result of, we could say, a response to somebody sinning against me. Okay? Maybe somebody uh does something very bad to you, and your response is sinful. You're responsible for your response. But the reason that you were in that situation was because of something that happened to you, okay? So I'm not suggesting that our sin doesn't have, we could say some secondary cause that causes us to experience temptation, but we're responsible, fully responsible for what we're going through. It's sort of like this. We could say, well, the reason I did that is because my dad handled this situation this way. Well, maybe your dad really did handle that situation. Or maybe your mother or some other person did handle a situation the way that you're saying. It's true. It's affected you. It's hurt you. It's made it more difficult for you to go through that situation. but that does not remove your responsibility to act and respond biblically. In James 1. 14 he says this every man is tempted when he's drawn away of his own lust And enticed. Now that passage is basically saying, when we sin, it's because through some circumstances temptation has come to us. We didn't invite the circumstances, though sometimes we do, but not necessarily always. But when we are tempted, it's something inside of us that is we are responding to it. Because that is the case, that means we're responsible when we sin. Don't make excuses. Take full responsibility. In Romans chapter 13, we're told not to make provision for our flesh. Again, we have a responsibility. Don't give opportunity to your flesh to sin. He says in that passage, put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make not provision for the flesh to fulfill the lusts thereof. We see another passage, don't give place to the devil. I mentioned these two the last time we were here. Ephesians 4. 26, be ye angry and sin not. Let not the sun go down upon your wrath, neither give place to the devil. And the point that we made last time was that when you have anger in your heart, you are giving ground to Satan to work from there. And an angry spirit is something that creates a lot of problems in our lives in other areas. It's sort of like the passage where Uh Paul writes to Timothy and he says that the love of money is the root of all evil. The idea is that that greed is something that goes to other areas of life and we get involved in lots of sinful practices because of the lust of greed. This passage is saying that Anger is, if you will, like a beach head, and from that little place, Satan is able to tempt us in other areas, and sin can flow out of those areas. So the first instruction that I wanted to mention is we must take full responsibility for our sin. A second point is this: we need to know Our own powerful inclinations to sin. Did you catch that? We need to know our own powerful inclinations to sin. Not everybody in this room will be tempted in the same way. It's just that simple. Okay, we have men here and we have women here. Men and women both sin, don't they? They experience temptation, don't they? But the kinds of temptations that men experience and the kinds of temptations that women experience are different. It's just the truth. We have young men and we have men that are much older, and the kinds of temptations that a young man faces and that an older man faces are not necessarily the same. That's just the way that it is. We have different personality types. And so the way that we are as a person We could say our circumstances that we've lived through, our personalities, our gender, there are lots of different factors that affect how we tend to get tempted. Well, you know, we need to understand where we're weak. We need to understand this is a tremendous area of temptation for me, and so I have to be very diligent to protect myself and guard myself in this particular area. And so I'm not here to go into all the different possibilities because they're endless. But I just want to ask you this question: Do you know how you tend to fall into temptation? Do you know? What actions are you taking to protect yourself in those areas? Now I'm not suggesting that if we're strong in certain areas that we couldn't be tempted in those areas down the road. I'm not suggesting that. But what I am suggesting is that there are certain areas that we we tend to fall in constantly. We tend to be tempted in constantly. And we need to figure out this is an area that I'm weak in. I need accountability in this area I can't do some of the things that other people can do because that area is a huge area of challenge and difficulty for me. And so, you know, one guy might say, I can't, I can't have a phone like this because it's a tremendous source of temptation. Someone might say, I cannot go and hang out with those individuals because whenever I do, that's a tremendous source of temptation. I cannot be in these places with these people. You put parameters, if you will, to guard yourself so that you're careful not to fall in those areas. We need to understand how powerful sin in our own heart is. And each person has a different inclination in different areas. Romans 7. 18 says this, I know that in me, that is in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing. Do you know who said that? It wasn't Pastor Joel. It was Paul. And you sit down and you go. Paul was an amazing man. He was humble. He was faithful. He was a diligent servant of the Lord. And he says, in me dwells no good thing. That's amazing. In Psalm 19, verse 13, David prays, Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me. Presumptuous means I know this is wrong, and I don't care I'm gonna do it. Now when you do something that is presumptuous, what that means is that it has tremendous power over you. It's something that has grabbed your heart, and you love that thing more than you love God And you're allowing that to dominate you. And so he says, let it not have dominion over me. It's as if that area of temptation has a stronghold and it has overcome and dominated David. He says Don't let that happen to me. Well, if David's praying that, then he understands there are areas that he struggles like that. Okay? Are there areas like that for you? What are they? Have you been able to identify them? Are you willing to admit that? That's a big thing. We may be struggling in an area, but we we go. . . Every now and again I do this thing, but it's not the biggest thing. It's like somebody who's an alcoholic or somebody that is is a drug addict It can go into so many different areas. And they're like, well, you know, every now and again I do that, but deep down inside they know I'm an addict. I'm dominated by this thing. And it's not just chemical substances. It can be heart attitudes. It can be responses. It can be greed, it can be pride, it can be lust, pornography, it can be so many different things. Do you understand how powerful your own heart is in its inclination to sin? When when when he says Pray, lead me not into temptation, but deliver me from evil. One of the ways God delivers us from evil is he helps us to understand the nature of our own propensity to certain sins. And because of that, the way God delivers us from evil is he helps us to not put ourselves in places where we'll fall. He gives us the discernment to put some kind of restraints and protections and accountabilities in our lives. And so we need to do that. A third instruction that we find. Well there's a lot more I could say there, but I'll just for sake of time off I'll move on. But when I put this on the website, I put my full notes on there. So if you're interested in knowing leaving out, it'll be there, okay? Instruction three, recognize that temptation is a process. Recognize that temptation is a process. When you are tempted, it's not like the thought pops in your mind and it happens. There is a thinking process that goes on. In James 1. 15 he says this, when lust hath conceived It bringeth forth sin. And sin when it is finished, bringeth forth death. I'm going to use an illustration that I hope it doesn't gross anybody out, but I'll just use it anyway. Kind of in the medical realm. I remember when I was in college, uh see I was It was when I was in graduate school. I was on the wrestling team, and we're getting ready to go to nationals, and right before nationals, I got this little spot on my knee. Okay, it was a little spot. It looked kind of like a pimple. And initially it kind of hurt, but that was kind of all that it was. But within a day or two, that little pimple was like it was huge. In fact, it was so big my knee was like bigger than my pant leg. I couldn't walk. And I actually had to go to the hospital and I had to get the thing lanced. I had to See, twice a day I had to sit there and get drip IVs. And you know, sin is like that, and temptation is like that. It starts as just a little thing, and what it does is it begins to metastasize. It begins to grow. It begins to start taking root and it begins to start working in our heart. And temptation goes through a life process if you will, a destructive life process, like my knee, okay? There was life in my knee, if you will, okay? It was bacterial. It was terrible. It was horrible. Sin does the same thing. That process can be really fast. For instance, you get angry. And that temptation to explode in anger is just, it's instant. You get what I'm saying? You didn't think about it. It wasn't like you rationalized, I'm going to yell at my kid. I'm gonna yell at my husband. I'm gonna yell at my wife. I'm gonna pick this thing up and I'm gonna chuck it across the room and break. You didn't go through a thought process. Something triggered it and you just exploded in anger That's temptation. The process is very rapid. If you will, it was a response because of stuff going on inside. If a person has an addiction. All of a sudden, this little thing triggers it, and all of a sudden that temptation, boom, it's right there. And they're looking for that substance or that practice so that they can get that fix, that high. They're not thinking it's it's very quick. It happens fast. Something like gossip, as soon as you hear that little tidbit, you are instantly wanting to talk to somebody about it. You know what I mean? Just instantly it comes to mind. Harsh language. It's kind of connected to anger. Some of the temptations we experience they happen very rapidly, but others are slow, something like bitterness. So somebody does something to me, and at the time it's small, it's not significant, but you know, over the course of days and weeks and months, it begins to take root in my heart. And I can really rationalize this thing away because it's taken so long to become so entrenched in my heart. And the more that I rationalize it, the deeper rooted this thing becomes. That process is slow. It's like erosion on a beach. You can't even see it happening, but it's happening. Some sexual temptations are this way. When somebody ends up having an affair, if you will. That didn't happen overnight. It's not like it happens in one instant. It was over a period of weeks and months and months and months. And that thing takes root. And it starts to work. And eventually that temptation takes over. Pride is like that. I mean, look at Saul. I I was preaching through Saul's life when we were in Ghana. And I remember how well Saul started. You know, when they were looking for him, here's the king. Do you remember where he was? And he was like hiding. I can't stand in front of these people. I am nothing. I am the lowest of the lowest. I can never be a king. Yet by the end of his life, he's so full of pride and anger and bitterness. That happened over the course of many years. And it happens in our lives as well. Think about when somebody steals something. I mean, it usually is like they've been looking at this thing and they've been wanting it for a while and they go for it. The point is that there is a process. That process can be quick, that process can be slow, but the process is there. And we need to understand it. And we need to begin to recognize: I am starting to get in a very serious situation. I have a problem. What do you do when you notice that bitterness or pride or that sexual temptation or whatever it is is beginning to take root in your heart? Do you know what you need to do? Kill it. You gotta put it to death immediately. You gotta deal harshly with that thing. You gotta crush it. You can't entertain it. You can't tame it. You can't play with it and see how long you can get away with. You can't do things like that. Instruction 4. We need to fear the destructive end of sin. In James 1:15 he says, sin when it is finished brings forth death. You know, it never ceases to amaze me how when we look at sin that we commit and we're experiencing the tremendous, terrible consequences and the pain and the hurt. And the humiliation, whatever it is, that's when we begin to say, I can't believe I did that. You know what I'm saying? We look at somebody else who's going through something, and we just look and we go, how did that happen? We didn't fear the destructive end of sin. Sin does taste sweet in the early stages. If it didn't taste sweet, you wouldn't be playing with it. You wouldn't be entertaining it. Neither would I. Instruction five, we need to endure temptation out of a love for God and in anticipation of the judgment seat of Christ. Jesus said in John fourteen, If you love me, you will keep my commandments. One of the ways that we overcome temptation is we recognize that the reason that we sin is because we love that more than we cherish and love our relationship with God. That thing has become more sweet to our soul than Christ. And so when we love Christ, that thing will lose its grip on us. It will lose its power over us. Very important. The judgment seat of Christ. We are going to stand there one day. And one of the things that I think about sin Sin 's consequence for the Christian is not something that's going to send him to hell. It's something that's going to keep him from being effective. Think about sin in your own life. Is there a sin or a series of sins, if you will, that just sap you of your joy and your energy? You know what I'm talking about? You know you do something, you know it's wrong, and it's like you feel like you can't get up. You can't keep your tin up. You can't do the things that God wants you to do. One of the reasons that sin is so destructive to us as Christians is it robs us of our joy. It robs us of our passion for the Lord. It robs us of that confidence that we have to do the things that we do. It's not just the shame that comes associated with sin or how it hurts other people. In some ways it just it kills us. It robs us of our effectiveness. And so we have to keep this in our mind. We need to serve Christ and endure temptation and difficulties out of a love for God, anticipating we will stand. At his judgment seat. In Second Corinthians five he says, We labor that whether present or absent we may be accepted of him. Because we must all appear at the judgment seat of Christ. Therefore, knowing the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. It's an amazing passage. When he says terror, think about how humbling it's going to be to stand before Christ. To realize how much time we've wasted and how much we have hurt ourselves by the sins we've entertained. Number six, when we fall, we gotta get back up. You know, this is not all about negative. You can get up. You can get up. You may be absolutely overwhelmed by your failures. And you know what God wants you to do? He wants you to get back up. He loves your soul. He wants to use you. He wants you to be effective. He wants the pains that you've experienced to become not the scars that drag you down, but those trophies of God's grace. Well you can sit down with people and you can say, here is God's dealings with me. I am a great sinner, but I serve a great God. And look at how he has poured grace into my life. Look at the healing he has brought. Look at the lessons he has taught me. And you come alongside somebody with compassion and you pour into their lives what God wants to pour into their lives. When we sin, we've got to get back up. The Proverbs, Proverbs 24, 16 says, A just man falleth seven times, and he riseth up again. If we could only be used of God if we were perfect, then we'd all have disqualified ourselves. It's just the truth. Long before we ever got any opportunity, we had blown it already. God works the broken people. He uses People have gone through terrible circumstances. You know, a church is full of broken people. A church is full of sinners saved by grace. The fact that we come here is an indication that we realize it's only because of God that we have a standing. And so we've got to keep that in our minds. 1 John 1. 9, if we confess our sins. He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. When we have fallen, what Satan wants us to do is stay there. He wants us to wallow in guilt. He wants us to feel overwhelmed with the pain and the shame of what we have done or how we have responded to God. And God wants us to get up. Confess our sin and experience his cleansing and his restoration and the renewal of joy And experiencing his grace. Like David said in Psalm 51, he says, Restore to me the joy of thy salvation. And then later in the passage he says, he says, then will I teach sinners David realized that though he had failed and sinned and fallen, God could restore him and cleanse him, and he could once again be used of God. He can use us too. He can use you too. The second means that God uses is he puts us in Christian community. That's what this is right here. This is a church. We need each other, guys. One of the things that has just become so apparent to me is that many, many Christians believe they don't need God's church. They don't. They want to do it themselves. They want to be John Wayne, okay? They want to stand on the hill and be alone. And you know it's admirable when you can stand alone, but it's foolish when you shouldn't. Okay? God wants us to be interdependent upon one another. He wants you here for the benefit of your brother and your sister in Christ. He wants them here for your benefit. There's this mutual strengthening that happens in this body. In Galatians 6. 1, he says, brethren, if a man is overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such a one. And the spirit of meekness. I'll tell you one reason that people neglect the church. It's because that doesn't happen. Instead, it's kick them all he's down. Make him feel like he's worthless. He can never do anything. Let's talk about that fallen comrade. And what does the scripture say? If someone's overtaken in a fault, you are spiritual, restore him in meekness. And consider yourself lest you also be tempted. Bear ye one another's burdens and so fulfill the love of Christ. I was meeting with someone this afternoon, really just before I got here tonight. And I shared that with them, and I said, please don't neglect the church. You need God's people to help you and to bear your burdens and to strengthen you and come alongside you. And when you ask God to give you grace, He does it through his people. He doesn't do it in a vacuum. He's going to bring people alongside of you, and they're going to carry that load with you. And they're going to walk through the circumstances with you. They're going to pray with you. They're going to pray for you. They're going to share scripture with you. They're going to listen to you when you're h That's how God pours his grace into your life. But if you neglect those people, you cut off one of the great means he uses. Hebrews 10, 23. I know a lot of people like to go here Be in church when the doors are open, but we miss the main point. He says this, let us consider one another to provoke unto love and good works Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, but exhorting one another daily, and so much the more as you see the day approaching. Considering one another to love and to good works. We got to think about each other We gotta let people think about our needs and our burdens and what we are going through. God puts us in community so that we can be delivered from evil. Okay? Because when we go through difficult circumstances, God doesn't always just pluck us up out of the circumstances and put us in a nice smooth ground. Sometimes he lets us continue to trod in that very difficult road, but he brings people along our path to help strengthen our souls, not just to give us the theological instruction. But to come alongside and in community strengthen our souls and our hearts, we need the Church of God. Ephesians 4:11. He gave for the perfecting of the saints That we henceforth be no more children tossed to and fro, and carried about with every wind of doctrine, by the slight of men and cunning craftiness, whereby they lay in wait to deceive We need the Church of God. Not only does God strengthen us, and could we say deliver us from evil by informing us on how to look at temptation and evil. But he also gives us the church so that in community we can walk together, bear each other's burdens, pick each other up, strengthen and encourage. That's why he puts us in this place. And then we have one final that I wanted to mention tonight, and that's this. He providentially removes evil in his own time. You know, God does not immediately remove us from evil circumstances. We saw last week, or last time, it wasn't last week, that we are to pray, lead us not into temptation Sometimes God chooses to divert our path so that we don't have to go down that road and praise him when he does. And so he says, pray, because when you pray, I may do that. And sometimes he says, No, you have to go through this. It's not because I hate you, it's not because I'm mean or cruel, but there are things in your life that I can only do in you and through you if you go through this. And that's the thing that's hard. In us and through us. God doesn't work through us unless He's worked in us. And so what does he do? Sometimes he pulls us out of those times. There are people who have tremendous health issues and they struggle for years and years, and then God heals. There are times where people are going through very hard roads, and God removes them from those difficult circumstances. You know, think about people that live under an oppressive regime in a very difficult government. Well, one day the dictator's gone and God gives them a more benevolent government. And all of a sudden churches can meet and they're not in danger of going to prison and all those things. That is God removing them from that particular evil. He can do that. Last time we met, I mentioned that God governs the nature. of temptation, testing, and evil, to potentially humble us or to shake us, if that's what he needs to do. He governs the duration. To demonstrate the degree to which we have matured. He governs the intensity to encourage others that we need to grow and he governs the timing to display his glory. God can remove us. And let me mention just a few passages before we go to prayer. First Corinthians 10, 12. Let him that thinketh he standeth take heed lest he fall. There's no temptation taking you but such as is common to man. But God is faithful, who will not suffer or allow you to be tempted above that you're able, but will with the temptation make a way of escape. that you may be able to bear it. When I'm facing testing and temptation and evil, God hasn't abandoned me. He's watching me. And he's giving me what I need to bear through that set of circumstances. I may not feel that way. I may not understand that, but that's what he's doing. But when he realizes that I cannot bear it anymore, he will do something to deliver us in that time. And so he's there. He's doing that. He's working in our lives. He's perfect personally working in our lives. First Peter one six, Peter writes, You greatly rejoice, though now for a season Through heaviness and manifold temptations, that the trying of your faith being much more precious than gold that perisheth, those tried by fire might be found into praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Christ. Notice season A season is something that we have for a period and it goes away. And there are times in our lives that we go through seasons of intense and grueling temptation and testing and struggles. James 5, 7. I love this text. I remember we were translating this in one of our Greek classes in seminary. And I just I can picture my seminary teacher talking about that passage that we were diagramming and we were translating and all the stuff that we were doing. And this is what it says: be patient. Unto the coming of the Lord. The husbandman waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth. I like gardening, and my wife always laughs at me. She's like, Joel, you have itchy fingers. As soon as that tomato's starting to come in, you want to go pick it. As soon as that first little fruit there, a little early you jump in there, we had potatoes and I was like digging them out and I should have waited about another three weeks. And I would have had probably three times what I had in there. I had these nice potatoes and then I had like, I don't know, twenty five or thirty of them that were this big That farmer has to wait. And some of them have learned to wait, and others they haven't. Okay? He's saying you're like that, guys. Wait for the coming of the Lord. He's saying Christ is going to come and he's going to deal with this situation. You got to wait. He says he waits, the farmer waits until the early and latter rain. Now you don't understand that here, but in a tropical, you get two rain seasons, okay? So you get one at the beginning, one at the end. But side note. He says, be patient, establish your heart, for the coming of the Lord draweth nigh. The judge standeth before the day. Or I'm sorry, before the doors. It's like God is standing there and he's saying, I'm watching the circumstance. I'm about to step in and I'm about to settle this matter. I'm about to remove you. I'm about to deal justly here, whatever the case. He's waiting. It's like he's standing at the door, just about to walk in and deal with that issue. He says, but you have to be patient. He says, you've heard of the patience of Job and seen the end of the Lord. The Lord is very pitiful in tender mercies. When you are going through the most grueling and difficult of circumstances, God is observing, God is waiting to remove. Or deal justly, whatever the situation, he's waiting. And when he's waiting, he's not going, huh, let's see how long this happens. He's tender, he's compassionate. And then he deals. And that's what James is saying. Be patient. Wait for God to do that. I don't know what you're dealing with. You might be facing tremendous temptations, evil issues, whatever it is. God says it's for a season. So what are the things that we can pull from this quickly? We need to arm our mind with truth so we're able to face the evils we encounter. We cannot allow ourselves to neglect one of the primary tools that God uses to strengthen us during hardships. And three, we must trust God with the unknowns in the midst of fiery trials of our faith and temptation. These little truths are very important. May God help us to put into practice what we've learned tonight. Let's pray and then we'll do our prayer time. Father, we thank you for this text and the passages that we've looked at tonight. Father, lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Help these dear friends, brothers, and sisters in Christ to have strength in the midst of difficulty. May we arm our minds with the Word of God. May we trust you in the midst of difficult circumstances, and may we not neglect those means that you use to build us up and to strengthen us as we go through challenges. We ask it in Christ's name, Amen