Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection and we are in Luke chapter 2, so if you have your Bible, I'd like to encourage you to take it. Let's look at verses 15 through 20 together. Again, that's Luke chapter 2, verses 15 through 20. It says, And it came to pass as the angels were gone away from them into heaven, the shepherd said to one to another, Let us now go even unto Bethlehem, and see this thing which has come to pass, which the Lord hath made known unto us. And they came with haste, and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger. And when they had seen it, they made known abroad the saying which was told them concerning this child. And all they that heard it wondered at those things which were told them by the shepherds. But Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. The shepherds returned glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen as it was told unto them Now the passage in front of us is going to give us four examples of appropriate ways to respond to God's instruction and God's God's word. And so I want us to talk a little bit about that this morning. Let me just give you a summary and then we'll dig into some of those details. The passage before us reminds us of the humbling circumstances regard surrounding Christ's birthday. and the way that we should respond to the things that God reveals to us in His Word. So when we look at these verses, we see appropriate responses to God's Word. The first response we find is is Uh the the word that I'd like you to remember with this first response is the word investigator. Investigation. When these things were communicated to the shepherds, they didn't just sit on them. They actually wanted to see, is this true? In verses 15 and 16 it says, it came to pass as the angels were gone away from them. And to heaven that the shepherd said one to another, Let us now go even unto Bethlehem and see this thing which is come to pass. which the Lord hath made known unto us. And they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger. So what we see is that when the angels came to those shepherds and said We have good tidings of great joy to all people unto you is born today in the city of David a Savior, Christ the Lord. They said, Let's go see if this is true. We've just been told this And they went quickly and they went and investigated basically what was communicated. I think this is a great example of how we should respond to God's truth. I think of the uh Bereans that in the book of Acts it says that when Paul came and preached to them and he began to expound the Old Testament to them. It says that they searched the scriptures daily to see if those things were true. We need to be a people who investigate what is communicated to us. You know, just because a pastor says something doesn't mean it's true. Now, doesn't mean that we should doubt everything that a pastor communicates, but we should verify everything that we hear preached and taught in the pulpit. We should be a people that when we come across a truth, we dig into those truths. And we're actually meticulous in our study of those truths. And we actually dig in deeply to make sure that we are verifying that what we hear and what people are saying is consistent with the facts. And so that's what the shepherds did. They went and investigated what the what the angels said was going on. And when they went, they discovered that in fact it was true. Exactly as they told them, here was this baby, and here was Mary the mother, and here was Joseph, and they are exactly doing what the Bible said was going to happen. The Savior was born as was was told them by the shepherds. The second response, the word that I want you to remember is the word proclamation. They went out and told others about what they discovered. And verses 17 and 18 says, When they had seen it, they made known abroad the saying which was told them concerning this child. All they that heard it wondered at those things which were told them by the shepherds. Now it's kind of interesting. It wasn't just the details of what they saw that they were telling people about. It was the the reason that those things were significant. It says it told they told the people the things concerning the child. In other words, it was what the angels told them. They were saying, look, the Messiah's been born. We've seen him. The angels came to us and they told us these things. And so they didn't just investigate the truths that were given to them. They didn't just go and see, verify is this true. But once they were convinced that those things were true, they told people about it. In other words, they were evangelists. They were people who were going out proclaiming the good news, the good tidings of great joy that the angels had communicated to them that night that Christ was born. A third response that stands out is the response of meditation. They reflected on the implications of the things that were being given them. So obviously the shepherds are internalizing what they've heard and what they've seen. They're telling people about what they've heard and what they've seen. And I want you to see how the others who were in this storyline, how they responded to the message being communicated by the angels and by the shepherds. It says they all heard it and wondered at those things which were told them by the shepherds. In other words, they were internalizing these things. They were thinking about them. They were meditating. They were saying Is it true what they're telling us? Are the implications of what they're saying true? There was a reflection, there was a meditation on the information that was being given to them. We see that Mary does the same thing. It says Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. In other words, Mary's internalizing what she's heard, what she's seen, what she's experienced. And this is a great example of how we should respond to God's word. Not only should we investigate, dig in, verify what we've heard, Not only should we tell people, proclaim the good news, and tell people about the things that God is teaching us in His Word But we need to meditate so that we dig more deeply into those things. We chew on them. In other words, it becomes a part of us We begin to think about the implications and we live in the light of those implications. And that's what we see illustrated by these people that came in contact with the story of Christ uh of Christ being born in Bethlehem. The fourth and final response I want to mention is the response of praise. They worshiped God for his goodness and his faithfulness to his word. In verse 20 it says, the shepherds returned glorifying and praising God for all the things that he had heard and seen as it was told unto them. So when they heard these things and they saw these things And they realized what God was doing. That that un that we could say coming in contact with those truths was coupled with faith. They believed that it was true. And so their response to God was a response of worship and praise. It was declaring to God how great and how good he was, and how grateful and humbled they were That they were able to actually witness and come in contact with these facts. And so we were reminded of these three responses: one of investigation, one of proclamation, one of meditating, and one of praise. And so the question is, how can we practically live in the light of a very simple text like this one in front of us? Here are the things I jotted down this morning. that I hope that we will uh we will strive to actually implicate in our lives. Okay? The first is this. Let's put ourselves in a place to hear God's word. Now the shepherds were not out in the fields of Bethlehem hoping that they were going to hear a message from angels. That that they didn't put themselves in that place. God went to them. God actually pursued them. He wanted to communicate these truths to those people, and he wanted them to be the ones that proclaimed the message throughout that region that the Messiah was born. But when we think about coming in contact with God's Word, I want to encourage you to put yourself in a place to hear God's word. I want to encourage you to read God's Word daily. Read it systematically. Don't just, you know, pick a verse, but I mean, pick a book of the Bible, pick a section of Scripture. And read through it verse by verse, chapter by chapter, so that you get the full context, you understand the intent of the book, and how each of the details fit into that. Come in contact with God's Word. You need to be in church. I know we have a pandemic, and I know it's hard for us in some places maybe you can't come because of your health, but I want to encourage you. If at all possible, be in church with God's people. And when the pandemic's over, you need to be in church. You need to be with God's people Because in the corporate worship we're challenged from God's word, and that's where we can grow and thrive. You cannot grow and you cannot thrive as a Christian if you neglect God's word. If you're not physically able to be in church, then you need to be on the live stream. And not just having it running in your house, but really focused attention where you put everything aside. And you focus on God's word and you focus on worshiping the Lord. And then stay connected through media options so that you are still connected to the local church that God has placed you in. A second thing is this, we need to dig into the scriptures that are before us. In other words, when the preacher preaches on Sunday, or when we're in a Sunday school class, We need to go back to those scriptures and read through those scriptures and take our own notes on those scriptures and write our own applications on those scriptures and actually make that something that's a part of us that we meditate it on and we think on it. Rather than us just hearing a message and then going home or going about our business and forgetting about what we've heard, we need to actually dig into it and reflect on it and actually make it a part of our lives. A third thing is we need to tell people about the wonderful truths we're learning. Now, you will not tell people about the truths you're learning if you're not learning. If you're not actually in a position where God is actually growing you and you're thriving spiritually and you're learning new truths, or you're being reminded of old truths, and they're becoming an encouragement to you. If you're not in a place where you're actually growing spiritually, you're not going to proclaim what God's doing in your life because you're not even Seeing him do anything in your life. It's not that he's distant from you, it's that you're not responding properly to him. And so I want to encourage you to be in a place where you're growing, and as you're growing Try to bring others alongside of you. If you're a child of God, if you've understood the gospel, then take opportunities to share the gospel with people as God opens opportunities and doors. Fourthly, let's think deeply about these truths that they become a part of us and they shape us more and more into the image of Christ. I think about 2 Corinthians chapter 3, where it says, When we with open face behold as in a glass, the glory of the Lord are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. Or in Romans 12 where it says we're to be transformed through the renewing of our minds. God wants to change us and the tool or the vehicle that He uses to change us. is his word. And as the word of God becomes a part of us, the word of God changes us. It changes how we think, it changes what we love, it changes how we live. And so let's let these truths become a part of us. And lastly, let's be worshippers of God in light of the truths that we're learning. One of the great blessings of spending time personally with God alone is it's an opportunity for you to quietly reflect on what he's teaching you and to express worship and praise to him in prayer and in song. One of the great blessings of corporate worship is it's an opportunity for you to gather together with other Christians and to worship God with one voice and one heart and to encourage one another in the faith. And so when we think about the verses in front of us, what we see is four very simple yet appropriate responses to God's Word. And my prayer and my encouragement is that we'll respond like the people in the passage in front of us. If this has been a challenge to you, I hope that you'll share that. I hope that you'll share just a note of encouragement for others who may come in contact with this video. And I hope that you have a great rest of your day. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, thank you for the opportunity to study this text. It's a really simple passage, but it's really practical. Help us to live in the light of it. Help us to dig into your word and to proclaim your truth and to be worshippers of you. And I pray that we would uh dig and investigate what we come in contact with to verify if the things we're hearing are really consistent with what you've said. Pray you bless each person that's listened to the video today. Encourage them through it. In Christ's name. Amen. Alright, well I hope you have a wonderful rest of your day and Lord willing, we will continue with our study tomorrow. Bye now.