To Matthew chapter six, Matthew chapter six, and we are going to continue our study on the Lord's Prayer. And This is the text this evening. Matthew 6 verse 12. And forgive us our debts. As we forgive our debtors. Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. I want to start with a little illustration. Let's just pretend. I'm sure nobody's ever experienced something like this, that you are working as a boss and you have several people that are working for you. And over the course of time, one of your workers begins to develop a bit of a reputation. Okay? Their reputation is for being late. And they're not just late, you know, three, four, five minutes, or ten minutes, but it's typically fifteen to twenty minutes late. And they do it over and over and over and over again. One day Your person who is always late just happens to get there on time, and another person who works with you, who is known to be very consistent and on time, is three minutes late. Then the person who's always late goes, Well, look at you, you're late today. And they go on and on and on and they carry on about how the person was late. Everybody'd be quiet, wouldn't they be? They'd all kind of look at each other and go , something doesn't seem right here. The guy who's always late. Constantly late, is the one that's saying the most about this person. You know, it's kind of funny when we were uh working with the church in Ghana We would always try to make sure we were there on time for Tuesday Bible study because we wanted to start right at 6 and close right at 7. I'll tell you the day that we would be late, everybody would be sitting there. And the days that we would be early, we'd just sit there and sit there and sit there. And I just remember that feeling when you'd come in late and everybody's sitting there and you're like, I can't believe it. Well the reality is that we are people, as much as we try to be consistent, we are people who fail. We make mistakes, we do things wrong, we fall short. And today we're going to be reminded of that. Because in Matthew chapter 6, verse 12. Jesus tells us that we need to ask God to forgive us our debts. And I want us to notice that later on in the same the same sermon, he uses the term trespasses. Trespasses and debts, they're a little different. Now, they're both in the realm of sin, if you will. But there are different kinds of sin. We'll talk about that in just a little bit. But he doesn't just stop at ask God the Father to forgive you your debts, but he adds another phrase. As we forgive our debtors. So he says if you're going to ask God to forgive you, then you need to make sure that you're doing something as well. And so tonight we're going to explore what Jesus is teaching. In the passage, Christ's major concern is that he wants his disciples to walk In a consistent fellowship with God the Father, therefore he instructs them to ask God to forgive them their debts and then later on trespasses. This is because God wants us to regularly ask him for forgiveness, because we regularly sin against him. With that in mind, let's look at a couple of simple truths tonight that I think will help us to understand exactly what Christ is saying, why he's saying that, and then how we are to apply it in our own personal walks with the Lord. The first truth is this. We need to understand what the word forgiveness is talking about. When you hear the word forgiveness, one of the things that you need to realize is that there's a Greek word that was used. There's kind of a contemporary English understanding of that word forgiveness. And then in our translation, which is quite a bit dated. we have kind of the original, the older English understanding of forgiveness. They're all similar, but there are some different nuances there. So I want to kind of explore those different ideas. First of all, the Greek word is atheimi. Okay? Not that that's all that important to you, but I want to look at a couple of different contexts. where that word is used. In fact, it's a word that's got really a broad range of meanings. And when you see some of the different ways that it's used, you'll go. It doesn't seem to have the idea of forgiveness at all in it. But the truth is that there's a related idea when we talk about the concept of forgiveness. So when you look up that word in just a lexicon, you get this kind of a definition. The idea is to send away to disregard something, to let something go in the sense of somebody owes you a debt and rather than pursuing that, you decide to release them of their obligation to pay you back. That's kind of the idea behind the Greek term. In our modern use of the word, uh the term forgive, we have the idea of let's stop feeling angry or stop being resentful towards somebody who has offended you. We tend to think of it in a very emotional way in our current setting. But the way that it's translated in our Old English, and if you go back to the the Webster 's 1828 dictionary, which is the one that really uh gives you a broader understanding of the English in the Old King James This is what it the idea is. This is what Webster writes. To pardon, to remit as an offense or a debt, to overlook an offense, and to treat the offender as not guilty. The original proper phrase is to forgive the offense, to send it away, to reject it, so as not to impute it. to put it to the offender. But by an easy transition, we also use the phrase to forgive the person offending, to remit a debt, fine, or penalty And Webster really, he expands. In fact, when when Webster is defining those English terms, he actually is using the Bible as sort of he's using that as the backdrop. So if you ever have a a question about some of the older English terms, that's actually a really good resource to look at. But the idea is to let something go. Now let me read a couple of verses where the same Greek term is used but translated in a different way. Matthew chapter 3, verse 15, it says, And Jesus answered and said unto him, Suffer it to be so now. When he uses the term suffer, he's basically saying make an allowment for this individual based on something that has taken place. In John chapter 12, verse 7, it says this, Jesus said, Let her alone, against the day of my burying, hath she kept this. And he's talking about when Mary is anointing Christ's body and the disciples are complaining. And he's saying, Leave her be, don't give her grief, don't give her trouble. The idea is to leave that person alone. In Matthew chapter 4, verse 11, we see a similar context. This is when Christ is being tempted in the wilderness. Right before he begins his earthly ministry, after his baptism. And in verse 20 of chapter 4, he says, Straightway I'm sorry, the devil then left him. It's like he leaves him alone. The idea is not continuing to bother this individual. Matthew 4. 20. This is when Christ is calling the disciples. And they're fishing on the Sea of Galilee beside their father's business, and it says. They straightway left their nets and followed Christ. So the idea is they're leaving something behind. And then another verse that I want to mention is in Matthew 5. 24. He says, Leave there thy gift before the altar, go thy way first. Be reconciled to thy brother and then come and offer the gift. And that the idea is you're about to offer a gift to God, and as you are coming to offer that gift to God, you realize that you have an offense that you have between you and your brother And rather than continuing in that offering, you leave it there, you go and try to restore and reconcile that indiv that that situation. And the phrase that that is talking about forgiveness is not to be reconciled. But it's actually the leave your gift there. Now you might say, why did I take time to talk about those different contexts? It's because when they use that word, the concept of forgiveness really has the idea of leaving something alone. Okay? It's like there's something there, you are compelled to address it It's been bothering you. Maybe somebody owes you something. There's an offense that is there. They're unwilling to address the matter. And so you hold on to it and you keep persisting in that particular thing. You ever been there before? No, never. The truth is that a lot of times when people wrong us, they never do come back and make it right with us. Now it's it's not the way it's supposed to be, but the reality is that is how people generally are. Even when people know that they have wronged you and they feel bad about it, a lot of times they'll never express that to you. And if we kept this detailed account of every single time we were wronged, can you imagine how miserable we would be? If we just held this book and said, unless they come to me, unless they meet my standard to reconcile and resolve that matter, I will refuse to let this issue go and not hold it over their head. Imagine how miserable we'd be. Well, we might not have to imagine. Because a lot of people live that way. And the older they get, the more the offenses are that they're holding on to, and they cannot enjoy anybody because everybody has wronged them in some way, it seems. So when he says that we need forgiveness, the idea is we need God to not hold against our account the debt that we owe him. That's basically what he's saying. When we have trespassed against God, when we have crossed the line of what God says, this is a no trespassing, and we have gone into that territory, we need God to say. I forgive you. I don't hold that against you. It is not between you and between me anymore When he says, pray, forgive us our debts, that is exactly what he's talking about. So a simple definition is a choice to stop continuing to hold on to an offense or to pursue the settling of an owed or perceived debt. And I don't mean money debt, though I guess it could But there's something that we feel somebody owes us. It's the opposite of seeking revenge or pursuing a settlement from somebody. That's the idea of forgiveness. I then want to address another issue. And I think that there is a confusion that people have when it comes to this issue of forgiveness. They think in their minds, okay, if God forgives me, then immediately he should just eliminate all the consequences of what I've just experienced. Do you understand what I'm saying by that? So I want to explore that issue a little bit and I want to use as an example David. Okay? David was a very godly man In fact, a huge number of the Psalms are penned by David, and they are David pouring out his heart to God in so many different contexts. And so we have no question that David was a godly man, both in his youth and then when he was an old man who was giving the throne over to his son Solomon. He was a godly man. He loved the Lord. He was called a man after God's own heart. Yet David sinned grievously against God and against a good number of people over the course of his lifetime. The most egregious of those Was David's sin against Bathsheba. Now, there are a lot of other passages that we could look at, but I want to specifically look at this because a lot of our Old Testament talks about this particular sin. First of all, I want you to think about what happened after David sent. When God forgave David, what exactly was God doing? What was he doing when God forgave David? And by the way, he didn't forgive David immediately. There was a period of probably beyond a year. David's got a little child, okay? And God sends Nathan the prophet to rebuke and to confront David. And David is broken over his sin. And we have Psalm 51. Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy loving kindness. According to thy tender mercies, blot out my transgression. And we have that passage. When God forgave David, what exactly was God doing when it came to how he viewed David's sin? What do you think? Okay, grace. Okay, that that's true. But I want specifically for you to think about the sin itself. Did God continue to hold that sin against David? I think that he's as far as like the expectations from David, I don't think he expected David to grieve any sin. Okay. Well, and one of the things that David does is he says, he says, Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. Do not remove your Holy Spirit from me. Create in me a clean heart, renew a a right and steadfast spirit within me. And the bones that you've broken, heal them. Okay, David is expressing his his need for all those things. But think specifically about how God viewed David's sin. When God forgave David, he chose not to hold that sin against David anymore. David's in heaven today Though he sinned grievously against Bathsheba, against her husband, against all the people that covered and hid that particular thing during that time period. Imagine all the people who were affected by David's sin. It's a lot of people. And imagine how David's hardened heart affected even how he dealt with situations in the palace and with the people. David's sin was a terrible thing. God chose not to hold that offense against David And David, after that issue was dealt with, there was restoration of fellowship, and he was able to enjoy sweet communion with God, which he did not enjoy for a significant period of time. In fact, some of the Psalms he's expressing how he felt with that guilty conscience and how he felt like he was just crushed under the weight of a broken conscience. But when God forgave, he did not hold that sin against David. David's in heaven, and David is able to enjoy fellowship with God. A second point: when God forgave David, He did not change the natural consequences that were associated with that action, did he? Think about all the different effects. The natural consequences You know, when we sin and we have ex uh we experience consequence, don't think that God is sitting there going, okay, I'm gonna get to you, so I'm gonna give you this and this and this. That is really not the way that sin works. The truth is, one of the reasons God hates sin is because by its very nature it's destructive. It's destructive to our souls. It's destructive to the people around us. It's destructive to our ability to interact with God and to have communion and fellowship with Him. It brings devastating consequences. It complicates life for us. and for other people. It causes pain and frustration. It sets people back. Sin has devastating consequences. And the reality is that in David's life The natural consequences of his sin were not removed when God forgave him. Give you just a couple of examples as you think about the story. First of all, Bathsheba conceived And when that child was born, that child got very sick and died. Okay? Very sick and died. After this event, David's family experienced tremendous hardship. Okay? David's family was never a unified family ever again. If it was unified before this activity, it most certainly was not after that. I mean look at what happens with Absalom Hassan. In many ways, that is a direct consequence of what had happened when David chose to drop right living before uh before the Lord. The truth is when when when he's got several different essen essentially families living under the same roof and one of his sons violates one of his daughters. And David doesn't do anything about it. There's probably a reason David didn't do anything about it. The truth is what David had done affected how he addressed problems even within his own house. Look at what happened later on with this man named Ahithophel. Do you know who Ahithophel was? Kind of interesting. Ahithophel was Bathsheba's grandfather. There is a reason that Ahithophel had such animosity for David. When Absalom sees the kingdom, Ahithophel was ready to step in and be the advisor for Absalom, and he said, I'll tell you what you need to do. You need to chase David and you need to crush him and kill him and make an example of him. Now, why do you think that Ahithophel was so aggressive in his approach towards David? Because the entire time, from the time that David had violated Bathsheba and killed her husband, essentially. This man Ahithevel continued to serve David, and he was a very wise man, but in his heart he said, I'm going to get this guy. He is a dirty rat, if you will. I'm gonna get him back. I'm gonna crush him. And when he had the opportunity, that's exactly what he did. Well what was the reason for that? Was it that he was this overly ambitious individual? No, it's because Ahithophel was consumed with anger towards David. This is a natural consequence for sin. So when God forgave David and David is able to have fellowship with him again. That didn't m that didn't clean up his family's that was so complicated. That didn't all of a sudden make Ahithophel love David all of a sudden. If anything, Ahithophel probably was more angry at David Because he said, look at what this guy did. And God has continued to work in his life. But look what he's done to my granddaughter. The natural consequences of sin, they don't just get eliminated when God forgives us. A third point, when God forgives me He may choose to act in mercy, but he's not necessarily obligated to show mercy. And this is a very important point. You know, sometimes when people are faced with a decision, they go, okay, I know this is sinful. I know I shouldn't do it, but you know it's easier to ask for forgiveness than for permission. So I'm just gonna go ahead and head down this road. And let God pick up the details because I'm just going to move forward. That's an extremely dangerous decision to make. That's called sinning presumptuously. And what does David say? He says in one of the Psalms, he says, keep me back from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me. The idea is I know this is wrong. I know that it's serious and God hates it. I'm just going to do it anyway and I'm going to presume on his mercy. At the same time, God many times does show us tremendous mercy. Even though the natural consequences of our sin are there, what does God do? He comes alongside of us. He brings people into our lives that help shoulder that burden. He gives us these wonderful comforts in his word. The reality is God doesn't just kick us to the curb and abandon us But he comes alongside of us in our weakness and he shows us kindness. God's not obligated to do that, but David prayed in Psalm 51, have mercy upon me. And God did. So God didn't remove all the consequences, but God showed him mercy. And then there's a last point that I wanted to make, and that's this. When God shows us grace, He's showing us favor in spite of the offense. David and Bathsheba is a really good example of God showing grace. Because what's interesting is God blessed, as strange as this may sound, God chose to bless the union between Bathsheba and David. Now that's not saying that God saw it as not a serious sin. We know as we study David's life that there were devastating consequences. But God did not decide, I'm just gonna kick Bathsheba to the curb, and I'm gonna kick David to the curb, and I'm just gonna forget about those people. They are wounded, they are broken, and I am not gonna deal with them anymore. He didn't do that God chose to take Bathsheba, and after that first child died, he blessed her with other children. And one of those children was Solomon. You know, it's interesting. Solomon is the new king. And when David was going to pick a king, God specifically said, I want Solomon. to be the one who comes after you because I love Solomon. Now, God's love for Solomon and his kindness and all that That was grace. It was not like David deserved that, or Bathsheba deserved that, or Solomon deserved that. That was purely the grace of God poured out on undeserving individuals. And by the way, the Messiah came through Bathsheba. As ironic as that might sound. So when we talk about this issue of forgiveness, let's not impose on God's mercy. Let's not think that God is just going to remove all the natural consequences of sin. But at the same time, let's not get so focused on what God won't remove that we fail to realize that He shows tremendous mercy towards us. when we are humble. And he shows tremendous grace to us in situation. And you know, when you have failed and you have stumbled, cry out to God for mercy. And when God shows you grace, be humbled by that and glory in that and worship Him because we are all in a position of blessing because of grace. So the first qu the first truth is this, we need to understand forgiveness. Second truth is this, we need to regularly We regularly need forgiveness from God. We regularly need forgiveness from God. You know the story of Peter the night before when Christ is going to be betrayed? They're in the upper room, and Jesus walks in. And nobody washed his feet, which was the typical custom of their day. And so Jesus walks in and he pulls a bowl to the side. And he kneels down at each of those disciples' feet, and he begins to wash their feet. You know the picture. In fact, there's a there's a movie that we would watch. It was it was the book of John, and it was actually dramatized, and it's it's some of these uh passages are very vivid when you watch it. In a movie form. So Jesus comes to Peter, and he's kneeling down at Peter's feet, and Peter says, You're not going to wash my feet. You can't do it. And Jesus says, if I don't wash you, I have no part of you. He says that. And then Peter goes, okay, then wash all of me. You know, wash the whole part of me, man. I don't want to I I want to be a part of you, okay? And Jesus says, You only need your feet to be washed. What's interesting is in that passage, Jesus is an illustration of the kind of cleansing that is being talked about in this passage. Notice when we're talking about prayer, we are praying. That means we're already in a relationship with him. We are already children. We've been saved. We've been forgiven. There's still a kind of forgiveness that we that we need. Explain exactly what we're talking about there. But the idea is that when we lift dirty. Our feet get dirty, our feet need to be washed. You know, last week we emphasized the importance of dependence upon God for our daily provision, for our material needs. This week, we're looking at our daily need moment by moment for a kind of cleansing. And forgiveness. Walking in communion with God is a continual need for us as Christians. And because that is a continual need, we need God's forgiveness continually as well. In 1 John 1, and I know I'm going to preach on this in a couple of weeks, okay? But in 1 John 1, 7, and following, listen to what Jesus or what John writes. If we say we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth. If we say that we have not sinned, we deceive ourselves. If we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say that we've not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. Later on he says, if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father. Jesus Christ the righteous. And later on in chapter 2, he says, I'm writing to you because your sins are forgiven. I have a question. Why would John say You need forgiveness if he's addressing a group of people that he says are already forgiven. Do you get the question? You need forgiveness, but you're already forgiven. I thought if I'm forgiven, then God doesn't think about it anymore, right? As far as the East is from the West, and as far as He removed our transgressions from us. So if God's forgiven me, then why do I need forgiveness again? Well, it's because there are two different kinds of forgiveness that we find out about in the Bible. And that moves us to our third truth. Those who are forgiven need forgiveness and still need forgiven To forgive. Do you catch that? Those who are forgiven need forgiveness and still need to forgive. Let me demonstrate what I'm talking about You know, every Christian is at the same time viewed by God as a saint. Yet still a sinner. Great example, 1 Corinthians. When Paul writes to the Corinthian church, he writes to the saints who are in Jesus Christ at Corinth. And then he expounds all kinds of problems in that church How can he do that? It's because when God views a Christian, someone who is saved, he can view them as righteous positionally. Yet they still sin, and there's a kind of forgiveness that they need on a daily basis. We can be fully accepted in the beloved, yet not be in fellowship with God at the same time. You get what I'm saying? Think about your kid or your children. Okay, I have four children, and uh There are days that uh our relationship is a bit strange. You know what I mean? Especially when I'm sick or or when I'm really tired or I'm under a lot of pressure. The kinds of things that my kids will do, they that get under my skin, and I just say, go to your room and sit on your bed. I don't want to deal with this right now. You ever done that before? You've probably done that before. The truth is that though those kids belong to me, there are times that our fellowship can be strained. You know, as your kids get older, the kinds of rebellion issues that you deal with become a little more pronounced It's not just you're getting under my skin, but you are being a rebel, and this is a serious offense to me because I'm your dad. I'm your authority. Though that child has, we could say, trespassed against their parents, they are not showing the respect and the honor and they're not obeying as they ought, they are still 100% your child. You understand what I'm saying? Fully your child, but not in communion with mom or dad. The truth is the same can be said about the Christian who's not in fellowship with God. All of us have access to the same opportunity. I was thinking about this illustration. Let's say that one day one of our fine Maryland representatives decided they wanted to eliminate poverty in Maryland. And so to do that, they decided they were going to vote on a bill that would give $20,000 to every single Maryland resident. It could happen someday. You never it probably won't be twenty thousand, but you never know. It might do it out in California someday. I want to ask you a question. Do you think that would eliminate poverty? I knew it wouldn't eliminate poverty. Because there are a lot of people, as soon as they got $20,000, they would waste it. on unbelievable things. Well, there'd be other people that take that money and they would actually use it very wisely and it could be a tremendous benefit to them. But there are others who would not. And the truth is, though we all as Christians have the same opportunity, we don't all seize those opportunities. God wants us to walk in fellowship with Him. And though we are accepted and though we are viewed as saints, it is possible for us to not enjoy that fellowship with God that He wants us to have. That's because there's two kinds of forgiveness. The first is legal, and the second is relational. Let me mention a couple of passages. that give us these two ideas. The legal forgiveness. John five twenty four. Verily, verily I say unto you, he that heareth my word, believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life, and listen to what it says. He shall not come into condemnation but is passed from death unto life. Condemnation is dealing with a legal guilt before God. John 3, 18, he that believeth on him is not condemned. Again, another legal term before God. He that believeth not is condemned already. Romans 5. 1. Being justified by faith, we have faith peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Romans 8. 1. There's no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. When those passages talk about no condemnation, us being forgiven, us being justified, it's talking about a legal, positional forgiveness. When John wrote and said, I write these things to you because you are forgiven, that's exactly what he's talking about. John's audience, from his perspective, is a believing audience, a forgiving audience, if you will, they are saints in Christ Jesus. But when he talks about their need for forgiveness, He's not talking about a legal forgiveness. He's talking about a relational forgiveness. John 1. 6. If we say that we have fellowship with him , That's relationship, isn't it? He says, and we walk in the darkness, we lie and do not the truth. If we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another. Again, it's a relational idea. He says the blood of Christ cleanseth us from all sin. If we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins, to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Notice the term we and us. John includes himself in those texts. So a person who's legally forgiven can need to be forgiven so that the relationship and the fellowship and the communion is able to continue. This is exactly what Jesus is saying. Every day of our lives, though we stand righteous before God because we've been justified by faith alone in the finished work of Christ. We sin, and that sin causes a problem between us and God. It doesn't remove our position, it doesn't make us lose eternal life We don't have to get saved every time we sin. We are secure in Christ. But something takes place between us and God. I actually want to deal with this in a little bit more detail when we get to the first John passage. in our first John studies and talk a little bit about how this works. But just for the sake of tonight, I can say this when you sin as a Christian, it affects your relationship and fellowship to God. God. When you sin as a Christian, it affects your ability to enjoy what God wants you to enjoy. You cannot be a joyful Christian And walk in known rebellion against God. You cannot do it. Now, I'm not suggesting that you have to be sinlessly perfect as a Christian to enjoy fellowship with God. As God exposes to us where we are, we have to respond to that. But we cannot continue in fellowship with God if we are in known rebellion. So then that leads us to a final question. Why does he use the phrase, as we forgive our debtors? Think about that. Here's the reason why. Forgiveness before God relationally is dependent on repentance. If you are not repentant, in other words, let's say that you repeatedly do certain things. Okay? You do this thing and you say, okay. I gotta ask God to forgive me. God forgive me. I shouldn't have done that. There is no change in your heart. There's no desire to have victory over that thing. You're just saying it because you're repeating a little phrase of words. You ever been there before? I think probably a lot of us have been there before. If I'm going to have forgiveness and restoration, there's got to be repentance in my life. That means the way that I view that particular matter has changed. When I confess it to God, I'm saying to God what he sees there. I'm acknowledging it as he sees it. That's what repentance is. And repentance is an essential prerequisite to restored fellowship with God. And repentance will manifest itself in humility in our lives. That's not just humility towards God, that's also humility towards each other. Do you get what I'm saying? If I'm repentant before God about a certain matter, I'm not going to be arrogant towards you, Scott, on the same matter. I'm not going to be arrogant towards Charlie. The reality is if my thinking is changed about that issue and my heart is humbled about that issue, how I view God and how I view you is going to be changed And I'm going to be humbled. And so when he says we are to ask for forgiveness as we forgive our debtors, Jesus is basically saying, if you don't have a repentant heart about your sin. In other words, you're unwilling to actually forgive other people. You just hold it to yourself and you want God to forgive you. He said, don't think that that's going to happen. In fact, listen to what he says in uh later on in verse fourteen. He says, If we forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father also forgive you. But if you forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. And there's really two potential ideas here. Either one, what Jesus is showing is that if a person is truly saved, there's a quality of humility that they will have. Where they recognize I've been forgiven so much, I need to forgive those around me. That may very well be what he's thinking But I think it's actually dealing more with the fact that there is a repentance and there is a humility when we face our own sin and the sins of others. To understand what Jesus is saying, we go to Matthew 18. In Matthew 18, you know the story very well, I'm sure. Peter comes to Jesus and he says, Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him? That was his question. And of course Peter's thinking I'm a good student. He says, seven times? And Jesus says, how about Seventy times seven. Now I don't think Jesus is saying, okay, keep track and when that last time comes then you can just you can drop the hammer on that guy. Jesus is basically saying You need to forgive when somebody comes to you. And you need to do it over and over and over again. You don't need to keep account That's what Jesus is basically saying. And to illustrate it, he gives this story. He says, there was a certain man who was going to settle his debts. And as he's going to settle his debts, he comes across this individual who owes 10,000 talents. We could save the equivalent of several million dollars. And so he says, this guy is going to have to pay. And he comes and he begs and he pleads and he says, give me time, forgive. Well, he's going to sell his family so that he can pay off the debt. And the guy begs and pleads, and the man has compassion on. He says, okay, you know what? I'm just going to forgive your debt 100%. Don't worry about it. It's done. I'm not going to hold it against suit. As soon as that man gets out of that room, He turns around and he goes to his book. And he goes through his book and he finds that there's a man who owes him a hundred pence. We could say a couple of dollars And he goes to that man, he grabs him by the throat and he says, You pay or I'm throwing you in debtor's prison. And all the servants looked at this and said, What in the world? Is going on. This guy's been forgiven an amount of money he could never pay. And now he's turned to this other person, and he is holding Holding him to a standard that he's not being held to himself. And what does Jesus say? He says, Thou wicked servant, I forgave thee all that debt because thou desirest me should not thou also have had compassion on thy fellow servant, even as I had pity on thee. His Lord was was wroth and delivered him to the tormentors till he should pay all that was due unto him. And so what Jesus is basically saying is this: every day, if you want to walk in fellowship with your Father, you need to keep a short account of sin. You need to acknowledge your sin before God. You need to ask Him to forgive your trespasses and your debts. But if you're going to do that, then you better forgive those around you. Because God is not going to hear your prayer forgiveness. Because He's going to see that you have an arrogant heart He's going to see that you have an unforgiving spirit. He's going to see that you aren't seeing sin from his perspective. You are not truly confessing your sin to God. There is not repentance in your heart. There is an arrogance. And so as long as we hold on to the debts of others, we can mark this down. We're not in fellowship with God. It's that simple. You know, there are many people who will go through life for years, and the frank reality is they're not in fellowship with God. They come to church, they open their Bibles, they read it, they convince themselves that they're okay with God. And Jesus says, if you walk in darkness, And think, John writes, if you walk in the darkness and you say you have fellowship with God, you have deceived yourself. And so as we come to this text, let's take both sides. We need to confess our sins daily to God. To walk in fellowship. This is not about our position. This is not about how we get saved. This is not about justification. This is about daily cleansing. This is about restoring a fellowship. This is about communion with God. This is about us enjoying the joy of our salvation. But when we do that, we had better make sure that we have the right attitude towards God. And uh a lot of Christians, quite honestly, don't live like it at all. In fact, it's even questionable. When you look at somebody for year after year after year. They have no desire to forgive, to resolve issues. There is this bitterness, there's this unwillingness to address issues. That person should fear even that they're truly right with God. Not just as a believer, but they're even saved. I'm not suggesting that I would know that they're lost. But what I can say is as we get into some of these texts, especially in 1 John, you'll realize that a person who's living like that cannot have joy, they are not in fellowship with God, and they should not have confidence that they are saved. May God help us to walk in a consistent fellowship with Him as we willingly humble ourselves daily, confessing our sin and having a spirit of humility towards one another. Let's bow our hearts in prayer. Father, this is a very important text in our daily walk. It's very easy for us to To have a hardened heart towards others. And to think that you owe us forgiveness. The truth is that it's impossible for us to walk in fellowship with you. While we refuse to admit when we've sinned against you and when we refuse to forgive those who have sinned against us. And when we can do this repeatedly, year after year, it should cause us to tremble in fear that perhaps we are not your child, that perhaps we have deceived ourselves. I pray that there would be a humility and a brokenness in each of our hearts as we think about these things. And I pray that you will minister in a very gracious way. To those who have sinned against you and have come in humility for forgiveness. Father, help us to rejoice in your mercy and rejoice in your grace. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen Menos de la mentionna