So I'm going to go ahead and read the whole Lord's Prayer, and then we'll focus on the verse that we'll be looking at tonight. Matthew chapter 6, verse number 10. Thy kingdom come. Let me start in verse nine. After this manner, therefore pray ye, Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation. But deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. The passage or the verse we will be looking at tonight, and actually we will do this in two parts because of I think how much content really can flow out of this particular verse is verse 13. I'll read it again. And lead us not into temptation. But deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. When Jesus made this statement Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. The question is, what was Jesus trying to communicate? What was his purpose? His purpose was to tell us that we need to ask our Heavenly Father not to lead us into temptation so we can be preserved from stumbling. in the Christian life. Now last week we saw how we should respond when we have stumbled. The first thing we need to do is we need to go to the Lord and ask him to forgive that trespass or as it says in this verse. That debt. But then the question is: once God has forgiven that trespass or that debt and that fellowship is restored, then what is the most logical thing for us to do after we have asked for forgiveness? It's to say, help me not to do this again. Does that make sense? If I've just asked God to forgive me, then I should desire not to do the same thing again. And so that leads us into this verse. He says, pray that God will help you not to be led into temptation so that you will not continue to stumble in the Christian life. God wants us to express our need to be guided by his hand away from temptation That is what God wants us to do. And so the question is, how can we think properly about the topic of prayer and temptation? To answer that question, I've actually asked a series of questions that I want to answer tonight The first question is, why does God tell us to pray the prayer? Why does he tell us to pray that prayer? Two, what are the responsibilities or what responsibility does this prayer assume that I have? Three, what does this prayer tell us about the nature of temptation? And four, how does God deliver us from evil? So tonight we're going to answer the first three questions. Why does God tell us to pray the prayer? And I don't mean the prayer as in the sinner's prayer, okay. This particular prayer, what is the responsibility that the prayer assumes And what does this prayer tell us about temptation? So let's take those questions one at a time and look at the truths that answer the question. The question one Why does Christ tell us to pray this prayer? Truth one, we are dependent on God in the area of temptation and should express that dependence on the Lord. We are dependent upon God in the area of temptation and should express that dependence to the Lord. We ex he he says to express it in two ways. First of all, lead us not into temptation, and then two, deliver us from evil. Now the fact that he makes those two statements tells us something. Just because we ask God not to lead us into temptation does not necessarily mean that he will always choose not to lead us into temptation. Does that make sense? Because it assumes that there may be times that though we ask God, don't lead us into temptation. That's a lot of Okay, though we ask him to not lead us into temptation, there may be a purpose that he has for allowing us to face that particular tempt temptation. And so then the most re appropriate response is, well deliver us from evil. We are in the midst of that temptation. Deliver us in the midst of those circumstances. So let me first of all talk about why we should understand our dependence on the Lord. Let me talk about a couple of passages that I think express how dependent we are on God. The first one I want to mention is in Psalm 131, verses 1 and 2. I love this passage because of the the illustration that David uses when he talks about his dependence on God. Here's what he says in Psalm 131. 1 Lord, my heart is not haughty, nor my eyelids lofty, neither do I exercise myself in great matters or in things too high for me. Now listen to the illustration he uses. Surely I have behaved myself and quieted myself as a child that is weaned of his mother. My soul is even as a winged child. That kind of an interesting illustration that David is using. He's saying, I'm like a child. who has been totally dependent on my mother and I'm constantly begging and pleading and saying, feed me, feed me, feed me. And now my mom has gotten me at a point where I'm no longer doing that and she is kind of controlling when I eat. And when I don't, and all of that. But the idea is a picture of dependence, a picture of humility, a picture of looking to God and just trusting Him That's what David is expressing. And so David says that's how I am as a person in all areas of my life. I'm not haughty, my eyes are not lifted up. I don't exercise myself in great matters. I have quieted myself. Do you feel that way before God? That's how we should feel before God. He then gives us another illustration in Psalm 124, verses 1 to 8. Listen to this particular passage. He says, if it had not been for the Lord who was on our side. Then they had swallowed us up quick when their wrath was kindled against us. Blessed be the Lord who hath not given us as prey to their teeth. That's kind of an interesting illustration that David is using. Why would David use that illustration? Because he's thinking back when he was a young man and he was taking care of the sheep. And there were times that as he was taking care of those sheep, an animal would come out of the bush, out of the thicket, and attack that little flock and go and pull out one of those weak sheep. And it would be holding it in its teeth, and that sheep was completely helpless. So what does he say? I'm like that sheep. And you have protected me so that I don't become the prey between the teeth of a wolf or a bear or a lion. He then uses another very interesting illustration. Our soul is escaped as a bird out of the snare of the fowlers. The snare is broken and we are escaped. Our help is in the name of the Lord who made heaven and who made earth. And so think about a little bird that has been caught in a trap. And that bird is terrified. That bird is trying to escape and it's completely helpless. And somebody comes alongside and they decide to break that thing open and to let that bird go. And so he says, I'm like that bird. I'm like the little child I'm like the animal that is helpless, like the sheep that is being attacked by the wolf or the lion or the bear. I'm like that bird who is trapped, and the only one that can deliver and rescue me is God. Then we see Paul kind of express the same thing in 1 Corinthians chapter 10. This is what he says. There hath no temptation taken you but such as is common to man. God is faithful, who will not suffer, or the ideas who will not allow you. to be attempted above that you are able, but will with the temptation also make a way of escape that you may be able to bear it. And so Paul talks about the fact that when you face temptation, God does a couple of things. One is he will limit the the degree to which you're tempted. And when he allows you to be tempted, he always makes a way of escape. He always gives you a way to bear through that temptation. He has a purpose in that. All of this is meant to express something. We are very much dependent upon God when it comes to the issue of temptation. And one of the things that is sad about us as Christians is that when we go through a time of victory, we begin to get very proud. We begin to get very self reliant. We start thinking, Wow, I am really strong as a Christian. I haven't dealt with this in months or in weeks or in days or in years. And you say, that's behind me. I don't have to deal with that anymore. And you know what God does? I know it's going to sound strange, but it's true. Sometimes he allows us to experience intense temptation in some of the areas where we're becoming proud to remind us we are completely dependent on him. You say God does that? Absolutely. His intention is not to see you fall. His intention is to help you to be humble. But the reason that the prayer is mentioned is because we are dependent upon God in this area of temptate temptation and trials. We move to a second question. What responsibility does this prayer assume? And I want you to think about this. Truth too, we cannot ask God to do this while we are making provision for our flesh. Does that make sense? If I'm saying, deliver me from evil, and I'm sort of like laying the foundation for me to sin, does that make any sense at all? Yet that's what we do sometimes. Sometimes we will say to God, God, help me not to have temptation in this area, this besetting area, this area where I'm struggling, and rather than recognizing that I have to flee from that thing, I kind of leave myself and out. I read an article some time ago that I thought was really good. And the article went something like this. It said, don't tame your dragons, slay them. Do you get what I'm saying? Don't tame your dragons, slay them. And basically what the article said is we have a uh kind of this This tendency that when we have an area of sin, we don't want it to dominate us, we don't want it to destroy us, but we like to play with it. We like to use it like it's a toy. We like to uh re-relate to it like it's something that we can be entertained by. And he says, you cannot do that with sin. Sin is something that we have to crush. It's something that we have to take drastic measures with. Jesus says, if your eye offends you, pluck it out. If your hand offends you, cut it off. Now Jesus is not advocating for us to go around without eyes and hands, but he's trying to get the point across That it's very important that when we're dealing with temptation and when we're dealing with sin, it's not something that we can control. It's not something that we can tame. It's something that we have to cut off. It's something that we have to destroy. In fact, when Paul talks about sin and the works of the flesh and those things, he uses the term mortify. This is not a word that we hear a lot in our contemporary setting. Mortify the works of the flesh. The idea is put those things to death. We would rather be entertained by them in a way that we think won't hurt us too much. We would rather tame the dragon than destroy the dragon. And so we need to understand that it's not possible for us to make provision for the flesh and then go to God and say, please don't lead me into temptation. Because one of the means that God uses to keep us from temptation Is us taking responsibility in areas that we know we need to put things to death. Listen to a couple of passages that are along this line. Romans 13, 14 says this. Put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make not provision for the flesh to fulfill the lust thereof. Let me use this illustration. Okay. Let's say that you have a person that has It's beyond a besetting sin. Let's say it's it's truly an addiction. It's something that dominates the individual. It's something that From the moment they wake up to the time they go to bed, this is something that is a constant area of temptation. It's something that constantly comes to their mind. If they don't have accountability, they flee to those things, they find solace in those things, they do it, and then they feel horrible about it, and they ask God to forgive them, but they just continue under the domination of this particular area of sin. In fact, I think a lot of Christians find themselves in this category, and it's not like there's just one or two different kinds of areas that we get caught up in these dominating sins. The reality is that each person is unique. And the kind of temptation that is most likely to dominate one individual may not be the same one that dominates another. You may have one person that struggles immensely with lust. You may have one person that they struggle immensely with anger or with greed. It can be so many different things. But the reality is, if I realize that I have this area, I have to deal drastically with this particular matter. I can't leave myself sort of like the back door. It's like if somebody has a drug addiction, there's a reason that they have to go many times to a facility, they have to get out of their home, they have to separate from their friends, they have to be in an environment where they are forced. They cannot get access to those chemicals to go into their body. And they go through tremendous withdrawals, not just physical withdrawals, but emotional withdrawals. There's a lot of mental anguish because of the chemical addiction. Well, the fact is that there are many times that rather than us dealing drastically with sin, we kind of want to tame the dragon. So we can't make provision for our flesh and at the same time say, God deliver me from evil. It's like we are contradicting ourselves. We don't truly want deliverance from that area of temptation. Ephesians chapter 4, verse 26 and 27, he says this. He says, Be angry and sin not, let not the sun go down upon your wrath. And then he uses the phrase, neither give place to the devil. See, this is interesting when we do not keep our emotions in check, and when we make provision and we make allowment and we kind of we kind of balm the wound, if you will. What we do is we give ground to Satan to attack us and others. We give him a place where he can establish a beachhead, if you will, where he can go ahead and he can attack in other areas of our lives. We cannot give place to Satan. We can't make provision for our flesh. David prays this in Psalm 19:13. He says, Keep back thy servant from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me. When David uses the term presumptuous sins, he's basically saying, God, help me to have victory over those sins that dominate me, if you will, the addiction kind of sins. God give me victory over the sins that when I do them I know in my heart this is wrong. I have no question in my mind what I'm doing is wrong. And I willfully just go headlong into this particular sin. It's interesting. Later in the verse he says, Let the words of my mouth and then the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. The truth is a presumptuous sin is rooted in thinking that is meditating on the wrong things. We cannot ask God To deliver us from evil if we're unwilling to put to death the works of the flesh. If we're unwilling to choose not to make provision for our flesh. If we're unwilling to put to death those fleshly lusts that give place to Satan. Question three. What does the prayer tell us about the nature of temptation? And I think this is a very important thing for us to get into and to think about. God 's providential care governs our lives in every area, including the area of temptation Let me say it again. God's providential care governs our lives in every area, including the area of temptation. I remember when I was in seminary and I had a professor, he loved talking about Martin Luther. And Martin Luther is a very quotable individual. There's some really good ones and there's some really bad ones. Let's just being real honest. So, you know, I I've gotten flack when I've quoted Martin Luther on Facebook. I'll have some friend who'll like send me this personal e uh message like, I can't believe you quoted Martin Luther. I 'm like, come on, please, just calm down. He was a man just like you and me, okay? He was a quotable guy. His good ones are good and his bad ones are, you know. There's there's some there's some real zingers in there, okay But one of the things that I I appreciated about Martin Luther was one of his quotes had something in the effect of, Satan is God's devil. In other words, Satan is moving and trying to accomplish his work, and God's got him on a leash. And he can only go as far as God permits him. And if God wants to jerk his chain and stop him, he can do it. It's great. And as Satan is moving forward and accomplishing his purposes, God is providentially guiding and he is. We can say determining what Satan can and can't do. It's a really interesting concept. And so this gets us into the question of How does God's providence relate to the area of temptation? When we see the word temptation, understand that the Greek word is translated several different ways And the Greek word is used both in our Old Testaments, in the Septuagint, and in the New Testament. So I actually have a couple of passages that I want to reference to show you the various ways that this word is used. One of the first ways that the word temptation is used is in the idea of resistance. If you will, it's the illustration of a strength-building mechanism. So some people like to go to the gym, right? Why do you go to the gym? To break your body down Is that true? You go in there and, you know, on leg day, you go in there and you really punch it out and then you're like, you're hoblin out of there. And then the next day you you like if you live on a second floor you're in trouble. You can't can't crawl to the top because you hit it so hard. Why does a person go to the gym and break their body down, if you will? Why do they pound those muscle groups and break them down so that they're worn out? Well, they do it because when they grow back, they're stronger. You know, the way that you get stronger is you have to go through pressure. You have to go through strain. And so if we don't exercise our body, we actually begin to go through muscle atrophy. Has anybody ever broken your arm and had your arm in a cast? I remember this one guy when I was in high school. He was, you know, he was one of those gym guys. Like he'd go to the beach and he looked, you know, pretty pretty pretty built and everything. And remember one day he broke his arm. And you know it was the funniest thing, because after he got that arm out of the cast, he had like a twig. And I just laughed and I was like, look at you man. He's like, it happened to you too. I said, I know But you have to go through strain. The muscle has to be pressed. It has to go through resistance. If it doesn't go through resistance, it doesn't respond by getting stronger. Well, the truth is that God knows that we as Christians have to go through resistance too. Or we just don't grow. It doesn't happen. And so in James 1. 3, this is what James says. Know this, that the trying of your faith Work it patience. And then he says, let patience have her perfect work. Well, when he uses the term we could say trying or testing or temptation. The idea is that God is putting you through resistance so that you'll become stronger. That is the purpose. And that is one of the ways the word temptation is used. There's a second way that it's used, and that is the idea of a test. Think of a schooling mechanism for evaluation. So everybody goes to school. I was talking to uh Frank Taylor back there. We were talking about schooling, and he said, you know, all these schools, they're just trying to prepare kids to write their tests. And so they're focusing on on the kids that are kind of struggling. They don't want to lose, you know, their their qualification or their financial situation. And so they're really focusing in on the students that are struggling and they're trying to get them up to speed for a test. Well, why does a teacher give you a test? Is it because they want to gloat in their office and say, ha, Tory failed Did you have any teachers like that, Tori? You probably did. You just didn't know it. No, no, no, no. No, teachers don't do that. They don't go into teaching because they like seeing people fail. They don't go into teaching because they take some like sadistic gloating and seeing people suffer and sweat and get bad grades. No. Teachers go into schooling because they want to see people learn. They want to see people grow. But they have to test those kids so that they can see their progress. And you know, the teacher can actually kind of evaluate the progress of the students even before they take the test. But those kids don't understand their progress. There's some kids that think they're great students and then they take the test and they find out they're not. It's the moms and dads who are like, oh man, my kid's a great student. And they go and they take their test and they find out, eh, it's not true. That test taught them something. There's some students that don't think they're very good students. They're very perfectionistic. And they write their examinations and they come out in the rows, well, I'm at the top of my class. I didn't even know it. The purpose of testing is not to see you fail. It's to evaluate where you are. And there are times that God does the same thing with us. And when the Bible uses the term temptation, sometimes it uses it in that sense. For instance, in Genesis 22. 1, it says, It came to pass after these things that God tempted Abraham. Now, was God wanting to see Abraham sin? Was God up in heaven going, aha, I can't wait to see Abraham fail here? No. God wanted to demonstrate that Abraham was not the same man that he was before Isaac was born. He was a man who had matured in his faith. He was a man who trusted God. He was a man who had absolute obedience. And confidence that God would fulfill his promises that he had made to him. And so when it says that God tempted Abraham, God wasn't coming to Abraham saying, I want to see Abraham fail. God was saying, I want to evaluate where Abraham is. Not that God didn't already realize that. And in James it says, Abraham's faith was demonstrated. His faith was demonstrated by his willingness to offer a son Isaac. I think of the example of Daniel. Daniel 112. You know the story? Daniel is is is being told by the leaders there in uh Nebuchadnezzar's palace. that they could not eat certain foods and they had to follow the the Babylonian foods that were given. The whole purpose of that was they were trying to brainwash those Jewish boys They're forcing them to have names that represented the gods of Babylon. They are wanting them to break their Jewish dietary laws. They basically wanted to make them Babylonians. And Daniel comes to them and he says this. He says, Prove thy servant, I beseech you, ten days, and let them give us pulse to eat and water to drink, and see if we are not Better than down. That was basically what he says. That word prove is the idea of test or tempt. Same word that's uh it's translated this way, prove. And the idea is he's saying, put us to the test, examine us. In 2 Corinthians 13, 5, this is a really interesting one. Paul says, examine yourselves whether you be in the faith. Prove yourselves. In other words, he's saying, you look at yourself and ask the question, are you really a Christian? In other words, there were some things that those first those Corinthians were supposed to look at and say, okay. This does demonstrate that I am in Christ. This calls it into question significantly. When he says examine yourself, it's the word that is translated temptation. The idea is a test There's a third way that it's used, and that is the way we tend to think of it, and that is the word temptation. And I'll use this example, a marketing mechanism to entice you to do something. Okay? A marketing mechanism, if you will, to get you lured in so that you do something that you know is forbidden. James 1:13 says, Let man no man say when he's tempted. I am tempted of God. God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. Every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed. And when lust has conceived, it bringeth forth sin, and sin when it is finished, bringeth forth death. This is the idea of allurements to do wrong. And when we think of temptation, we tend to think of it in that sense. The truth is that when Jesus says, ask your Father, lead us not into temptation, I think the third one is the one that he's really thinking about. But the one that we might be thinking about might be the first or the second one. We don't want to get stretched. We don't want to get tried and examined. But it may be in God's will that we are In fact, there will definitely be times that it's his will that we are. But what we see is this. Let me summarize it. God governs the nature of temptation, so that he can potentially humble us or shake us if that's what he needs to do. God governs the duration of the temptations that we face, to demonstrate the degree to which we have matured and grown in the faith. God governs the intensity of temptation, to encourage others who need to grow alongside of us. And God governs the timing of temptation for his own purposes to display his glory in our lives and the lives of those around us. So these are some thoughts about the issue of temptation. I want to move to a fourth and final truth, and that's this. Some aspects of this governance are directly affected by our prayer. There is a sense in which there are some things you can pray, God lead me not into temptation. He says, I have appointed you for this. I'm sorry. But there's also a sense in which there are times that God says, if you don't ask, you will face it. If you do ask, I withhold it. You ever thought of that? Let me give you an example of the first one. Some tests are purposed by God for a specific cause. Matthew 26, Jesus is in the garden, and he says, Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from me, nevertheless, not as I will But as thou wilt. Jesus is saying, lead me not into temptation. That's basically what he's saying there. Yet in Acts chapter 2, what is Peter says, he says, Men of Israel, hear the word of Jesus of Nazareth, a man approved of God. It says, him being delivered Catch this. By the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, ye have taken by wicked hands and have crucified and slain him. Now catch this. Jesus prayed, please remove this cup from me, yet not my will but yours be done And from Peter's perspective, it was not the Romans who ultimately crucified Jesus. It was not ultimately the Jewish leaders who had this antagonistic, intense hatred for Christ. It was the determined counsel and foreknowledge of God. God used those individuals to accomplish what he had determined would happen. But God's plan was for Christ to go to the cross, and he had a reason for it. The truth is that in our lives there are some testings that, whether we like to admit it or not, God has purposed for us to face them. And so we have to be willing to submit to God in those situations. We have to trust Him. Next week, well it won't next week's VBS, but after that, the next week, we will talk a little bit about how God delivers us from evil. And he has lots of means that he uses. But we do have to understand that sometimes when we say, lead me not into temptation, God's purpose is exactly for us to face something, to mature us, to examine us, to humble us. But then we have other examples. Some testings God will choose to withhold. Think of the example of Hezekiah. Kings 19, it says this. Hezekiah received a letter from the hand of messengers and he read it. And Hezekiah went up into the house of the Lord and spread it before the Lord. And he basically said, God, these people have decided they want to destroy us That was his testing. And you know what God did? 2 Kings 19. Isaiah the son of Amos was sent to Hezekiah and he said, Thus says the Lord God of Israel. That which you have prayed to me against Sidnacherib, king of Israel, I have heard it. And I'm going to deliver you. And there are times that that is what God wants us to do. When we are facing the temptation When there's the potential for us to face the temptation, we say, lead me not into temptation, and God says, I won't. And I won't specifically because you asked, lead me not into temptation. So let me conclude it with these thoughts. Prayer affects how God relates to us and the actions that He chooses to take. Now I'm not suggesting that God is dependent on us. Not suggesting that at all. God in his providence chooses to guide and examine, and God chooses, we could say, to govern sometimes through our prayer. You understand? That's the means that he chooses to use. He could do it without our prayer if he wanted to, but he chooses to do it through our prayer. God's name will one day be revered by all. And he has the power to make that happen. Yet he tells us in this prayer, pray, hallowed be thy name. God can accomplish his will on earth, and one day he'll absolutely do that. And every knee will bow to him and confess that he is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Yet he tells us that we should pray, Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. God is obligated to provide the daily basic necessities of his children, and he's committed to doing that in his word. Yet he tells us to pray, give us this day our daily bread. God governs the nature of our testing and always provides a way of escape, yet he tells us to pray, lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. One of the ways that God chooses to act in our lives Is through our response to Him in prayer. Every day I want to encourage you with this thought: bow your knee before the Lord, acknowledge your absolute dependence upon him in this area. You need God To lead you not into temptation and to deliver you from evil. May God help us to realize that every time He chooses to withhold temptation from us. He chooses to withhold those difficult circumstances from us. It was him that did it. It was his kindness. It was his mercy. It was his love. It was his compassion. And when God chooses to not answer that prayer as we think he ought, we have to submit ourselves to his sovereign plan for us. And we have to recognize he has a reason and he has a purpose. And God's intention is never evil towards his children. It is always good. And so we have to trust him in that. The plan is that the next time we meet, we will look at and examine the second part of that verse. Deliver us from evil. What does he mean? How does he do it? How should we respond to it? That will be the focus of our study next next time we meet. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer and then we will have our prayer time. Father, we thank you for this text because it reminds us we are completely dependent on you and we cannot face temptation If it's not for your for your strength that you give us. And you know what we can handle and you know when the timing is right and you know the duration and the intensity and all those things. Help us to submit ourselves to you and help us to constantly come to you, acknowledging our need to be delivered from evil. And to not be led into temptation. I pray you'd protect this congregation, only cause us to face what we can bear. And when we face those things, may we always look up to you and find that victory in you. Pray that you'll bless our time together this evening. May it be very sweet. And may it be very Christ exalting as we come together for prayer. We ask it in Christ's name, Amen