Let's bow together for prayer. Ask the Lord to bless our time and then we'll open up with a few songs. Father, we are so grateful for the opportunity tonight to open the Word of God. And I pray that as Brent opens the word that you would guide his thoughts, help the word to come forward with clarity and simplicity I pray that the Holy Spirit would take the truth as it is laid open, and I pray that He would impress it upon our hearts. Open our eyes to the weight of these truths And I pray that we would be moved by them. We pray that tonight you would do a great work in our hearts. We pray that as we sing praise to you, our hearts would be filled with joy as we reflect on these wondrous truths. And I pray that we would be encouraged and our fellowship would be encouraged. Be sweet. Pray for those who join us in the live stream. May they also be encouraged this evening. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, the first song that we're going to sing is in the blue book. So if you have your blue book, let's take that. We're going to sing number 105 for me to live is Christ. This is our theme song for our meeting. So let's stand together, please, and let's sing 105. For me to live is Christ Am I for not? I swear by holy yes , holy shift, to him is Christ you die, I see you have it fighting for me too. Live his price, for me to live his prize, pursuing him a higher price, for me to live his trust. The change in the serve There the front shame thus for my none pride shall make my own deserve. I for me killed in God with no brings to be through the end. And if we start to see to be seated and let's turn over to 416 in our red handbooks. 416. My faith has found a resting place. It's a wonderful song for us. to consider we think about the gospel we think about the stability that comes in life only through a right relationship with God, finished work of Christ. 416 Let's sing out the sun song. I tomorrow free, I forget, you shall be my evil. Alright, I I got so much into the topic for what's what's going wrong. Here we go, the last one, here we go. Come Pascal. We know that's the last verse. Okay, we could turn over to hymn four hundred and eighty-two. 480 C I think yesterday I mentioned that the children had this cat that there's a song that they always say. This is the one, not the one that I did last time. 482. Dwelling in new land. And I'm going to ask you if you had to stand up for this one if you are able. 482 sing it out. And I love the birthday. And lastly, if it is a pride in our Lord. Take the children here, God. Here was my small design, here is not them for me. I have a word I want, that 's why they are Some parents are embarrassed how loud that is. My son loves that song. I heard that. Alright, our last song that we're gonna sing before Uh Brent comes up and we dismiss the kids to their class. Is uh in the blue book, God has spoken. And we'll be singing all three verses, and each verse is going to emphasize A different aspect of how God has communicated Himself in the creation through His Word, and then ultimately in the gospel. So let's sing that out. Number 65. While God has spoken. God has whispered through creation Making all web is created voice alert. But now we 're all what is done, know what I 'm saying, but has mister Be Hot. It exists and pain. It exists and paid the law. God has no gender. I declared the world speaking my sauce in this Great song. Okay, well our children need to be dismissed and back for their class. And as they're going, I want to remind you, uh often I forget to say this, but if you are interested in uh participating in the love offering for family, there's a box in the back on the right hand side when you're heading out and uh if you would like to uh give toward that love offering please make sure that you put a check in the box and you can put uh Love offering for the gelises, something like that, just so that we know that that's what it is, and the deacons uh will will be taking that and uh collecting that and counting that for the end of the week. But I wanted to mention that Because I often forget those things. And uh I don't know about you, but I've been blessed and I've been challenged and I'm looking forward to what the Lord is going to uh show us from his word tonight. So Brent, come and preach the word. Good evening. Phone on? Can you I think we're gonna sing that Beulaland song again without the kids and see how well you guys do. Some are like, oh please no. It's isn't it great to have a little bit of energy in the church? You know, they do run, they do make messes, they do puke at w out your home. But that is the future of the that's not just the future, that is the church. And I'm in so many, so many, so many churches that don't have a single young person In fact, the church I'll be at next week, the pastor told me on the phone last week, well, we're kind of in a we got one 20-year-old, and then everyone else is 60 to 80. And that's not all that uncommon. So praise the Lord for children. Sing it out. Yeah. Take your Bible, let's go to Luke chapter 11. Luke chapter eleven. Tonight I want to be an encouragement And before we put up defenses or say, well, it doesn't work like that. Well, I hold on, time out, hold on. Let's just agree to agree on what the Bible says is true. Can we do that? Is the Bible true? Is the Bible true in spite of sometimes our circumstance or experience? Yes. Tonight I want to be encouraged because oftentimes we look at this matter, the subject matter they're going to look at. And we, oh, that's just not the way it works for me, Brent. You know, that's that's a nice ideal. You know, I see what Jesus says here, but that's just not the way it's worked out for me. About 20 years ago, I was going to a Christmas light show in a church. Now, start with, this church is not one of our churches. It's a church that has it headquartered in a big Italian city. So you can kind of guess which church this is. But beautiful building. Stone structure in the shape of a cross Timber framed structure, metal roof, kind of a quaint cottage-type looking building, but in the shape of a cross. Gorgeous little building, and they had it very well done for the Christmas holidays. Christmas trees everywhere. You walk in and instantly there's some water flowing and uh quiet music and it smells like pine and fir. Very beautiful setting in the head, beautifully decorated. Well, you walk up to the the cross section and you can go further and there's an altar. Kind of shows you what kind of church this is. And you go to the one side and there's like a choir whole choir area. And I look to the right at the cross And I I'll never forget what I saw. There was a porcelain statue of you can probably guess who, and she is standing there in her pensive look. If I'm sure you've seen the same look. She's kind of looking there and she has her hands outstretched. And someone with a pensive look, kind of very serious look. And she's standing there, and I'll never forget what I saw. And I I this is in the days before cell phones, so obviously I didn't have a camera with me. But taped to her about mid-thigh area, taped to her thighs was this handwritten note on the 8. 5 by 11 piece of paper, and it said, out of order And I said, of course. Well I I went over because now I'm curious. Uh we y they finally got it right for once. But I guess uh I guess what it was is there's a mechanism that you would put this quarter in or something and you'd pull this little lever and this little candle would pop up, this light would pop up, and maybe some of you have seen this. But that's what you would do over in that corner. And that night, those poor people, that denomination couldn't pray to Mary because she was out of order. Now we chuckle about that. And then there was so much theological truth there. I wish I had a picture. I'm almost tempted to find a statue sometime and just tape a picture over there just so I can I can get it in my brain. But honestly Sometimes we're not much different. We who know the truth and have a right relationship with God, sometimes our prayer life could be just described about the same way, out of order. Right? And I'll be honest, one of the biggest struggles I have is to pray consistently because, well, you know, I prayed one time and it didn't work out like I thought it did. Should we keep praying? Does this whole prayer thing work? Is that for the missionaries? You know, we hear these wonderful stories. George Mueller comes to mind. Here's a man who sits down to pray with the orphans, and we're going to pray for the food, and the food's not even there. And he prays, and there's knocks on the door. Wow. That's incredible. I think about some of the stories, modern stories I've heard from men of God, of who walk with God, who see God use them consistently. And they see these humongous, impossible answers to prayer. You you read stories about like Joshua, he prayed, and the sun, moon, and stars all stood still. My prayer life's not that good. I've never seen that happen. But tonight, let's look what the Bible says. Look what it says beginning in Luke chapter 11, verse number 1. And it came to pass that as he was praying in a certain place, when he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him, Lord, teach us to pray as John also taught his disciples. And he said unto them, When ye pray, say Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done, as in heaven, so in earth Give us day by day our daily bread, and forgive us our sins, for we also forgive everyone that is indebted to us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. And he said unto them, Which of you shall have a friend, and shall go unto him at midnight, and say unto him, Friend, lend me three loaves, for a friend of mine in his journey has come to me, and I have nothing to set before him. And he from within shall answer and say, Trouble me not, the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed. I cannot rise and give thee. I say unto you, though he will not rise and give him because he is his friend, yet because of his importunity he will rise and give him as many as he needeth. And I say unto you, ask And it shall be given you. Seek and you shall find. Knock, and it shall be open unto you. For everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be open. If a son shall ask bread of any of you that is a father, will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he for a fish give him a serpent? Or if he shall ask an egg, will he offer him a scorpion? If ye then being evil know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your heavenly father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him? Father, would you help us understand this passage? And Lord, we're not going to be able to delve into every phrase. And we could spend weeks here. But Lord, would we have the right attitude toward prayer? Would we see what it is in context? And would we see the invitation? And Lord, would we put away our excuses? And would we see Bible truth tonight in this vital matter about prayer? We need you. I need you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Prayer, as we see, and you're if you're going to want to take an outline, you're going to find it right there in verse 9. Ask, seek, knock. God makes the first move. He's the one that encourages you and I to ask. We've all had those friends that they message us on Facebook and we, okay, what you're selling now, right? We we get those consistently. Hey, how are you doing? Haven't heard from you in years. I'm the I make I got this great opportunity. I want to tell you about you know Right? You you know who I'm talking about. You you can probably picture that person right now. Maybe it's the same person that messages me occasionally And sometimes we come, well, I I don't want to be that type of person. I don't want to keep on asking, but wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. The creator God of the universe is the one who makes the first move here. He's the one that says Ask. And that's exactly what the word pray means. Oftentimes we think of prayer, we have this nebulous idea of, yes, prayer is talking to God. And that is it could be a base definition, but the word pray in your King James has the connotation of asking. That's very clearly Psalm 65, 2, O thou that hearest prayer, unto thee shall all flesh come. The very word pray means that it's asking. Prayer is not just confession. Is confession important? Absolutely. Confession should be a regular part of our personal devotional time. Where we confess, we agree with God. We say the same thing that God says about our sin. The word hamlage the word confess. That should be part of it. But that's not the whole context of prayer. Meditation. Should you and I be meditate , ruminating on the truth of Scripture? That's not a fair question. Yes, we should. Praise. Yes, God inhabits the praise of his people. Should your life and my life be one of consistent praising God for who he is and what he has done? Should it Yes, thank you. We're getting this. Contrition. Should you and I approach God in humility? Absolutely. All those things are important to a valid sense and an important sense of a devotional life, a spiritual life that God wants for us. But the word pray, when God says pray, he means ask. Prayer, by its very definition, is asking. And so it's not prayer if we're just kind of enjoying God, though we that we should be got we should be good enjoying God. The word pray means we're asking God. And the Bible is replete with things we can and should be asking God for. Think about the Lord's Prayer. We just saw this Many of you would know the Matthew version of the Lord's Prayer more than the Luke version, but look what it says there. There's several phrases here, at least six. Our Father which art in heaven. Hallow be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done, as in heaven, so in earth. Give us day by day our daily bread, and forgive us our sins, for we also forgive everyone that is indebted to us, and lead us not into the temptation, but deliver us from evil. Now, if you stop and think about each one of these phrases, the first phrase is hallowed. Lord, we're honoring, we're setting apart, we're reverencing your name. But then we're asking, if you pray this sincerely, you're asking for God's kingdom to come. You're asking for God's will to be done You're asking for needs to be met. You're asking for forgiveness. You're asking not to be led into temptation, but to be led to victory. You're asking consistently. So the the model prayer, and I think that's a better definition of this prayer than the Lord's prayer, it's a model prayer that you and I God that Jesus gave his disciples. If you look at the context of it, it's all about asking. And so those who say, well, I don't want to keep, I don't want to pray, prayer 's not all about asking, well, what was it about? The Lord's prayer was asking, consistently asking. You look at Bible examples even here in Luke chapter 11. We just saw this guy who this friend who comes at night, and he's he's what is he doing? He's not beating around the bushes. He's asking, right? You look at the widow in Luke 18. We'll look at that in a second, perhaps. What was she doing? She was asking the unjust judge Prayer is asking. If we're not asking, friends, we're not praying. Now, there's where it gets a little sticky because we well, I don't want to be that guy. I don't want to be always coming with material requests. Well, friend, let's go back to the Bible. What does God invite us to do? Jesus tells his disciples specifically, ask And it shall be given you. Seek, and you shall find. Knock, and it shall be open unto you. God makes the first move. He's the one that says to us, Ask. Oftentimes prayers become very hazy. Our pastor, Joel, Pastor Joel's and I, pastor growing up, often said something like this: don't pray crazy, don't pray hazy, and don't pray lazy prayers. Remember that? Yeah. I remember that very specifically. Don't pray. Crazy, hazy, lazy. Okay. Here's a hazy prayer. Lord, bless all the missionaries. Do we want the missionaries to be blessed? Is that from a heart of rebellion? No, it's not. That's a good heart. And I've prayed that prayer probably like you have. But how do you know if that gets answered? How do you? You don't, do you? It it's kind of a hazy prayer. It's one of those safe prayers. Yeah, I pray every day. What do you pray for? Well, you know, just for God to help us. How do you know if He has helped you? You look at the examples of prayer in the Bible and they're specific, concrete. And I'm not saying you should pray like Elijah, Lord, send fire down from heaven. But hey, there's concrete answers to prayer. You look through the Bible and there were some big prayers that were answered very concretely, and that's exactly what prayer should be. It shouldn't be crazy. Hazy or lazy. One old preacher decades ago said oftentimes prayer is like a sight sedan, sightseeing trip in a sedan. You just kind of drive around and you do some window shopping. Well that'd be nice God and that'd be nice God and and that'd be nice God. You know, this this would all be nice. No, no, no. Prayer is actually a pickup truck backing up to the dock and loading up on the what God has promised. No, right there we're like, well, wait a minute, Brandon. You're making God sound like he's a genie in the bottom. No, no, no, he's not. Not at all. Look what the Bible says here again in verse nine. And I say unto you, Ask, and it shall be given you. Seek, and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened unto you. For everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and him that knocketh, it shall be opened. If a son shall ask bread of any of you that is a father, will he give him a stone? Or if he asks a fish, will he for a fish give him a serpent? Why don't we ask? Why don't you and I ask? I would submit to you based on the context of verses 9 through 11, it's because we don't believe. Could be that we got burned once. Well, Brent, I asked I asked for God to heal my whoever. And he didn't. I just don't think asking works. Well, we that's a whole nother message right there. And then we could talk about where that person is. I know my mom's in a far better place. I asked God to heal my mom and he didn't. So should I keep stop asking? No. Well, Brett, I I tried this one time. When I was a kid, I prayed for, and it didn't work So I've just kind of given up. Maybe that's just something special for missionaries. They get to ask requests. Wait, wait a minute. Is that what we see here? If you are a missionary in full-time Christian service, then you may ask. Is that what you see here? No. Friend, I'll be honest, sometimes we look at prayer and say, oh man, that's great for the great men of the faith For those biographies. That was pretty cool. What that missionary got to experience. That was pretty cool. And we all rejoice when we see a missions report where God answers specific prayers, don't we? We love that. But we oftentimes don't ask because we don't believe it's for us. Is the Bible true? So what should we be what should we be doing? Asking And we'll explain what asking is and what we can ask for in a minute. But we oftentimes don't ask. We would rather worry or do without. On the back of my dorm room in college, I posted this because, you know, college, Bible college is great for me. I really enjoyed it. It was growing my faith. I was learning to walk with God on a consistent basis. And this quote I posted went like this. Why pray when you can worry? Had many friends walk into my room and say we were walking out, they read it again. What? What yeah. But that's oftentimes how we live our life, isn't it? Worry, oh that how much worry how much can you do with worry? You're robbing tomorrow of its joy and today. And does it do any good? And let's be honest, the thing you're worrying about, does it often come to pass? No. See, you know, I I'm facing a couple things right now. I'm taking a team of fourteen, hopefully fourteen, and a week and a half I'm taking them to the Philippines. We're still waiting on some passports as I know some others are as well. You know, the passport office is saying we don't know where they're at. Ah. So I can worry, oh well, what if I don't have them? Wait, wait I I can't do anything about it anyway. So what do we do? We worry. What should we do? Pray. We should give that over and we should let the peace of God that passeth all understanding Keep our hearts and guard our hearts and minds, which are in Christ Jesus. We should let that happen, but we don't. So why don't we do that? Because we simply don't believe that prayer works. I'm speaking honestly, friends, tonight. That's where we're at oftentimes. We don't believe it works. Secondly, I would assert to you that we don't pray because we don't understand the love of God. We don't understand what God wants to do with us. Look at the analogy that's given here in verse 11. If a son shall ask bread of any of you that is a father, will he give him a stone? Okay. You're at the dinner table Sunday afternoon and you get those rolls. My grandma used to make those brown and serve rolls. You know what I'm talking about? I'm sure they're very unhealthy for you, but It brings back memories when I have 'em. That and scalloped potatoes. I can still picture my I can almost taste and smell my grandma burning the rolls in the scalloped potatoes. That was wonderful But okay, when you're sitting around a Sunday afternoon table and there's those old brown and serve rolls, the pull part rolls, you get the picture? And margarine, you gotta have that big tub of margarine too. You may not like it, but that's that was in my memories. Okay, son asks, hey dad, can you pass the roll? Sure, son. I walk outside and grab a rock. Bring it in and set it on his plate. Clink! Watch out. Don't chip your tooth on that. Now, stupid analogy, would that happen? No. Why? Because I want to provide for my kids. Look at the next verse. If he shall ask an egg, will he offer him a scorpion? Okay, it's breakfast. Your kids are groggily at the table. Hey Dad, can you can you pass the eggs? Sure, son. And I run outside to the aquarium or I run into the garage and there's a little p scorpion there. And they bring it in and settle on his plate and say, hey, watch out. Don't let it sting ya. You have a scorpion? You want a scorpion? Would your parents do that to you? Scorpion bowl and how many of your kids think your parents would give you scorpions for breakfast if you ask eggs? Any of you? Yeah, why didn't Do you have scorpions here? I don't think so. That's not something that would happen. Take the most venomous thing that you have in Maryland. Not the politicians. What do you have? What do you you have rattlers? Copperheads? Okay. Imagine that. Imagine a dad Putting that on your plate for breakfast. Would that happen in a nor I I know our society is whacked. I I read the news. But in a loving, normal, nuclear family, would that take place? No, never. And Jesus says, verse thirteen, if ye then being evil Know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your heavenly father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him? The parallel passage in Matthew says, how much more shall the Heavenly Father give good things to them that ask him? Definitely the Holy Spirit is part of that good things. We don't understand the love of God. We either don't believe it or we've we've rationalized it in our mind, well, it doesn't work for me, so I'm going to stop praying. We don't understand and so we don't ask. Prayer is asking. What can we ask for? Well the context here as we see very clearly is asking for needs. Look at verse 3. Give us day by day our daily bread. How many of you have needs in your life? Can I see your hand? Yeah, that's all of us. If you're not raising your hand, you're dead. All of us have needs. How many of you are kind of curious as you look toward the future or retirement or even kids or ministry or whatever? How many of you are curious? Where the stuff is going to come from. Yeah. I know some of you may God may have been blessed and you you're God has blessed you and you may be a little bit more upset, but still all of us All of us, especially with inflation now, all of us are wondering, how I'm gonna pay for this. I've got four daughters. I've got to pay for weddings. Hey, you wanna lope? Just kidding. But we all wonder, you know, I've got lights on in my van. I I've got some issues at home I've got appliances that don't work exactly like they should. And you kick them some more and they they do they do their job, but we all have things like that. So what should we do about it? Pray Ask. We can and should be praying for our needs. Philippians, Paul says, My God shall supply all your needs. Do you remember the context? Do you know the context of that verse, what it's said in? It's really incredible. The Philippian Christians were sacrificially giving to their hurt. And Paul said, because of this, because you're following Christ, because you're giving, my God shall supply all your needs. And if you and I are following Christ, as this passage was directed to disciples, if we're following Christ, God has promised to meet every one of our needs. We do our budget a little bit differently because we have various amounts of income, it's no nothing set. If it's a need, we buy it. Because God's promised to meet it. If it's not a need, I pray about it. Honey, there's that gun that just can't You think I think that's a need? Keep praying, Brent. Okay. But needs. God has promised to meet needs. God has also called us to be salt and light. It's very clear that the Lord's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Paul said in Corinthians that he died for all. Now, friend, I'm not going to quibble with anybody about, oh, who are the elector? I don't know. But I do know this that God loves the world. And we should be praying for unsaved souls to be saved. I got neighbors. Since I moved to my house five years ago, I've had eleven neighbors die. Yeah, don't move next to me. I've tried to share the gospel with many of them, but I I haven't been too successful. I I went to a nursing home this summer And said goodbye to a friend of mine who is a neighbor. I shared the gospel with him so many times. Well, you know, it just didn't happen. Well, I keep praying. I got two ladies specifically that I'm praying for. One is a Hellion. She is nasty. She needs the gospel. She needs salvation. I'm praying. Another one thinks she's good. She Went to the Catholic Church when she was three. And she thinks that's enough. And she would claim to be Catholic, as many of them do. And she needs the gospel, and so you know what we should do? We should pray. Because God loves them. God's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. We need to pray for the unsaved. We can pray for Holy Spirit, powerful ministry. We saw that verse 13 right there. How much more shall your heavenly father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him? In the original language of the Greek, the word the, the article is not there. Commentators say that because it's not there, this is emphasizing the ministry of the Holy Spirit. This is not saying we have more of the Holy Spirit, or this is not saying we get speculation Special gifts at all. No. It's saying, Lord, would you help me utilize the gifts that you've given me effectively? Would you help me? Do what you've called me to do. Would you help me utilize and be controlled more by your power? That's what we can pray for We can pray for laborers for the harvest, Matthew chapter 9. We can pray for God's church to grow. Matthew 16. God said, I will build my church. We can pray for those who are sick. Is any sick among you, James says. What are you supposed to do? Well, let's let's let's gossip about 'em. Let's let's let's send them to all the doctors. Well, you know, I'm not against sending them people to doctors, but that's not where it's at. We trust God, not doctors. Because God's the one who gives wisdom. God's the one who's created this world. God's the one who heals ultimately. So we can and should be praying for those who are sick. We can pray for purity because we know according to 1 Thessalonians 4 that it's God's will regarding our sanctification. God, would you help me as a father, as a husband, would you help our family to stay pure and holy? Would you help us to identify things that are apart from you We can even pray for once. And you're like, hold on, hold on now. This is sounding a little bit too like, give me, gimme, gimme. No, no, no. Keep your finger here in Luke chapter 11. And look over with me at John chapter 16. Look what it says in John chapter 16, verse number 23. One of the hallmarks of a Christian, one of the things that should mark Vibrant New Testament Christianity is seeing consistent answers to prayer. Look at verse 23. And in that day you shall ask me nothing Verily, verily I say unto you, whatsoever ye shall ask the Father my name, he will give it you. Hitherto have ye asked nothing in my name. Ask, and ye shall receive that your joy may be full. Now I'm going to talk about this. We're going to talk about this in the next section called seeking. Okay, okay, you're gonna give me all the reasons why I can't ask for that whatever. Well, yes, but the there are gonna be Bible reasons. But God says ask And we should be asking if there's something in our life that we don't have that we think that God may want us to have or even that we want, God, would you would you be interested in me having that? God, would you would you allow me to get this? Would you I don't know what it is. Would you allow me to go on this vacation? Would you allow me this job? Would you allow me this relationship? God, I don't know if it's your will or not. And that's what we're going to go next in seeking. But God, would you God, I don't know if this is your will or not, but I'm going to ask for it God wants you and I to ask. What does the word pray mean? Ask. God wants you, yes, we should be communicating with God. Yes, we should be in contrition and praise and praising and thanksgiving. All those things should be a part of our devotional life. But when you see the word pray, and it's even in our old Elizabethan English King James, I pray thee, I ask thee, is what it's saying. The word pray means ask. That's the understanding of prayer. Now look back with me at Luke chapter 11. Look again what it says there in verse 9. And I say unto you, ask, and it shall be given you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be open unto you. God wants you and I to ask. And I'll just throw this out there: ask big. Ask bigger than yourself. It's easy to ask for the little things. God, would you give me a parking spot? And sometimes God does that, sometimes God doesn't. God, would you would you allow me to you know the little things we should ask for, but what big things in your life are you asking for that is impossible with you? We know Jeremiah 33-3, don't we? Call unto me and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. We know that verse, right? I I sang it as a kid. Call unto me and I will answer You you tell me you're looking like you. I don't know that song. But anyway, I sang it as a kid. But do you remember the context of what Jeremiah was when he that promise was given to him? He's in prison. Listen to verse 1. Moreover, the word of the Lord came unto Jeremiah the second time while he was yet shut up in the court of prison, saying, Thus saith the Lord. That's capital L, Capital O, Capital R, Capital D, Jehovah. The maker thereof, the Lord that formed it, to establish it, the Lord is his name. Call unto me, and I will answer thee, and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. Our prayer life should be bigger than ourselves. Our prayer life should be praying for things that are absolutely impossible with man because they're impossible with God. Now you say, well wait a minute, Brent, you're sounding a little bit too wishy-washy. What can we pray for? Well that's the next section. That's what seeking is about. The word seek there in Luke chapter 11, verse 9, has the idea to seek information or to try to find, to discern, to desire. So God says ask, but he also says seek. And here's the second thing. It's basically beginning to change our asking to ask right. While we are asking, we are to be seeking. And I'll be honest, giving you a personal illustration, personal testimony. Many times while I have asked for something specific. God has changed my wonder. God has redirected things. Isn't it great in Romans 8 that the Holy Spirit is praying for us? That that gets me every time. Jesus himself also there. He's praying for his own in John 17 and in Romans 8. The Son's making intercession for us, but the Holy Spirit is not only praying for us, but He's He's helping us pray. Albeit first to admit I need help. And while I know the Word of God, and while I'm learning the Word of God, and while I'm praying, while I'm asking, and by the way, ask, seek, knock are all in the present continual tense. They're all meaning keep doing it. Not just a well I asked years ago for something it didn't happen. Well that we'll talk about that in a second. It's called knock, importunity. While you're asking, you're also in seeking mode. And seeking is not, well, okay, this means we can't do it. No, no. Seeking is making sure our desires are aligned with God's in this. God's not going to share his glory. God's not going to let you and I get the glory for anything. He wants to get the glory for everything. And that's what glorifies God. The reason that David had his prayer answered. To knock the giant over is because it's very clear. You read his prayer, Lord, help all these people to see that thou art God. The reason that Elijah had his prayer answered, that these people may know that there is a God in heaven, and that you may get the glory. And you look at the prayers that God unanswered, even among in church history, it's ones that prayed big prayers for God to get the glory for them to get out of the way. And many times God has changed my wonder. That Spirit had helped my infirmities to direct or redirect my prayer. Oh no, no, no, Brett, you're praying for something that you you would be selfish and you you know. James 4 puts it this way, we ask amiss so that we consume it upon our own lust. Why doesn't God hear Uh it could be number one that there's unconfessed sin. Could be that you've asked before, but you've asked with a heart full of bitterness or a heart full of lust or a heart that is not right with God, and God's like, are you talking to me? I can't hear you Psalm 66, 18, if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. And some of us go to God in prayer sometimes, and God's like, I can't hear you. Because you got a heart full of sin. And so we blame God. Oh, prayer doesn't work. It has never worked for me. And the problem is right here. Because we haven't confessed. We haven't gotten right. We have held on to iniquity and we're not willing to confess it. And because of that God doesn't even hear our prayers. Why else doesn't God hear our prayers? It's obviously wrong. I've had people tell me In counseling situations where I was praying that God would allow me to divorce my wife and I'd be able to get remarried to somebody else. Do you think God's going to answer that? No. And that's a pretty severe type situation. But oftentimes we pray for things that wouldn't be a help, wouldn't be right, wouldn't be even biblical. And while we're asking, we should also be seeking because we should be able to know what is that mind of God. And the Spirit's helping us. No, no, no, you're not asking correctly. You're asking for your own glory. It could be that we would boast or brag, or it could be that we would use it for God's glory. I remember my senior year of high school, I began to pray and pray and pray specifically for a vehicle. I needed the vehicle. And it just come down to it based on different things in the family. I needed the vehicle. It was actually a need. I was praying. Chevy had just changed their body style. Those of you who like trucks in 99, 2000 had just come out. This is twenty plus years ago now. I was praying for a Z71, 5. 3, 4x4, two-tone leather interior. As a senior, well, pray big, man. Go for it. And I realized while I was praying, I prayed for several weeks. God, I would I would I I need a vehicle. I would love that truck. I had the colors in mind too. Maroon and tan. Maybe that was my problem. But I you know I it was King Ranch was also there as well. I I would I would settle for a King Ranch. But you know while I realized that, you know, I wouldn't have used that for God's glory. I've probably done donuts in the school parking lot or something. So God gave me God I ended up getting a car for free. 1975 Chevy Nova. No, no, no, no. Not the two-door. This is the four-door. And the the leaf springs were rotten. It was an Iowa car, it was my great grandparents. And uh the the axle had shifted uh on the on the leaf springs, so it went down the road kind of crooked. You would close the door and rust would fall down. It was a rust colored car already. Was that brown? Late brown brown 1970s. Yeah, you you can picture, can't you? Like zero to sixty in three days type deal. There was nothing to glory about in that car. But the Lord gave it to me for free. And I actually sold it a few years later for money. I did. And I learned how to work on cars because I had in need of work, as you can imagine. But God gave me something. God was redirecting my path during there. And I realized that, you know, God often doesn't answer my requests because I'm praying for selfish reasons. Does that mean we stop praying? Oh, no, no, no. It means that we keep praying. We keep seeking, ask, seek. We seek what God wants us to do so that we can know. And often I've come to the realization as I've been praying for somebody to be healed. No, no, no. God's going to heal them. But it's not keeping them here. My mom's healed. She's in heaven. I wouldn't want her back. She doesn't have to endure any of this mess down here now That's healing. But that wasn't what I was praying for initially. But that's what God's will was. And I've been I've been scene where I've been praying for something specific and come to find out I pray for this in the ministry. I pray for these open doors and as I I got to know them and looking back now, oh no, I I I'm glad I didn't get that answer to qu prayer. Because God said, No, no, no, that's not what you should pray for. Pray for this. And God's will changes our wonder. It doesn't mean we stop asking. It means He in seeking, when we're seeking God's will, we are actually being changed. The point of seeking is to be personally changed. God is using prayer to conform us to his image. That's what prayer is. Sometimes we think of prayer as like this mean, sadistic uh junior high boy tormenting the elementary grade school girls. And this you know, keeping them at arm's length. Yeah ha ha ha ha ha ha type deal. Oh yeah yeah oh sure you can come close. Ha ha ha ha ha. Maybe some of you are tormented by a friend in high school where they say, ah, come on, get in the car and you you run and as soon as you get pretty close jerk and then you run again oh I'm sorry ha ha ha come on and you run again and you get close and as soon as you get close Sometimes that's the way we look at prayer, isn't it? Just being honest. And we give up. We stop seeking. We stop asking. God doesn't want us to stop asking. He says, ask, seek. Because while we are asking, God is doing a work within. He's changing us to make us more like the image of His Son. Make our requests more in line with what God wants us to do. And God wants us to keep asking. Listen to 1 John 5, verse 14. Listen to the confidence that's here. And this is the confidence that we have in him that if we ask anything according to his will, he heareth us. And we if we know that he hear us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petitions that we desire of him. That is not a carte blanche, oh I'm gonna go home and ask for a Lamborghini. Okay, okay, okay. That may be God's will. I don't know God's will for your life, but are you gonna use that to honor and glorify God? Well, probably not, if we're honest. And that's not saying we don't ask for nice things or ask for good things that we could use or be useful in the ministry, even. God wants to give. He says ask. And if we ask according to his will, we have the promise that he hears us. And if he hears us, we know we have it. That's confidence right there. So you know what that means to me? I want to know God's will on this. Because I don't want to pray for something that's not God's will And while we're asking, we're also supposed to be seeking, seeking to know the mind of God. God, what is it? God, I I know that you you you you've said this in your word. And I believe that this is what you want to do, but I I'm not sure here, so I'm going to keep asking, I'm going to keep seeking until you give me confirmation either way, through your word, through the Holy Spirit, confirming or redirecting, I'm going to keep seeking. There's an aspect to our Christian existence that is somewhat difficult to nail down for sure. You can't, you know, obviously we have the Bible, it's written, it's it's dis it's discoverable, it's it's there. But there's times where the Holy Spirit is moving in our hearts that we just can't, well, God told me to. How do we know that? The Holy Spirit is there moving us, guiding us. through the principles we find in the Word of God. The Holy Spirit's ministering on a level that we're not even aware of. That's Romans 8. And that sounds kind of spooky, but that's actually the ministry of the Spirit. He's the one that can Confirms that we're the Son of God, but he's also one that prays for us and directs our prayers and helps us, our infirmities, because we don't know what we should pray for. Because we don't know it. And that's part of seeking. Look what it says there again in verse 9. And I say unto you, ask, and it shall be given you. Seek and you shall find knock and it shall be open unto you. Number one, ask. Number two, seek. Let's ask right. Number three, knock. Now, notice the illustration that was given to us. There's a friend who comes at night and he says, hey, lend me three loaves. He has a specific request. Because a friend of mine's come and I don't have anything to give him. And the guy inside's like, uh, go away. I I I'm I'm I'm already down for the night. We've turned out the lamps. All the kids are settled. We d I I I no I I'm not gonna do it. But what does the guy do? Hey, I got a friend. I need three loaves. Go away Is that annoying yet? Now, we get annoyed at that, but Jesus used that as an illustration of what you and I should be doing in our prayer life. In Luke 18, in fact, turn over there with me. Look what it says here in Luke chapter 18, verse 1 through 5. And he spake a parable unto them to the end that men ought always to pray and not to faint, saying, There was in a city a judge which feared not God, nor neither regarded man. Sounds like our judges. And there was a widow in that city, and she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary! And he would not for a while. Afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God nor regard man Yet because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her lest her by her continual coming she weary me. And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith, Shall not God avenge his own elect which cry day and night unto him Though he bear long with them, I tell you that he will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, cometh, shall he find faith on the earth? Now there's specific context here. God is saying, Jesus is saying, he's using this parable about this this unjust judge. I don't care about you, but what changes his mind? Oh, fine, get off, fine. This widow, you gotta help me. You gotta help me, you gotta help me, you gotta help me. I don't have anybody else, you gotta help me. And God himself says that's what you and I need to do for God. It's not those though God is up in heaven Saying, oh, okay, okay, fine, fine, get off my back. That's what we as dads do when kids keep asking, right? When we're watching something on the couch type deal, okay, I should quiet, yeah, come on. That's not our God. He wants us to keep asking because that's exactly what is what is this whole prayer thing doing? It's challenging our faith. It's growing our faith. And so often we give up so early. And we don't realize that there's even spiritual warfare oftentimes in prayer. Read Daniel chapter 10. There's oftentimes spiritual warfare that we, oh man, I no, no, don't give up. Keep going. Keep going, keep knocking. Some people pray for decades for a spouse or a loved one to trust Christ. I don't know if it's going to happen. They give up. Don't give up And you know, this gets into the theology. Does God hear? Yes, God does hear prayers. Does it really matter? Couldn't God? I don't understand all of it, but I do know what the Bible says. And God Jesus said to his disciples, ask, seek, knock. Ask, seek, ask right, and knock. Keep asking. And notice the verse 10 and back in Luke chapter 11. Look at verse 10 as we finish. For everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and him that knocketh it shall be opened. If we ask according to the will of God, it's promised to be given. Now it may not happen on our time frame It may not happen when we think it should. But friends, you know what I what happens when I read this? Yes, I have my own personal well that that's just not the way it happened with me. And I pray that I have my own personal reservations when I read these passages. I'm sure like just like you do. But what this does to me is it says g Brent, get into the Word of God and know the will of God and realize that the Holy Spirit is helping me pray because he's he's he's I I yeah, I got I got problems. I don't know what I should pray for as I ought. But seek it. Keep knocking. Find the will of God and begin praying for that. And pray for big things. Don't just settle for little things. Lord, bless the mission. Lord, I pray that this missionary, it seems like he's struggling. I pray that you give him something for his today that would help him and encourage him. Lord, I pray for this missionary to have this need. I pray that you'd help him raise the need of funds before the landlord takes the whatever. And I pray you'd work in that situation I can't do anything else we already have, but Lord, I pray, pray specifically. Don't pray hazy, crazy, lazy. Lord, we need in our family, we have this need we're looking at. And I don't know where it's going to come from, but Lord, we have this need and we believe this is your will because you've put this desire in us and what's not a it's not against the word of God. We know that we could actually probably have a better ministry and we This has become a need. Lord, would you answer this request? And keep asking, keep seeking, keep knocking. Don't give up. I could tell you story after story, and I'm sure you could as well, but our time's done tonight. But friend, very simply, we can all point to the excuses. We can all point to, well, it just didn't happen. Well, you know, those excuses you gave, you gotta ask right, and you gotta can't do this. We can all point to that as proof of why not to ask, can't we? But what does Jesus say? He's the one that makes the first move. Sometimes uh you know, I come to certain friends, we all have friends like this that we only call when we need something. Hey, um, how you doing? Good. How's the family? Good. Well, I'm having trouble with my vehicle again. Can you those type of people? And we're we're kinda hesitant, kinda we kind of uh I I've I've asked him a bunch of times. And we're kind of hesitant sometimes. Maybe some of you have the personality where you don't care. I'm gonna ask him again. But all of us have those people in our life that like we talked about already that only when they come into our life when they need when they need something like, oh, okay, here what do you need now? When we're thinking in the back of our mind. And sometimes we approach our Heavenly Father like that. That's not the way it is at all. Those of us who have had or have a good dad, we know that our dad within his power wants to do everything good for us. And sometimes he said, no, no, that that won't be the best for you. Oh, I'm gonna stop asking no, no, no. But you know what that made me want to do as a kid growing up? What do you mean about that, Dad? What what do you mean it won't be the best? Well if you did this, if I gave that to you now, then you wouldn't have it for this, for this, or this, it wouldn't be the best. Oh. So I began to think about that. And the next time I asked, hey dad, do you think this would be good for me if I had this? Yeah, I changed my asking. We have a so much better Heavenly Father than that. And this is not a genie the bottle. This is not like a rub anything, get anything I want. Corvette, yeah. No. This is the God who wants to grow us, to grow our faith through prayer. And part of the discipline, part of the process of sanctification is the challenge of learning how to pray. And so often we didn't work for me. I just yeah, I just I didn't win the lottery like I asked you to help me win the lottery, but it didn't it didn't happen. So we give up. Wait a minute, wait a minute. Don't don't do that. Ask. Seek. Knock. Keep going. And some of you have had something little on your prayer list or something big on your prayer list for decades. Keep asking, keep seeking, keep knocking. Maybe some of you have had something and you've let it off, but but that wasn't God's will either. God wanted you to pray or God was trying to change your motives in that. Keep going. Keep asking. Keep seeking. Keep knocking. Tonight is different because look back at verse 2. If we're gonna learn how to pray, this is not something that you go and take a class to do. Look at what it says. The disciples come in verse one and says, Lord, teach us to pray as John also taught his disciples to pray. And Jesus said, Okay, let's start a class and we're gonna have a test. Is that what he said? And he said unto them, When ye pray So tonight, we get to practice it right now. We're gonna take 30 seconds a minute. And we're going to do exactly what the Bible says to do. Ask, seek, knock. Take some time right where you're at. Ask, seek, knock. Let's pray. Father, would you challenge us all in this matter of prayer? I know I need that. I realize that there's A lot of Christian living that's been done in this room, represented in this room. And there's a lot of us who perhaps have backed off because it just didn't happen the way we thought it should, that we didn't get the request, we didn't get it when we thought, or we've given up, we've made excuses. And Lord, would you help us see that this incredible prayer life that you have asked us to enter into is designed by you to change us? to help us be more like the image of a son. And so Lord, would we ask, would we seek, would we ask correctly, would we ask biblically? Would we keep asking? Would importunity describe our prayer life and the fact that we are earnestly seeking God's will and we keep asking. Lord, I'm still learning in this matter of prayer. And Lord, I pray you'd help me to keep believing in faith, not to be faithless, as Luke 18 talks about. But to be like that widow woman who keeps asking, and Lord, as you change my wonders, you modify my requests, may we submit to your your wonderful guidance. And would we praise you all along. Lord, thank you for prayer. Thank you for what you have done in my heart and my life. Help us to put away excuses or our experiences as proof of this doesn't work. Help us by faith to believe what the Bible says. In Jesus' name. Amen. You know, prayer is one of the most personal, intimate things that we do. in the Christian life. And when we pray, we have an opportunity for God. Uh we get to express to him some of our greatest burdens. Um in fact we can come to The Lord with things that we would not even be comfortable sharing with anybody that we know. It's the truth. And when we pray, we have an opportunity to learn. what God values. And uh you know, he's talking about when we seek how he shapes us. And many, many times we'll be praying and we get into the word and all of a sudden something that we were very burdened about something that we really wanted. All of a sudden, because we have been expressing that to God, as we dig into the scripture, we start noticing things about the way that we're praying. You know what? That's a really selfish prayer. Or that's it. That's something that that God wants me to continue praying about. In fact, one of the most fascinating answers to prayer that we read about in the Bible Is when Zechariah is told, Your prayers have been heard, your wife, who has been barren and is past child bearing years, is going to have a child. Fascinating uh prayers that was answered because what it shows you is that that couple probably prayed for a child for the entire period that she was able to have children. At the end of that time they said, well , guess it's not going to happen. And the angel says, your prayer's been heard. Just delayed. And I have a reason for that. And so prayer is such an important part of our Christian walk, such an important part of our communion with God. It changes us, it expresses our greatest burdens and needs it allows us to humbly say God it's your will here it's an opportunity for God to to demonstrate his power and his goodness and we we see that in tangible ways when we lay our request before him. So such an important topic. Such an important topic. I don't know what the last song is because I don't know where I put my sheet. So two five Very good. All right. So let's turn to him 251. And the song we're going to sing is Near the Cross. And it's such an important thing for us to remember. Keeping us close to the cross, remembering God's love for us. I think that's a huge emphasis in the scriptures that were were mentioned. This is your father. He's good. Even an evil father does things for you to get you off their back. God's not like that. He loves you. He knows us best. So let's stand together. 251 near the cross. We're to sing the first And the last verses of this song. Jesus. Even all my easy, but the sun can have this black onto them in our Spow for prayer Before we do, don't forget if you would like to participate in a love offering, please do put that in the back box there. And if you need to reach out about anything Please don't hesitate to do that. Really want to be just remind you that Brent's available, I'm available, my wife's available, his wife's available. We want to be. And encourage Pastor Chris, his wife, we're available. We'd love to be an encouragement if that's something that you need. Let's bow for prayer. Father, I thank you for the great reminder that we have a Father who loves us. who is infinitely wise, who is unlimited in choosing to do what is best for us. And you invite us to come into your presence through the work of Christ and to lay our greatest burdens at your feet. to pour out our hearts and to seek your face. And Father, I pray that you'd help us to be men and women who are willing. And we are convinced that you hear the prayers of your people and that this invitation is a serious matter. And I pray that we would come into your presence regularly, and I pray that we would be very specific. about these requests, that we would be diligent to seek the scriptures so that you can shape our desires so that they are more conform to your will. And I pray that we would see very consistent and very powerful evidences of your work in our lives through through prayer. Father, we think of our church family of so many tremendous needs. We have sick, we have people who have dealt with great tragedies in the last year, people who carry heavy burdens. Obviously every one of us uh struggles with our flesh and the daily battle to walk with you and I pray that you would help us as a people to come humbly into your presence and to come with these requests, realizing that we have the ear of our loving Heavenly Father. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen.