It is great to be back here at Anchor. I've been praying for this week, and if you have your Bible, let's look at 1 John chapter 5. 1 John chapter 5. Here we are at a looking at a week of revival. Now, I know many of you have been a part of something like this in the past, but some of you may not have. And some of you are like, uh, what's this whole revival thing? You come back to church on a Monday night? Why in the world would anybody do that? And I realize that in the crowd this morning there's some of you who you come only on Sunday mornings. And that's just what you do because that's what you do. Let me challenge you to come back tonight, 6 p. m. tonight. Now let me further challenge you to come Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, 7 p. m. As was mentioned, we will have a kids program. My wife, when I stand to preach, will take the kids out and they'll have an age-appropriate message And for those of you who have been here before, you know that I am not a long-winded preacher. Typically when we start at top, if we start at top of the hour, which we'll try to each night, I'm done by the next top of the hour, by eight o'clock. We have kids there in school as well, and I understand it's there's homework, there's meals, there's all those things. But let me challenge each and every one of us to do our part, to be here, to hear God's word. Let me ask a question as we get started. How many of you have arrived spiritually? You don't need any more help? Anybody? Didn't think so. How many of us honestly say, Brent? I need God. I need help. I have needs. Would you lift your hand to that? Yeah. Thank you for your honesty Well, hey, I got good news. It's not that I'm here. It's not that the church is going to be open, but the word of God is. And that can meet needs. This morning there's a retired pastor friend of mine who sent me a verse via text, and it challenged me, it encouraged me. Psalm 144 8 verse no I'm not gonna find it now. Uh I I missed it. No, here it is. Psalm 145, verse 18. There it is. The Lord is nigh unto all them that call upon him, to all that call upon him in truth. Pastor said something similar from Psalm 145 earlier. We read it. And then we read Psalm 85 as well. James 4 also talks about something similar. You draw nigh to God, and God will draw nigh to you. Let me challenge each and every one of you as we start this revival time to be here for each and every service Now, I know that's going to take some planning. We've got six kids ourselves. And we're staying here on church property, but it's still going to take planning. It's still going to take some doing to be here at the services. So for those of us with children, let me challenge you to even today think through how am I going to make this happen. Those of us with young people who have homework and we're in the same boat. Uh do your best to make clear the time. You know, even if you need to, and I've said this before here, grab a burger on your way in, perhaps. But do your best to be here starting at 7 p. m. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. And we're not going to be long. We 're not going to sing a few songs. We 're going to turn our hearts toward the Word of God. Let God speak to us through His Word. And leave your Lord willing change because we've met with God. This past year our church had a revival, and in fact, I was able to be home for it. And we live a little ways away from our church. So it took a little bit of doing. So I'm not not acquainted with the fact that life is busy. I get it. It's busy for all of us. These days are uncertain. Gas is expensive. I get all of that. But if we will do our part of drawing nigh to God, he said in James, He will draw nigh to us, and He will be near. I don't know about you, but I have needs. I need to hear from God. I need God to work in my heart, my life. And I don't say that just to drum up support and hopefully people come to revival, but I need God to work in my heart. And if you'll come this week with the right heart attitude saying, God, I need, you will leave this week saying, God, thank you. But if you come with, hmm. We'll see if this guy is a good preacher. We'll see if he tells any funny stories. I'll see about this whole revival thing. The price of gas I I get all those, but if you come with that attitude you're not gonna gain anything from this week. But if you come simply saying, God, I need to hear from you. And to that end, let me challenge us. I realize March Madness is on for those of us who are into sports. I realize there's a lot of things happening, but let me challenge us. I've found in these weeks when we Uh don't make time for something. We it doesn't happen. So let's challenge us to stay off our phones. You'd be amazed how much time we would gain if we stayed off of Instagram, social media, Facebook, whatever the case is. If we turned off ESPN, Fox News, whatever the case might be, and we just simply said, God, I'm going to use this time to get ready for the revival. I'm going to use this time to prepare for, I'm going to pray for my needs and for the needs of the church. God will do a great work in your heart and in the life of this church. And that's our prayer this morning. Look with me here in 1 John chapter 5. First John chapter 5. Look what the Bible says, beginning in verse number 11. And this is the record that God hath given to us eternal life, and this life is in his son. He that hath the Son hath life, and he that hath not the Son of God hath not life. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God. That ye may know that ye have eternal life, and that ye may believe on the name of the Son of God. As we get started this morning, I want to basically ask another question. And I want you to be honest. And I know some of you are right now looking at me what it's what's the question? How many here have ever, for a time period in your life, or a brief season, or maybe even now? How many people here this morning have ever wondered, struggled, or questioned whether or not they truly were going to heaven? And could you be honest? How many would you raise your hand to that? How many people here would say, Brent, there has been times my life keep your hands up by the way. I have struggled, wondered, questioned whether or not I was going to have now look around with those hands up. See those hands? Do you see that your pastor is raising his hand? Okay, I didn't I'm not taking a poll and I didn't count everybody, but that looked like the majority of the folks here. You're in good company. Because John here is writing to people who at times in their life said, Am I going to heaven? Am I truly a child of God? And some of you, maybe even now, you didn't raise your hand because you didn't, I don't want people to know that I've struggled. But maybe some of you didn't raise your hand, but yet you could have. And I'm so glad you're here, friend, because we want this morning to look at the Word of God and have the Word of God help us understand what it means to know for sure that when we die, we can be in heaven. I want to speak this morning on the very simple subject, but the very important subject of assurance of salvation. And as I pray in a second, would you pray quietly? And some of you who maybe right now, if you're struggling, I would encourage you to pray and say, God, would you show me from your word how I can know for sure that I'm going to heaven? Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this church. Thank you for the work that you're doing. Thank you for the beacon of light and the hope and the anchor that this church is to this community. I pray this morning that you would help people take steps of faith, that they would see the Word of God, that the Holy Spirit would take the Word of God and minister to them on a level that we're not even aware of and speak that truth to them so that they can know. They can know beyond any shadow of doubt I'm going to heaven because Christ died for me. I pray you'd help people to be clear where they stand. And Father, if there's anyone here who doesn't know for sure, would they get that settled this morning? And for those who may be here who think they are born again, who are going to heaven, who think they are going to heaven, but yet have never placed their faith and trust in Christ. Would you help them to see the emptiness of their lies? Would you help them to understand that they are not born again, that they can place their faith and trust in Christ? And would they place their trust, their eternal hope, in the finished work of Christ? Lord, I pray that you'd help me to be clear. I pray that you'd use your word, your truth in our hearts through the Spirit's power this morning. I can do nothing but fail. We need you. I need you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Before we get to this passage, I want you to turn back to the beginning of the book. And I want us to look very briefly at a few reasons why God's people struggle sometimes. John deals in many terms, in many ways, with love, with truth, with knowing God. Look at 1 John chapter 2 and look at verse number 3. He says this, and hereby we do know that we know him if we keep his commandments. Now John here when he says no is knowing that we have that close fellowship, that close relationship with him. Hereby we do know that we know him. And notice the condition. If we keep his commandments, I've talked with many people, God's people, through the years. Who weren't obeying, who weren't walking in truth, who weren't doing what they were supposed to do. And as a result, one of the things they struggle with, hey, do you friend, do you know for sure you're saved? Well, I I'm not really sure right now. I don't know. There's a flip side of that as well. Look over at the next book prior. Go back to the left of 2 Peter chapter 1. And here Peter says something very similarly. He says in verse number five He says, and beside this, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue and to virtue knowledge, and to knowledge temperance, and temperance patience, and the patience godliness, and to brotherly into godliness, brotherly kindness, and to brotherly kindness charity. Now friends, would you agree with me that we're supposed to be as Christians, we're supposed to be growing? Would you agree to that? Could I get an amen if you agree that we're supposed to be growing? Okay, you're still awake. Great. We're supposed to be growing. I know that didn't shock any of you. We as believers are supposed to be adding to our faith. And we're supposed to be letting the Holy Spirit change us from glory to glory from within. And Peter talks about these things, and look what it says in verse eight. For if these things be in you and abound, they make you that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. How many of you want to have a fruitful life, a fruitful Christian existence? Would you raise your hand? Yeah, all of us do. But look what it says in verse 9. And this is a shocking statement. But he that lacketh these things, what is this saying? The person, the individual who is not growing. Who is stagnant? Who is in essence going backwards? Who is backsliding? He that lacketh these things, who the person who's not growing, look what it says there, is blind. You show me a person who's not growing and they're gonna have no spiritual vision. I don't know what I'm supposed to do with my life. I don't know what God has for my life. I don't know what God wants me to do. You're not gonna know unless you're growing, unless your your face is in the Word of God daily Is blind and look what it says, and cannot see afar off, and have forgotten that he was purged from his old sins. It's possible for a believer, one of God's children, to go so far backwards that yes, they're facing God's correction. Yes, they're facing God's chastening. Yes, inside they're probably torn up. But they realize they come to a position where I just I don't I don't yes, I place my faith in Christ, but I really don't know that I I'm there. I don't have that sweet assurance, I don't have that confidence. There's a third reason why sometimes people struggle whether or not they're going to heaven. And that's simply because they've never placed their faith and trust in Christ. Often I meet people and I ask them to share their testimony with me. Hey, when did you place your faith and trust in Christ? When did you understand the gospel? Frequently, I hear stories like this. Well, I grew up in a good Bible preaching church, but I never placed my faith and trust in Christ. I thought I was saved. I I made a profession. I got baptized. And inside I knew something wasn't completely right, but you know, I didn't want to upset the apple card. I didn't want people to think or talk about my family, so I just kept going and it wasn't until I was in my twenties, thirties, forties. That I admitted I've never placed my faith, trust completely in Christ. I meet people like that all the time I mean others like that similarly who say, I I thought you had to be good, do good and look good, and I was doing all those things and I was just going along through the motions and I was in the youth group, I was in in the services, I was there, I even went to a Bible school or Bible college and Yet I never understood the gospel that he died for me, that he placed I I place my faith and trust in him, that he he did for me what I can't do for myself. I meet people like that all the time. And it's possible this morning that you're sitting here, that you've been in church for longer than I've been alive, and yet you're not on your way to heaven. Well, Brent, how can you say that? Well, we'll look at the Bible because the Bible has the answer. But I meet people all the time who are very religious. Yet still on their way to a Christeless eternity in hell, the lake of fire. But thankfully, the Bible has the answers. The Bible, God's word, shows us how we can know for sure that when we die, we can go to heaven. Turn back with me to 1 John chapter 5. And look here what the Bible says. Recently, a survey was done, in a minute we'll look at the Bible. Recently a survey was done and it said of American people, this is not just Christians, but of Americans, 76% believe that heaven exists. 71% believe in hell. Just one half of 1%, so 0. 5 % of people expect to go to hell. Nearly two-thirds of Americans, 64% believe they'll go to heaven. But when they further queried the people, they said, How do you know that? That many Americans adopt simplistic views of life and the afterlife based upon ideas drawn from different sources, such as movies. music and novels without carefully considering those beliefs. And as I've knocked on people's doors, as I've talked to people on the plane, I find that's true. Well uh well what do you believe, friend? What how do you how do you know you're going to wherever you're going? Well, you know, I was reading this sometime and I was listening to this guy sometime, and you know, my uncle, he's a pastor, and he said, Well, wait a minute, wait a minute. What does the Bible say? And that's exactly what we're going to look at. Look with me at 1 John 5, verse number 11. And look what the Word of God says here. And this is the record that God hath given to us eternal life, and this life is in his Son Truth number one is God gives eternal life. Can you say that with me this morning? Truth number one, God gives eternal life Notice again the verse. Look down at verse 11, and notice what it doesn't say. And this is the record that being a member of Anchor Baptist Church gives you eternal life. Is that what it says? Is that what it says? No. Should you be a member of a good Bible preaching church? Yes. But that can't get you into eternal life. And this is the record that being a Baptist gives us eternal life. No. Some would maybe like you to think that, but that's not what the Bible says. And this is the record that giving your offering every Sunday in church and getting baptized gives you eternal life. Is that what the Bible says? No, it's not. Look again what 1 John 5. 11 says, and this is the difference between life and death, here friend. If you don't have a Bible, look on with the neighbor, look on somewhere, because this is what's going to give you eternal life. This is what's going to help you. This is what the Holy Spirit uses. It's the word of God. Make sure you have a copy, whether digital or print, open in front of you, because that's what's going to change your life. Look what it says again. And this is the record. That God hath given to us eternal life. Truth number one, God gives eternal life. It's not UERn, it's not religion brings, it's not baptism gives One of the most amazing stories, if you stop to think about it, is perhaps one of the most familiar stories, is the story of the rich person who came to Jesus, the wealthy person, the ruler. We know him as Nicodemus. He came to Jesus by night in John 3, a man who knew the Word of God, who studied the Word of God, who more than likely knew for memory most of the first five books of the Bible. I don't know those from memory. He knew the law. He was studied. He was well respected. He was a teacher. He was the guy who walked by on the street in Jerusalem and all the people go, ooh, wow. There's Nicodemus. Man, what a good guy he is. And yet Jesus looked him straight in the face and said, as you are right now, Nicodemus, you're not going to heaven. You must be born again. I would have loved to see Nick's mouth drop open. I'm not going to heaven? No, you're not. Because you don't have Jesus. You don't have the way, the truth, the life. You have religion, but you don't have relationship with the Savior. And that's what it is. It's not you and I doing anything. It's Jesus Christ, his death, burial, and resurrection. Jesus said in John 14, I am the way, the truth, the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me Titus chapter 3 says, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. 1 Timothy 2, for there is one God and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus. It's not your good works. And it seems like every so often I meet people who go to good Bible preaching churches and I ask them, how are you going to heaven? Well, you know, I'm a good person. And friend, if you, if that's your answer to the question of how you're getting to heaven, I would submit to you based on the authority of God's word that you have not placed your faith and trust in Christ. That you are not on your way to heaven, that you are a religious, maybe a nice, maybe a moral, maybe a good person, but you're not saved. And what you and I need, every single one of us need, is a new birth. Nicodemus asked, how can a man be born again? Does he get back inside of his mother? No. And all moms here said, Praise the Lord, no. What does he need? He means a new heart. New birth. How does that happen Well, the Bible word is repentance and faith. Repentance. I came to church thinking this morning I'm a good person. I came to church thinking this morning that I've been baptized, catechized, compromised, whatever eyes you want to add to it. I add religion, but I realize that religion can't save me. I realize that Jesus Christ died for my sin. And I'm placing my faith, my trust completely in him alone, not my works. That's repentance and faith. And that's what God commands all men everywhere according to Acts 20 to do. Repentance and faith. Let me ask this question. I'm not going to ask, is there a time in your life when you got baptized? I'm not asking, have you made a religious decision? Is there a time in your life when you have done what the Bible calls repentance and faith? Being born again. Well, Brent, I've been I've been a church member all my life. I've been Christian. No, no, no. No one's a Christian all their life. Well, Brent, yes, I am. I was born into a Christian family. That's great that you have a good heritage. But God calls all men everywhere to come to a point where we realize, I can't. My sin has separated me from God. And I can't place my faith, I can't do enough good works, but the only thing I can do is place my faith and trust in Jesus alone. Friend, I don't know all of you, many new faces since the last time I was here, and that's great. But I have to ask, I must ask, has there been a point in time in your life When you rejected your good works, when you realize it's not my good works, it's not my baptism, it's not my church membership. And you place your faith, your trust, your total reliance upon Jesus Christ alone for salvation. He's the way. He's the truth. He's the light. And no, that's not politically correct, but that's biblically correct, and that's what eternity is based on. It's the finished work of Jesus Christ. It's Him, Him alone. It's God that gives eternal life. Anybody here that's thinking this morning that you have any part in your eternal life, you're sadly mistaken. You are not right with God. You are not trusting the finished work of Christ in this morning and calling you to the biblical words of repentance and faith. Stop trusting your good works. Well, Brett, I've got something. Compared to who? Compared to the state guy and the state pen? Yeah, you do. But compared to a holy God who can't have sin in heaven, we have nothing. In fact, we have a great debt of sin that we can't pay for And yet the good news is that Christ died for your sin. God loves you. He's done everything necessary for you to spend eternity with him. And if you will simply in faith say, God, I can't, and like the thief on the cross, say, Lord, remember me. Trust in the finished work of Jesus Christ. You will be made right with God. Have your sins forgiven. Have God's righteousness, Jesus' righteousness put onto your account. That's a pretty good exchange, isn't it? And spend eternity forever with him. That's the promise. That's the good news But with the good news, there's also the warning. Those who fail to place their trust in Christ, however good, however moral, however nice they may be, they're choosing to reject God's perfect Son. Friends, according to Isaiah 53, the only thing that satisfies the Father is the sacrifice of his son. Not your religion, not your good works, not anything. It's God that gives eternal life. And I know for many of us here, this is review. We've heard this, but I don't know every person in this room this morning. Some of you I'm just meeting for the first time. And I must warn you that if you fail to place your faith and trust in Christ, you will pay for your own sin for all of eternity. And that's exactly what we're here this morning warning against. Look back at what it says here in 1 John chapter 5. It says, And this is the record that God hath given to us eternal life. Number one, God gives eternal life. It's not in your religion, it's not in your good works. It's what Jesus Christ did. Ephesians chapter 2 says this: For by grace are ye saved through faith. And that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Truth number two, look what it says again. And this is the record, verse 11 of 1 John 5. And this is the record that God has given to us. Eternal life. Truth number two is you can't lose eternal life. Can you say that with me? You can't lose eternal life Now, let's just be honest for a second. What is the definition of eternal? Forever. And ever. And ever. And ever. How many of you, your brains just can't handle the concept of forever? Yeah, we can't. Because everything in our life has a finite existence, but yet God has created us forever. And it's pretty it's pretty startling. When you start to think about it, you know the smoke just starts to well that's where smoldering comes into place. The smoldering happens in here. The smoke just starts to come out the ears. Can't compute, can't compute, recalculating. It's like my GPS when we're driving and I don't take the directions or can't compute, can't compute, recalculating Because we can't think in terms of eternal, but God has promised us eternal life. And you can't lose it. And sadly, there are many good people. I've met many of them, I'm friends with some of them. Who believe, who teach, who think, well, you know, you just can't know that you actually have eternal life. You just don't have it. It's only conditional. Wait a minute, wait a minute. Let me read this. Because is this truth? Do we believe this is true? Yeah, okay. Look down here with me too, verse 11 again. And this is the record that God hath given to us what kind of life? Eternal. You know John 3. 16? I think everyone does. In the West here at least. Some people that don't, but most people do. What does it say? For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believed should not perish but have Everlasting. So we have these words here, everlasting and eternal. And you go on, you read the gospels, and what do you find? You find eternal, you find everlasting. Friends, you can't lose eternal life. In Romans chapter 8, Paul, we were in Romans this morning for Sunday school, Romans chapter 8, Paul's talking about how that nothing can separate us from the love of God. And it goes through this whole list of things that can't separate us from the love of God. And if God loves us, we know that according to John 10, that he has us. In fact, keep your finger here in 1 John and go back with me to the book of John, the Gospel of John, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John. John chapter 10. Notice the words that Jesus says of himself. Verse 27, he says this. My sheep hear my voice and know and I know them and they follow me. Look what it says in verse 28. Jesus says, and I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Here it's clearly laid out. The people who place their faith and trust in Christ are known as God's people in Scripture, and there's other words for them as well. But God says, Jesus says specifically, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Then look at the last part of verse 28. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. We can very clearly see that Jesus himself has us in his hand. It's pretty good hands to be in. That's better than being in all-states hands, isn't it? I've all stayed I think and they haven't done too much for me. Take my money every six months. But Jesus doesn't do that. He keeps us I have some little kids. In fact, you'll probably get to meet them, and you may wish you hadn't met them by the end of this week. But no, they're wonderful little kids. I got a two-year-old whose name is Amanda. I call her Squish And people ask, why do you call her squish? Well, look at her. What do you want to do? You want to squish her? So she's my squish. If I had a piece of candy or something in my hand and I closed it tightly and I was keeping it from her Do you think my two-year-old could get it out of my hand if I was trying to keep it from her? Do you think she could? Notice I brought my two-year-old in this in this illustration. I did not ask these guys. I have uh twelve, t I'd remembered twelve, ten, and nine year old, right? Yeah. I did not ask them because they know that I'm ticklish now and they would probably get it out of my they'd probably gang off of me and get it out, wouldn't you guys? They're like daddy, why are you including us in the Sunday morning sermon? Please don't. So, okay, we got got back to the two-year-old. The two-year-old is trying to get this piece of candy out of my hand. Do you think that I can keep it from my two-year-old? Yeah, it says because I'm so strong and massive and just brrrr. Why are you laughing? No. It's because I'm much older, much more capable than my two-year-old. Okay. Silly illustration. But Jesus Himself, the creator and sustainer of the world, has you and I in his hand. If you've placed your faith and trust in Christ, you are in the hand of Jesus Himself. He doesn't have butter on his fingers. He's not going to slip. Oh, you're not. Oh, sorry, dropped you. And aren't you thankful that he doesn't? He has you Secure in his hand. And he says very simply, look at the end of verse 28. No man is able to pluck them out of his hand. And it goes on, it doesn't stop there. Verse 29, he says, My father, which has gave them me, is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of my father's hand. So we find out that Jesus has us in his hand, God the Father has us in his hand, and they are keeping us. So right there we've got two members of the Trinity who are keeping us. Well, where's the Holy Spirit in all this? Oh, according to Ephesians, he's sealing us from within, keeping us into the day of redemption. All three members of the Trinity are involved in this matter of eternal security, keeping us. Friends, you can't lose eternal life because God's very nature is tied to it. His very character is tied to this. It says in the book of Titus. Paul says this, Titus chapter 1, verse 2, in hope of eternal life, which God that cannot lie promised before the world began The very character and the very nature of God and the fact that he cannot lie is tied to the fact that he is keeping us for assured forever. That's security. Suppose I came to you today and I was a door-to-door salesman. You don't see that too much anymore. I grew up remembering door-to-door salesmen. I remember vacuum cleaner salesmen coming to my door. I remember this guy who I don't know why I remember this, but he only had well I remember this very clearly, but he only had uh one hand, he had a kind of a a metal claw on this hand, and he was coming and selling life insurance. as a little four or five year old watching this in the living room with my mom talk with him. That was very, very memorable. But suppose I came to your door today and I knocked on the door and I said, hey, my name is Brent. I had a cheesy smile and a cheesier suit coat. And I had one of those used cars salesman pitches. My name is Brent. And for three easy payments of $39. 99. 99, you can have eternal life. Now, that's silly. That won't happen. And if it would, you'd slam the door in the guy's face, right? That's stupid But suppose, just for sake of illustration, you bought the eternal life that I sold you, and it lasted for a hundred years and then ended. Was it really eternal? No. What if it lasted for a thousand years and then ended? Was it eternal? What if it lasted for a million years? That's a long time. That's how long it's going to take to pay off the national debt. A million years. And then ended. Was it really eternal? No. What's the definition of eternal? Forever and ever and ever. And our mind just can't comprehend it. And God says, I have you. I've got you. You may still be there, but John 10 verse 30, Jesus says, I and my father are one. Yes, those people who come knock on my door Saturday morning, Jesus did claim deity. Here he proves it, John 10, 30. He has us. Jesus has us. God the Father has us. And friends, truth number two is you can't lose eternal life. Look back with me what it says now in 1 John chapter 5 again And this is the record that God hath given to us eternal life. And this life is in his Son. He that hath a Son hath life, and he that hath not the Son of God hath not life. Truth number three I want us to see this morning is simply this. Prayers don't necessarily save people. The Son does. Jesus does. Believing does. Let me say that again, prayers don't necessarily save people. Believing does. The Son does. Jesus does. Now right there, some of you may be thinking to yourself, well, Brett, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. I was taught as a kid in my church That you've got to pray and ask Christ to save you. And perhaps many of you did trust Christ for salvation in prayer. You maybe prayed with at an altar, you maybe prayed with parents, you maybe prayed with organ playing, and you've said, God, I can't save me, I'm gonna trust you. And you may have said a couple words, but sometimes God's people get a little confused and they think things like, I don't know if I said the right prayer. Well, hold on, hold on. Look through John sometimes and look where it said how people get saved. You won't find prayer in there. What's the prayer we find? It's the thief on the cross. And what did he pray? Lord, remember me when thou comest to my kingdom. Um, that's not a very good prayer. He didn't say he's sorry for his sin. He didn't the organ wasn't playing, he wasn't down front church and all-church. No, no, no. But what was he doing? I can't. I'm a sinner. I know it. I can't. He can. I'm trusting him. Lord, remember me when thou comest to thy kingdom. Sometimes God's people, we get so hung up on the prayer or the prayer we said or didn't say, well, I knew Brent, I was just a little kid and I don't remember all the words that I said. Well, hold on, hold on, hold on. Did you realize that you were a sinner? Yeah? I knew I was a sinner from an early age because my parents reminded me a lot Praise the Lord, not for abuse, but for biblical reminders. It's biblical. It's right. Child left to himself bringeth his mother to shame. My parents reminded me. I knew I was a sinner. So it didn't take long for me to say, for the when the Sunday school teacher got up when I was just a little kid and said, We're all sinners. Yep, I know I'm a sinner. My parents helped me with that one. I realize that I can't. That Jesus did. And what he did. He died for me, and I place my faith and trust in him. But Brent, I didn't understand the great doctrines of propitiation at the time time. Who did? We'll we'll get it be understanding that for all eternity. What did I understand? I can't, he can, I'm trusting him That's the gospel. I can't, he can, I'm trusting him. That's the essence of it. Think with me, it's getting warmer again, and think with me about an illustration about a pool. It's a public pool, and so there's this little guy, five-year-old, we'll call him Johnny. Could call him Joel, but we'll call him Johnny. Johnny comes to the pool with his mom, and Johnny's mom says very specifically, Johnny, do not go into the deep and you stay across those little things. You know those little floaties, you stay on the shallow side where you can touch. But Johnny thinks, I've got this. I'm ready for it. And so he slips off those floaties and he waits for mom not to be looking in the lifeguard's got his head turned and he goes under and puts his head under. You know how you can still touch those few first few feet and the kids can But then all of a sudden he gets swept away by some big kids and all of a sudden he can't he can't touch anymore. And what does Johnny do? First thing kids do when they get panic and water, they open their mouth. Right? Seen my kids do it. So they open the uh and they start sputtering. And the lifeguard sees that Johnny is now sputtering. The lifeguard is sitting up on the stand and the lifeguard has full view of it. And Johnny's there sputtering. The lifeguard says, Johnny, Johnny, what's wrong? And Johnny's And the lifeguard's like, Johnny, you have to be more clear. Please tell me what do you need? And Johnny's like, oh Johnny, I can't I can't help you because you're not being clear Do you need me to save you? No, John, first off, here's what you have to say. Number one, I'm sorry. I don't I can't understand that Number two, I promise never to do that again. Number three, I realize that you like God I can save you and you have to you John I can't help you unless you really articulate it clearly all these doctrines that you need to know. Now silly illustration. What does Johnny communicate by blah blah blah blah? I can't What does the lifeguard see by blah blah blah blah? He can't. I can. Lifeguard jumps in and saves him. Sometimes we focus on the words so much. What Brad, I don't know that I said the right words. I don't know if I was really sorry. Hold on, hold on, hold on. What is the essence of salvation? I can't. I'm a bankrupt sinner. I have nothing in myself to offer to God. But he can, and he desires me to spend eternity with him, and he's done everything necessary through his son Jesus Christ who died, was buried, and rose again for my sin. And I'm trusting him and him alone, not me. And however those words flush out or don't flush out, that's not the essence. The essence is, hey, I can't. It's not prayers that saves me. It's a faith, it's a belief, it's a trust, it's a reliance on God alone for salvation. And if friend, that's your testimony, it doesn't matter what you said or how you said it, you're saved because the Bible says so. Some of you may have struggled in years past with assurance because I don't know that I really said it. I don't know what words I said. I don't know. Hold on, timeout, hold on. I'm not saying words aren't important, but what is the essence of the gospel is the fact that I can't, he can, I'm trusting him. Sometimes more simple than we Give it credence to because little kids can understand. I did. How many of you got saved? You placed your faith and trust in Christ before the age of 10. Can I see your hand? Yeah. Did you really, really, really, really understand it? No, and I'll be honest. I've been studying it for 30 years now and I still don't understand why God would love me and do this For me. It's called grace. Something I'll praise him for and marvel at for all of eternity. All I know is I can't, he can, he did. Praise the Lord, he did. It's not prayers that save people. It's Jesus. And he does it when we say, God, I can't Like the thief on the cross, like the boy in the swimming pool, God, I can't, I need someone to save me, and I can't do it. It's not prayers that save people This morning I'm not asking you to come forward and pray a certain pattern of prayer. I'm not asking you to pray prayers every day. No, no. What I'm asking you is biblically to place your faith and trust in Christ. And that can happen in a seat, it can happen by yourself. I placed my faith and trust in Christ as a little kid in my room by myself. No one helped me. The organ was not playing just as I am when I got saved. Some of you may have gotten saved with the organ playing just as I am. That's fine. But here's what I did as a kid. I can't save me. And as simplistic as I understood the gospel, Jesus died, was buried, and rose again for me. I'm trusting him. And I was born again. That's the gospel. That's belief. That's faith. And if you and I will place our faith and trust in Jesus alone, we can have our sins forgiven. And perhaps some of us here have been confused or maybe misunderstood or maybe I don't know that I said the right words, I don't know that I prayed the right prayer, I don't know if I was sincere enough, I don't know if I was sorry enough, I don't I don' No friend, the way we'll hold timeouts Did you place your faith and trust in Christ alone? Well, if yeah, then what does the Bible say about you? That they have eternal life. Absolutely. Look again with me at 1 John chapter 5. Look what it says in verse 12. He that hath the Son hath light, and he that hath not the Son of God hath not light. When it comes down to it, those who have life are the ones who have the Son. It doesn't say anything about here being a Baptist or even being baptized, even though we firmly believe that we have the truth and we know it. And we believe that baptism is part of following Christ in obedience, that's identification. But those who have the Son have what? According to the verse? What do they have? Light. That was a little weak. Let's try that again, boys and girls. What do you have if you have the sun you have? And what don't you have if you don't have the sun? Life. You're in death, absolutely. Look again what it says. He that hath the Son hath life. He that hath not the Son of God hath not life. Notice verse 13. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life, and that ye may believe on the name of the Son of God. I'll never forget I was in seventh grade and I was going out with our assistant youth pastor, Kurt Kramer, on door-to-door visitation, and we knocked on doors almost every Sunday afternoon. And I really thank God for that. Cutting my teeth. I'm sure I didn't say a lot of things correctly and I'm sure I offended a lot of people as a junior higher knocking on doors, but I it was a great experience. I'll never forget that we knocked on the door and this man came to the door and I asked him, hey, do you know for sure you're on your way to heaven? And he made a comment something like this. I can still almost see his face. He said something like this, No, I don't think anybody can know for sure. And I was just kind of taken aback and I didn't know really what to say, so I just started Well the Bible says you can know for sure, because in 1 John 5. 13 it says you can never Well I just kinda retorted out and I think I kinda surprised him and I definitely surprised my assistant youth leader, brother Kurt. But I had never heard that before. And as I've trout, as I've talked with people, as I've studied different religions and denominations, I've come to the realization that a lot of people, many people, think, well, you just can't know for sure that you're on your way to heaven. I think to myself, how sad. Those of you who know that you're going to heaven, take that assurance away for a minute and just let your mind wander down that path for a couple seconds. That's scary. That's horrible. To be able to to have to go through this life and uh just hope so I hope I've done enough. I hope I yeah, I hope I'm trusting. I hope I do. Wow, but I can't have that assurance until I finally get over there. And then by the time you get over there, it's too late to do anything about it. Oh, the horror. What misery that is. Thankfully, aren't you thankful that it's not left up to us to wonder? Look again what it says in verse 13. These things, and when he says these things, he's talking about the entirety of the book of 1 John. These things, but especially these things about the fact that he that hath the Son hath life, and he that hath not the Son of God hath not life. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life, and that ye may believe on the name of the Son of God. John is saying very simply that, hey, friends, you can know Truth number four, you can know it. Can you say that with me? Truth number four, you can know it. We don't have to wander around and if you today have been struggling or are struggling, I don't print, I don't I don't know if I'm on my way to heaven. I don't I don't know. You know, I did I did place my faith and trust in Christ decades ago, but there's times even now where I struggle. You're exactly where the devil, the evil one, wants you. Because what are you gonna do for Christ when you don't know for sure that you're going to heaven? Not much. You're struggling yourself. Well yeah, I I want I we have this church outreach. I'm the one that needs outreaching and I don't want to go on church outreach because I don't even know myself I'm raising these kids and I don't even have this. Yeah, you can yeah, Jesus loves me. I think he does. You are in the throes of despair, and it's not a fun place to be, and that's not what God intends for your life. This is not a pick yourself up and think happy thoughts. This is taking the Word of God at face value and letting the Word of God speak to you. In front of your struggling with your assurance of salvation. You're not going to be and do what God has for your life. You're not going to have that fruitful existence that 2 Peter talks about in chapter 1. You're going to be struggling. So, friend, you can know for sure yourself. You can know that you're on your way to heaven. How do you do that? We come to truth number five, and it's very simply this: believe the word of God. My last name is Gelus. G-E-L-L-O-S. It's Greek. It's been southernized, so I'm sure it doesn't so it wasn't originally sound like gilos or whatever it was, but it's been southernized, it's gellas. Kind of think jealous, but jealous. That's how I tell people. And usually people end up calling me Brent jealous? Sure, that's fine. It's like your pastor, Pastor Porcher. Yeah, that's fine But what if I woke up this morning? Oh no. I haven't talked to my dad. My mom's in heaven now, but what if I woke up and I said, My I haven't talked with my dad in a while? Which actually is kind of true because my wife talks to him more than I do. Oh man, I I haven't talked to him in a while. What if he doesn't love me anymore? Because you know there was that time 35 years ago where they Told me to take out the trash and pick up my room and I didn't do it. I just know it. They don't love me anymore. I just know it. I've been to I I I'm just a bad son. I I'm I'm sure of it. My name is no longer Gellus. I just know it. I I I don't feel like I'm a gallus anymore. Now that's kind of silly, isn't it? I could take you and I don't have it with me, but I could go find my birth to take the Oh sure. Good. I was half stagellus on this day. Good, there it is. Now that's silly, but that's exactly what God's people sometimes do. I d I don't I don't feel saved. How many of you can remember the feelings that you felt when you finally realize you're forgiven? How many of you actually can remember that? The relief? Wasn't that a blessing? Sometimes we live our life looking back and trying to grab on to relief. There was a teen girl recently who I interacted with who was going through difficulties with her boyfriend, so every time they were on gr uh doing well, she she would come to church and smile and be happy and praise Jesus. The other time she would come forward and Pastor, I'm not saved. I'm I'm not saved. And she would just go into the depths of despair. Because she had attached her emotions to her salvation, her feeling that she was saved. Friend, that's horrible to do. Don't do that. Do emotions change? Yes. And not just for females, but for males too. My wife and I were talking about this. There was a marriage book we were talking about last night, even about 10 o'clock, about the fact that men have emotions. Oftentimes they they obviously they come out differently, but they still have emotions and they change. Think back to junior high or even high school and that the fact that you like somebody and you say, oh, and then two, three weeks later you're like, oh yuck, what was I thinking? What is that? It's emotions that come to go. Sometimes God's people attach their assurance. Yes, yes, I know I'm saved because I feel great. I had devotion this morning. I read the Word of God. I made a decision in church and I'm just walking enjoy. Great, great, great. But as we know, that doesn't always happen every day, does it? Sometimes we go through seasons of doubt. Oh, I'm not saved because I've man, I've been struggling, I've been struggling with the sin, and I just don't feel like uh no hold on, hold on. You're attaching your emotions to the g to the truth. Wait a minute, wait a minute. What you do is truth leads. Emotions is the caboose that follows, and even if it doesn't follow, that's fine. Emotions are fickle. Don't build your life on your theology on emotions. Oh, I'm saved because I feel no no no. I'm saved because the eternal word of God says so. That's what we build our life on. What do you have in your lap or your hand right now that won't ever change? What do you have? It's not your emotions, it's the word of God. And so when you have doubts, when fears arise, when you have questions, don't go back to an emotional well you remember I remember when I placed my faith in truth. I remember the The joy, the release, praise the Lord for that. But that's not where it is because sometimes we don't always get there back there. We go to the Word of God. What does God say about me? He that hath the son hath life. I have the son, so therefore I have life. Even though I don't feel it, the word of God says so, and therefore I have it. And my feelings, I'm going to wait for them to come around, but even if they never do, here's what God says about me in his word, and this cannot change. And that's what my hope is in. That's what I'm on. And according to Romans 8, the Holy Spirit takes those words of Scripture when we read them and we implant them into our soul and we believe them by faith. He takes those words and he speaks to our spirit in a level we're not even aware of and says, You are one of mine. That's the role of the one of the roles of the Holy Spirit. It's assurance. So very simply, what do we need in this? Believe the word of God. Simply put, believe the word of God. I don't know everyone here, just learning some names, see familiar faces, but I wonder how many people here this morning are struggling. I don't know that I'm saved. I got questions. Oh yes, I place my faith and trust, but I'm still struggling. Hey, friend, you can have assurance. You can have victory in that. At the same time, I wonder how many people walked through this door this morning and You've never placed your faith and trust in Christ. You may be religious, you may have gotten baptized, catechized, compromised, whatever religious whatever you've gotten, you've got it. But yet in your heart you know there's never been a time when you placed your faith and trust in Christ, when you declared bankruptcy and said, God, I can't save me. I'm a sinner. My religion, my good works, my whatever can't save me. And only your the death of Jesus Christ, his precious blood, that's the only thing I'm clinging to. And you've never placed your faith, your trust, your dependence completely on Jesus Christ alone. And this morning I'm asking you, I'm urging you, I'm begging with you, I'm pleading with you. Don't walk out of here that way. Place your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Well you may be thinking, well, Brent, I don't want to become, we're not asking you to become a Baptist. We're not asking you to do anything other than look at the Word of God, look at your life, and place your faith and trust in Jesus alone. That's important. He that hath the Son hath light. He that hath not the Son of God hath not life. Where are you at, friend? Have you placed your faith, your trust, your eternal hope completely on Jesus Christ alone? If you never have, got good news. The fact that you're here means God's speaking to you. Holy Spirit's knocking on your door and saying, hey, this is truth. Place your faith and trust in Jesus alone. I'm going to ask as we close and Pastor's going to take over in just a minute, but I'm going to ask as we close, would you all just close your eyes and bow your head just for privacy's sake? I have some important questions I want to ask. I don't want to embarrass anybody, but I would like to ask some very important questions. How many would say Brent? I have placed my faith and trust completely on Jesus. And friend, let me just encourage every single one of us, be honest. You can fool me, you can fool Pastor, you can fool your neighbors, you can fool your friends, you can fool your family, but you can't Cannot fool God. And you're not hurting anyone besides yourself if we're not honest. Let me ask you again honestly, Brent. I have placed my faith, trust, Completely, totally, solely on Jesus alone for salvation. Would you lift your hand to that? Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Thank you. Put your hands down. How do I say, Brent, I couldn't raise my hand just now. And friend, I do not want to embarrass you Again, I'm not asking for your money. I'm not asking to join the church. I want to help you spiritually, and that's what we're here for. Friend, how many would say, Brent, I couldn't raise my hand just now. I've never placed my faith and trust completely like you talked about. I don't know that I'm going to heaven. I'm not sure. Or I simply put, I've got questions. We'd love to help you. I want to pray for you first of all. Would you be honest enough and humble enough just to admit, I've never done that? I don't know. I'm not sure. Would you lift your hand just so I could see it? No one else is looking. We're not going to embarrass you. We're not asking you to do anything. We want to pray for you. We want to help you. Brent, I don't know. I've got questions. I'm not sure. I've never placed my faith and trust in Christ like you talked about. Would you lift your hand just enough so I could see it? Or just enough so a pastor could see it? No one else is looking. I don't know. I've got questions. I'm not sure. Help me to say finally, Brent, the word of God spoke to me and encouraged me. I have struggled or am struggling with assurance of salvation. Maybe you aren't now, but you have in the past and perhaps will in the future. But God used his word in my heart, in my soul, in my spirit this morning. to challenge to help to encourage me. I saw from the Bible what it means to have assurance of salvation. And it is now, thanks to God's word Settled. I know I'm saved. And God helped me this morning with truth. God spoke to me. God encouraged me about this matter of assurance of salvation. I'm saved. God used His word to help me in this matter. Would you lift your hand? Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. I'm going to pray and turn the invitation over to Pastor. Father, thank you for truth. Thank you for your word. Thank you for the fact that we can know. I pray that you'd help us understand the gospel, that it would be clear. That your word would minister to hearts and lives. And for those who are here this morning who may not know that they're on their way to heaven, who may not have that settled assurance, Would you help them to see that they are lost? And that yet the answer is Jesus. They can have their sins forgiven, be made right with God. For those who may be struggling with assurance or who have struggled in time past, I pray that you'd help them to take the Word of God at face value and to see that it's not in the motions, it's not in the prayer we prayed. It's in what Jesus Christ said, what he did, what the Bible says, and would the word of God give them the assurance through the Spirit's power and through the Spirit's working that we so desperately need and can have for life and ministry? Would you work in our hearts and lives? In Jesus name