Well good evening. I'd like to welcome you tonight to our evening service and uh looking forward to the Lord's working in our hearts. Let's bow together for prayer and then we will get started with our service. Father, we are so grateful for the opportunity to open the word tonight. I pray that you will bless Pastor Chris as he He opens the scriptures, may he preach the word with clarity, and may our hearts be attentive to the word. Thank you for our young people getting ready to go to camp. I pray that you'll give us Safety on the roads tomorrow, and may our fellowship be very sweet. And I pray that tonight as we fellowship with one another, that you we pray would encourage us in your word. And we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. All right, good evening. Let's open our hymn books to hymn number 160. As we stand, 160. We'll sing all four verses of my Jesus. I love B that's a fourth body six Please be seated as we turn to hymn number five hundred fifty-five. Face We'll sing all four verses. Well We came to be with the world , for the world. And number four hundred seventy-five. Rejoice in the Lord. We'll sing all three verses. And when we all do the level, we may come to late, and we know we have. And why Great singing this evening Нима ни само нима нима , нима нима нима нимено нима. Нима ними нема и мима именно ними, няма Semanas. Right. Stand up for Jesus. Right. Nine three in the blue book. But the prayer free All right. One eighty four in the blue book. He is Lord. Well, let's jump over to the Red Book. Six thirty-nine in the Red Book. Right. And six twenty-eight in the red book. Six twenty-eight. Jesus loves me. Man, right let's take a few more. Bruce. Three forty second verse. Three forty All right. Uh Chris. And Logan. 151 in the blue book. Let's see what this tastes. Three forty in the red book, verse two. It's been a long time since I've heard this one. Can you play it through a while? Oh first two. No no But if we were not even laundry , when I turn the water , Complete in thee. They live in my life, go and write , they live in my life, I live in God, I wouldn't call it, and I wonder. And 151. I run to Christ. Let's stand with the first and the last. We'll sing that last verse, a cappella. I live my rule of water. I went like you 're on the. . I don't see price with me, and I don't See I write to him temptation to pray. I write the right way , I say , I be Great singing, please be seated When Jesus Christ, my Savior, prepared for Calvary sin. He went into the garden and sought his father 's whim. I read about his anguish. And feel his sorrow there. I see him hollowly, kneeling, and listen to his prayer. Not my will, but mine Lord lead me to Calvary Make my life a living sacrifice, crucified for thee. My Lord became a servant, a man of lowly birth, he laid aside ambition. To dwell with sons of now he is exalted Let every tongue proclaim, and someday all shall praise him and magnify his name Not my will, but thine Lord lead me to Calvary Make my life a living sacrifice, crucified for thee Lord Jesus, I surrender, my will shall be thine own. I lay aside ambition and bow me for thy throne. I'll give myself for others as thou didst thy for me. Lord send me forth with power to live my life for thee. Not my will, but thine Lord Lead me to Calvary. Make my life a living sacrifice crucified for thee. I was about to say, I think we're done. Book of Numbers tonight, continuing our series on the story of redemption, we are in Numbers 22 through Numbers 25. We're going to be covering four chapters tonight. I'm looking forward to it because more than likely you are quite familiar with the account of Balaam. And probably more uh his tonking donkey. Um he probably is a more popular character. But numbers 22 Through numbers 25. And I'm not going to do much by way of introduction because we are going to be covering quite a bit. And what I'm going to do is I'm really going to summarize the events of chapters 22 and 25 and deal quite a bit with the chapters in between. But what we're going to see is that these four chapters, they really serve as a reminder that God has protected his people from maliciousness, both from without, such as Balaam. And even from within, as we will see with their blatant idolatry and wickedness at Belfior. And what we're going to find is that God really wants us to know his personal protection. And we can see that by seeing the three remarkable ways in which God protects us, much like how he did his the children of Israel in Numbers 22 to 25. We'll begin by seeing how God seeks to protect us from ourselves. And I put a little bit of a caveat there. Because the reality is we are, in so many ways, our own worst enemy. And because of that, God can in fact be limited by our actions while remaining sovereign. See, while God sought to protect Balaam, as we'll see in chapter 22, Balaam's personal actions and decisions ultimately ended in his destruction. In fact, I would draw your attention to Psalm 7840 as well, where it says how often They that is Israel provoke him in the wilderness and grieve him in the desert. Yea, they turned back and tempted God and limited the holy one of Israel. Our pride and our ambition often blind us to make us believe that we can pursue our own interests without facing consequences. You see, when we come to Numbers 22, we find Balaam being summoned as a prophet. Interestingly, the name Balaam has nothing to do with Baal. as far as the God, uh false God. The word the name Balaam means destroyer of people. And uh very apt name for him. When we come to verse 1 of Numbers 22, we find Israel encamped in the plains of Moab on the eastern shore of the Jordan River across from Jericho. Now kind of put this in in line with where we're about to go into the book of Joshua, and here they are. They're not in the promised land yet. They're on the other side of Jordan. They're north of Moab. And Moab, as a nation, they feared the enormity of the people of Israel due to the victory that we read about back in Numbers 21. And Balak, the king of the Moabites, he was very concerned. And so he sent messengers, in fact, he sent very high-ranking individuals to Balaam. who was a non-Israelite prophet of God. And that's a very interesting thing to notice. But Balach Balak wanted him to divine a curse on Israel in exchange for payment. Now Balaam is told by God directly not to go with the messengers to Balak. And Balaam obeys. We see that in verses 8 through 15. God and Balaam are communicating with one another, which leads us to believe that Balaam is, in fact, a prophet of God. Now, Balak didn't take no for an answer. He sent higher-ranking people, princes of Moab, to bring riches and say, come. Curse the people of Israel for me. And this time Balaam is told by God that if they call on him Then he could go. But only if he did what God told him to. So what does Balaam do in Numbers 22, verses 18 through 20? Well, he tells the men Depart for the evening, and I will tell you tomorrow what God tells me God tells him to wait, but instead he rises up first thing in the morning, goes straight to the messengers, and goes with them to King Balak. That is where we find him saddling his donkey for the journey and making the journey toward Moab. And because of Balaam's impulsive action. God sends an angel that only the donkey that uh Balaam was riding on could see. A donkey apparently is smarter than Balaam. He sees the angel with a sword drawn and says, Oh boy. And tries to go off the path into the field. He said, This looks like a better direction. What does Balaam do? He smacks the donkey, tells him to keep going the way he's supposed to. They go along a little further. They come to an area where there is a a wall, uh a surface blocking them on one side. And the donkey sees the angel again with a sword drawn, and the donkey smashes Balaam's leg into that wall, trying to get his attention, no doubt, saying, this is not a good way to go. What does Balaam do? Smacks it again. Gets it going on its path. Of course, you know the third time The donkey sees the angel with a sword drawn. They're in a place where the donkey can't turn left or right. He's stuck. What'd you do? Sits down right on the ground underneath Balaam. And Balaam strikes that donkey again, and this time God opens out the mouth of the donkey and the donkey says, Why have you hit me these three times? And rather than questioning why a donkey is talking to him, Balaam answers him and says, because you wouldn't go. And God opens up the eyes of Balaam, and he sees the angel of the Lord standing there ready to kill Balaam for his impulsive decision. Now, Balaam, he confesses that he's sinned. But the sin that he's confessing is not his impulsive decision to pursue King Balak 's offer. His sin is that he didn't see the angel. But God, in his mercy, condescends to Balaam, says, go. But you will only do what I tell you to. Now we know later on that Balaam Well, he was called to be a prophet. He would eventually become infamous as a wicked prophet. He's quoted in the latter part of Numbers and Deuteronomy and Joshua and Nehemiah and Micah. All throughout the Old Testament, as a prophet who betrayed his calling to the one true God. Really, he made a name for himself that subsequent generations would denigrate severely Now, the Old Testament has a lot to say about him. In fact, it also notice uh notes his advice to the Moabites in how to get Israel to be cursed, which we'll talk about later. But the New Testament further devet delves into what is commonly known as the doctrine or the error or the way of Balaam. Revelation two, twelve and fourteen says, and to the angel of the church of Pargmas write, These things saith he which hath the A swap sword with two edges. Interesting uh connection here. But I have a few things against thee, because thou hast their them told uh Because thou hast there them that hold the doctrine of Balaam, who taught Balak to cast a stumbling block before the children of Israel, to eat things sacrificed unto idols, and to commit fornication. Jude three and eleven Jude writes, Beloved, I when I gave all diligence to write unto you of a common salvation, it was needful for me to write unto you and exhort you that you should earnestly Woe unto them, for they that is speaking of the false uh prophets, the the the the ones who have gone astray, for they have gone in the way of Cain and ran greedily after The error of Balaam the for reward, and perished in the gainsaying of Korah. 2 Peter 2, 9 and 15. Peter writes, The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptations, and to reserve the unjust unto the day of judgment to be punished. Which have forsaken the right way and are gone astray, following the way of Balaam, the son of Bozar, who loved the wages of unrighteousness. Now, time will not permit me to delve into the tremendous nuances of all these passages, but we can summarize this concept in this way. The doctrine, the error, the way of Balaam is essentially that of a once God-fearing individual who has turned from his calling to exploit God's people for personal gain and prestige. It is the way of greed, of selfish ambition. And I would say that far too many Christians today, in fact, I would say Christians probably in name only are guilty of pursuing it. Now notice that along the way in chapter 22, and a few times in the next few chapters, we see God interacting with Balaam. And I believe it's to prevent him really from doing what he has become known for, or what he has become known for doing. I believe God repeatedly looked to protect Balaam from rebelling against the one he prophesied for. But Balaam limited the Holy One of Israel by pursuing greed and selfish ambition over faithful service. Now we as Christians are quick to call out false teachers and false prophets where we know that they are all pursuing, that they are all pursuing uh money and prestige. In fact I have a couple of names here I won't read them but you can probably think of a few right off the bat. But anytime we place our own personal pursuit of wealth or personal ambition before the faith before faithful obedience to God? Really We risk pushing aside the loving kindness that God of God that protects us from the horrors that await us in those lifestyles. You see, for Balaam, it not only ended in his death, but in the death of 24,000 Israelites. The error of Balaam is not a light thing for a believer to fall into. We should be mindful that God seeks to protect us from that very evil by warning us of it repeatedly. Particularly with the way of Balaam. God protects us or seeks to protect us from ourselves. And then in verse chapters 23 and 24, we see God Also protects us from unknown forces. Now here we'll begin seeing God intervene on a much broader scale. And what that When Balaam goes to curse Israel, God forces Balaam to pronounce blessings and prophesy of blessings. Now, imagine you're Israel in the middle of the valley there, and you're completely unaware. But the fact that there's a prophet in the mountains looking at you, trying to curse you, but God is intervening. It's a reality that God protects us even when we're not aware of what's going on. You see, Pro Balaam started off by prophesying the preservation of God's saints when he was trying to Denounce and curse the Israelites. Under the instruction of Balaam in chapter 23, King Balak prepared seven oxen and seven rams for seven altars atop a hill that was really set aside. For the worship of Baal. In fact, the act itself was smacks of paganism. And sadly, Balaam in all of that expected God to meet him there. You know what? God condescended. And he told Balaam exactly what to speak to Balak. Notice in Numbers 23, verse 7. And Balaam took up his parable and said, Balak, the king of Moab, hath brought me from Aram out of the mountains of the East, saying, Come, curse me, Jacob, and come, defy Israel. How shall I curse whom God hath not cursed? Or how shall I defy whom the Lord hath not defied? For from the top of the rocks I see him, and from the hills I behold him. Lo, the people shall dwell alone And shall not be reckoned among the nations. Who can count the dust of Jacob and the number of the fourth part of Israel? Let me die the death of the righteous, and let my last end be like his. Where Balak expected a curse, God intervened on Israel's behalf, and probably on Balaam's as well. And had Balaam present a parable or prophetic discourse, oracle, if you will. God informed King Balak that he would not curse those whom he has not cursed And he included in his message a very interesting phrase. He says, Let me die the death of the righteous, and let my last end be like his. You see, because of Israel's unique position as God's chosen nation, fact is any death as one of God's people is more desirable than the alternative. This doesn't imply a spiritual position, so much as a national one, that Balaam, though a prophet of Israel's God, lacked as a non-Israelite. Now the question is, was Israel unique just because it was so different from any other nation? Well, of course not. In of themselves they lacked nothing unique, but because of God's gracious election of them as a nation, they would be the ones from whom the Redeemer of mankind would come. We will see more of that as we go on. Balaam not only prophesied concerning the preservation of God's saints, But he also prophesied the conquest of God's nation. Can you imagine Balak hearing this blessing? Well his face was probably like probably dead pain like what is happening right now? But rather than accepting that God had intervened to protect Israel, Balak's like, oh, you know what? We're just in the wrong spot. We gotta go to another mountain. And that's what they do. They go in his in his pagan mind, he's thinking location, location, location. We gotta go to Mount Piscah to try and do the exact same thing. Seven altars, seven rams, seven bulls. This time God again meets with Balaam to give him a word to communicate to Balaam. Verse 18 of Numbers 23. Balaam took up his parable and said, Rise up, Balak, and hear. Hearken unto me, thou son of Zippor. God is not a man that he should lie, neither the son of man that he should repent. Hath he said, and shall he not do it, or hath he spoken, and shall he not make it good? Behold, I have received commandment to bless, and he hath blessed, and I cannot reverse it He hath not beheld iniquity in Jacob, neither hath he seen perverseness in Israel. The Lord his God is with him, and the shadow of a king is among them. God brought them out of Egypt. as it were the strength of an unicorn. Surely there is no enchantment against Jacob, neither is there any divination against Israel. According to this time it shall be said of Jacob and of Israel, What hath God wrought? Behold, the people shall rise up as a great lion and lift up himself as a young lion. He shall not lie down until he eat of the prey and drink the blood of the slain. Now there's some very interesting and notable statements in this prophecy. Numbers 23:19 states: God is not a man that he should lie, neither is the son of a man that he should repent. Of course, the point of this is that as God in his character, he will do what he sets out to do. We of course know this does not speak anything about his ability to manifest himself as a certain way. We know that Christ is God in flesh, only but without sin. But here he communicates to Balak that unlike the gods that are made in man's image, he did not possess the weaknesses that man possesses. Numbers 23 through 24 is where God says, Behold, I have received commandments to bless, and he hath blessed, and I cannot reverse it. Now, this is Balaam speaking about God's prophecy and blessing. Balaam is forced to say something about himself through God's prophetic words. And here we clearly see that God, in his omnipotent sovereignty, Does have the capacity to override Balaam's free will. It's not really something we see in other places of Scripture. The question that we might ask is, does God overwrite our free will? Well, I will have to say probably not. Only because there is a mystery concerning the balance between the sovereignty of God and the free will of man. And we'll never really find that defining line. Biblically speaking, I think it would be wise to see man as having free will in so much as that he has full responsibility of his actions. But God has sovereignty to supersede that free will if he so desires, and only to fulfill his plans, which are always in line with his good, holy character. So Balaam articulates that God has made Israel a set-apart nation. God forces them to do this. And God has blessed this nation by strengthening them, bringing them out of Egypt to take the land of Canaan and drive out the wicked people of the land. In other words, God made a promise to Israel. And he intended on keeping it, no matter what Balak desired. Balaam also prophesied the sovereign care Of God's hand toward Israel. Verses 25 into the next chapter, Balak clearly doesn't like this. As he states in verse 25. Neither curse them at all nor bless them at all. In other words, just stop, Balaam. Just stop. He's exasperated. And then he moves them again to another mountain. And this time Balaam tells Balak to build the seven altars and provide the seven bulls and rams. We're also told in chapter twenty-four, verse one, that Balaam had been using enchantments. And when he does this, verse 2 tells us that the Spirit of God came upon him. And then he prophesied. three of chapter twenty-four. He took up this parable and said, Balaam, the son of Baar hath said, and the man whose eyes are o whose eyes are open, hath said, He hath said, which heard the words of God, which saw the vision of the Almighty, falling into a trance, but having his eyes open, how goodly are thy tents, O Jacob! And thy tabernacles, O Israel. As the valleys are they spread forth, as gardens by the riverside, as the trees of line aloes, which the Lord hath planted, and as the cedar trees beside the waters, he shall pour the water out of his buckets, and his seed shall be in many waters. And his king shall be higher than Agak, and his kingdom shall be exalted. God hath brought him forth out of Egypt. He hath, as it were, the strength of an unicorn. He shall eat up the nations, the nations, his enemies. And shall break their bones and pierce them through with his arrows. He couched, he lay down as a lion, and as a great lion, who shall stir him up? Blessed is he that blesseth thee, and cursed is he that curseth thee. Here, Balaam prophesies the great blessing that God will bestow upon the nation of Israel, including the establishment of a kingdom. that would overrun the Amalekites, represented by Agac, who probably was chosen to represent the enemies of Israel as a whole. That prophecy is reiterated in verse 20 as well. Of course, Agag is a name we find in 1 Samuel 15. It's likely a title for an Amalekite king, much like the Egyptian Pharaoh. But we have yet to see so far in this text the kingdom of Israel truly exalted to its prophetic peak. As we will under Messianic rule. So it's safe to say that this general prophecy speaks to the overarching rich blessing of God upon his people. And finally, we get to the last prophecy where we see Balaam prophesying the coming of God's kings. And this is a very interesting one, chapter 24. Balak has really moved from exasperation to fury in verse 10. He claps his hands together, he dismisses Balaam, saying that the God of Israel hath kept him from honor. Wait, what? What does Balak have to be concerned about with regard to Balaam's honor before God? Balaam repudiated Balak's discrediting statements toward him by stating clearly, God would not have allowed him to speak cursings against Israel. Yet before Balaam left to return to his people, God spoke one final prophecy through him to Balak. He says, he took up this parable in verse 15 of chapter 24. Balaam, the son of Baars, hath said, and the man whose eyes are open hath said, He hath said, which heard the words of God, and knew the knowledge of the Most High, which saw the vision of the Almighty, following him. into a trance, but having his eyes open, I shall see him, but not now. I shall behold him, but not nigh. Thou shall there shall come a star out of Jacob, and a scepter shall rise out of Israel. and shall smite the corners of Moab, and destroy all the children of Sheff, and Edom shall be a possession. Seer sh also shall be a possession for his enemies. And Israel shall do valiantly. Out of Jacob shall come he that shall have dominion, and shall destroy him that remaineth of the city. And when he looked on Amalek, he took up this parable and said, Amalek was the first of the nations. And he looked on the Kenites and took up his parable and said, Strong is thy dwelling place, and thou puttest thy nest in a rock. Nevertheless the Kenite shall be wasted until Asher shall carry thee away captive. And he took up this parable and said, Alas, who shall live when God doeth this? And ships ships shall come from the coast of Shidam, and shall afflict Ashur, and shall afflict Eber. And also he also shall perish forever. Utter destruction against Israel's enemies. But did you catch That interesting statement right there in the middle, where the focal point of the prophecy is: there shall come a star out of Jacob, and a scepter shall rise out of Israel. If that sounds familiar, it's probably because you're thinking of Genesis 49, 10. Or Jacob himself prophesies, the scepter shall not depart from Judah. Not a lawgiver from between his feet until Shiloh come, and until unto him shall be the gat shall the gathering of the people be. Now we can clearly see there's some messianic implications in these verses. And it reminds us in connection with Genesis 49. 10, this prophecy from Balaam reminds us that Christ will rule with the scepter of Judah. The star that rises out of Israel could be an allusion to something we read far later in the book of Revelation, chapter 22, verse 16, where it says I, Jesus, have sent mine angels to testify unto you these things in the churches. I am the root and the offspring of David and the bright and morning star. However, this prophecy, while messianic in nature, mainly points to the coming kings of Israel, probably even Saul or David, as these kings saw these prophecies carried out under their rules. But don't miss. The messianic implications that which came out of a non-Israelite rebellious prophet So why look at all this? While it's helpful to see prophecy that is well contained in the Old Testament. What these chapters are remembered for is the fact that when Balaam and Balak looked to curse God's people, God intervened. He protected his people. While these men stood on various hillotops and overlooked the unsuspecting Israelites below, God ensured that Israel would be protected from these unknown forces at play. Now, you're probably not going to watch TV and find a political leader calling up some TV preacher to curse God's people. Nevertheless, we know that there are forces at play today that are actively seeking to attack God's people In fact, Christ taught this in John 16. He said, You shall have tribulation. But where does that tribulation come from Comes from the world. Comes from the devil and his forces. But Christ didn't leave it there. He said, Be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. Christ said in Matthew 16, 18, I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Listen, if you feel like you're facing challenges out of left field, don't know where this is coming from. Well, know that God is actively protecting you You can be assured that he is actively working behind the scenes. God protects us from unknown forces as well as he seeks to protect us from ourselves. But finally Chapter 25. But Hazel wants to point out that between chapters 24 and 25, Balaam advised the Moabites that if they wanted to hurt Israel, they would have to sin, get them to sin against God. And Israel was drawn into abominable sin. I can't even read it for the sake of our mixed company, but at some point after Balaam's departure, he gave this advice. And Israel committed sin at Belbiar that would be marked with infamy for the generations that followed. This idolatrous, wicked, pagan sin left 24,000 Israelites dead. As a result of God's just judgment. And this was a major catastrophe for this conquest generation. But I want you to notice that God does in fact protect his people from the full extent of sin's consequences. In verse 7 of chapter 25, we read about Phineas, son of Eliezer, the son of Aaron, the priest. In other words, Aaron's grandson. And he stepped into action as he saw all of this sin going on, as he saw people dying from the plague that resulted from their sin. And he did what had to be done to end this plague of God's judgment. What he did was a necessary act. against an obstinate, rebellious, and defiant people who chose the pleasures of wickedness for self over the joy of faithfulness to God. But listen, Phineas didn't just happen to be the right place at the right time. His being there, no doubt, was an act of God's grace and protection against further death. There's so much that could be said about this chapter. In fact, I could probably preach about six to nine sermons just from the text alone that we've looked at tonight. But let's draw out this simple and profound truth. When we are tempted and where we fall, God is always prepared to protect us. Say, how? Well, if it comes to temptation, we can always fall back on this promise from 1 Corinthians 10 13. There's not no temptation taking you, but such as is common to men. But God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able, but will with the temptation also make a way of escape, that ye may be able to bear it. But what about when we fall into temptation and end up in sin? Does God protect us from every consequence? Obviously not. Sin always has its consequences In fact, you can say that is why Jesus hung on a cross. Because the ultimate Consequence for our sin is eternal death. And the only eternal God, and only the eternal God could pay for it to provide us everlasting forgiveness. But you can be assured of this. While we have no idea how far our sin can affect ourselves and the lives around us, even beyond us. God is ever watchful. God is ever merciful. He does not desire that we know the full extent of the consequences of sin. But he does want us to know that he intervenes to protect his people. We know, of course, Romans 828. We know all things work together for good to them that love God to them, or the call according to his purpose. Psalm seventy-six ten. Surely the wrath of man shall praise thee, the remainder of the wrath shalt thou. Restrain. Lamentations 3, 22 to 23. It is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed because his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. 1 John 2. 1, my little children, these things write I unto you that ye sin not. And if any man sin. We have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. Revelation 21 And I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away, and there was no more sea. And I, John, saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride, adorned for her husband. And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people. And God himself shall be with them and be their God, and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes, and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow nor crying. Neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he said unto me, Write, for these Words are true and faithful. And he said unto me, It is done. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give unto him that is a thirst of the fountain of water of life freely. He that overcometh shall inherit all things. And I will be his God, and he shall be my son. There will be a day when the horrors of sin and their consequences will have no place in our eternal reality with Christ. And we who are in Christ have this blessed hope. God will protect us from sin and temptation, even in this life. Though we fall and betray his protection, we have an advocate with the Father, Christ Jesus. Do you feel that sense of protection? Do you know what it feels like? It is the peace of God which passeth all understanding. That shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. If you don't have that peace, that sense of protection, ask yourself, why not? If you need help answering that question, We're here to help. Talk to us, text us, call us, email us. Just do it. Know that for the believer We have God and his personal protection of his people. If you don't know that, please reach out Let us show you how you can know God 's personal protection through Jesus Christ. Father. We are sternly and soberly warned of the tremendous dark reality that is the way of Balaam. It is one that we as believers must truly be ever diligent not to fall into. The effects are Astounding. We know that you are God who protects us, who seeks to even protect us from ourselves. You protect us daily from those forces that Satan would use to destroy us. You even protect us. as your children from the full extent of the consequences of sin. And it's only by your grace. And it is only through Christ, that we have access to that protection. Or give us a sense of that protection tonight. Grant us that peace that passeth all understanding that comes only through your Son. If there be any tonight that does not know that peace, does not know that protection. Lord, let them not depart from here without it. Ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Some very important truths for us to think about in that passage of Scripture. And uh we really have a lot to think about and we really need to take these truths and apply them in a very practical way. Let's go ahead and pull out our hymn books, please, to hymn number 156. And I think that this is a great closing hymn when we think about Really the heaviness of that passage of scripture, but then where we ended. And I think that that last truth, so profound, and when we sing this song, you'll see the connection. 156, how can it be? 156. Let's stand together, please. Let's sing all three verses together and think about these wonderful truths. Very good song. I'd like to ask if uh Mr. Jenny Can you please close us in prayer? Please remember to pray for us as we head down south for camp. And uh Let's keep in prayer Vacation Bible School that's just a couple weeks away. Pray that the Lord will really use that to impact Our young people and the many young people that are signed up. It'll be a great time of fellowship together. And just looking forward to a great week. So Mr. Jenny, please close us in prayer. Oh, and before I I mentioned too, next week something about this. Next week, um please remember that we have our service at five o'clock And when I say service, it's going to be a hymn sing fellowship. So we'll be singing and then there'll be a short devotional message. And then we will uh have just a time of food and fellowship. So please remember five o'clock. Um we have it uh I think on all the calendars, but uh it'll be a hymn sing fellowship and we'll be back in the fellowship hall as well for that. So please keep that uh on your mind, Mr. Jenny. You Grace and your mercies that you have bestowed upon us, Lord. Well, first of all, we want to think about the uh The the kids going to camp this week, Lord, and the uh the drivers of the vans, Lord, that you'll be with them, give them traveling mercies, keep them safe. Pray, Lord, that you speak to the heart Hearts of these young people as they uh are in the presence of uh a godly speaker, Lord, that will be bringing them challenges from your word. We pray, Lord, for safety going down. And and a good week down there and then safety returning, Lord. And then as we think about the preparations for vacation Bible school, Lord, you'd be with all the workers and kids that'll be inviting their uh their neighbors and their friends out Vacation Bible school that this will be a a great time of uh refreshing uh Bible study for the kids and learning the Bible verses that you would just use this as a tremendous time of uh reaching uh children for the uh with the good news of the gospel or that they might uh have the privilege of coming to a safe Lord, we our hearts have been encouraged today, Lord, with the with the godly music that we've been uh uh enjoying today, and then we been challenged from your word that uh you would just continue to work out your will in our life as we continue to to go forth from here as a uh as a godly example that you want us to be. Pray Lord that you just help each one of us to be the testimony and witness that uh that we need to be for you that we might see others come to a saving knowledge of you. Pray now Lord that you would just guide and direct us throughout the night. Bring us back again safely for Wednesday, Lord, and we'll give you the praise for this in Jesus name, Amen.