Take your Bibles and turn to the book of 1 Peter. And we are looking at 1 Peter 1, verses 13 to 16 today. 1 Peter 1, verses 13 to 16. I'll begin reading in verse thirteen. Wherefore, gird up the loins of your mind. Be sober. Hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, not fashioning yourself according to the former lust and your ignorance But as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation, because it is written Be ye holy, for I'm holy. You know, as we've been working through the book of 1 Peter, we've recognized that the group of people that Peter is writing to are Christians. Who are scattered all throughout the Roman Empire, and they're being scattered abroad because of their faith in Christ. Not only are they scattered throughout the Roman Empire, but they're suffering on some level because of their faith in Christ. And so Peter is very concerned that these Christians are faithful and persevere and are obedient to the Lord's commands. He's very concerned that they have stability and they don't just fall away because the truth is when you go under pressure, anything can happen And so what Peter's basically been doing is he's been laying a case for how Christians, particularly those who are going through very difficult times because they're Christians, how they need to face those things. As we move through the logical progression that Peter is laying out, we come to this section that shows us That there is a compelling case to be made that we should live a life that is separated to God and separated from the world In other words, the purpose of the section was to compel them and to compel us to live lives that are holy, set apart to God. God wants us to live holy lives. He wants us to live lives that are separated unto him. And so the question we're going to answer this morning in four parts. is how can we be Christians who live lives that are set apart to God? That's the whole purpose of what we're here to talk about this morning. And so I want to begin with this first truth. That is this. I need to understand that holiness starts with how I think. Before I get into the the the basics of what it means to live a set-apart life into God. I need to understand that there's some foundational principles about how I think about myself, how I think about life, how I think about God, how I think about my circumstances. There are some basic principles about how I think. That our introductory to this issue of holiness. We need to think biblically about ourselves and God and our position in Christ. Notice what he says in verse thirteen. He says, wherefore Gird up the loins of your mind. Be sober and hope to the ends. For the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. I want us to break down that verse and to kind of see The various points that Peter is laying out that help us to understand how we are to think so that we will be pressed to live lives that are set apart to God. Notice the first word in the verse. The word wherefore? That word is really important because what it basically is saying is this, on the basis or on the account of some things that have already been discussed in this particular section, you need to live and you need to do some things on the basis of those things. What are the things that he's talked about? What are those things that are the basis for a life that should be set apart to God? Well, I want to go ahead and just remind you of a couple of those blessings that have been previously stated. In fact, there are seven of them. I won't develop them. I'll just state them so that you can remember them. The first thing that he mentioned in verse 2 was the blessing that God loves me. and has personally worked in my life to bring me to repentance and faith and salvation. If it wasn't for God's Love for me, if it wasn't for his work of redemption that purchased my salvation, if it wasn't for his work of drawing me through the preaching of the gospel, to understand that I'm a sinner, that I'm separated from God, and there's absolutely nothing that I can give God or do for God that can make me right with him. If it wasn't for that act of God's love, I wouldn't be saved. And so that wonderful blessing is that God has personally worked in my life. Blessing number two, I'm spiritually alive now. Because in Christ I've been regenerated. In other words, the Holy Spirit gave me life that I didn't have before. In fact, it's interesting. Later on in our message today, we're going to see some of the implications of being a new creature in Christ. Blessing number three, we find it in verse 4. I have a secured future in Christ. that does not have the corruption that I face on this side of eternity. Well, you know, if you wake up one morning and you're feeling really sore. I've done that a few days this week. If you wake up one morning and you're feeling really sick, thankfully I haven't done that this week, but I've had past weeks that I was like that. If you go outside and you're sweating and you smell bad and you need to take a shower and you need to get clean, if you're sitting in your room by yourself and all of a sudden you feel this urge to do something that you know is very bad. Oh, I have good news for you. As a Christian, there's going to be a day that you don't get sore anymore. You don't get sick anymore. You don't get tempted anymore. You don't sweat out in the field anymore. You're with the Lord. You are in the presence of God in a secured future that is free from the corruptions that we experience on this side of eternity. That's an incredible blessing. It's something to be thankful for The fourth blessing that we see is this. There's nothing that I can do or that can be done to me that can cause me to lose my position in Christ. Verse number five says, we are kept by the power of God. That's a wonderful statement. It's a tremendous blessing. And it doesn't matter how bad or how difficult it might get on this side of eternity. I have that principle, that blessing that I cling to and that I glory in. Blessing number six, God observes me as I go through trials of my faith, and he will ultimately reward me for my faithfulness to him. You know, when I go through difficulties and I go through struggles and I go through challenges, I need to keep this in my mind. God is watching. God sees what I'm going through. In fact, the Lord Jesus Christ not only sees, but he understands. That's a significant thing to consider. Blessing five that I skipped. The trial that I face in this world, all of them are temporary and they serve redemptive purposes There's a reason in God 's purposes for why he allows me to experience the difficulties that I face. And it's not because he hates me. It's not because he's mean and cruel. It's because he wants to grow me. He wants to mature me. There are things he wants to teach me. He wants me to understand and love him in a more personal and intimate way. And sometimes the only way that we can grow and mature is going through the hard things. The last blessing that he mentions is this: the position that I enjoy in Christ. Far surpasses the blessings that Old Testament Christians enjoyed prior to Christ's work on the cross In verses 9 to 12, we looked at this last week, that as New Testament Christians on this side of the cross, we have blessings That Old Testament saints did not enjoy, did not understand, in fact, they were a mystery to them, but to us they are reality. We taste them, we experience them. In other words, all those things that I mentioned are the reasons that are to drive us to think clearly and to think biblically and to ultimately live lives that are set apart to God. All of that is pound up in that little word, wherefore. But then I want you to see the second phrase. The phrase is this Girt up the loins of your mind. Now this is kind of an odd phrase. We don't talk about girding up our loins anymore. It's a good thing. That's because we don't wear robes very often, okay? But in the ancient world, men, women, everybody would wear long flowing robes Well, long flowing robes are great if you're sitting in your parlor, if you're eating a meal, I guess unless it's as hot as it gets in the Middle East. But it's not good if you're going to work out in the fields. It's not good if you're going into battle. And so when they talked about girding up their loins, basically it was a way of saying this Take that long flowing robe and roll it up and tuck it into your belt because you're getting ready to do something that's going to involve physical labor that you're going to need to be able to move freely back and forth. If I'm going to the fields, if I'm going to the battle, it's important that I prepare myself by rolling up that robe and placing it in my belt so I'm in a position to do what I need to do. In other words, it's a preparation for the next step that someone was to take. In Peter's mind, he's not talking about going to the field. He's talking about going into the battle. Not a physical battle. We don't wrestle with flesh and blood, but we wrestle against principalities and powers, against spiritual wickedness in high places. In other words, Peter is saying you need to prepare your mind for spiritual warfare. It's interesting. We've talked a good deal about this topic of spiritual warfare on Sunday nights. We're going verse by verse and section by section and thought by thought through Ephesians chapter 6. This is the first instrument that Paul tells the Christian there to put on. It's a belt. It's not a defensive mechanism. It's not an offensive weapon. It's simply a preparatory measure so that you're prepared to go to battle The second thing, or the third phrase we'll look at is the phrase, be sober. The little phrase, be sober. actually kind of talks about the entire thing that is being talked about here. It's interesting if you were to if you were to read that and you were to think about where did that fit in the logical progression of those verses, you would say Be sober talks about all of what Peter is talking about here. In other words, the way that we gird up the loins of our mind, the way that we think, the things that we're going to do, as separating ourselves unto God. It's something that's very sober. We need to think carefully. clearly about it. That word sober means self-controlled. It means circumspect. It means having a stabler, grounded mind. And when it comes to preparing ourselves in these areas, we need to be sober about the incredible responsibility we have. The last phrase is a very interesting one. And how you read it or how you emphasize it can make it confusing to understand exactly what it's saying. This is what he says. Hope for the end. Now the way that we use the word hope is kind of the idea like I'm hoping it's going to happen. I think it's going to happen. There's a high probability. There's a low probability. We hope based on how confident we are in the person that has told us they're going to do something. Does that make sense? So if a kid tells you, oh, I'm going to do that for you, and that kid's, you know, demonstrated over and over and over again that they forget, they don't follow through, then when you say you hope, it's kind of like I hope and the probability is really low If it's somebody that is like clockwork, every time they say they're going to do something, they do it Every time they say I'm going to be there, they're there. Every time they say when they're going to be there, they're there then. You know you have confidence when you say I hope, you have high confidence. When he uses the term hope for the end, he's talking about hope from the standpoint of someone who has promised, who's unable to lie. Who doesn't get caught off guard by anything? God cannot lie. He does not lie. He doesn't get caught off guard when God says he's going to do something. He's going to do something. So when he talks about hoping for the end, he's talking about a steadfast confidence or assurance of something that will take place on the final day. The grace that we will enjoy when we see Jesus. I'll put it in another way. Set your hope fully and completely on the grace that'll be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. When we talk about the grace that we as Christians receive, understand that God's grace kind of unfolds in various levels. It's sort of like taking an onion. If you take an onion and you pull off one layer, what do you have? You got another one. You pull off that la layer, what do you have? You got another one. Eventually you get to the core and then you start crying Or you start crying before you get to the core. Alright? When we talk about God's grace, we didn't understand that God's grace could be looked at like that onion. There are different layers of God's grace as we look at it. When we talk about grace, we say God saves us By grace. And I say, what aspect of salvation are you talking about? Well, God in his grace sent his son. That's one aspect of God's grace. God in his grace not only sent his son, but his son died for my sins. He rose from the dead, and I came to understand that through the gracious work of the Spirit of God, repentance and faith. God's grace brought me to understand the gospel, and I trusted in Christ as my Savior. We are justified by His grace. In other words, I'm declared righteous by God. the moment that I trust in the finished work of Christ. And so I could say I'm saved by grace in the big picture. I'm saved by grace in the fact that God draws me to salvation. I'm saved by grace in the sense that God's declared me righteous. All those things are in the past. I'm experiencing God's daily grace as he grows me and perfects me into Christ's likeness, sanctification. But there's a final aspect of God's grace. That is guaranteed, but not yet tasted. And you know what that grace is? The grace that we experience when we stand before Him on the final day. You say, what kind of blessings do you think that the apostle has in his mind? Let me mention a couple of them very quickly. The first blessing I think he could be thinking of is the blessing of the completion of a race. I know we have at least one runner in here. I used to run, you might not know that. When I was in high school, I ran one year. It was the worst decision I ever made in high school sports. But it was good for me nonetheless. Can't say I loved running But I'll tell you what I did love about running. Crossing the finish line and going, I'm done. You know what I'm talking about? You cross the finish line and you're done. Why is that so rewarding Because it says you finished your course. No matter what the time is. I mean, some times are better than others, don't get me wrong, but when you finish, there's something sweet about finishing the race. It's an accomplishment. It's kind of like a graduation. When a kid graduates from high school, everybody that walks across that stage gets a diploma, but they didn't all have the same GPA. You know, the kid that that graduated with a 2. 2, his mom and dad might be more happy than the one that got a 3. 8. Because they said, I didn't know if he'd make it. And he did. Completion. You graduate from high school, you graduate from college, you get a master's, you get a doctorate. The fact is this, completion of the course is a big deal and you're happy about it. In Hebrews 12, 1 it says this. Let us lay aside every weight. And the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us. God 's grace sustains us as we're running this life's race. And let me tell you, some days you feel like it's the second mile. Or the twenty second mile if you're running a marathon. But you know what? You push through it. And at the end of the day, when you stand before Christ, there will be a cr tremendous blessing. A tremendous testimony to the grace of God when you stand before him and he says, you completed your race. There's the blessing of a glorified body. Kind of alluded to this already, but the fact is there will be a day that you have a body that is free from the effects of the fall that you experience today. You know, when you're 22, you don't think about the effects of the fall as much as you do when you're 72, right? I'm just saying. You start realizing, you know, this body's breaking down. I'm not able to do the things that I used to do. The strongest man will one day be humbled. The wisest man or the wisest woman, the person who was so respected one day. They will lose those abilities. The fact is in 1 Corinthians 15, 51, he says, we shall all be changed. In a moment, this corruptible must put on incorruption. This mortal shall have put on immortality. Then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory. Not only will you complete your race, but you will have a body that is free from the effects of a fallen world. That's something to be thankful for. The blessings of freedom from the terrible effects of the fall. Beyond the fact that my body has fallen, so is everything around me. In Romans chapter 8 he says, we know that the whole creation groaneth. Not only they, but also we ourselves, the first fruits of the Spirit. We groan within ourselves waiting for the adoption, the redemption of our bodies. You know, it's interesting at at the fall there were some things that God told Adam and God told Eve were going to happen. He says the woman was going to experience pain in childbearing. Every mom here knows what he's saying. He says that the man is going to do the work in the field by the sweat of his brow. And if you get your food from places outside of grocery stores, you try to grow your own food, you find out something. It's not as easy as it looks. You go to the grocery store and you get those tomatoes and then you try to grow them and you find out like they rot. And stuff comes and eats them. All kinds of things happen. It's a fallen world. The things that we see in this world, they're very difficult sometimes to deal with. It's not just that we're fallen, the world we live in is fallen. Yet when we stand before Christ, we're going to enter into an eternal state that is free from the corruption, not only within me, but in the world. We think of the blessing of an eternal inheritance. In 1 Peter 1, verse 3 says this that he hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. To an inheritance incorruptible, undefiled, that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you. The idea is that we're going to receive an inheritance that is free from corruption. You know, there are some people that when their parents pass on and leave their stuff It's not a good deal for them. They gotta sell a house that's all dilapidated. They gotta throw out a bunch of junk. And even those items that are precious to us, that have those memories attached to them, those items, they're corrupted. They're fading. You can't even use them. Sometimes we just keep them to remember the past. But the inheritance that is talked about in 1 Peter is different than any inheritance that a person receives on this side It's eternal. It's free of corruption. He talks about the blessing of an eternal reward. In 1 Corinthians chapter 9, he says They which run in a race run all, but one receiveth the prize, so run, that ye may obtain. And the idea is when we stand before the judgment seat of Christ, not only will we have completed our course, But we will be rewarded for the degree to which we've been faithful in this life. But perhaps the greatest of all is the blessing of fellowship with God and redeemed loved ones that will be unhindered by the effects of sin. And 1 John chapter 3 says this Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be. But we know that when we shall appear, we shall be like him. We shall see him as he is. Think about how many times our dearest relationships, it could be our spouse, could be our kids, could be our parents, could be whoever it is, a dear friend, somebody we truly love. How many times those relationships come under strain because we're selfish and they're selfish. Because we're under pressure, because they're under pressure. Because we didn't get what they were saying, they didn't get what we were saying. How many times? The fact is this, and we go to be with the Lord forever, we will have relationships that are unhindered by the fall and sin. And that's our relationship to God and that's our relationship to one another. Those are incredible blessings. When he talks about The fact that we should be looking to the hope of the end when we experience the grace that will be revealed at the revelation of Christ, these are the kinds of things that he's talking about. I move on to a second principle, and that's this. I need to understand that holiness is not just something that involves how I think, but it involves my will. I need to understand that holiness involves submitting to what God says is right, his will, not mine. Notice the phrase in verse 14, he says, we're to do this as obedient children. In Luke chapter 9, Jesus talks about discipleship, and he says this: no man who has put his hand to the plow and looks back is fit for the kingdom of God. In Luke 14, Jesus says that you cannot come to God and put any rival between you and him. You have to even hold your own life as secondary to God. Our will has to be bent to his. Submission, but I want you to notice the position that's mentioned. It's the position of a child. You know, Peter could have appealed to several different relationships that we have to God, like the Creator. He could have said you need to obey the Creator. He made you. You need to submit to him because he designed your life and everything in it. He could have said he's your king, and that's true. There's no higher authority for you to submit to than God, so he deserves your full submission. He could have said, well, he's going to be the judge He's established his law, so on the basis of him being the judge, you need to submit to his authority. And that's true, but he doesn't appeal to that particular area. He could have said, He's the Lord. You're his servant. He's your master. Again, that relationship is true, but it's not the one he appeals to. He appeals to that of a child to a father, because it's an honor to have someone who is so close. Yeah, I know everybody in here doesn't come from ideal family situations. It could be that you had a dad who wasn't a good dad. Could have been you had a dad who was a wonderful dad. But I have seen this many times. No matter how your dad was, he's still your dad. And even parents whose dads, and they can kids who can tell you, you know, my dad had all these problems, but they still love their dad. It's just something about it. Why is that? Because there's that Affection for the one who gives you life. But we're not talking about a sinful dad. We're not talking about an evil dad. We're talking about a dad who's perfect. When Peter says, obey as a child, that is very powerful. Folks, we submit our wills to God, but we submit our wills to Him as a child to the parent we love. We then come to a third truth, and that's this. I need to understand that holiness is superior to worldliness. You know, I think a lot of times we think That when God says, you need to live a life set apart to me, and you need to turn away from the ways of the world and do things in a way that pleases me, we think we're getting a bad deal. I don't know if anybody ever thought that way. Look at all the great things out there that I can't do because I'm set apart to God. I want to ask you a question. If you could look At God's way and the world's way, and compare them in an unbiased manner, which one would be better? You know what's interesting? The scripture lays it out right here. Look down at the next phrase. In verse 14, he says this. Not Fashioning yourselves according to the former lusts in your ignorance I want to break down that verse just a bit. There are three ways that he mentions that the way of holiness, the way that's set apart to God, is superior to the way of the world, the fleshly way. The first way that he mentions is this, worldliness goes against my new nature. Notice how he puts it. Not Fashioning yourselves. In fact, it's interesting in Romans 12, Paul makes a similar statement. Verse 2, he says this: Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. In other words, when you got saved, there's something that happened to you and inside of you that makes worldliness something that's against nature This is a very interesting thing. When I got saved, I became a new creature in Christ. Old things passed away. All things have become new. In other words, when I choose to live in a way that's contrary to God's laws, yes I have the potential to do that. Yes, I often do do that, but when I do, it's contrary to my new nature in Christ. And so he says, don't fashion yourselves. In other words, you got saved. You became a new creature in Christ. He set you on this path. When you choose to live like this, you're going contrary to that nature. In other words, holiness is superior because it's the way that God made us to be. Number two, he mentions this: worldliness leaves me in a position where I'm out of control. Notice the phrase, according to your former loss. Before a person knows the Lord, he lives according to his appetites. He just does. In fact, in Ephesians 2, it says this, that they walked according to the course of this world. They had their conversation, their way of life, and times past fulfilling the lust or the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath. Galatians chapter 5, verse 24 says that those who are Christ have crucified the flesh with its affections and its lusts. In other words, when a person is saved and they live in a way that's contrary to that new nature, it goes against their new nature When a person is saved and they go back to the old way, they're living in a way that is dominated by their passions. It's interesting how Peter talks about this in 2 Peter 2. Verse 18, he warns these Christians. They, these are false teachers, allure you through the lust of the flesh. Through much wantonness, those that were clean escaped them who live in error. While they promised them liberty, they themselves are the servants of corruption. For of whom a man is overcome, the same is he brought into bondage. I'll put it in real simple terms. People are telling you, Christians, he's saying. That this way is a way of liberty. It's a way of freedom. Go this way and you'll enjoy it. And he says this: you're actually going away of being dominated by your own lustful passions. He says they're promising you freedom, but in fact you're a slave. He says it's after they've just escaped the corruptions and the pollutions of this world. Through the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they are again entangled and overcome. Their latter end is worse with them than the beginning It happened unto them according to the true proverb, the dog is returned to his own vomit again, and the sow that was washed to her wallowing in the mire. It's like you take a dog, the dog is sick, and the dog kind of you know runs off to the corner and is eating grass. What is that dog doing? Well, we know what dogs do when they're eating grass. They're sick. The dog throws up. That's so disgusting. So you go in and you get something to clean it up. And you come back and it's gone. Like like what happened? You know what happened? The dog went and he got it again. But that the thing that's causing the problem, he's eating it again. How does that work out for you? Yet that's what we do when we go after the ways of the world. You have this pig. You think, man, I want to make this pig nice and clean, presentable. I don't want it to smell bad. And you go and you s you spend all this time cleaning the pig. I don't know if anybody ever raised pigs. We're in Ghana, we had friends who raised pigs And I remember watching those pigs just rolling around in the mud and eating the slop. It was gross. You clean that pig and you think, oh, he'll just sit out in the sun and he'll enjoy being clean. Wrong. He's gonna crawl away, get in that mud, and roll in it, and you know what? You wasted your time. And he says, this is what we do as Christians when we go back to the ways of the world. Those illustrations are very vivid. Number three, worldliness lacks the perspective that's rooted in what is real. He says, you're going back to your ignorance. You were unaware of the desperation of your condition, and you're going back to it. Folks, living a life that is set apart to God is far better than living for this world. When you live for this world, you're dominated by your passions. You're living in a way that's contrary to God's nature. And you're living in a way that lacks the clarity of a real life perspective. It's so interesting when Solomon writes the book of Ecclesiastes. He looks at life and he says, vanity of vanity is all is vanity. It was a waste. I tried everything in this world and I found it empty. And the truth is this, if you live for your belly, that's exactly what you'll discover at the end of life. I then move on to this final thought. We need to understand that holiness will call me to a God-centered life. Verse 15 he says this. As he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation, because it is written: Be holy, for I am holy Notice that little phrase as he, the command begins with who God is. He's called you. The command is rooted in the fact that he is gracious to you and he has authority over you. If God is calling to you, that means he reached out to you to you. And if he's calling out to you, that means he's in the position of authority and he's in the position of strength. You are not He says, so be ye holy. The command calls us to imitate God's nature. He wants us to be set apart to honorable purposes. He wants us to be separated from sinful passions. He wants us to be set apart to live out our lives as God created us to live our lives. Lots of people want to know what their purpose is. I think all people at some point in their lives say, why am I here? The answer is this: you're here to glorify God and to know Him. God commands us to live life that are set apart to Him. I want to encourage you. Let's think biblically. Let's submit our wills to Him as obedient children. Let's see the inferiority of a life that's lived for selfish and worldly pursuits. And let's live God-centered lives for His glory. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer, please. Father in heaven, thank you. For calling us your children. Thank you for sending your son to purchase our redemption. Father, thank you for working in us to open our eyes to our lost condition, to convict us of sin, righteousness, and judgment. And to help us to see the absolute folly of trusting in anything but Christ and His righteousness. Father, help us to be people who purposefully Live out holy, set apart lives to you. May you strengthen us as your people and help us in this pursuit. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.