Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our morning service and hope that you've had a great week. Looking forward to just a wonderful Lord's Day. It's going to actually get up close to 80 by the end of the day. So Believe it or not, we have the AC on in here, because we're going to need it by the end of the service. But uh if you're visiting with us today for the first time or the first time in a long time, we'd like to warmly welcome you. And if you'd like us to reach out to you sometime during the next week, take a moment to fill out one of those connection cards and put it in the box in the back. And if you do that. We'll reach out to you if you'd like us to reach out to you by email or if you'd like a visit or a phone call, just mark which of those you prefer and we will reach out to you. We have a couple of announcements and then we'll get our server started Ingus Pastor said it's a beautiful day. I hope you guys take an opportunity to just be outside for a little bit today. This week we have, I would say, beginning of several things going on. Thursday we have the senior luncheon. The back fellowship hall around lunchtime we'll be having the seniors be getting together for a little potluck College and career on Friday night at the Porsche 's house. Saturday, the men's breakfast at 8 a. m. So Men, please um try and plant encourage you guys to come out. We'll have sausage, eggs, pancakes, and then a little devotional, a lot of time of fellowship. And then immediately following that, we'll have our door-to-door visitation. Ladies, you are welcome to come along and join us as we go door-to-door and just having to knock and invite many people in the community to church as well as to uh give them the gospel. On Saturday though, we also have the opportunity to be an encouragement to Brianne Ulrich. She's having her graduate master's recital at 1 p. m. That is at the Peabody Institute. The Cohen Davidson Family Theater, to be more specific. Now they're on the Bulletin board. There is a sign-up that the church is having a van go to that if you're interested in signing up. The van leaves at noon There does say no children under seven. So that would be something to be just be thinking about if you'd like to be an encouragement there. Next Sunday night there is a business meeting. The agenda is placed on the bulletin board. And then the 26th we have a baby shadow there are four ladies, well, three that are still pregnant, one that had them a little bit ago. uh that we can just have an opportunity to be an encouragement and a blessing to um these Beneter, Hudgens, Rieger, and Ulrich families as they're having Um children, there are registries on there's a sign up on the bulletin board for registry items, uh diapers, wipes, and then there's like kind of a food sign-up as well to be there for that. Then kind of the next day, didn't quite make it on the bulletin board, but for the seniors, if you have not seen the little handout for uh Europe C. Morgan 's Uh estate planning event that'll be Saturday, April 27th. I'd encourage you guys to come. There is a sign on the bulletin board as well as there are handouts at the welcome desk if you do have not grabbed one Just grab it and look at it and see. Um just start planning the next stages of life and some aspects of that. And then May 11th, a ways away, but Still got to keep working ahead is the final ladies' meeting of the summer. It's going to replace the usual Thursday meeting. It is being catered by Olive Tree, so there is a little fee event, but it is the last event until the fall. It is being hosted by Miss Sandy Everhart. So if you have an opportunity to talk with her, if you have any questions. She would be the one to see. But there is also a sign on the bulletin board for more details. Pastor Josh. And also with that, I know we've got a lot of teens inspiration tonight, and that 'll be hosted by the tailors. And also this Saturday is our final Bible cuisine. good most of the day Saturday and so we have two quiz teams that will be participating and it's over all of first and second junior on. Any of it is free gain from quote verbatim to reference specific questions. And so just be praying for them as well. That 'll be most of the day Saturday. And we'll now have our opening scripture reading in 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, and we will start in verse 6. Therefore, let us not sleep as do others, but let us watch and be sober. For they that sleep sleep in the night, and they that be drunken are drunken in the night. But let us who are of the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love. And for an helmet, the hope of salvation. For God hath not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ. Our focus of worship for this morning is let's focus on our need to be ready for his return. Please let's all bow together for a word of prayer. And I think that the text of scripture we're going to deal with this morning is a fascinating one in light of what's going on in the Middle East right now. And there's going to be a day, and it talks about in Scripture, where the nation of Israel will be brutally attacked by several nations. And what we're going to read about in the text of Scripture this morning is really going to be a foretaste of what's going to happen. We need to commit um the situation going over there in prayer to the Lord. And um we need to be reminded that there will be a day that God's eschatological program is going to unfold. And we need to be ready for the Lord's return. And so I think it's fascinating that this is text that we're going to deal with considering what's going on over there. Let's bow together with a word of prayer, please. Our Father, we think about the text in front of us that reminds us that there will be a day. That the Lord Jesus will return , He will establish His kingdom, and every person who has placed their faith in Christ. will have the great privilege of being part of his work. We recognize that between now and that day there will be some terrible events. that will take place, that are foretold in the scriptures. And Father, I pray that when we look at what's going on in the world, our hearts would not be weary or faint, but that we would recognize that you are fully in control. There is nothing that is happening at this moment that is beyond your ability to work through and to manage, and so we commit to you this great conflict that is beginning. And I pray that you will help us as we open up the Word of God to recognize exactly how we're to respond, no matter the circumstances in the world around us. Help us to recognize that we are always to be watching and ready, that we should take seriously the need to be prepared for the return of Christ. And so I pray that in a very special way that you would take your word and minister to our hearts this morning. As we sing praise to you, I pray that we would sing with great passion. that our greatest desire would be to proclaim your glories, that you would uplift us and strengthen us in the time we spend together. As we fellowship together between services, after the service, during the service, I pray that that fellowship would be very sweet, very Christ-centered And we commit to you the great challenges that are going on even in our church setting. I pray for those who are dealing with heavy burdens, those who are recovering from surgeries, those who are dealing with just heavy challenges. May you uphold and strengthen them. And may you be at work in their lives for your glory and ultimately to accomplish your good purposes in them. We ask it all in Christ's name, amen. Good morning, Anchor Baptist Church and esteemed guests. Thank you for joining us in person and on live stream. We certainly appreciate you being here with us as we take and put aside a little time to put the cares of the world behind us and focus on the Lord's Word. I know there's a lot going on out there, but let's focus in. Let's not let the cares of the world overcome the priority of worshiping the Lord on the Lord's Day and in His book. Please stand with me. Soldiers of Christ arise. Page 592, all three verses, sing out, make a joyful noise. So you can for your heart. The word as I spend entering mine with all his hand No women, and let's go again by the whole throne. Okay. Sorry, I thought we were gonna Another verse. Okay. Well, all right, folks, we're going to go to page 577. I like the way she ended that, but caught me off guard Alright, be strong in the Lord. Alright, all you weaken warriors. Here's where we get to work some things out. All three verses of Strong in the words. Sure , you are with his God , which is God in the world , our gay brother. So the Lord bear and broadband. We love you the Lord, and a feel of you from your God , we are being gone. God will be lawyers in the morning of the Lord The race more God , please from the Lord before , please from the Lord, and we 're not bringing you. Amen. Please be seated. We're going to turn back to page 544. Work for the night is coming. Page five hundred and forty-four. On the time I was a win , the church being good. On the time I didn't Work more than I can I will work in more of Hey Bill, that's good singing. I think some of you are singing in spite of the allergies going on this season, aren't you? Yes, indeed. Second reading of the scripture is coming from the book of Luke. Luke chapter 12. We'll start in verse 35. Luke 12, 35. And the scriptures say Let your loins be girded about, and your lights burning, and ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their Lord, when he will return from the wedding. that when he cometh and knocketh, they may open unto him immediately. Blessed are those servants whom the Lord, when he cometh, shall find watching. Verily I say unto you, that he shall gird himself and make them to sit down to meet, and will come forth and serve them. And if ye shall come in the second watch, or come in the third watch, and find them so, blessed are those servants And this know that if the good man of the house had known what hour the thief would come, he would have watched and not have suffered his house to be broken through. Be ye therefore ready also, for the Son of Man cometh at an hour when ye think not. Then Peter said unto him, Lord, speakest thou this parable unto us, or even to all? And the Lord said, Who then is that faithful and wise steward, whom his Lord shall make ruler over his household, to give them their portion of meat in due season? Blessed is that servant whom his Lord, when he cometh, shall find so doing. Of a truth, I say unto you, that he will make him ruler over all that he hath. But, and if that servant say in his heart, My Lord delayeth his coming, and shall begin to beat the men's servants and maidens, and to eat and drink, and to be drunken. The Lord of that servant will come in a day when he looketh not for him, and at an hour when he is not aware, and will cut him in sunder, and will appoint him his portion with the unbelievers. And that servant, which knew his Lord's will and prepared not himself, neither did according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes But he that knew not, and did commit things worthy of stripes, shall be beaten with few stripes, or unto whomsoever much is given, of him shall be much required. and to whom men that have committed much of much of him they will ask the more. May the Lord add the reading blessing to the reading of his word. All right. For our next song, page five hundred and thirty-seven. But I'm gonna have to have you stand because at the end of the third verse We're going to turn around and do our meet and greet. I want you to make sure that you meet somebody that you don't know Make sure our visitors feel welcome. Meet somebody that you don't know. Then meet somebody that you think you might know but can't remember if you really know. And then of course greet the folks that you do know. Jesus says. We have heard the joyful sound. Jesus says. Jesus says, turn the tidings all around , Gene the Bay , Tina, by the dream that brought the wind. And ropes See the bad Sing softly through the gloom Way I'm fine for my face Singing Right for the girl We are playing. Bring one another. All right, take the way back, please. Okay, join me, join me on the court. Come on. Where you boy, give the faith , is the dead , and we join , Jesus , he the flesh, shall not be Jesus faith in the way. Amen. Alright, we 'll need your blue book for this next slide. Page 105, right in the middle. the blue book, page 105, or follow along on the screen. Sing out. Sing out like you did on that last one. What a joyful sound. Jesus says, for me to live is Christ. I think you 're not by the way. For me , live and try, for me , I should link my heart. I asked the instruments to bow out on the last verse. Here we go So joy in Christ and merce, and run to him , he brings to free Content again and every stage to know be strengthened by disgrace For me to live this cry, for me to live this cry Pursuing him my highest price for me to give his Christ. Amen. Please be seated Tab main screen we find. Are you waiting? Are you ready for the calling Lord? Are you living as he brings you in his holy word? Are you walking in the light? Is your hope of heaven bright? Could you welcome him tonight? Shall he gone? Shall he gone? Shady gone. Shall he gone? Shall he go? Shani Khanika, Sharikonika , you welcome it to night, Shani Ka. Are you watching, are you waiting for the coming Lord? Have you gathered in the lost rooms from the downward road? Where you may watch the trees, with the lead to wash in the wheat, where you shall the master meet when he calm Shall he call him? Shall he come? Could you gladly welcome him, Shani Cal? Shorty called Shorty Cory. Could you welcome him to night, Shiny Kong? Are you waking have you risen from your slumbering sleep? Is your lamp all brightly burning to your visual game? Are your garments washed from sin? Are you fancy or with it? Are you ready for the king? Should he come? Should he go? Should he go? Should he go? Could you probably welcome him? Shorty call. Shorty called it, Shorty Call. Could you welcome into my chamica? Could you welcome into night? Okay, thank you for that. Our children who are junior church age can be dismissed to the back with some help from a parent And the rest of you, I want you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to Luke chapter 12. This morning, Luke chapter 12. And we're looking at verses 35 through 48. This is a much lengthier passage of scripture than I typically deal with, but I think that the two parts to this sermon, the two parts of the text in front of us, They really are meant to be brought and looked at together. So I'm going to go ahead and read the passage together. We'll pause and ask the Lord to bless our time in the Word, and then we're going to dig into the content of this very pertinent passage of Scripture. Let your loins be girded about and your lights burning And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their Lord, when he'll return from the wedding, that when he cometh and knocketh, they may open unto him immediately. Blessed are those servants whom the Lord, when he cometh, shall find watching. Verily I say unto you, that he shall gird himself. And make them to sit down to meet, and will come forth and serve them. And if he shall come in the second watch, or come in the third watch, and find them so blessed, Are those servants? And this know that if the good man of the house had known what hour the thief would come, he would have watched, not have suffered his house to be broken through. Be ye therefore ready also, for the Son of Man cometh at an hour, when ye think not. And Peter said unto him, Lord, speakest thou this parable unto us, or even to all? The Lord said, Who then is that faithful and wise serv servant, steward, whom his lord shall make ruler over his household, to give them their portion of meat in due season? Blessed is that servant whom his lord, when he cometh, shall find so doing. Of a truth I say unto you, he will make him ruler over all that he hath. But, and if that servant say in his heart, My Lord delayeth his coming, and shall begin to beat the men servants and the maiden maidservants, the maids, and eat and drink and be drunken. The Lord of that servant will come in a day when he looketh not for him. And at an hour when he is not aware and will cut him in sunder and will appoint him his portion with the unbelievers. And that servant which knew his Lord's will and prepared not himself, neither did according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes. But he that knew not, and did commit things worthy of stripes shall be beaten with few stripes. For unto whomsoever much is given Of him shall much be required. And to whom men have committed much of him, they will ask the more. So let's just gather together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to help us understand this very important passage of Scripture and how to apply it as we sit here this morning. Father, would you take your word and open our understanding as we look at this text? Help us to see the glory of what is in front of us. Help us to see the weight and the soberness of what is in front of us. Father, help us not to look at this text without considering the context of Luke and the emphasis on the kingdom of God. So I pray that as I present this text of Scripture, you'd help me to do it in a very simple and clear way, in a way that each one of us can understand and ultimately know exactly how we are to respond to your word this morning. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us presents a series of teachings They call all to be ready for Christ's return by wisely stewarding all that He has given them Now, what you may not realize as you're looking at these verses is if you were to look at it in the Greek text, you would find that there are two chiastic structures built within the passage in front of us. It may not mean anything to you, but what it does do is it shows you the emphasis of the passage in front of us. The first emphasis is focusing in on a blessing that Jesus promises. The second is focusing in on a distinction between two kinds of people in the world. And so as we dig into this text, you'll see those two pieces come out, because they are the focus of what Jesus is saying. Ultimately, what he wants us to know from his word is that we need to be ready for his return. And so let's look first of all at the context, because the context calls us to be ready for the return of Christ. In verse 40, you'll notice he says it this way Be ye therefore ready. For the Son of Man cometh at an hour when ye think not. Let me read that again. He says, Be ye Therefore, ready for the Son of Man cometh at an hour when ye think not. Now, when I read that verse, there are two questions that came to my mind as I pondered it. The first question is, well, what is the background of Jesus' teaching? Because he says, be therefore ready. That means that Jesus has been talking about something throughout his ministry. John has, or excuse me, Luke has been writing about this throughout the book of Luke. And this is an important thing for us to consider because this is motivating us to respond by being ready. And then the second question is, well if he's coming to do something, what is he coming to do? Doesn't that make sense? So why did what in the what in the passage of scripture leading up to this is kind of the motivation for this statement. And what's Jesus coming to do? Well, here's the answer. We cannot understand the answer to those two questions without a basic understanding. Of a theme that is preeminent in the book of Luke. And that is the theme of the kingdom of God. Now, if you were to do a word search of the book of Luke, you would find over 45 references. where the word kingdom is used. Don't worry, I'm not going to give you a data dump this morning, but I sure thought about it as I was working my way through the passage because The truth is that as you read each of those passages of Scripture, there's a certain element of the kingdom of God that is being emphasized. In fact, the book of Matthew has an even greater emphasis on this theme than the book of Luke. And it's a shorter book, and it has more references, at least ten more references to this theme. But what I want to do is I want to give you a little bit of a flavor of what is being talked about. The first example of this we find in Luke chapter 1. And verse 32, and it is the announcement of Jesus' birth. And this is how Christ's birth is announced. It says, he shall be great. and shall be called the Son of the Highest. And the Lord God shall give unto him, don't miss the next statement, the throne of his father David. And he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever. And of his kingdom there shall be no end. Is that not a stunning statement opening up the book of Luke, introducing us to the Lord Jesus Christ? He is going to sit on the throne of his father David. He's going to have an eternal rule, and his kingdom is never going to end. In fact, this preaching of the kingdom of God was a focus all throughout the book of Luke. A few examples. These are not by any means an exhaustive series of examples. Don't forget there's only over 45 references in the book. But listen to what it says about the focus of John the Baptist preaching. Christ's preaching, the disciples preaching. In Luke 4, 43. He says, I must preach the kingdom of God to other cities, for therefore am I sent. Chapter 8, verse 1. He went throughout every city and village preaching and showing the glad tidings of the kingdom of God. And that word glad tidings means the good news, the gospel. That's really what he's talking about. Chapter 9, verse 2, he sent them to preach the kingdom of God and to heal the sick. There was confirmation that this message was true, and in fact, he is speaking on behalf of God, the Father. Luke 11 verse 20, if I with the finger of God cast out devils, no doubt the kingdom of God is come upon you. You remember the story where Jesus cast out the demons from this individual? And they say, well, he's doing this by the power of Satan. And Jesus says, no. If I've done this by the power of God, then you are witnessing the beginning. With the kingdom of God. Chapter 12, verse 31. Seek ye the kingdom of God. All these things shall be added unto you. We dealt with that just a couple of weeks ago. And then in the next verse 32 he says, Fear not, little flock. It is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. So when you see the word therefore, understand that what Jesus is teaching in these verses is directly connected back to the fact that he is preaching and teaching about the kingdom of God. And so let me give you a simple summary statement for what we mean by the kingdom of God. Putting it simply, it's this. This is God's world, but it is not yet what it will one day be. Say it again. This is God's world, but it is not yet what it will one day be. The cross has taken place The tomb is empty. Jesus has established the one and only basis through which we who are sinful people can enter into his kingdom. Everything has been done so that we can be qualified to enter this kingdom. But we are still living in human history where we are living in a fallen world. And though he is still sovereign and though he still rules, he allows things to unfold in this world that will not be allowed in the future eternal kingdom. It's a fallen world. It's fitted with painful struggles between good and evil. He is mercifully preserving it so that his ultimate purpose is triumph. He has promised to one day restore it to eternal glory. And so we are living at a time in history where we are both saved. But we have not yet experienced all the benefits of that salvation. We are citizens of a kingdom that we are not yet enjoying to its fullest. And because this is true, it drives us to a tension that we need to live with in the Christian life. There are many promised foretastes of this future kingdom. And uh I will tell you that I did not know what was going to unfold yesterday in the evening before I put together this sermon. Frank got the notes before all that. But I want you to notice a couple of things that point to this kingdom that's coming. The first is the rapture of the church. In 1 Thessalonians 4:16, it says that the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout. With the voice of the archangel, with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. We which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. So shall we ever be with the Lord. This passage of scripture teaches that the return of Christ is imminent. What that means is that there is nothing on the calendar that has to take place that we're going That's a sign. When that happens and we know the rapture is about to happen, he says it's going to happen as a thief in the night. People are not going to take it seriously. People are going to say, this isn't going to happen, then boom, he's going to do it. 1 Corinthians 15, 51. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. This is not the kids in the nursery, guys. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump. The trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. Now listen carefully. This is the event in history that we are living with an anticipation for. If you are a Christian, if you have placed your faith in the finished work of Christ, this is the next event on the calendar. You say, well, Pastor, when is it? Nobody knows the day or the hour. You say, well then how am I supposed to be ready for this if I'm not told when it's going to happen? That's the point. The point of the text in front of us is to say, be ready, because you do not know the day or the hour when this will take place. But there is a second event That is talked about in the scripture that is on God's calendar. And this is called the second coming of Christ. This is not A signless event. There are many signs that the scripture talks about, and people who are living through the period of time leading up to the second coming of Christ are going to see example after example after example after example that are to help them to realize Christ is about to come. You say, well, where do you read this? You read about them all over the Old Testament. You read about them in the book of Revelation You read about them in a lot of the prophetic passages of Scripture in Isaiah and in Ezekiel and Jeremiah. You read about signs of his coming. There are no signs of the rapture. There are many signs of the second coming of Christ. And you will notice that this is at the end of the book of Revelation, and there's a reason for that. Because the second coming of Christ is the closing of that tribulation time period. Listen to what it says in Revelation 19, verse 11. John writes, I saw heaven opened. Behold, a white horse, and he that sat on him was called faithful and true. Who do you think that is? Well, that's Jesus. And in righteousness he does judge and make war. See, I thought Jesus was lowly and gentle Jesus. He's going to make war one day. He's going to rule this planet by force. Folks, there's going to be a day that he is going to establish his rule and nobody will be able to stop him from what he's going to do. It says, and the armies which were in heaven follow him upon white horses clothed in fine linen, white and clean, and out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword. And with it he will smite the nations, and he shall rule them with a rod of iron. And he hath on his vesture and on his thigh a name written, King of Kings and Lord of You say that sounds pretty terrifying. Well, it is if you're not ready. But if you're ready when he comes, guess what? You're gonna be with him, not against them. But then as we move on through Revelation, we read in chapter 20 about a kingdom that is giving us a foretaste of what is to come. And listen to what it says in verse number one. This is like right after what we've just read. And he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is the devil and Satan. and bound him a thousand years. That he should receive, that he should deceive the nations no more, till the thousand years should be fulfilled. And after that he must be leased a little season. And I saw thrones, and they that sat upon them, and judgment was given unto them, and I saw the souls of them which were beheaded for the witness of Jesus and for the word of God, and they lived. And reigned with Christ a thousand years, you say, who are those people? The people that are ready for his coming. But the rest of the dead. Live not again until the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection. They shall be priests of God and of Christ and shall reign with him a thousand years. Now, there are people who are going to live through all of these events. You realize that? There are people who are not ready for Christ to come at his rapture and they're gonna miss. And there are people who are gonna live through the tribulation. And they're going to come to the end of the tribulation, and some of them during that time period embrace the gospel. We know it because the Bible talks about an innumerable multitude of people who'll be saved. During that time period, and they will be ready for his second coming, and they will participate in this kingdom. But that's not the ultimate end of everything. God has to take this broken, fallen, miserable world, and He's got to destroy it, and He's got to renew it, and He's got to put Redeemed people, glorified Christians in this new creation. And I want you to hear what it says in Revelation chapter 20. I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God, and the books were opened. Another book was opened, which is the book of life. The dead were judged out of those things written in the books, according to their works. Whatsoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. You see, is that like mythological or is that real? It's real. If you're not ready to meet Christ, you've not placed your faith in his finished work, on that day you'll stand before him. You say, I don't want to think about that. That seems kind of harsh. Do you want to know what is true? Or do you want to hear what makes you feel good? It's a harsh reality, but it is true. He says, whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. And I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth were passed away I John saw the Holy City, New Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men. He will dwell with them. They shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them. And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. There shall be no more death, neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain. The former things are passed away. Now I know I read a lot of scripture. But the simple fact is that that is what Jesus is talking about when he says, be ye therefore ready. For the hours coming when the Son of Man will come. That's what he's talking about That is what is being emphasized all throughout the book of Luke. That is what is being emphasized all throughout the book of Matthew. Why? Because Jesus came to redeem a people who are going to inhabit his eternal kingdom. Remember what he said to Nicodemus. He said, unless a man is born again, he will not see the kingdom of God. Do not marvel that I tell you you must be born again. This is the heart of what Jesus is teaching. And so what we see is there's this tension that leads to an application. We're living in the midst of conflict. We are redeemed with redemption, fully secured. However, we are not yet enjoying the full benefits of that redemption. The way we live today matters. We must feel the weight of that duty. So truth number one, context drives us to be ready. Truth number two, the promised blessing calls us. to be ready. And we see in verses 35 through 40 a section that, as I mentioned, there's a kiassic structure. I don't know if when they put together the the sermon outline, if you can see this, but there's a V shape and it goes kind of like this The first thing that Jesus says in verses 35 and 36 is he says, You must be ready. Be ready. And here's how he puts it Let your loins be girded about and your lights burning. Now, he's talking to people who didn't dress the way that you and I dress today. He's talking about people who wrote wore long flowing robes and if someone was going to war or someone was going to go clean or someone was going to go and be involved in something of activity They would take this long flowing rope and they would hike it up and they would tie it up and tuck it into their belt so that they could move about freely and do what they needed to do. Jesus says, be ready. Have your loins girt about. And then when he says, your light's burning, he's saying, you've got to be ready whether it's daylight or whether it's dark. You say, well, when do people sleep? Well, in this analogy, he says they don't. They've got to be ready for the return of their master. Secondly, we see that there is a prepared there is a blessing to the people who are prepared. And in verse 37, he says, Blessed are those whose servants in the Lord, when he cometh shall find watching. Now you say, well, what is the blessing that he's talking about? He says, be ready. There's going to be a blessing. What is it? Well, this is the focus of the entire section. He says, I will serve those people. And I will host those people. Jesus is making an analogy to what's going to happen when people enter into the kingdom of God. The battle is over for them. The struggle has ended. They have a new body and they are enjoying his perfect presence. And he will say, Come and sit down. And enjoy my presence forever. Don't miss what he says in verse 37. This is fascinating. He says, verily I say unto you. He, that is Jesus, the one who's coming, shall gird himself and make them to sit down to meet and will come forth and serve them. Now, if he didn't say this, I would have a hard time saying this is what he's going to do. But this is our Lord saying this. By the way, when Jesus, the night in which he was about to betray, be betrayed, he goes down and he pulls out this basin, and he sits down at the feet of each of the disciples, and he begins to wash their feet. And then they sit down and they celebrate the Passover together. And he says, take and eat, this is my body broken for you. This is in remembrance of me. And take. And and drink this juice. It's the cup of the New Testament in my blood for the remission of sins. You know what Jesus was doing? He was giving them a foretaste, a picture of what was going to happen. He says, because of what I'm doing, I'm going to invite you to sit down at my place. You're going to enjoy communion with me. I'm going to do that because I lay my life down so that you can be with me forever. What an amazing thought. That is really the focus of verses 35 to 40. And verse 38 it says, Again, I tell you, they are blessed. He says, if he shall come in the second watch, or come in the third watch, and find them so blessed. Blessed are those servants. Now, we don't know if if Luke is recording this as the Roman way of looking at the timetable or if he's looking at the Jewish, but At a minimum, he's talking about people who are basically ready for him to come in the middle of the night. We're talking one o'clock in the morning Two o'clock in the morning, three o'clock in the morning, four o'clock in the morning. If you're awake at those times, either one, you can't sleep because something's going on, all right? Or number two, you have a job and you're not supposed to sleep. Does that make sense? He said, if he comes and you're ready, you're blessed. So verse 40, he says this be therefore ready. The Son of Man cometh at an hour when ye think not. So be ready. Do you see the very simple flow of that passage of Scripture? Be ready There's a blessing coming. Here's the blessing. He's going to invite you to sit down. He's going to serve you. He's going to commune with you. So be ready for his return. And so there's really three pieces to what he's saying here. God's servants have to live with a healthy anticipation of his imminent return. Those who are ready are blessed because they are ready. When he comes, he will serve them and commune with them. Don't move quickly from what is in front of you. You and I are redeemed people. And one day we are going to enjoy the full reward of that redemption. Not a redemption that we purchased Not a redemption that we deserve. A redemption that was purchased entirely by the grace of God through a redemptive work of Christ. And so the Christian life is to be lived with a diligence and an earnestness. He's saying, be a ready worker. Let your loins be girded about. Be ready at all times. Let your lights be burning. Do not be lazy. Wait. He will return. Open to him immediately. I asked this question. Are you a Christian who is diligent in the Lord's service? You say, well, how does a Christian be diligent in the Lord's service? Well, it comes down to how we live day in and day out in our homes. The kind of husband that I am, the kind of wife a person is, the kind of father, the kind of mother, the kind of worker. The kind of servant of Christ in the local church. The kind of citizen. The reality is that being ready and being diligent encompasses every single area of our lives. And there are times, let's be honest, where we look at what's going on around us and we go, is God like leaving us to the side? Has he forgotten us? Is everything that I read in the Bible true? It seems like everything is moving in the wrong direction, not the right direction. I'm sure nobody's ever thought that way. There's never been a worse time in all of history. We think that way. There's no way God can turn this around. Maybe his desire is to bring us out of here. Who knows? He's not going to reverse it if that's the time we're living in. It's actually going to keep going. And it'll be far worse than it is now. The fact is, we just don't know. And so he says, be a ready worker, be ready at all times, don't be lazy. That moves us to a third truth. The sober warning of this passage calls us to be ready. So the content says, be ready. And the blessing says, be ready. But he also speaks of it in a very negative way. And the structure of this setting is very interesting. He starts out with a question. Peter asks, who Are you talking to? It's a great question, is it not? I think about the beginning of the book of Acts. Jesus is teaching on the kingdom, and he's about to ascend back to the Father, and the disciples say, Is now the time that we're going to enter into the kingdom? And he says, it's not for you to know the times and the seasons. But what you need to be worried about is taking the gospel. From Jerusalem to Judea, Samaria, to the undermost parts of the world. He does not answer their question. He just blows right past it. You say, how rude. How Christ-like. They were asking the wrong question. He had every right to say, no, this is your responsibility. Don't worry about the timing, because this is an imminent thing. It's going to happen when you're not expecting it. And so Peter naturally goes, were you talking to the Christian, the believer, the disciple, or are you talking about everybody out there who is not a part of our group? That's a fair question, right? Jesus doesn't answer him. Instead, what Jesus does is he focuses on two kinds of people. One kind of person he calls wise, the other kind of person he calls foolish. You see, that's uh that's too simple, right? It wasn't too simple for Jesus. Here's what he says in verse 42. Who then is the faithful and the wise steward? Blessed is that servant, whom his Lord, when he cometh, shall find so doing. Of a truth I say unto you, he will make him ruler over all that he hath. Does that not sound kind of similar to what we just read about in Revelation? There's a reason for that because there's a connection. And then on the other side, he speaks of the foolish. He says, but in if that servant, verse 45 Say in his heart, My Lord delayeth his coming, and shall begin to beat the men's servants and maidens, and eat and drink and be drunken The Lord of that servant will come in a day when he looketh not for him, and at an hour when he is not aware, he will cut him in sunder. Woo, man. He will appoint him his portion with the unbelievers. You say, who is he talking about? He's talking about unbelievers. In other words, he really qualifies it this way. He says, there are wives and there are fools. Another passage of scripture he says, there's the redeemed, and there's those who are not. There's the believer and there's the unbeliever. There are those who are in Christ, and those are who are in Adam. But he's focusing in on the character of these people, how they have related to the opportunity that they've been given. How they have been relating to the stewardship that is available to them. And that's why he focuses in on the difference between someone who is wise and someone who is foolish. And I want to break it down this way. Every person falls into one of these two categories. Either one is wise or one is foolish. And we all have access to God's revelation of Himself on several different levels. For instance, if you and I are here today, that means we came from somewhere. Does that make sense? You know the the the famous question, what came first, the chicken or the egg? Well obviously it was the chicken. Because God made the chicken. And when God made the chicken, he made the chicken with the capacity To make an egg, which is where we get chickens from. So see, I just answered that question for everybody here. The biblical worldview obviously says that the chicken came before the egg, because God came before the chicken. God made him. The fact that you and I are sitting here today have the breath of life, physical strength, all the opportunities that we have, these are an indication, a reminder , we have a creator. And that creator is wise, and that creator is good, and that creator has designed us in such a way that is supposed to draw our attention to the fact that we are answerable to him. But there's a second thing. Our conscience reminds us that we have a moral obligation to him. Interestingly, in Romans chapter 1, he says that mankind holds the truth in unrighteousness. He takes the way that mankind holds truth and he links it with unrighteousness. Why is that? Because the sense of that passage is this. As he holds it, He presses it down and he says, I don't want to consider why. Because of the bias of the human heart. Our conscience knows we're answerable to God. Our conscience has a sense that there is right and there is wrong. And you know what it does? Pushes it away. Doesn't want to think about it. Everybody living has number one, I have a creator, and number two, I'm answerable to him in a moral sense. And number three, our environment declares his glory, leaving us without excuse. What does it say in Psalm and the Psalms it says that the heavens declare the glory of God and there is no speech and there is no language where their voice is not heard So when Jesus uses the term servants, I don't want you to think in terms of, oh, these are disciples who are servants and foolish, and these are disciples who are servants and wise. That's really not his emphasis here. His emphasis is that there are some people that have access to all this information and they're foolish and there are others who are wise. And the end of those two is radically different. But secondly, those who are living in this time had access to Scripture, which gave them an even greater level of culpability. His law awakens our conscience. We've talked about this in Romans 7. His word proclaims the Son and commands us to repent and believe. And the people that Jesus is talking to had an even further level of culpability because They lived with Christ. So they got the Old Testament law, they've got the prophets, and then they've got what they're looking at right in front of them. You know what Jesus says? The wise hear and respond. Fools. Suppress the truth and unrighteousness. In other words, these who live with Christ had the greatest level of culpability because they had Scripture and first-hand access to Him. And this is why Jesus speaks so strongly about the response of those who were not ready for his return. There's a great contrast here. The wise is a person who is faithful and wise as a steward. When Christ returns, he's going to be found so doing. When Christ comes, he will make him ruler over all that he has. Why is this person doing that? Because he takes seriously who Jesus is. He takes seriously that Jesus is going to return. He's serious about this. He's wise. On the other side, we see the fool. He says in his heart, My Lord delays his coming, and he beats The men's service, he beats the maidens, he's drunken, he doesn't restrain himself because he doesn't take seriously the lordship of the one coming or the reality of the one coming. When Christ comes, he's going to appoint him his portion with the unbelievers. Now, there's a reason that Jesus speaks in this way to these people. Everybody living at that time who had Jewish ancestry believed that they were God's people. And in one sense, they were a part of Abraham's physical descendants. But the point that Jesus goes to great lengths to help these people to understand Is that it's not just about being biologically connected to Abraham that makes you God's people. But it is that you are a believer in the God of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. And so as Jesus speaks in these terms, understand that the people that are there listening, in their minds, they are God's people. They are God's servants. And he says, No, you're not. You know how I know that? Because of how you relate to me. That's what he's saying. So let me summarize what Jesus is saying here. The wise take seriously three things. They consider diligently the person of Christ and is right to commend their service. They take seriously the eminence of his return. They take seriously the surety of his judgment and his reward. And you know why? We know that? Because of how they live. Because of how they respond to him. They are wise because they say, the Messiah is coming, and I need him, and I'm trusting in him, and he's going to give me the way to come into the presence of the Father. That's what they're saying. The foolish, on the other hand, ignore Christ on three levels. They scoffed at his person and his right to command their service. They scoffed at the immincy of his return. They scoffed at the surety of his judgment and future reward. And I asked this question. We are not living in the first century. There might be someone here who's ethnically Jewish, I don't know. Not culturally Jewish. So we are removed by 2,000 years and by a lot of culture and a lot of distance. But the simple fact is this. You and I are responding to Christ. We're responding to who he is. We're responding to his right to rule. We're responding to whether or not we believe his return is eminent. We're responding to whether or not we believe he's going to judge the world. We're responding as to whether or not we believe there's sure reward. And so in the same way we are removed by 2,000 years and so much culture, but at the root, there's no difference. Either we are wise or we are foolish. And so I'd like to put it all together in this way. In Ephesians 2, Paul says the following. He says, You has he quickened, who were dead, and trespasses and sins In times past you walked according to the course of this world. We all, I love that, we He didn't say you, he said we. We all had our conversation in times past, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath. But God, who is rich in mercy. For his great love wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ. hath raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places, that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. 4. By grace are you saved through faith, not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. We are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. I want you to see the parallel between what we've talked about in Luke. And what Paul has to say in Ephesians 2. Two kinds of people in the world. The wise, the foolish. How does Paul put it? Those who are dead in trespasses and sins, and those who have been made alive in Christ. Two kinds of people in the world. There are two courses of life. One who is ready according to what Jesus is saying and one who is not. One who is submitted to his authority and one who doesn't care about his authority. One who believes that God's going to judge and one who says, I don't care, he's not going to do anything. How does Paul do it? Paul put it There are some who live according to the course of this world. And there are others who are created in Christ Jesus unto good works. You see the difference? What is the difference? It's one phrase, but God is rich in mercy. You know what separates the wise and the foolish? You know what separates the dead in trespasses and sins and alive in Christ? Those who walk according to the course of this world and those who are created in Christ Jesus unto good works? That one statement. But God who is rich in mercy. It's the gospel God made a way that sinners who are dead in trespasses and sins and walking according to the course of this world and people who are throwing off restraint And people are not giving any consideration to his return and not giving any consideration to his future judgment. He takes those people and he makes a way that they can be redeemed to God. And here's how he puts it. It's by grace, through faith, not of yourselves, gift of God, not of works. That's the gospel, folks By grace, through faith, not of yourselves, gift of God, not of works. I ask you this morning, which of those two positions describes your life? Are you a person who is dead in trespasses and sins, according to Christ, foolish, or someone who was made alive in Christ, according to Christ, wise? Walking according to the course of this world or creating Christ Jesus into good works. What hangs in the balance between those two positions is what you do with the gospel. It's through faith. It's not of yourselves. It's a gift. It's not of works. There might be someone here this morning that you have been on this position and now you understand it for the first time in your life. In Romans 7, you understand who shall separate or who shall deliver me from this bondage of death? And he says, I thank God through Jesus. And all of a sudden you realize, you know what, my only hope is Christ. His grace, going to the cross for me, his resurrection from the dead, his righteousness that's available to me. I Believe it. I'm going to trust in the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. And you're going to go from being dead in trespasses and sins to being alive in Christ. Quickened who were dead. He says You will be a child of God. Not because of any work that you've done, but because you've received the gift of God. Eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. To put it in an even simpler way, the wise are wise because of the grace of God The wise demonstrate that wisdom by turning to Christ in faith alone. The wise walk in wisdom by virtue of a new nature and the indwelling spirit The wise grow in that wisdom by the fatherly care of God in heaven. The wise endure with hope-filled anticipation, standing on the unbreakable promises of Scripture. Are you ready to meet the Lord? Act on what you've heard. If you are a believer, You need to be active in the service of Christ. You need to live with a healthy sense of urgency, even when it's dark. Do not grow weary in well doing. In due season we shall reap if we faint. Why not? Probably the vast majority of us, that is the application for us. But to those who would fall into that other category, the encouragement is very simple. Turn to Christ. His person was validated, his coming is sure, his judgment will be severe. Your loss will be irreversible. Turn to him while you can. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Before we close in prayer, I'm going to ask a simple question. Is there somebody here this morning that would say, Joel, I've never trusted Christ as my Savior? And after hearing what Jesus says and seeing how Paul applied it, I've recognized that my my response is a simple one. I need to turn to Christ and trust Him as my Savior. I'm not going to ask you to stand up. I'm not going to ask you to come forward. I'm simply going to ask you to quietly, with everyone's eyes closed and heads bowed, if you just acknowledge that's me, I need to do that. And I'd like you to reach out to me after the service. Anyone like that would raise your hand and say, Pastor, I need to trust Christ and I've never done that before. Anybody at all? Anybody at all? I hope that you'll come by after the service if you need to speak with me and reach out. The vast majority of us in this room, maybe all, I don't know. On the other side, we're redeemed, but we need to live like it. We're to live in the light of who we are We're to reckon ourselves dead to sin and alive unto God. So I want to challenge you. Do what Jesus says. Be ready. As a worker. Don't be lazy. Be ready for his return whenever it will be. Let's bow for prayer. Father, I thank you for the word of God. Take it and use it in our hearts. Move in our midst. Speak to us through the word. If someone is wrestling with you right now in their hearts, I pray that you would not let them go, but that you would be persistent, that the Spirit of God would convict them of sin and righteousness and judgment. And that there will be a day very soon where they will turn humbly to you and trust in what Christ has done for them. To every Christian in this room and on the live stream, I pray that you would encourage us to be living with an anticipation of the return of Christ, diligent, in sea Christ in in season and out of season, we'd not be discouraged and weary in well doing, but that we would be faithful as we wait for your soon return. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. The hymn I'd like us to close with is 391. I am resolved. So let's turn together, please. And if you need to reach out, please don't hesitate to do that. I want to be an encouragement to you any way that I can Let's stand together, please, and let's sing I am resolved. So we think about what we've heard this morning. I am resolved no longer the leader, charred by the world's ellies. Things that are hard to things that are no, these have a little my side I said , makes them so bad as me. I exhaust you go to the sail. And he is the true one, he is the just one, he has the words of God , I will stand. Instance of God and dream. Jesus Christ I will continue I am exhausted to follow the Savior saving when he said , Be what he say , do what he will, he is the living will. I will ancient ancient things. I will come On the last I exhausted the past of death may of all people. So well I end up a face and so far that is our Yeah, great song. I'd like to ask if Brother Cheryl Nees can come, close us in prayer, hope that you'll be able to come back tonight. Uh we will have volleyball going and the weather should be actually it's gonna be a little on the warm side But uh it should be a beautiful night for that after the service. And uh if you're visiting with us, I hope that you'll come by and greet me and uh just hope I can be an encouragement to you anyway, sure Dear Holy Father, we just thank you, Lord, for this day and the the lives that you've given us. We ask, Lord, that we be wise and be ready. And uh ready and waiting for you. Lord, we just thank you that you work in our lives and that you are always there for us. And we just praise you and ask that you be with us during the rest of this day. Guide us and protect us in Jesus' name, Amen.