Take your Bibles and turn to Isaiah 53 again. And this evening as we are coming together to partake of the Lord's table, I think Isaiah 53 is one of the most appropriate places that I can think of in God's Word. for us to reflect on the sacrifice of Christ. And so I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to read the section again, and then I want to kind of set the setting of this particular prophecy. And I want you to think about what was going on in Israel when these prophecies were being laid out, the things that the people in Israel would have wanted to hear, and the shocking information that was given to them. Now I'm on. The shocking information that was given them about the Messiah, the Savior. Isaiah 53, verse number one says this. Who has believed our report? To whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant. As a root out of a dry ground. He hath no form nor comeliness. When we shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And we hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised, we esteemed him not. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him. And with his stripes we are healed. I want us to bow together and ask the Lord to really help us to reflect in wonder and amazement at the incredible sacrifice that the Lord Jesus Christ has accomplished. So that we can gather together as a body of believers, redeemed, justified, forgiven, cleansed, a home in heaven, a reason to be united as a body. Let's bear our hearts together in prayer as we reflect on this amazing sacrifice of the Lord Jesus Christ. Father, we come into your presence. Very humbled by our sin. Father, every person in this room is a great sinner. Father, it is within our hearts from the moment that we breathe her first breath, a sinful nature. Father, we express the sinful nature in so many hurtful and unholy manners. Yet you and your tremendous love Sent forth your son, made of a woman, made of the under the law, to redeem those who were under the curse of the law. The just for the unjust to bring us to God. Father, we are so humbled, and Father, we amazed, we are so amazed by the sacrifice of Christ. Father, I pray that this evening, as we reflect on this text before us, that our hearts would be gripped by the unbelievable reality of the sacrifice of our Savior. We pray that our hearts would be gripped by the realities of the cross where his blood was shed, so that our sins could be paid for, that debt could be removed, and you could call us your children Father, I pray that we would remember with tremendous freshness and tremendous joy the work of Christ. And Father, I pray that as we remember our terrible plight We remember your amazing grace that we would worship you, for truly you are worthy of our praise and our honor. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. You know, it's interesting when we read the book of Isaiah, sometimes we forget that this book was given at a time when Israel had some really bad history. In fact, when we look at Israel's kings, we see king after king who was really a very arrogant person, was leading the people into idolatry, a lot of spineless leaders, a lot of people who really were not good leaders. And over and over and over again, God would send his prophets. And these prophets would call the people to repent, to turn back to God, to take the covenant relationship that they were in with God very seriously. And for some periods of time when the people would go through tremendous hardship, sometimes they would return to the Lord. Occasionally there would be a king who would lead the people in in a in a in a r revival of sorts where they would turn back to the Lord. But as each successive generation comes, and as the people move further and further down this road of idolatry, God sends this prophet Isaiah to basically warn the people of what is going to happen in the coming generations, in the coming years. Where literally God is going to allow the Babylonians to come down into Israel and they're going to take the that wonderful city, Jerusalem. They're going to destroy the temple. God's people are going to experience tremendous hardship. But in the midst of those warnings, in the midst of those predictions of what God was going to do, God reminded the people that he wasn't finished with them God reminded the people that he loved them and that he wanted them to continue to be his people. And he wanted he wanted them to understand that though the nation Was going to go through a tremendous time of hardship. That same nation was one day going to experience glory and joy And basically, as we go through this this book, the book of Isaiah, it is all pointed to the center of how God can reestablish this group of people and how he can choose out a group of people as his own. A people that are clean and holy and righteous and redeemed and forgiven. And the question is, how can God do that? This text tells us how he can do it. It's the only way that he can do it. The only way that God can have a people is if there is a Redeemer who bears the sin of those people and God pours out his wrath, his righteous anger against their sin on that individual, and it is by the work of Christ That there can be redemption. What's interesting though is that the people didn't want to hear about a Messiah who would suffer. They wanted to hear about a Messiah who would establish a powerful empire, a rule that would crush their enemies. What they failed to realize is there's no kingdom without a cross. There's no redemption without a savior. There's no forgiveness without the atonement sacrifice. And that's really what this text is all about. The purpose of this prophecy is really to explain the weight of Christ's sacrifice and the glory of the redemption. that he would purchase for his people. And so I think what God would have us to see this evening is that we need to wonder and amazement at the glory of Christ's sacrifice. What an appropriate time to do that. We're going to come tonight. We're going to eat this bread. We're going to drink this juice. And we're going to remember that Christ's body was broken for us. And his blood was shed for us. Let's remember the full weight of his sacrifice. There are several truths we're going to look at this evening, and really this is going to be more of a reflection. This is not going to be a deep theological exposition. As much as something that is really inviting us to meditate and to reflect, to worship, to be grateful and thankful, to be humbled. That's really what this section is going to be about this evening. So let's look at each of these truths one by one The first truth that we'll find is in verses 1 to 3, and here's what it is. We should wonder in amazement at Christ's willingness to come to people who would reject him. Listen carefully to what I said there. We should wonder in amazement at Christ's willingness to come to people who would reject him. Notice what the passage says. Who has believed our report? That's a question. Why do you think Isaiah asked the question? He asked the question because he's basically saying this: when the Messiah comes, the majority of people are not going to receive him. They're not going to believe that he is who he says that he is. Not saying Jesus didn't have many followers, but when he went to the cross, how many people were at the cross? How many people? Even from the twelve, how many of those people stood by his cross At Pentecost, what was the the massive size of that group of believers there at Pentecost? I'm not talking about after Pentecost. I'm talking about when the Holy Spirit came upon them and those apostles began to preach. And all these people were hearing the gospel presented in their language. How many people were there assembled? Was it in the thousands? No, it wasn't. It was a handful. The fact is this, when they were in Jerusalem crying Hosanna, the same crowd was crying crucify him just a short time later. They didn't understand who he was. They didn't believe who he was. And it didn't catch Christ by surprise. Hundreds of years before the Messiah came, the prophet Isaiah said, Who has believed our report? They will not receive the Messiah. Notice what it says. To whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? He shall grow up before them as a tender plant. When they look at him, they're going to say, Who is this person? Doesn't have strength, doesn't have maturity, he's not a leader, he's not the kind of person that we would want. A root out of a dry ground. What's a root look like in a dry ground? Shriveled? Dried out? Lifeless? He says, he hath no form nor comeliness. When we shall see him, there's no beauty that we should desire him. He is despised. Rejected of men, a man of sorrows, acquainted with grief. And we hid as it were our faces from him. He was despised, and we esteemed him not. The other day I was reading to my children from the Gospels, and we were talking about how the religious leaders wanted to trap Jesus. And it was so interesting. Jesus decides to heal a man on the Sabbath day. He did it to make a point. And you know what's really interesting? He did that to make the point that he's the Lord of the Sabbath. He created the Sabbath. That means he's God. And what's interesting is those individuals who are watching Jesus going, I hope he heals somebody on the Sabbath so we can prove he's not from God. Heal somebody on the Sabbath? What are these people thinking? They rejected him. They hated him. They despised him. In fact, as Jesus was coming to Jerusalem on that last Passover, what were those religious leaders doing? They were plotting with Judas on how they could take him. Folks, it's not just that Jesus experienced that hardship of rejection. But he knew before he even came that that was what he would experience. Folks, I think that gives us pause to stop and reflect on how good God is. We should wonder in amazement at what he did for us. We see a second truth that's here in this text in verses 4 to 6. I'll read the text and then look at this statement. Surely he hath borne our griefs, carried our sorrows, yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him. With his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray We've turned every one to his own way, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. The second truth we're seeing is this. We should wonder in amazement at his willingness to bear the consequences of our sin. When Jesus went to the cross, he wasn't going for his own sin. He is the sinless one. He wasn't even going to the cross for the sins of a friend or family member. He was going to the cross for an enemy. It's an amazing thought. Notice carefully what it says. He has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows You ever had an individual that seemed kind of high maintenance to you? Seemed like every time that you talked to them, they just burdened you. They just weighed you down. And you know what your friends and family members probably told you? They say, you need to end that relationship with that person because they're wearing you out. You're bearing a burden that you can't handle. We've heard people say that. Maybe we've even told people things like that. That's what Jesus did. He bore our griefs. He carried our sorrows. He shouldered a burden. that did not belong to him. And he did it with love and he did it with humility. And he did it because he wanted to save us from our sins. It says that we esteemed him stricken and smitten of God and afflicted. It was almost like those people said he deserves what he's getting. It's his just reward. That's how the religious leaders looked at Jesus. Do you remember the charge that they made against Jesus? They said, You have blasphemed. You have made yourself to be God when you're just a man. That was the charge that they made against the Lord. And what does that say? They said, you deserve to die. Jesus willingly took the consequences of our sin. It says he was wounded for our transgressions. The chastisement of our peace was on him. With his stripes we are healed. That is a very interesting statement, the chastisement. The idea is that there is a discipline that we deserve. And that discipline that we deserve is something that puts a separation between us and God. We don't tend to think of ourselves in this manner, but before the cross, before conversion, before we're saved by God, we're at enemy enmity with God. In fact, it's interesting. It says that we now have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. We talked about the Christian armor. We talked about the fact that we have our feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. And the reality is knowing that there is peace between me and God is something that gives me incredible comfort. A sound mind. The truth is that the peace between us and God was purchased by Jesus. His body was broken, his blood was shed, so that there could be peace between us and God. He says, all of us, like sheep, have gone astray. We've turned every one to his own way, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. Sheep are wanderers. Sheep need somebody to guide them, somebody to wash them, take care of them. They are really very helpless creatures. And the text says that's what we are. We're like sheep. We're wandering out of the way that we should walk. Walking contrary to God's word, and what does God do? He lays our sins and our iniquities on the Lord Jesus Christ. And as he hung on that cross and as he shed his blood, he was dealt with as if it was his sin. What an amazing truth. He was willing to bear the consequences of our sin. We see a third truth. We should wonder in amazement at his willingness to silently Bear injustice for our redemption. This morning we're looking at the seventh Psalm, and we talked about how difficult it is to bear under the weight of injustice. And this is something that we deal with. People that are basically destroying your reputation and you have no power, no ability to stop them. You have someone who wants to destroy you, wants to ruin you. In David's case it was Saul. He wanted to kill him. And this person, Cush, is there beside Saul, and he's encouraging Saul to go after David so that he can kill David. And we saw the incredible internal turmoil that David experienced because of injustice. When we face injustice, what do we want to do? We want to declare innocence. What do we want to do? We want to set the record straight. What did Jesus do? Look at what it says in verse 7. He was oppressed , he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. What an amazing statement. Jesus, there was never anyone in this world more innocent than Jesus You know, David tells God, he says, search my heart and see if there's anything that I've done here. And if it is, then bring it on me. And David said that with great confidence. But do you think maybe God could have found something in David that he could have said, well, you know, I don't think you should have said it there. Could have never said that about the Lord Jesus. Sinless. And what he did and what he did and his motives, everything. Sinless. Yet he was oppressed and afflicted, and he said nothing. He was brought as a lamb to the slaughter, as a sheep before a shear is dumb. So he opened not his mouth. When the Lord Jesus Christ went to that cross and he bore our sins, he didn't go kicking and screaming. He didn't go saying, look at this injustice. He went silently because he said, I have come to do the will of my Father What an amazing thought. It says he was taken from prison from judgment. Who shall declare his generation? Jesus had no offspring. He had no physical heritage, genealogy. Why? Because he was killed in his prime. He was cut off out of the land of the living, and here's why. For the transgression of my people. Folks, when Jesus went to the cross, he went without any complaint. He laid his life down willingly for us. That's what the Lord's Supper is all about. It's remembering that. It's a wondering and amazing and amazement at what God has done for us. We see a fourth truth. We should wonder in amazement at his willingness to die without honor. In verse 9, it says this: He made his grave with the wicked. You know, when Jesus hung on that cross, he was dying in one of the most humiliating ways that mankind has ever invented to kill people. It's true. You know, the Romans didn't didn't invent this concept of the cross simply because they wanted to kill political prisoners. Oh, that was part of it, but that wasn't all of it. They wanted to make an example of their political prisoners. They wanted to humiliate them. They wanted them to die in agony. And they wanted everybody who saw that to tremble and say, I don't want them to do that to me. And what does Jesus do? He willingly dies in the most humiliating of ways. The most shameful of ways, nailed to a cross. He made his grave with the wicked. In their mind, he was just another criminal. When it says with the rich in his death, the idea is he didn't have the money to pay for his own tomb. Somebody who had money, who had a place, let them bury him in that place. What an amazing thought. Of course, he was only there three days. But what does this tell us? Christ died without honor from the perspective of people. Not from the perspective of us this evening, but from the perspective of those who took him to that cross. From the perspective of those who wagged their heads and gambled for his garments. And said, if you're really the son of God, come on down. Number five We should wonder in amazement at his willingness to be separated from his father. Look down in verse 10. It said, Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath put him to grief. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He shall see the travail of his soul, and be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many. He shall bear their iniquities, therefore will I divide him a portion with the great. And he shall divide the spoil with the strong. I'm going to take you back to that cross and think about the few things that Jesus said when he was on that cross. One of those few things that he said. Was he said, Father, why have you forsaken me? You know, it's an interesting thing we talk about the concept of the Trinity. God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, three and one. One of the things that's so amazing to think about when we talk about this doctrine of the Trinity is the fact that father and son, though distinct in person and same in essence, actually communicate. They have relationships They fellowship, they commune with one another. There is nothing between Father, Son, and Spirit. There's a perfect unity within the Godhead. Wrap your mind around that for a moment. You can't really fully do that But when Jesus went to the cross, you know what his father did? He turned his back on his son. He poured out all of his wrath on his son. And you know what's amazing? The way that it's worded in the text. While Jesus says, Why have you forsaken me? Here's what the text says. It pleased the Lord to bruise him He shall see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. Do you remember what Jesus said on the cross? He says, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. It is finished. And when the father looked at his son hanging on that cross, he said, It's enough. All of the sins that have been placed on you. They're paid for. One hundred percent in full. You know, we come here today and we remember the Lord's table and we remember the body of Christ broken and his blood that's shed. We're remembering something. It's finished. There is nothing for me to give God to pay some more for my sins. There is nothing for you to give God to pay some more for your sins. Yet what we see is this: we see that there is this separation between the Father and Son for that point in time. Where he pours out his wrath, his legal justice on the sun. And it pleased him. It pleased him because he came to do the will of his father. It pleased him because he wanted you to be redeemed. It pleased him because as you sit here today, he wanted you to be able to stand in his presence and say, I'm forgiven. I'm justified. I'm cleansed. I have eternal life. I'm forgiven. What a wonderful thing. That is why it pleased the Father. And I believe we should wonder in amazement that the Lord Jesus Christ was willing to go to that cross and experience the separation from his Father for that point in time where he bore our sins. Truth 6. And the final one I want to mention is this. We should wonder in amazement at his willingness to intercede on the behalf of sinners. Look down in verse 12 Because he hath poured out his soul unto death, and he was numbered with the transgressors. He shall bear the sins of many, and he made intercession for the transgressors. What an amazing statement. He has made intercession for transgressors. In other words, the Lord Jesus Christ stands between you and the Father, and he says, accept him because of me. He intercedes for us. Sinners. You know, it's interesting. I've used this illustration before. When we lived in Ghana, there were times. In fact, this happened, well, it happened several times. Where you would have a young individual who did something that was extremely offensive to a to a senior individual. And in their culture, you did not shame gray hair. So if you got gray hair today, you had a lot of rights living in Ghana, let me tell you. You had a lot of rights. And a younger person had, and when I say younger person, I mean he could be two years younger than you, had no right to shame you. And there were times that a younger person would do something offensive to someone who is their senior. It could be their father, it could be their uncle, it could be their grandfather, it could be a teacher, it could be anybody And that older person said something like this, I will not look at you. I will not see you. You can't come to me. And you know what that kid could do? Absolutely nothing. He couldn't go to that person and get on his hands and knees and beg and plead and cry. They wouldn't talk to him. So you know what he'd do? He would go to somebody in his family who was respected and accepted by that senior person he had offended. Maybe he goes to his uncle, maybe he's offended his grandfather, he goes to his dad. Or he goes to some person that is, you know, very well respected person in the community, and he explains the situation. He explains what he's done, and that older person says this. I will go on your behalf to the person you have offended. I'll plead your case for them, for you. And I saw it happen. That older person would sit down, that other person would come and hear the case and say, okay. Because you have come. I'll accept them. That's what Christ did for us. We are accepted by the Father, not because of anything in us. But because who we are with. It's because of our union with Christ. We are accepted because the Lord Jesus Christ intercedes for transgressors. Folks, if we look at Isaiah 53, I think it's really important to stop and think deeply about this text We see Christ's humiliation. We see Christ's suffering. We see the separation that he experienced from the Father. We see his willingness to intercede on our behalf. We see all of these things. You know what it reminds us of? We need to be humbled. We need to worship. We need to be thankful. Folks, this is the heart of our faith. This is what makes us Christian. The fact that the Lord Jesus Christ did this for us. And because He has died in our place, because He has risen from the dead, we can stand in the presence of a holy God. Let's bow our hearts together and thank God for that as we prepare our hearts to take the Lord's table tonight. Father, we think about this tremendous passage in front of us. And Father, we are reminded that the Lord Jesus paid an incredible sacrifice. so that we could be redeemed from our sins. I pray that you'd help us this evening to be a very humble and a very grateful group of people. That we will glory in the finished work of Jesus. That we will marvel that we have been accepted in the beloved. And Father, help us to relate properly to one another as there's equal footing at the cross. We ask that you would bless this time of reflection and remembrance. We ask it in Jesus' name. Imam