First John chapter three, and we'll look at verses one to five this morning. Behold, what manner of love the Father has bestowed upon us! That we should be called the sons of God. Therefore, the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know That when we shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, even as he is pure. Whosoever committeth sin transgresseth also the law. For sin is the transgression of the law. And ye know that he was manifested to take away our sins. And in him is no sin. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer and ask the Lord to help us to understand this very, very important text. Father, as we open up our Bibles, as we read this passage, and as we reflect on it, I pray that the Holy Spirit would help us to focus our attention on the weight and the significance of these truths. As I present these truths to our congregation, I pray that you would drive deep into our hearts the incredible sacrifice of Christ, that we would behold what manner of love. The Father has bestowed upon us. That we would recognize that our position as sons of God, as your children, is totally undeserved. And it is a humbling thing for us to be able to be called your children. And it gives us a tremendous responsibility. Help us this morning. to understand that just a little bit deeper and a little bit better. And I pray that as we reflect on this text, it will help our hearts to be right before you as we come to the the Lord's table. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. As I like to do whenever I come to a passage, I want to summarize kind of the main point of what John's trying to communicate. So I would summarize the text in this way. John wants his audience to understand or realize that God's love for them has put them in a glorious position. Therefore, he wants them to glory in that position and diligently pursue practical holiness. Notice verse number one, he says this. Behold He's basically saying, look, examine, go deep in your understanding of what is in front of you. Behold. what manner of love the Father has bestowed upon us. He's saying stop and think and meditate upon the position that you have in Christ. And then he says that we should be called the sons of God. I want us to examine the significance of what he's saying. God is trying to communicate in this text. that we should glory in our position in Christ. I want to ask you this morning, Christian, do you glory in the position that you have in Christ? I didn't ask you if you glory in the position you have at work. I didn't ask you if you glory in the position that you have in society. I didn't ask you if you glory in your talents and your Vilities or the positions that you've obtained in some group within our culture. I didn't ask you if you glory in your political fields. I didn't ask you if you glory in something that somebody said about you or to you this week. Do you glory in Christ? Is He someone That has become a glorying factor to you. When you look at Christ and when you see what He's done for you, when you see the position that you have in Him, is that something that overwhelms you? It causes you to be humble and it causes you to have affection in your soul. Do you love Christ? And do you glory in him? And then I want to ask you if you don't know the Lord as your Savior, will you come to the gospel And embrace the gospel and glory in Christ as so many in this room already have and continue to do that. Do you know the Lord? In just a few minutes this morning, we're going to come and we're going to take bread. And we're going to eat that bread together. And we're going to do this in remembrance of the body of Christ that was broken for you. In just a few minutes, we're going to take the juice and we're going to drink it as a group of believers and we're going to remember his blood that was shed for us. And when we remember that, we are we are inviting ourselves as a congregation to glory in Christ. To think about what he's done, to examine the gospel again, and to be overwhelmed by what he has done for us. Well, I want to ask this very simple question today. How can I and how can you Glory in Christ. How can we glory in this position? How can we be overwhelmed by what Christ has done for us? I'm actually going to look at this text this morning and tonight. So we're only going to look at two truths, but we want to unpackage these truths. We want to see them in their full weight and in their beauty. So the first truth that we're going to see is this. God's children are the objects of his love. There are some folks because of circumstances that they go through, because of their emotions and what is going on inside of them, because of some things that they have done, they ask the question, does God really love me? I don't know, have you ever felt that way? You look at the things that you do and you say, I am a despicable human being. I am a horrible person. I have done this and this and this. And we examine ourselves and we say there's no way that God could ever love me because he knows what's in my heart. He knows what I say. He knows what I think about. He knows about the things that I've done in secret and in the open. There's no way that God could love me. Have you ever felt that way? You look at how your life is unfolding and some of the circumstances that you're dealing with. And when you look at those circumstances, you say This is proof that God does not love me. Look at the the terrible pain that I'm going through. Look at this health issue that I'm going through. Look at how these people have treated me. How God has done nothing to be my advocate in this situation. There's no way that God loves me. That proves it. And that's the way that people sometimes feel. There are others who, you know, their life seems to be going really well on the outside. Anybody who examines their life says this person is everything together. They're doing really well. They're healthy. They've they've got a good education. They're in a good financial position. They're married. They have a family. They have a house. They have all the things that everybody wants. But deep down inside that person is an internal turmoil. And for no logical reason, their emotions are telling them God does not love you If they could sit down and they could examine their lives, they see so many examples of God's kindness and his love and his mercy towards them, but they don't feel that God loves them. Folks, this morning we want the Word of God to settle the truth of the matter. We want God's Word to speak on this issue. And so look down in your Bibles at verse 1, it says this. Behold what manner of love the Father has bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. Basically, John is saying to these Christians, look, because you're a child of God, whether everything in your life seems to be going well or not. No matter what kind of sins have resided in your soul, the things you've done in your past, those failures, God has demonstrated his love for you in an unremarkable or in an absolutely remarkable and overwhelming way. Beholds what manner of love the Father has bestowed upon us. I want to give you an illustration of how God shows his love. Think about for a moment that you go down to Baltimore City. Well, we go up to Baltimore. We don't go down to Baltimore. We go up to Baltimore. We're not going to the place where all those nice buildings are. We go to a part of Baltimore that, well, it's just not really too safe to be there most times of the day. And you're going down and you're walking down one of those streets by, I don't know, but you decide to do that. And on the side you see this small boy. He's in tattered rags. He is obviously very hungry. He's not very healthy. And as soon as he sees you, he starts yelling at you and insulting you and being really bad. What is your initial response to that little child? Who are you? Look at you. Look at you. You're not healthy. You obviously are hungry. Doesn't seem like anybody's taking care of you. And obviously your parents never taught you how to act And inside, we begin to have this kind of like holier than thou attitude towards that little kid. In fact, a lot of us would like to just ignore the kid and get away from him and don't let the kid come near you. I don't want to listen to this kid. I don't want to smell the kid. I don't want to see this child who is in this terrible condition. Well, whether you realize it or not, when God looks at us, I don't think he sees us a whole lot better than that kid. He really doesn't. There's nothing in you, and there's nothing in me that really is beautiful to God apart from the fact that he's created us in his image. We are rebels against him We are slaves to sin. We live constantly in rebellion against God. We know it, we we fight against it, and we continue in that terrible condition. We are like that little kid on the side. Imagine if somebody came to that kid and said, you know what, I'm going to choose to love you. I'm going to adopt you. I'm going to make you my child. I'm going to pay all your medical expenses. I'm going to get you a good education. I'm going to train you. I'm going to work with you. I'm going to clean you up. I'm going to dress you nicely. You're going to become my child. Can you imagine a person doing a thing like that? Adoption. We tend to think of people around us and we tend to love them and we tend to respond to them emotionally based on what they can give us and how good they are to us and those kinds of things. But that's not how God has showed his love for us. The Bible says that God looked at us, who were rebels, who were miserable and poor and spiritually blind, having nothing to give him. And he shed his affection and his love on us. Listen to what the Bible says in Matthew chapter 5. God loves his creation. He absolutely does. When he created Adam in the beginning, when he gave him a wife, when Adam and Eve were taking care of the garden and enjoying God's creation, it pleased God. He was enjoying what he had made. But did you know that when Adam sinned and his wife sinned, it didn't change the fact that God loved them? Look at what the Bible says down in Matthew chapter 5, verse 44. Jesus says in the Sermon on the Mount, I say to you, love your enemies, bless those that curse you, do good to them that hate you, pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you. Now, when you hear those statements, you say, How in the world can I love an enemy? How can I bless the person who curses me? How can I do good to the person who who curses me hates me. How can I pray for the one who despitefully uses me and persecutes me? It's not possible for me to do that. That's unnatural. I cannot do that. Listen to the next statement though. He says, do this, that ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven. Now, he's not saying this is how you become a Christian. Do good, be good. He's saying this is how you can be identified as a child of God. Listen to what he says. He says, For he, that's God, makes his son rise on the evil and on the good. He sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust. If ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? Do not even the publicans the same if you salute your brethren also would you more than others? Do not even the publicans do so. Be therefore perfect, even as your father which is in heaven is perfect. Do you understand what the text is saying? This is how God treated you. Because though you've come to Christ and yes, you're trying to walk in godliness, there was a day that you weren't in Christ. There was a day that you were a rebel and had nothing good to give to God. And he decided to show you his kindness and his grace even when you were in that condition. He did that to me, he did that to you. And he says, when you treat people in this way, you are acting like your father in heaven. Because you have a person that is worshiping an idol, and when he prays for the rain, he thinks the idol's giving it to him, but it's God in heaven who gives it to him. It to him. You have a person who is living a decadent lifestyle. And God still feeds him and clothes him and shelters him and allows him to live a good life. You have people who hate God's very existence and have set their souls to fight against it. Yet God allows them to breathe and to enjoy good in this world God loves his creation, but it's more than that. God loves his enemies. Listen to what the Bible says in John 3:16. God so loved the world. This is the same world that John is going to tell us in 1 John three, who doesn't know God And they don't know you, and they hate God, and they hate you. This is the world that he's talking about. God so loved that world. That he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. When God sent his son into the world to die for the world, he was dying for his enemy. Romans 5, 6 says this, when we were without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. God commendeth, it means he demonstrated, he showed, he proved his love toward us. That while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. We shall be saved from wrath through him. When we come to this Lord's table and we eat this bread and we drink this juice, what are we remembering? We're remembering that the blood of Christ was shed for his enemies. And that's what we were. We're remembering that his body was broken for his enemies. That God was patient and he was long-suffering with us. And he let us live in this world and taste good things while we rebelled against him. And it wasn't until a point in time that we were humbled by the gospel that we became his children. God loves his enemies. And folks, God loves his children. Listen to what it says in John 15. This is my commandment that ye love one another as I have loved you. And listen to what it says: Greater love hath no man than this, than a man lay down his life for his friends. But I want to ask you a question. When Christ laid down his life, were you God's friend? Nope. I wasn't, and neither were you. He laid down his life for his enemies, that he might make us his friends, and that he might make us his children. That picture of adoption, that the little boy laying in the gutter, who has absolutely nothing to give to you, that you show him that love and you make him your child. And you take care of him and you clothe him and you feed him and you get him the proper everything that he needs. That's really what God did for us. Do you understand why God's love is so significant? God didn't love us because we deserved it or because we're lovely. He loved us because that's his nature, and his nature is good Psalm 1103, verse 8 says this. The Lord is merciful and gracious. Slow to anger and plenteous in mercy. He will not always chide, neither will he keep his anger forever. He's not dealt with us after our sins. As the heaven is high above the earth, so great is his mercy toward them that fear him. Like a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear them, fear him. He knoweth our frame. He remembers that we are dust. That's you and me, folks. When we come to the Lord's table, let's not forget it. There's a second truth that I'd like us to see this morning as well. And that truth is this: the world does not appreciate the position we have. Folks, the world does not recognize that you are a child of God. Okay? They don't recognize that as a glorious position. They don't recognize that as something to be cherished and held in awe. In fact, the world looks at your position and they scorn it and they mock it and they don't love it. You say, are you sure about that? Look down in the text that says this. Therefore, the world knoweth us not because it knew him not Now, when he says that the world doesn't know who he is, it's basically saying this. They've not come to that place of submission and recognition to who Christ is. They will not accept his lordship. They will not accept his authority. They will not accept that he's God in the flesh. They reject that message. There is even an animosity towards that message itself. There's a show on the television called Undercover Boss. Anybody watch Undercover Boss? Okay. Kind of an interesting show. Basically the boss, you know, just becomes a normal guy, right? Or just a normal worker. And they're working in the factory, working amongst the people. And those people don't know who They're working with. Sometimes they say some things that they maybe wouldn't have wanted their boss to know or Sometimes the boss sees some very admirable qualities, but the fact is that when you don't recognize who you're working with You don't show them the respect that you should show them. You don't show them the reverence, the awe. People did not recognize Christ when he was living in this world. They said there's no form or beauty that we should desire him. He was despised, and he was rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and it says we hid as it were our faces from him. They didn't esteem him at all. They didn't recognize who they were dealing with. The world doesn't recognize that when you've trusted Christ, You're a child of God, a child of the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. You say, Well, how do you know that? Well, when a person goes after a Christian and has absolutely no thought about the consequences of that, you know what they're saying? They don't recognize who your dad is. I I'll tell you a funny story. When I was in uh I think I was in junior high, I had a situation where young man and I got into a conflict. I didn't exactly handle it the right way. Um I hit the kid Now there was a little bit of, you know, stuff leading up to that, okay? But I remember once this uh this young man got back to his normal self, he looked at me and he said, I'm gonna send my big brother after you I didn't think about who I was messing with, did I? Now I'm still here. And he's here to no, he's not here, but I mean he's okay and I'm okay. And we learned some lessons that day and over the days that Followed after that. But the truth is when when you mess with somebody, sometimes you forget about who their big brother is. Or you forget about who their dad is, or who they're under. You know, when a person hates Christianity, When a person goes viciously after God's people, when they mock and when they attack, they're forgetting something. That person belongs to the Lord You're not just messing with them, you're messing with their father. It's kind of significant, isn't it? And you know what God says? God says, don't go after that person. God will settle those matters. The world does not appreciate the position that you and I have in Christ. Look at what John says in John 15. Listen carefully. He records the words of Christ here. He says, if the world hate You, ye know that it hated me before it hated you. Now, listen, the world is not neutral about the gospel You know, a lot of times you'd kind of think, oh, well, you know, if somebody wants to reject the gospel, then they'll just be neutral about it. They'll just let you do your own thing. Oh, you're a Christian, you have your church, you have your beliefs. I don't care what you do, you do what you do, I'll do what I do, I don't care. That actually isn't how the world tends to be. It's not. In fact, the world doesn't want you to practice the Christian faith because it's something that they're antagonistic towards. That's exactly what the text is saying. The world hates You. It hates that message of the gospel. It hates Christ. If ye were of the world, the world would love his own. But because you're not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you, remember the word that I said unto you, the servant is not greater than his Lord. You know, sometimes we sit back and we look at a young person maybe at school. We see a person in the workplace. We see a church community. And we ask the question, why can't people just leave that kid alone? Why can't they just leave that little church alone? Why can't they just leave that person who's trying to practice his business and and live out his Christian faith quietly? Why can't they just leave him alone? Why do they have to go after them? Why do they have to root him out? Why does they have to persecute? Why do they have to go after him? You ever thought that kind of a thing? Absolutely. It's because the gospel and God's word is not neutral. There is a moral animosity towards God's truth. Because of the implications that the gospel makes about us. When the Bible says you're a sinner , You are unrighteous. You cannot come to God apart from the work of Christ on the cross. That's offensive When we look at the cross and we see that Christ was nailed to the cross and he shed his blood and he died on the cross, that message is offensive. What does Paul say? The preaching of the cross is foolishness to those who do not believe. The world not only does not appreciate our position, but in some sense they actually hate that position. And so when we come to the Lord's table, While we treasure the position we have in Christ, don't be surprised that living out the Christian faith may cause you some hurt and pain down the road. There may be some folks who come after you, who don't like you, who give you grief. Trust God. John 17, 15 says this, I pray that thou shouldest not take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from the evil. Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. As thou hast sent me into the world, even so have I also sent them into the world. You know what Jesus is saying in this passage? Father, leave those people into the world. Let them experience the suffering and the challenges of life, but preserve them from the evil one. Because they need to be sanctified. They need to be matured. They need to become like Christ. Folks, it would be wonderful if God would save us and then get us out of this world. He doesn't do that. He leaves us here to be salt and light. He lets us go through challenges. He lets us go through hardship. He lets people persecute. He lets us experience injustice. He lets us wrestle with temptation. He allows us sometimes to stumble and to fall. Why? Because he wants to sanctify us. He wants to mature us. He wants to shape us. He wants to make us more like Christ. You know, the temptation for the Christian is to cower timidly in fear. Because of the way that the world views him. It's not easy to stand with a backbone when people come after you. It's not easy at all. When somebody is vicious and antagonistic and truly hates what you stand for, what you represent, what you believe, you are in no way a threat to them. But because of what you're identified with, they hate it. It's not easy to stand firm. Folks, we need to stand firm. The world does not recognize God's rule and character. The world does not recognize our position either. I want to encourage you with this text. We today need to glory in what Christ has done for us. Behold what manner of love the Father has bestowed upon us, that we should be called the children of God. But the world doesn't know us. And the world doesn't know us because it didn't know him. We will face difficulties because of the gospel.