Welcome to you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Today we are in another practical passage of Scripture, and that's in Ecclesiastes chapter 11, verses 3 through 6. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to invite you to take it and let's turn together and read these verses. Ecclesiastes eleven verse three says this If the clouds be full of rain, they empty themselves on the earth. If the tree fall to the south or toward the north, and the place where the tree falleth, there it shall be. He that observeth the wind shall not sow, he that regardeth the clouds shall not reap. As thou knowest not what is the way of the Spirit, nor how the bones do grow in the womb of her that is with child Even so thou knowest not the works of God who maketh all. In the morning sow thy seed, in the evening withhold not thine hand, for thou knowest not w whether shall prosper, either this or that, or whether they both shall be all alike. Now when we read this passage, we're being reminded that the general context we're dealing with is living in a world that's full of uncertainty. And so the text before us talks about being decisive when we face an uncertain world. Let me give you a simple summary statement of the passage and then dig into some of these details. The summary is this. Be decisive even though you don't always know how things will play out in life. Because this is how we get things done, and ultimately God governs his world to the actions that people take. And so when we look at that that concept of being decisive and not knowing how things will play out Let's see how Solomon draws her attention to this concept of being decisive when things are uncertain. The first thing I want to do is talk about the context. In verse 3 we see it says, If the cloud be full of rain, they empty themselves on the earth. If the tree falls toward the south or toward the north, and the place where the tree falleth, there it shall be. Another way to put this is we need to be prepared to function in a world that's uncertain. Now, we talked about this verse a little bit yesterday. In fact, we talked about it in the context of how we make wise financial decisions, or we could say investment decisions. The idea is that there are certain outcomes that you can at least see are probable, but you don't know necessarily how they'll play out. And then you have certain outcomes that are that you really can't predict either way. And so first of all, he talks about the clouds. When you look up into the sky and you see rain clouds, you know that there's a very high probability that it's going to rain. But you don't know where it's going to rain. You don't know when it's going to rain. You don't know how long it's going to rain. You don No how much it's going to rain And so you can see that there's still an unpredictability there. The probability is high, it's going to rain, but you don't know where and how long and how much. And so he's talking about the fact that there's a high probability, but also an uncertainty, even when you see something as simple as the rain. And we deal with this, you know, on a weekly basis, you're going to see rain clouds depending on where you live I guess if you live in a dry area or if you live in the south where you have, you know, times where you have seasons that are dry and seasons that are wet, maybe you don't see this um all the time. But here in Maryland, we pretty much get this all s all year long He then talks about a tree that's standing. And the idea is that when you see a tree standing, you know that there's going to be a day that that tree comes down. Now you don't know when it's going to happen, and you don't know what direction it's going to fall. And the truth is when you're looking at the tree, you really can't predict is it going to fall to the north or to the south? But he says, in the end, guess what? It's going to fall, and when it falls, you can't change the outcome. Basically what Solomon's trying to say is, look, we live in a world that is full of, yes, some outcomes that are probable or likely, but we live in a world that's having a lot of uncertainty. And by the way, we're living in a time of tremendous uncertainty. Not that I have to draw your attention to that, but that's the world we live in. That's the way it's always been, and that's the way it's always going to be until the Lord Jesus Christ returns. Secondly, he talks about an illustration that he gives of this issue of unpredictability, and it's a very practical illustration. In fact, it was very practical. in the ancient world because it was an agrarian society. Here's his illustration. A farmer is dependent on the weather, which is something he cannot control. In verse 4 it says, He that observeth the wind shall not sow, he that regardeth the clouds shall not reap. Now basically what Solomon is saying is that a farmer is someone who goes out and he does his work, but his work is dependent upon nature. And when we say dependent on nature, ultimately it's dependent upon God providing rain. In other words, the situation has to be good for the the soil to produce the crop that it needs to do And so he says, if you try to predict a perfect time to plant and a perfect time to harvest as a farmer, guess what? You will never, you will never plant your seeds, and you will never bring in your harvest. And you have a limited amount of time to actually go out and plant your seed and bring in your harvest. And so if you don't do that, then the fruit of your labors will be lost. Another way to put it is that the opportunity to plant the harvest is a time that's really dependent on certain circumstances outside of our control. The time to bring in the harvest, dependent on certain circumstances. outside of our control. And those circumstances are never going to be perfect. They may be optimal, they may be difficult, but the reality is you have to work with what you have. And that's the point that he's going to make I if the farmer is hesitant rather than decisive when it comes to putting his plant into the s his seed into the soil, Then he's not going to have a long enough season to get the harvest that he needs. So his time is short. He's got to go out and do it, whether the conditions are good or bad. He has to do it. When it comes to the end of the season and everything's been uh producing and now we have all this fruit that's out into the fields, if he doesn't go and bring in the harvest That he's going to lose the harvest. It's going to rot. It's going to be destroyed. It's going to be eaten by animals. It's going to be stolen by people And so he's basically saying, look, while you're dependent on something that's uncertain, you also have a short period of time, a window of opportunity And it's never going to be perfect, so go out and do your job. Go out and plant your field. Go out and bring in the harvest. That's the point that he's trying to make here. The third thing that we're going to see is an important reminder That when we're living in a world that's uncertain, we have a God who's in control of this world that's uncertain. In other words, God is sovereign and he is steadily working even when we can't see what he's doing. And verse 5 he puts it like this. He says, As thou knowest not what is the way of the Spirit, nor how the bones do grow in the womb of her that is with child. Even so, thou knowest not the works of God who maketh all. Now, what Solomon has done is he's basically said, listen, we live in an uncertain world, You have to function in that uncertain world. There are times that you have to take decisions when the circumstances are not They're f they're certainly far from perfect. In fact, maybe they're not in your favor and you still have to take the decision because it's your responsibility. He says, Oh, but by the way, let me remind you of something. God is sovereign. God's on his throne. He's working in the midst of circumstances, even though you can't see it or you may not fully understand it, or at the time you may feel that there's no real You know, you can't see that it's actually going on. God is working. And he gives two illustrations. He talks about the way of the spirit, and he talks about the growth of a child in the womb. Now when we see that word spirit, that's actually the idea of something that you can't see. He may actually be talking about how a person basically receives life, how God gives us life. And in the context, it seems like that could be what he's talking about. He could also be talking about the fact that the wind is something that you can't see. Okay? But he's trying to emphasize the fact that when we see that God gives life to a person, we don't actually physically see it take place. It's something that's mysterious, yet God does it. When we talk about a child that's developing in the womb, and it's true that today, because of the technology that we have, we can actually see that baby developing within the mother's womb, but in the ancient world you couldn't do that When a woman was with child in those first that first trimester, she you wouldn't even know looking at her that she's got a little child developing in her. And as time goes on, all of a sudden you start seeing that there's evidence that there's a child developing, but you can't see that taking place. And basically what Solomon is saying is that's that's kind of like how God works in the world. You don't see that he's working when you're looking at it at that moment, when you don't have the perspective of time and how circumstances move in one direct direction or another. But he's actively at work. Just like a lady who is waiting on that child to be born and that child is developing in her womb and she can't physically see the development of that child in her womb. It is certainly happening. And one day she'll be able to hold that baby in her hands And she's going to see the evidence that the child's been developing in her womb. And so what Solomon's saying is that's the way that God's sovereignty works. At the moment you don't see it happening, but it's happening. And after time goes on, you can look back and say, in fact, that was God's hand involved in those circumstances. Why does he bring up this issue of God's sovereignty when it comes to making decisions in a world that's uncertain? Well, it's because one of the reasons that we make those decisions is one, it's our duty, and that's what we have to deal with, a fallen world with uncertainty. But two, we make those decisions recognizing that God is ultimately in control of circumstances and he's moving things in a certain direction. And God actually governs through the decisions that we make. One of the ways that God moves things one way or the other is when we are decisive and we make the decisions that we need to And so Solomon's reminding of this. The last thing I'm going to mention is this. He gives counsel or instruction to us based on these realities. And here's his counsel. Be decisive in the face of uncertainty. And verse sixty says this In the morning, sow thy seed. In the evening withhold not thine hand. Thou knowest not whether shall prosper, either this way or that, or whether they both shall be all alike. Basically what Solomon says is whether you can see high probability or low probability of a good favorable outcome. If you're a farmer and you're dependent on going out into a field and reaping a harvest, then you've got to go out and plant your seed and you've got to work in that field and you've got to bring in the harvest. Whether the circumstances seem to be aligning in your favor or against you, go and do your duty. Be responsible. In other words, be decisive in the midst of uncertainty. And oh, by the way. God's in control and he can make it work in the way that he wants it to, and so trust him with that. So here's the question: how do we practically apply what's in front of us? Actually, it's a really, really practical practical concept. Let me give you four simple thoughts that helped me when I thought about this and I hope they'll be a help to you. First of all, get the information that you need to make an informed decision. Just because this world is a fallen world and an uncertain world doesn't mean we should make decisions without information. The fact is that we should examine, is this my duty, is this my responsibility? If it is, whether it's certain or not, I'm going to do it. In other words, you do what's right. It's favorable or unfavorable. And God's going to work in spite of the odds against you or for you. The fact is that when it comes to an issue that it is not our duty to do it, it's something that we'd like to do, but we don't have to do Then don't make decisions that take on unreasonable risk. Now, when I say unreasonable risk, recognize there's always some level of risk in the decisions that we make. With that in mind, let me give you a third thought. Don't expect absolute certainty of outcome when you make a decision You know, there are people that they expect God to somehow write in the sky, you will be successful when you do this. And then they're like, I'll go ahead and do it now that I know. God doesn't work that way, folks. God expects us to walk by faith. Walking by faith means I make good decisions based on the information that I need That I don't take unreasonable risks, but I recognize that when I take a step, there's always some level of uncertainty connected to the decisions that I make. And so where does faith come in? Faith comes in that I trust God with what's uncertain. That's what walking by faith is It's making decisions based on our duties, our responsibilities, based on the information that we have, recognizing that we're not going to get Perfect clarity of outcome, but we trust God with what is unknown. And the last thing I want to mention is this, and this really has kind of already been stated, but I'll state it very clearly. We need to have confidence in God's sovereignty. The fact is that God chooses to work in a messy world. God chooses to work through messy circumstances. I want to remind you that the king's heart is in the hands of the Lord, and as the rivers of water, he turneth it whithersoever he will. I want to remind you that in Proverbs it says that the lot is cast into the lap, but the whole disposing is of the Lord. I want to remind you that when we make decisions, our decisions are ultimately going to prosper or fall based upon how God chooses to work through those decisions. And so we need to trust God. God is all-wise. He is all powerful. He loves us. He knows what's best. He knows what's not just best for this moment at this time, but what is best in the big picture and in light of eternity. And so I want to challenge you that when it comes to making decisions, don't expect absolute certainty of outcome on the front side. Make informed, reasonable decisions, trusting in God's sovereignty to work through those decisions. I hope that this has been an encouragement to you today. It's a practical passage. And it's one that's that's worth really reflecting on this morning. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, and I hope that you have a great rest of your day and a wonderful weekend. Father, we thank you for the opportunity to study this text of Scripture. So practical, I pray that you'd help us to live in the light of it. Help us to apply it in the midst of the circumstances we find ourselves in personally and as a nation today. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, I hope that this has been a challenge to you if it has, please. Consider sharing that, leaving a comment of encouragement, and I hope that you have a wonderful week I hope that we'll see you in church this Sunday if you live in the area and you're a part of our church family. And uh Lord willing, we will we'll see you again next week. Bye now.