If you could please take your Bibles and turn to Psalm twelve, the twelfth Psalm. And again, I just want to say it's really good to see everyone out. I know that Father's Day is a time when a lot of folks travel uh to go see family and um it's really a blessing to see some in our midst who I know made tremendous efforts uh to be with us this morning and so we are just very very grateful for the opportunity to To see some of our dear friends and to see that the Lord is giving you the strength to be out today. Before we look into this text, let's ask the Lord to bless our time, and then we will get started. Father, again, we thank you so much for that song we just sang. One day we will stand in your presence and we will see the Lord Jesus Christ. And we we look forward to that day because it will be a great day, or we stand complete in thee. Not because of any work that we have done, but because of the righteousness of the Lord Jesus. And we will stand glorified in your presence because Faithful is he who calleth you who also would do it. You will complete the good work in us that you have purpose to accomplish. And in fact, one day we will stand before you free from sin and free from the weight and the challenges of this world. We look forward to that day. And Father, as we focus our attention on this text, we look at the reality of living in a fallen world. We look at the realities of living in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation among whom we shine as lights. And we reflect on the fact that there are great challenges that we face because of the world that we live in. And in fact, it is a daily battle, and it is a daily dependence upon your grace. I pray that this morning, as we reflect on this text, the reality of the psalmist lament Would sink into our souls. But greater than that lament, I pray that the promise that David fixed his hope in would be the thing that we leave reflecting on. And I pray that we would be purposed to be faithful to the callings that you have for each of us as a result of what we'll read in this text. We pray you'd strengthen us through this passage. I pray that you will be glorified through this text in our lives. We pray for many Christians who around the world are facing tremendous hardship and persecution. We even think of some of our our missionaries whom we support and we are partnered with. Some of them are in dangerous parts of the world. They face realities that we are not familiar with. I pray you'd give them strength and courage and stability. I pray that you would protect them and the work that they're doing. We pray for those who in this congregation are grieving the loss of a father, or maybe those who it's painful to remember the lack of a father. Where it's painful to reflect on the kind of father that they had, I pray that that this would be a day that they reflect on the opportunities that they have today because of your grace. And that they would draw upon your strength that you provide for their daily walk. And I pray for our men who are fathers that it would be a time of reflection and encouragement. We ask all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Again, I'll read our text, Psalm 12. David writes, Help, Lord, the godly man ceaseth. The faithful fail from among the children of men. They speak vanity every one with his neighbor. With flattering lips and with a double heart do they speak. Let me ask you a question. Can you identify with David when he writes this? Think about where you work. Think about where you live. Think about the the news cycles that are going on Think about the debates that are going on behind closed doors in our government. Think about the legislation that is on the table before some of our government officials. Think about some of the cases that are being debated in our Supreme Courts. And I ask you the question: can you identify with David? Why does David write this? One of the things that I love about the Psalms is that the Psalms allow us to see the heart of godly people when they are at their finest and when they're at their lowest. And you know what that does? That shows us that they were real people. And the same kinds of challenges that we face, they faced. And the same kind of grace that God gave them to face those challenges is also available for you and me today. Why did David sit down and pour out his heart and speak in such an emotional way? Well, David writes this lament of the wickedness of his generation and the continual suffering of those who are godly. to provide hope grounded in a promise that God will preserve his people. Let me state that again. His lament was so that we would have hope. Do you get that? He lamented so that we would have hope because alongside that lament, he states a wonderful promise. God says, I will preserve my people. No matter the pressures that they faced from the ungodly, I'm going to preserve my people. As we reflect on this, I believe that the Lord would want us to purpose in the light of this promise, in the light of this reality. to be faithful as we trust in God's promise to preserve his people in the midst of great challenges. You know it's Father's Day today. Obviously I didn't have to tell anybody, right? But the reality is that this day is not happy for everybody. It's not. The reality is this is an extremely, we could say, painful day for some people. It's painful for people who are fathers and reflect on their failures. It's painful for people who had evil fathers. It's painful for people who had no fathers. It's painful for people who have just lost their fathers. It's painful for people who wanted to be fathers and never were. The reality is this can be a very difficult day, but rather than reflecting on that, what I want us to reflect on is a promise that God gives all of us. He doesn't just give this promise to Das. He doesn't just give it to the strong and the faithful and the godly dads. He gives it to the mothers who don't have a husband who is standing alongside of them. He gives it to those who are in the workforce and they're experiencing great pain and suffering and trials. He gives it to those who are in school and they're facing a very difficult environment to school in. The reality is God gives this to all of his people. And so I want us to reflect today on this Psalm, Psalm 12. How can we be encouraged to a faithful walk? We're going to look at this psalm in three sections. The first section is the psalmist lament. Look down in your Bibles at verse number one. The first word is what? Help. Come on now. What was the first word? Help. When you say help It says something about how you feel. It says something about what you're experiencing. When you say help, you realize you're in trouble. When you say help, you're realizing that you need somebody stronger and wiser and capable to come alongside you And either completely rescue you from that situation or come alongside you and give you strength and stability in the midst of that situation. When you say help, it implies something about what you're dealing with. You know, when you say help, it also implies that you want something to change. When David says Help Lord, he's also implying not only that I'm in trouble, but I believe that you can come alongside me. I believe that you can rescue me. I believe that you can strengthen me. I believe that you can pour grace into my life. I want you to intervene and to work in these sets of circumstances. When he says help, he is anticipating that God may give him some responsibilities. He's anticipating that the way that God chooses to work and assist him may not be the way that he thinks That God should help and assist him. The reality is that the word help is a very involved statement of lament. Why does David say help? Well, he tells us, the godly man ceaseth. He said, everywhere I look, I just don't see godly people. And it's not just that I don't see godly people, but I don't see godly men. I don't see men who are standing in the gap. I don't see men who have strength in the Lord. I don't see men who are leading, who are swimming against the stream. There's a wonderful illustration that I remember reading that Spurgeon used, and he said, dead fish don't swim in the river. They just go with the tide. I don't see people fighting against the stream. That's what he's saying. He says, the faithful fail from among the children of men. Perhaps when David is seeing, making this statement, in his mind he's saying, I know godly people. Who have come and who have gone, and it appears they've not been replaced by godly people. He then goes on to say this they speak vanity. Now he's talking about the people that he sees. Everything they talk about is just it's empty. It's worthless. Doesn't have a lot of value. You ever been in an environment with people that should have maturity and should have depth and when you sit down you're like, you know what? Not a lot's changed since the junior high locker room. This guy's a grandpa and he's talking like that. What in the world? How is that possible? Age doesn't mature everybody. These people just live for emptiness. Everyone with his neighbor, with flattering lips, and with a double heart do they speak. He says, when I talk to people and they speak sweetly to me, I know that they're just flattering. I know that what they're saying has an agenda, and it's not a good agenda, and so they're trying to get me in a place where they can exploit me. And David understands that He says, with a double heart they speak. When they say good things, I know that what's inside is not consistent with what they're saying. I don't see genuine, sincere individuals. I see people who are consumed with vanity. I see people who are flatterers with agendas, and I see people who are duplicitous in their hearts. Do you ever feel that way? Where you work and where you live and your experiences in life, is that how you feel? You know, sometimes we get in our minds that we live in the worst generation that's ever lived. That's not true at all. The generation we live in is no different than the generations of past years. If anything, it's actually a gentler generation than some of the past ones. You know, read some ancient history and see what they did. The way they settled their disputes. We did have a few of our politicians that settled their disputes. With a gun in their hand. I think it was our first Secretary of the Treasury, was it? The truth is that our generation's not any different. And human nature hasn't changed. And our culture is not all of a sudden the most reprobate culture that's ever existed. The reality is that David felt how some of us feel sometimes. As we purpose to live godly in this present world. Look at the debates in the contemporary church. Look at the legislation coming to vote in the Congress. Look at the cases being argued in the Supreme Court. Look at the courses that are being pushed in our universities. Look at the curriculums that are being taught in our children's school system. We live in an age where truth is under attack. We live in an age where biblical masculinity is viewed as a disease to be crushed. We live in a time where God is presented as a moral monster. If you believe in the God of the Bible, you believe in a monster. You know, the debate today is not, oh, there's no such thing as God. It's, I don't even want to answer that question. The God that you guys worship, this is what he's like. I want no part of it. That is the debate today. And the most perverse views in our age are celebrated as progress and society. We can lament with David, can't we? But I want you to see the second section. Because David doesn't just stop there. He doesn't just write, Woe to me, and help Lord, and then he closes and that's done. He continues with some other statements. In verse 3 he says this. The Lord shall cut off flattering lips, the tongue that speaketh proud things Who have said with our tongue, we will prevail, our lips are our own, who is Lord over us. He says, You know, I can't tell you when, and I can't tell you how, I can't tell you the circumstances, but I know for a fact That there will be a day when the most blasphemous lips will be silenced. Never thought about that It could be 20 years, 50 years, 70, 80 years. God shows tremendous restraint in the lives of many, many people. But the reality is there will be a day when God says, No more. He then goes on and says this for the oppression of the poor. For the sighing of the needy, now will I arise, saith the Lord. Now are you catching what he's saying Not only does God remind him that he is going to one day silence the lips of those who say, There's no Lord over me. I can say anything I want, I can do anything that I want. There is no restraint for me. But he says, not only does God say there will be a day when I do that, but he says, God is watching the oppression of his people. God is looking at those who He defines as needy The oppression of the poor. And when David talks about this, he's not just speaking of poverty and need and the sense of material lack. He's actually looking at himself in a condition like this. When he talks about himself being tor, or when he talks about the poor, I think he identifies himself from that condition When he talks about the needy who are sighing, he's talking about himself. Because obviously he's the one saying, Help, Lord, right? He then continues and says this the Lord will set him in safety from him that puffeth at him So there are people who are needy and poor, and God doesn't just ignore their condition and their situation. But God moves himself and he goes into their situation. He's personally involved in their situation. He reaches down and he moves them to a place Of safety from those who want to destroy and those who mock and those who want to discourage his people. This is what David is saying. He then says this. The words of the Lord are pure words. What words is he talking about here? Well, he just stated it. The Lord will cut off all flattering lips. Who have said with their tongue, for the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy, will I arise, saith the Lord. God's making that statement. So when he says that God's word is pure, I want you to realize something. He's talking about not just his word in general, though we could apply it in that way, but he's talking about a very specific statement in his context here. He's saying God's word is pure. He then goes on to say this, as silver that is tried in the furnace of earth, purified seven times. Now here's the analogy that David is using. David is saying, okay, if we go into the ground and we pull out silver and we pull out gold, we have that substance, but it's not pure. And so what do we do? We pass it through a refining process. And each time we pass it through the refining process, because it's genuinely goals. Because it's genuinely silver, it becomes pure, and the dross is removed, and what we have is something that passes through the fire and becomes refined. He says God's word is like that. God 's word is, we could say, going through the test, if you will. So as God's people are going through struggles and going through Trials as David is experiencing this, he's saying, God's promise is being put to the test right here. What God says he's going to do, there are people that go, Will you do this, God? And you know what it does? It passes through the fire. And when it passes through the fire, what do you have? A firmer conviction that what God said is true. There's a reason that God allows us to go through our lives progressively through great tests and trials of affliction. It's so that as we pass through those things, the degree to which we have confidence in the Lord is strengthened. Our faith goes through the refiner's fire. And so when he says that the words of the Lord are pure, as silver tried in the furnace of earth and purified seven times, He's basically saying what I have said is tested and demonstrated to be true. He then goes on to say this: Thou shalt keep them, O Lord, and thou shalt preserve them. From this generation forever. What God has said, He's going to do What God is going to preserve, He's going to preserve. And so in the midst of these great struggles and in the midst of people's doubts, God says, what I said stands And when you pass through, you will see it more clearly than ever. What is God saying? Let me kind of summarize it. He's saying, I'm going to deal with wicked men injustice. I'm going to vindicate those who are abused. I'm going to preserve my people. That is a summation of what David is saying God has stated to us when we are in that condition. I want to remind you this morning that God has a very special love and a very special care for those who are oppressed. For those who are in need. For those who are destitute. There's a lot of scripture that talks about that. And when I talk about us being oppressed and in need and destitute, I want you to know that's a very general concept. He talks about it in some very specific situations, but it's a general context. Listen to what he says in Psalm 10, 17 to 18. He says, Lord, thou hast heard the desire of the humble. Thou wilt prepare their hearts. Thou wilt cause thine ear to hear, to judge, and it has the idea of to vindicate the fatherless. The oppressed and the man of the earth may no more oppress. Now I mentioned something about Father's Day. It's not a happy day for everybody. There might be some guys here or some ladies here that when you come to Father's Day, in your mind you say, you know what, this is a painful day because I didn't have a good dad My dad did this to me. My dad left my mom. My dad did whatever. I didn't have a dad. I don't even know his name. I never met him face to face. This can be the experience for many, many people. I want to remind you of something. God has a special love for you. A very special love for you. He is your father. You say, but I wanted I wanted a real dad. You have a dad who 's all powerful. And he's all wise and is all knowing and he's compassionate. And he will come alongside you and he will shoulder your burdens and he will bring people into your life that will be a dad to you. As a side note, let God use you, men , to be a dad for some of those who don't have one. I remember one day I was riding in the in a in the car. I was I was dropping off a young man when we lived in Ghana who had stayed at our house. He was moving to a new area because he was going to be teaching in a village setting. And so he asked me to bring all of the stuff to his house for him. So we got in the car and yeah, it was at least an hour drive to the place where he was staying and we just talked, you know Like I didn't think a lot of it. We just talked about all kinds of different things and asked him how he was doing and we just had a lot of conversation. When we got there, we unpacked his things, we set up his house, got back in the car, we started driving back. And he said, Pastor Joel, I never had a conversation like anything close to this with my dad He said, my dad was a horrible dad. He was a cruel man. He insulted me. He mocked my siblings. He's unfaithful to my mother. He's like, thank you so much for having these conversations with me. Let me tell you that there are men in our midst who God wants to use you like that in people's Wise. When they think Father's Day, they think of you. When God looks down at the fatherless and the oppressed And he says he's going to vindicate them. Listen to what it says in another passage in Psalm 68. I'll focus on a certain part of this in just a second. Verse 3 says Let the righteous be glad, let them rejoice before God. Let them be exceedingly rejoicing and sing unto God, sing praise to his name, and extol him that rieth upon the heavens by his name Jah And rejoice before him. A father of the fatherless, a judge of the widows, is God in his holy habitation. And listen to what he says: God setteth the solitary in families. He bringeth out those which are bound with chains. How does God do that? He does that through men who are available to be dads to those who don't have them. One of the greatest needs in our culture today is fathers to young men and young women Some of the greatest breakdowns that we are experiencing in our society are directly connected to the lack of fathers in the lives of young people. Please, on a day like this, maybe you are a dad, maybe you're not a dad, but let God bring people in your path, and you will be like a father too. So interesting. We talked the other day I was with some friends. We were talking about marriage customs in African countries. One one guy was a missionary in South Africa, another guy was a missionary. in Tanzania. And as we were talking, we were talking about marriage customs, and I asked him, I said, how do they handle the dowry system in your culture that you're working in? And they would talk about it, and I said, when they go to a family and ask about dowry, they call it knocking in Ghanaian culture. Who will go with that young man to meet that girl's family? Will it ever be his father? I said, never. Really? I said, that's the experience that I've seen. You know who they'll bring with them? The man who was really their father. I don't mean biologically, but the one who stood with them and walked with them and taught them and was a mentor to them. This is not just an American problem. It's all over the world that we have these issues. But God has a special love and a special care for those who are oppressed, to those who have no father, to those who have no mother, to those who have abusive parents, to those who have been ripped from those homes, whatever the situation. And I bring those texts for two reasons. One is so that you will think God can use me to be a help to somebody. But two, this is the heart of God for the afflicted. You remember the story of Ruth. There's a reason that Ruth could green in the fields. It's because God put in the law that they were not allowed to remove all the harvest. They had to leave some of it out there for people like Ruth. People who were widows, people who were strangers from outside of Israel, people who were orphans, people who had nobody to care for them. God loves and cares for and has mercy and compassion on those who are needy and oppressed and afflicted. And so not only does the psalmist lament, but the psalmist finds comfort in the promise of God. So I want to move to a third and final section, and that is this. I think that there are some implications. Some applications that should naturally flow from an understanding of this text. There's a challenge for all of us. And let me mention a couple of practical things. First of all, life is hard. You know that little hymn that that that says, Every day with Jesus is sweeter than the day before. Every day with Jesus I love him more and more. You know that hymn? Or now I'm happy all the day, can I tell you something? There are some days that are not as happy as the one before There are some days that are not as happy as they used to be. The reality is sometimes we walk through the valley of the shadow of death. Sometimes we groan and we agonize because of people and what they've done to us. Sometimes it's because of what we've done to them. The reality is life is hard. Living the Christian life is not easy and it requires a daily walk in humility upon the grace of God. We have to draw on God's grace, and that's something that we've emphasize on our Wednesday nights. Give us this day our daily bread. I remember going through that text and I said, God's grace is a daily grace. He doesn't give you the grace today for the next month. He gives it to you for today. And that's how he wants us to be. Life is hard. We have to live and struggle and fight and depend upon the grace of God. A second thought is this it's vain and it's worthless to trust in anything that's out of God. in the face of these difficult realities. I was talking to somebody recently who was in an assisted care uh facility. They were going through some uh physical therapy And they looked at me and they said, Pastor Joel, if I wasn't a believer, I don't know how I could face this. And the lady said, I don't know how anybody around me who doesn't know the Lord Can have the strength that they need in this time, because I draw all there from God. All of it He shoulders my burdens. I don't understand how the world can depend on anything but God. Because anything that they can depend upon but God is going to let them down. Psalm 127, verse 1, the psalmist writes this, Except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that build it. Except the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh, but in vain. You want to build your family without God, you're going to fail. You want to stay secure without God being your security, you're going to fail. You're going to one day find your back up against the wall, and you have no other place to turn to but God. And if you refuse to do that, you're going to be in trouble. He says, it is vain for you to rise up early, to sit up late, and to eat the bread of sorrow, for he giveth his beloved sleep. Do you see what the psalmist is saying? He's saying life without God's strength and dependence upon Him and building and laboring as if He doesn't exist is foolish. It is empty and it's going to fail one day. Three, God gives us children to preserve godliness in the world There's an interesting little text in Malachi chapter 2. Listen to what the prophet writes. Did not God make one? And wherefore one? Why did he do this? That he might seek a godly seed. Therefore, take heed to your spirit, and let none of you deal treacherously against the life of his evil. Interesting little text. I don't know if you've ever noticed it before. But Malachi basically makes this argument: don't deal treacherously with your spouse. Because God brought you into union and God gave you children to preserve godly heritage. I want to encourage our our our men here. And by the way, we have a lot of faithful men in our church. We have a lot of godly men. You might say, I don't know if I want to call myself godly. I I fail in a lot of areas. Okay, fine. But you're purposing to serve the Lord. You are being faithful. You are working hard. You are laboring. You are trying to raise your children in the things of the Lord. Might I encourage you that this text should give you hope? You say, man, the kinds of things that I'm bombarded with personally, I don't know if I can bear up under those struggles. The kinds of things that my children, that my wife, that our church, that the Christian community that we live in is facing, I don't know if I can bear up under the weight and the load of those things. Let me remind you, God will preserve his people. His promise is pure and it is tested and it is demonstrated to be true. Because of this promise, We can lead our homes. Because of this promise, we can love our wife. Because of this promise, we can nurture our children Because of this promise, we can embrace the roles that God has for us in this church, in our home, in our communities. We can do it because God is going to preserve his people. Can I encourage you with that, man? Some of our ladies, you you ask the question, can my husband stand where he needs to stand? Don't try to step in and overtake him. That won't help him at all, I promise you. Trust God to work in his life. Trust God to bring people alongside of him who become strength to help him. Trust God to grow deep roots in his soul. Trust God to motivate him. Pray for him. Encourage him. The reality is it's tough to be a godly man, especially in a culture that is so antagonistic towards biblical masculinity. God will preserve his people in the face of temptation and trials. Let me read it to you again. The Lord shall cut off all flattering lips The tongue that speaketh proud things, who have said with their tongues, We will prevail, our lips are our own. Who is Lord over us? The oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy. Now will I rise, saith the Lord. I will set him in safety from him that puffeth at him. The words of the Lord are pure words, as silver tried in the furnace of earth purified seven times. Thou shalt keep them, O Lord, thou shalt preserve them from this generation forever. God will deal in justice with those who oppose the godly. God will vindicate those who are abused. God will protect his people. God will preserve his people. It is not our place. To be God, and it's not our place to moan and lament without hope. Might God give us the strength that He intends from this text. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer, please. Father, I pray that what has just been shared from your word would be a tremendous tool In your hands to strengthen the men of this church, to strengthen the fathers, to strengthen the husbands. To strengthen the young men who are not yet of age, but they are coming along. To strengthen our grandfathers and our great grandfathers. To strengthen those who wonder what is going to happen. Father, help us not to face this generation in fear. Help us not to face this generation without hope. Help us not to quit. Help us not to be discouraged. But help us to fix our hope and our confidence firmly in you and in this promise. I pray you'd strengthen your families in this place. Father, I pray for those who today is a difficult day for them, for whatever reason. I pray that as we've opened the Word of God, that they might find you to be the most wonderful Father, That could ever exist. That they will draw on your grace, that they will find their strength in you, that they will find you to be their supreme delight. That they'll rest in your providential care. They'll rest in your wisdom. They'll trust your word. Father, I plead with you, help today to be a day of strength and encouragement for your people. And I ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen