Uh and it's uh always a joy to be able to talk about The things that God is at work in and just how the fruitfulness of that ministry is going on. And I was encouraged by the interview here tonight and what God has done through Anchor Baptist Church uh there in Ghana. It's just neat to see how the Lord is still saving people from their sin. And people are coming in faith to Christ. And what a joy that that truly is. Well, this morning I was talking to you and For those of you who weren't here this morning, my name is Kevin Cassidy. I'm the Director of Advancement for Central Africa Baptist University in Zambia, Africa. I guess I'm not really officially a missionary, but rather I am doing mission work here in the United States. And so for the longest time I've been on the board of directors for for CABU and we have talked about having someone here stateside that would minister to folks uh that are giving financially and partnering with CABU and so it's a neat opportunity to be able to to touch base and some of you here tonight are involved in supporting the school already and we appreciate that more than you know. And so uh again it's a blessing to be able to do this type of ministry here. Part of the ministry is coming to a church like Anchor Baptist and being able to just give you exposure. to what God is doing in Zambia. And I hope today you've been encouraged so far because God has been at work in amazing ways. We give all the glory to the Lord. It is all his doing and we rejoice in what he is. is accomplishing. And whenever you see God accomplishing something, that should get us excited, amen? I mean that should really get us fired up. And that's w that's wonderful. And sometimes here in the United States, given our circumstances and given the climate as such, we're not seeing some of the fruitfulness that we have been accustomed to in the past. And yet we should never lose A site of the future, we should never be weary in well doing, and we want to keep on pushing forward. And I shared that scripture this morning in Acts chapter 1, hopefully to encourage us to keep right on going until Christ returns, because there is certainly a great, great need. Well this morning uh we went through the detailed uh facts about CABU and tonight what I want to do is I want to give you a little bit of background, but most importantly I want to get into the Word of God and we'll be in James chapter 1. here this evening. Let me just give you a couple of pictures here to consider. A couple of these are redundant from this morning. But we're talking about reaching Central Africa with the precious gospel of Jesus Jesus Christ. And as we do that, we want to be able to understand the need that is there. The need is immense. There are almost a thousand unreached people groups just in Africa alone. And I mentioned this morning, and I really won't get into it tonight, but there's 70 million deaf 70 million non-hearing in Africa, and again, that's considered the largest unreached people groups if it was an unreached people group in the entire world And so we want to try to reach these people with the gospel in any way that we can. And so the ministry has becoming very uh quite varied over time. This is the video that you saw this morning and I'm not going to do that one again But we're all about training churchmen who are going to be involved in ministry. And that is where that priority truly is and there's the different programs of study and all of these things seem to be bearing fruit, which is an encouragement uh certainly to us. I mentioned this morning that there are some ten countries that are uh being represented And well you can't tell from the flag, but you can tell from that map all over Africa. And I mentioned Jimmy from China this morning. and how uh he has graduated from CABU and is doing a church plan among the Chinese people, yes, Chinese people, in Kitwe, Africa. And so we're seeing this ministry continue to go on and on. I just want to share with you how interesting it is to see how God is at work. In 1992, I was getting about eight letters a week. Can you imagine this, Pastor Joel? Eight letters a week from prospective missionaries. That's how many people were going to the field back in the early 90s. And they were all looking for support and they were all looking to come and present a ministry. And I just turned most of them away. We just couldn't even uh you know, uh consider all of those. But I had one come from a man by the name of Phil Hunt. He just come out of college, just recently married, and I told my secretary, I said, would you please put this guy through when he calls And that's how it all started. It was very providential. I opened this letter. I didn't know him from Adam. And I thought, you know what? There's some reason I'm not putting this in the file, missionaries that we don't support. And literally he called and the secretary put him through and the next thing you know, our church was supporting him. The next church I went to was supporting him too, and the next church, you know, is involved. So It's really exciting to see how God really directed all of those things. And He is, without a doubt, really behind all of the things that are happening. Central Africa Baptist College, starting in 2006, and now Central Africa Baptist University has always been Biblically focused, no matter what the ministry looks like. And here's a list. I shared this in the Sunday school time. These are all of the offshoot types of ministries that we are involved in right now. And yet, even as we see all of these unfold, we're still biblically focused. And the message this morning, I was talking about these three points, and I just want to Build out from James chapter 1 here tonight about this biblical focus, being evangelistically driven and as well missionally motivated. Because no matter who we are as followers of Christ. Whether we're a church, organization, or simply an individual, we all need to be biblically focused. That has to be at the forefront. And I'm going to share with you in James chapter 1 just how significant it is. And then, second of all, we need to be evangelistically driven. We need to be concerned about other people and their relationship with Jesus Christ. And lastly, we need to have a mission. Some purpose, a goal in our Christian walk, and not just walk aimlessly, but have a focus there and an ask before the Lord, God, what do you want me to do with my life for you? So all of these things Are so so vital for us to stop and consider. So James chapter 1, we're going to get started here in James 1:18. So James chapter 1 and verse 18. It's probably a verse you know very well. Uh it says, Of his own will begat he us with the word of truth, that we should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. So as a follower of Christ, I need to be one of the first One of the first fruits. That means, what you think it means, it's meaning that as Jesus Christ is truly a follower As a follower of Jesus Christ, I have to understand some things that are very important. If I'm going to be his follower, I want to be Christ-like, which means that righteousness needs to be a key component in my walk. And that is something that we don't want to push aside. Notice verse 19. Verse 19 says Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, and slow to wrath. Now, when you read that, it's a great verse for counseling, isn't it? You can sit down with a couple, you can say, well, listen, you know Here's what we're supposed to be like, and we can apply those those truths, then that would be fine. The only problem is when you come to verse 19, do you notice how it ends? It doesn't end with a period. It ends with a semicolon In other words, you're still in the same sentence when you come to verse 20. Verse 20 says, For the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. So well how do you put this all together? If I'm supposed to be swift to hear and slow to speak and slow to wrath And understand that the wrath of man or man's anger is not going to produce righteousness. I have to understand the background here, or I'm going to miss this point. James is looking during his time, I believe, at the Pharisees and their tremendous hypocrisy. The Pharisees love to get angry And pretend that they were really mad at sin. Now I want you to put this in your mind and understand what we're talking about here. Because I hear a lot of people who are really angry at the wickedness in this world. Are you one of those people? I'm one of those people. I I'm looking around and I see things and I just really don't understand. And I'm looking at it and it's concerning to me. I'm very, very upset by the depravity that we're seeing in our society. But my anger towards the depravity that I'm seeing is not in and of itself going to produce righteousness. The Pharisees love to lose it and be angry at people who weren't keeping the minutiae of the law. Like they were some kind of righteous person themselves when in fact there was sin in their own life And they were tolerating that sin. And so it's not enough for us to be angry at the sin that we see in our society. Because we would understand, according to verse 20, here, that it is not going to produce righteousness. So let me ask you: what's the key question that we need to ask? How do we bring about the righteousness of God? How do we bring about that righteousness? How is righteousness produced? Well, I would submit to you this evening that we need to be biblically focused. Notice verse 21 says, wherefore lay apart all filthiness And superfluity. I used to love to say that word, superfluity. There's something that just flows off of your tongue. You ought to say it. Go ahead and say it. Go ahead and say it. It's all right. Superfluity. Isn't that cool? So, superfluity of naughtiness. What does that mean? What is he trying to convey here in verse 21? James is writing, and he says, we need to be super Truly committed to laying apart all of this filthiness and this superfluity, which that word simply means abundance, of just a lot of. A lot of that which is naughty or that which is truly wicked. And he's telling us that There needs to be a response that we have to the unrighteousness that's surrounding us. In other words, as we look at this world and we realize, man, we're not going in the right direction at all. We have to address at the end of the day our own relationship with God, and we have to look into our own hearts because we know that we still have a sin nature and we still are prone to sin. You don't have to say amen. We all just know that that's true. Now the reality is, James is saying, take that off. Take off, and he's using language that was associated with garments, garments that were defiled, dirty clothes. And he's saying, basically, just like your garments get just filthy. And you need to take them off, he's saying that's what you need to do with the sin that is in your life. You need to be peeling this off and getting rid of it. Very graphic in James' world to tell us to do that. Now it's interesting because we can relate to that, can't we? Oh, to all different measures we can relate to having you know dirty clothes. You might come into the house Your wife's just done the floors and you've got mud on your boots and she says, Hey, hey, hey, take those off. You get the message. You're trying to take those things off that are filthy and dirty. Uh yeah, peeling clothes off is is normal normative, I would say. I I remember coming home one night after being out visiting and I walked in and I was in my underwear and Karen looked at me and she said, what in the world are you doing? Well, I was at someone's home and I literally am sitting there, I had a pair of khaki pants on, and there were so many fleas that were jumping on my khaki pants that I was just wigged out by all of these fleas. And I'm I'm looking at these things and I'm thinking I'm going to be eaten alive here. And so I drove home as fast as I could and I got inside the garage and I didn't want to take those clothes inside so I peeled them all off in the garage and then I come running in in my skives and my wife's like, what do you do? I guess she's oh that's a good idea. Leave them out in the garage. This is the attitude James is saying. We need to be really, really mindful of the importance of taking off this And James uses a word that's really, really going to grab you. He says filthiness. He's not trying to soften the significance of sin. We live in a world where everything's excused, isn't it? And we don't call it the way it is at all. It's sin. Sin is something that God hates And God is saying, Kevin, if you want to produce righteousness in your life, you need to be taking off that which is wicked and that which is an abundance of naughtiness. It's interesting too, he uses a uh a term that is continual in its action. He says, basically, you don't just one time take it off and then you're done. Don't you wish that was the case? Oh yeah, I took it off and now I don't deal with sin anymore. No, he's saying you need to be doing this all the time. So that when you're mindful of that sin in your life, peel it off and leave it. because it's wickedness. And so the admonition here is that this filth needs to be removed. And he's telling us that this is very, very important. Now the Apostle Paul, I want you to maybe I'll ask you this question. kind of a Bible quiz question. The Apostle Paul talks about putting off. Putting off the old man. And then what does he say? Put off and Put on. That's Paul. This is James. He doesn't do that. He's not going to say put off and put on. Instead, he pivots here and he abandons that imagery And he uses another positive command. And his positive command here is basically rather than adopting a new code of Righteous behavior, he tells us that we need to yield to the influence of the Word of God And it's this word of God that is going to produce a new kind of behavior. For the wrath of man works not the righteousness of God. Wherefore, or for that reason, lay apart the filthiness, the superfluity of naughtiness, and receive, he says, with meekness. The engrafted word which is able to save your souls. So the word of God here And this is kind of overlooked, I think, many, many times. The word of God being engrafted, it did not start within me. It's not innate within me. I did not have the Word of God engrafted in my heart prior to my salvation. But once I place my faith in Christ, We know that we receive blessings. There's the Holy Spirit of God, and we're sealed unto the day of redemption. We are baptized into the body of Christ by the Holy Spirit. We also receive the Word of God in a very supernatural way. We have the Word of God in our life, and it changes us. It is the catalyst of change. Politics aren't going to change us. Politics are not going to change the world we live in. If you really want to change the United States to the glory of God, we need to see more people come to faith in Christ Jesus And we need to see those who are in the faith walk according to the faith. And that means taking the Word of God seriously and allowing the Word of God To be received. So the word of God has taken residence in my life since my salvation. I have a new relationship to the Word of God. And this is what James is saying. And this for this reason he says Kevin, you need to receive this with meekness. Don't come with a haughty heart and pretend like you know everything. No one knows everything. Can I just point that out? I've heard some Christians who have been saved a long time say, oh yeah, I've heard that before. We already have you know kids in the in the junior church program say, oh, not another well I know that story. You know, it's like none of us know the Word of God like we should. We all have to come to the Word of God and with a humbleness of heart we need to receive it. And so we receive it And the amazing thing is it changes our lives. Jeremiah chapter 31, and for sake of time, we we won't go there tonight, but I think that James is drawing a real comparison From the word that is implanted in us to the prophecy in Jeremiah 31. Do you remember when God's people acted and reacted to the Mosaic covenant? And the Mosaic covenant was very simple. Here are the things that I want you to do. This is what I want you to obey. If you obey these things, you'll be blessed. If you fail to obey them, you're going to suffer the consequences. And so there was um a real issue there with the people, and ultimately the people were a real disappointment. And what God says is, in the future, I am going to do things differently. There's going to be a new covenant, and I'm going to write the Word of God on their hearts. And I believe that you see that in the church age, we see it today, and it will be yet future for Israel. But what we're seeing is as a redeemed follower of Jesus, Jesus Christ, I have a new relationship with the Word of God. Now, why do you say that that's so important for us, and how does that tie into Central Africa Baptist University? One of the things that we recognize there in Zambia, just like we recognize it here in this area and every other area of the world, is the Word of God is what really makes the difference in the hearts of mankind. It is what transforms us. It is the answer. And we want to emphasize the word of God because we know the significance of its power. And we know that if we order our lives according to the Word of God, we will never ever be disappointed. And so the Word of God is paramount. We're biblically focused, and we think of the Bible. This was a class that I taught uh on Romans over there uh several years ago now, but you can see, I mean, the word of God is is what was the key, and that was the important aspect. Second of all, the importance here is to be evangelistically driven. We just don't take the Word of God and not deliver the gospel to people who need to hear it. Notice here in this passage, it tells us that the engrafted word, he points it out, which is able to save your souls. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. The word of God needs to be presented so that souls will be saved. And you notice it's here, he says, which is able to save your souls. And let me just go off on a rabbit trail for a couple minutes and let me just Because it just irritates the daylights out of me. The gospel is all about saving a person's eternal soul. The gospel is not about delivering people from difficulty in this life. So much is said about the social gospel. The social gospel is on the rise, and you're hearing it in different forms and in different ways. Maybe you're not, hopefully you're not. But uh you y it's all around us, and it's pretty amazing how many churches are going sideways on the presentation of the gospel. People come in, they talk about missions, and they don't even talk about the gospel. But my friends, your faith in Jesus Christ is what saves you. You are saved by faith. It is the grace of God, yes, and you are saved by faith And the reason you place your faith in Christ is because you've heard the word of God. And this is what people need to hear. They don't need to hear that, well, we'll life make your life a whole lot better and pat you on the head and have a good day. We're talking about the eternality of souls. These people are going to live in one of two places forever, just like we are And we recognize the importance of delivering people from an eternity in hell and making certain that they have a relationship with Christ, that their sins are forgiven, and they're going to live forever in heaven. So how important is this? Well, it's hugely important, and it is at the heartbeat of what we're doing. Being evangelistically driven obviously involves church planting. There's such a need. I shared this um statistic. They estimate that the gospel is going to grow in Africa because of the receptivity to the word. It's going to produce an entire new level of churches to be able to disciple people. And so we want to be involved in church planting. We have Muhammad who's actually gone back up to Sudan. And this is a church plant that is taking place in South Sudan in in Juba. And it's exciting to see how uh the Kitway church is descending church for this couple as they go out to uh South Sudan. Now you'll notice uh Phil Hunt is the uh gentleman there with the microphone and uh it's his church there, Kitway Church. He's um uh one of the lead pastors there and they are sending this couple out and it was an exciting time. That would happen just this summer, so it's it's relevant uh to what's happening right now. Also want to point out that this all began in very small way. As I pointed out this morning, Phil Hunt went to Kitway and started the Baptist church there and right around the corner is where Central Africa Baptist University happens to be. And there was one of the men in the church who was saved and discipled and trained. He went on to be be the pastor, it's now in its third pastor if you consider Phil the first pastor. And since that time, uh even when I was there, Phil took me to seven other churches that were offshoots of uh Faith Baptist. So it's pretty Uh exciting to see that. And you can see how it's growing. It just keeps right on growing. You see Phil Hunt there, he's on the left side, and he's started that Kitway church And Kitway Church now has started the church up in South Sudan. And this church and the tree just continue continues to grow. That's New Testament missions, my friends. That's what it's all about. That's why we want to see people come to faith and be discipled and trained and then their growth continues on. So it's encouraging. to see what God is doing. The last point here that I want to draw from James chapter 1 is that it tells us that we should be doers of the word. And I would say that that means that we should be missionally motivated. He says in verse 22, but be doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. For he beholdeth himself and goes his way and straightway forgets But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty and continues therein, him he being not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, this man shall be blessed in his deed. We want to see people who are truly on fire for Christ and wanting to serve. They have a passion for ministry. And Phil loves to point out the fact that of all of our graduates, there's only one single soul. And I don't know who he is, and I I wouldn't want to be him, but there's only one that's not serving the Lord full-time. And they're all out there, they're ministering, they're passionate about what God has called them to do. They are missional in their thinking. And I showed you this slide just because I think it's so cool. Uh but Muhammad there Is from that village in uh the Sudan. And there he is going back to that village. It would have been very easy for Muhammad to do a church plant somewhere else. But he goes all the way back to Sudan where he's from and the very village where he lived and goes in there to evangelize and see people come to Christ. He's already baptized more than fifteen people and he's discipling them now. And it's exciting to see that. And I mentioned this morning Operation Christmas Child just happened to show up right after he started. And again, it just uh was an encouragement to see what God was at work doing. We also, as I mentioned this morning, the TSE program. TSE stands for Theological Studies by Extension. We have hundreds of pastors. Who have signed up and enrolled in a four-year program that would rival any Bible college or seminary program. It is amazing. And they are being taught the word in a systematic way that allows them to really handle the word of God with skill in front of their people. It is going to transform the church in Central Africa, having these men out there with the knowledge of God's Word. So I am thrilled about what the Lord is is doing there with the TSE program. God is at work. He really is. I shared this morning, I think just briefly in the QA, that we just started a seminary program. It was just accredited this past June, and now we're starting to offer those classes. We'll have an MA program, eventually an MDiv program. It's just phenomenal. And God is to be uh praised for all the things that have gone on. So we're thrilled and it's exciting to certainly be a part of of what he is doing. Well this morning I mentioned where the needs are. And uh the needs are certainly great. Uh we understand that. Uh as you would imagine when you deal with uh a school um And you can see the graduating students there. So exciting. That was our brand new building. That was the first graduating class with the brand new building. All of these things are Are fabulous and they require funding. And so part of my job as Director of Advancement is to encourage people to partner with us financially It's about a $2,500 gap between what it costs to educate and room and board and so forth for one student for one year. and we ask the students to pay what we consider to be the maximum they can pay, which is about $2,000 a year. And that $2,500 then needs to be made up from people uh mainly here in the United States who offer their gifts and see the significance of the ministry. And I am really happy with the people who have come alongside us And have partnered with us and the churches that have also partnered with us. We have a really faithful and really tremendous group of people. But every time we increase our student body the needs also increase. And so it never diminishes, and we're thankful for that. We don't want it to diminish. We want it to continue to grow. And so we've launched a program uh new campaign and you're the first church for the new campaign. I just uh told the uh uh group this morning that I just got these on Friday so uh they're hot off the press but it's uh our campaign we're calling it two twenty five C A B C Campaign on the back. It says you can count on my support, place to put your name, and so forth. But we're looking for 200 people to come alongside of us and give $25 per month. That would be a huge, huge help to what we're trying to accomplish. And so if God leads you to want to do that, some of you I know that are here give considerably more than that. And that's that's phenomenal. But maybe you say, Well, I I don't know if I can give a dollar a day. This is less than a dollar a day per month. So if you uh feel led to be able to do that, please fill out the card. You can give it to me or you can take the card and you can simply go on C A B C USA and click sponsor a student and put your information there. That's what I do. It comes out of my checking account every month and I don't have to worry about it. Or because I always forget stuff. And so um it's just real, real simple that way. And these are out there on the table in the foyer. There's also a brochure out there. uh as well and you can pick that up. Please do pick these up, take them with you, and uh feel free to to check those out, alright So again, we're thankful for what God's doing and we're so privileged to be able to be a part. See me in the foyer if you have any questions. I'd love to talk to you further. If you have um something that you want me to try to answer. All right. Let's pray, shall we? Father in heaven, we thank you for the work and the world that you are doing. We thank you, Father, for raising up your church. How we praise you, Lord, for the gift of salvation through Jesus Christ. And how, Lord, you've blessed us with the Holy Spirit and given to us as well your precious word. Lord, we thank you for the ministry of the Holy Spirit along with the Word of God and what it produces in our hearts and minds. We rejoice, Father, in all that you're doing in Zambia and how you are ministering through Central Africa Baptist University. Lord, I pray that you would continue to bless the school. And we pray, Father, that there would be more who would come and partner with us. And Lord, that you would be able to increase your vision for Central Africa. And may you be glorified in all of these things, and I pray this all in Christ's name, Amen