Take your Bibles and let's look at the book of Luke. Luke chapter 7. At this time, boys and girls can be dismissed to follow Miss Katie out and have a special age-appropriate service that'll be a help to each and every one of them. Yeah, that was what we've got. Luke chapter seven. Hello Wanted to share a quick story this morning. There were unsaved people in the service this morning. People who are searching for truth. Maybe some of you even saw him. I forget his name now, but a neighbor came this morning. I talked with him, and I'm gonna not even try his name because I forgot already, but uh I've been praying for him all afternoon. I know that's sad. I I forget his name, but I've been praying for him. Jamal. Thank you. Jamal. I know that's a hard name, but Jamal. And Jamal was came this morning and he told me, Brent, I'm on a pathway to seek for truth. And that's that's always an honest answer. So pray for Jamal. He was talking with his neighbor. And who is his neighbor, by the way? Yeah, he was talking with his neighbor yesterday. And his neigh and he told his neighbor, I just don't think anyone can know for sure that they're on their way to heaven. And then this morning God had me providentially in 1 John chapter 5. So I don't I don't believe in accidents, I believe in the providence of God. And God used his word, and I was able to speak to them and said, Hey, I'd love to have a conversation with you. I'd love to continue this. So pray that even in the next few days or even weeks, Pastor or myself or both of us could be able to get to contact with Jamal. And we could we could uh interact with him for the sake of the gospel. There's a needy world out there that needs Christ, and Christ is the only way, the only truth, the only life. I have some prayer cards on the back table by the Kleenexes. So yeah, you probably need to take a Kleenex if you're going to pray for us. But This is just where they're at. But if you don't have a prayer card already, I apologize. This is a dated card. This only has five kids, and the latest iteration of the Gellis family is not on this one. But uh at least make you remember to pray for us. If you have a regular prayer time, you pray for the missionaries. We would appreciate you guys putting us into that group. We go on the giving and prayer of God's people. And that's the way it's always been. So we would greatly appreciate your prayers when it comes to our travels. Here we are in Luke chapter 7. Let's begin reading, beginning in verse number 19. And John, calling unto him two of his disciples, sent them to Jesus, saying, Are thou he that should come or look we for another? When the men were come unto him, they said, John Baptist has sent unto us unto thee, saying, Art thou he that should come, or look we for another? And in that same hour he cured many of their infirmities and plagues and of evil spirits, and of many that were blind he gave sight. Then Jesus, answering, said unto them, Go your way and tell John what things ye have seen and heard, how that the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, to the poor the gospel is preached. And blessed is he whosoever shall not be offended in me. And when the messengers of John were departed, he began to speak unto the people concerning John. What went ye out into the wilderness for to see? A reed shaken with the wind? But what went ye out for to see? A man clothed in soft raiment Behold, they which are gorgeously appareled and live delicately are in king's courts. But what went ye out for to see? A prophet? Yea, I say unto you, and much more than a prophet. This is he of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee. For I say unto you, among those that are born of women, there is not a greater prophet than John the Baptist. But he that is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he. And all the people that heard him, and the publicans, justify God, being baptized with the baptism of John. But the Pharisees and lawyers rejected the counsel of God against themselves, being not baptized of him. And the Lord said Whereunto then shall I liken the men of this generation? To what are they like? They are liken to children sitting in the marketplace and calling one to another and saying, We have piped unto you and ye have not danced. We have mourned to you and ye have not wept. For John the Baptist came neither eating bread nor drinking wine, and you say he hath a devil. The Son of Man has come eating and drinking, and you say, Behold a gluttonous man and a wine bever, a friend of publicans and sinners. But wisdom is justified of all her children. Father, would you take your word tonight? And oh Lord, I need your help. I can do nothing but fail. Would you help us understand what's happening happening in this passage? And would you take these familiar stories that perhaps many of us have heard for all our life, and would we see them through the eyes that you want us to see them through, through accurate biblical interpretation, but when we understand the context of heart, Of what you're trying to get across, what Luke was trying to get across. Would we see ourselves in this passage? Would we see our heart attitude? And would you show us Either a heart that is just simply believing, simply trusting, or a heart that's like the Pharisees that is trying to prove ourselves, trying to justify ourselves. Lord, work in our hearts, our lives. Help us be open and honest to truth. In Jesus' name, amen. We're here in Luke 7, as we just mentioned, but look back with me at the beginning of this chapter. In fact, look at the previous chapter. We have the reiteration of the last part of the previous chapter of the Beatitudes. And you see back in chapter 6 verse 20, and he lifted up his eyes on his disciples and said, Blessed be ye poor, for yours is the kingdom of God. Blessed are ye that hunger now, for ye shall be filled. Blessed are ye that weep now, for ye shall laugh. And then look at verse 49, the last verse of chapter 6. But he that heareth and doeth not is like a man that without a foundation which built a house upon the earth against which the stream did beat vehemently, and immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great. So Jesus here is talking to people, and he's communicating truth as we know he did. And his essence here is talking about those who simply receive truth as it's given. We're right introduced into the next chapter, chapter 7, verse 1. Now when he had ended all his sayings in the audience of the people, he entered into Capernaum. And notice this the the the story here. And a certain centurion servant who was dear unto him was sick and ready to die. This is an amazing story if we stop and think about it. Now, let me ask a question. I know this is dangerous asking questions on Sunday night. Was the centurion a Jew? Probably not. We're not told, but probably not. But notice the contrast here. Here is a non-Jewish, probably a Roman person. We don't know the background, we're not given the background, but notice what is it what the contrast is. Here's a Roman centurion who is kind, compassionate, and has a servant. It's not even a son. In other places in Scripture, people beseeching Jesus for their child. My child is sick. Lord, my son, my daughter needs you. But here's a centurion who's beseeching God on behalf of his servant. Look at verse 3. And when he had heard of Jesus, he sent unto him the elders of the Jews, beseeching him that he would come and heal a servant. And when they came to Jesus, they besought him instantly, saying that he was worthy for whom he should do this. So the centurion sends people, saying, Hey, go tell Jesus my sir that my servant is sick. Notice what it says in verse number six. Then Jesus went with them, and when he was not far from the house, the centurion sent friends to him, saying unto him, Lord, Trouble not thyself, for I am not worthy that thou shouldest enter under my roof. Wherefore neither thought I myself worthy to come unto thee, but say in a word, and my servant shall be healed This guy, this centurion's faith is incredible. Here's a man who says, I'm not even going to go myself because I'm not worthy to talk to you. I've sent friends ahead, but don't even bother coming to my house because it's not even worthy. But I know your word can save my servants. This guy is not a Jew. This guy's not part of the nation of Israel. He's not one part of God's chosen people. But he simply has faith. He's simply believing. And notice what Jesus says, verse number eight. Look at verse eight, continue. Jesus talks in verse nine, but look what it says. For I also am a man set under authority, having under me soldiers, and I say unto one, Go and he goeth unto another, come and he cometh, and to my servant, do this and he doeth it. When Jesus heard these things he marvelled at him and turned him about and said unto the people that followed him, I say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no not in Israel. And they that were sent returned to the house, found the servant whole that had been sick. Here's a non -Jew who knows Jesus is the way, the truth, the life, who simply says he can. And he trusts him implicitly with every aspect, every fiber of his being. It's contrast to what we're going to see in a few verses. Notice the next story that's given, and these are all familiar stories if you've grown up in church like I have. And verse number eleven, and it came to pass the day after that he went into a city called Nain. And many of his disciples went with him and much people. Now when he came nigh to the city, Behold, there was a dead man carried out the only son of his mother, and she was a widow, and much people of the city was with her. And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her, and said unto her, Weep not And he came and touched the bear, and that said bear and they and they that bare him stood still and he said, Young man, I say unto thee, arise. And he that was dead sat up and began to speak, and he delivered him to his mother. And there came a fear in all, and they glorified God, saying, That a great prophet has risen up among us, that God hath visited his people And the rumor of him went forth throughout all Judea and throughout all the region roundabout, and the disciples of John showed him all these things. Let's talk about this story. Here's a widow who in these Bible days in that Eastern culture, the widows were marginalized people. They didn't have the protection nets that we have in our society. They were looked down upon. This widow is now at the end of her rope and she's just supposedly lost the last knot. Her only son's gone. Well, maybe she had a daughter, but perhaps the daughters married often. In those days the daughters didn't carry the weight in society that a son did. Now here's this young man who's walking out, who's being carried out to the tombs. And Jesus goes by and touches him. He raises him from the dead. And that's not unfamiliar to us. We've heard this story before. But notice the reaction of the people, verse 16, and there came a fear on all, and they glorified God, saying that a great prophet has risen up among us, that God has visited his people. What did the people do when they saw truth? When they saw the way, the truth, the life, perform a miracle? What did they do? That's truth. They glorify God Now we get to the essence of our text here tonight. We see John the Baptist. And we see, first of all, John's doubt of Jesus. John, you know where John's at at this point? Yeah, he's in prison. Why was he in prison? Yeah, he called it out. He called the the the governor on the carpet. He said, no, you're not doing that. And the governor who feared John Just kind of threw him in the prison, kind of trying to keep him quiet. He didn't want to make too big of a stink, and it cost him dearly. And he regrets that to this day, I'm sure. But John the Baptist is in prison. And John the Baptist began perhaps to doubt. He shut up in prison for preaching against Herod's immorality. We learn about that in Matthew chapter 14. And perhaps John the Baptist, as mighty as he was, as great as he was, began to doubt. Is this he? In fact, he sends two of his disciples unto Jesus, verse 19, saying, Art thou he that should come or look we for another? Evidently, John, well, John first of all knew I'm called by God to be the forerunner, and Jesus' ministry hasn't taken off just yet. But Jesus, are you he that should come, or am I, was I for telling about somebody else? Notice who he went to for questions. He went to Jesus. It's always admirable when you go to Jesus for questions, but notice what happens here. Look at verse 21. These two messengers come. And look at verse 21 what it says. And in that same hour he cured many of their infirmities and plagues and of evil spirits, and on the many that were blind he gave sight. So these two messengers go and they're looking for a message. They're looking for confirmation. Is Jesus really who he says he is? And what does Jesus do? He gives them confirmation. So the messengers, they get to go back home not just saying, yeah, Jesus said who he is. No, they're going back to John's. cell there in his prison they're saying, hey, no, no, no. John, he is he. That is he is the Messiah. Because I saw him with my own eyes. We saw him do this and do this and he healed this person. He raised this person. He he did these wonderful things He must be the Son of God. So John has these questions. Look at Jesus' answer, verse 22. Then Jesus answering said unto them, Go your way. And tell John what things ye have seen and heard. How that the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, to the poor the gospel is preached. And blessed is he, whomsoever shall not be offended to me. I look at this passage and I think to myself, if a great man like John the Baptist can have questions You know what? It's possible for you and I too to have questions. Let's just be honest. Is it okay to be honest Sunday night in a church? Is it okay? No, we should put on our formal robes and act like we don't have any problems, right? No, let's just be honest. How many of of us here have this whole life figured out? No, I I don't. How many of us here actually legitimately frequently have deep personal questions that trouble us? Yeah. Hey, good news. You're not alone. John the Baptist did too. And if John the Baptist did, you know what that means? It's okay for you and I to have questions as well. I love Psalm 73. I don't know if I'll get to it this week, but Psalm 73 Acef questions, God. God, what are you doing? The wicked get away with everything. They die in peace. There's calamity. There's all these problems. God, what are you doing? Why God, why don't you get rid of all that mess? Let me ask you, could God fix the whole Russia-Ukraine situation right now? Why doesn't he? It's a big question. Could God take care of the issues that are facing my family right now? Absolutely. Why doesn't He? God, why don't you fix the mess that's in our country? Oh, what a mess. Truth is called evil, and evil is called truth. What a mess we're in. And when you and I as God's children begin to look around and we think to ourselves, is this really worthwhile? Is is God coming back? Should we continue to train our kids? Oh yeah, our children are going to be raised up in this mess. Should we even continue? Those are deep questions and if we're honest, every single one of us have had those questions. We've thought things at times that we wouldn't even say and even ASAP in Psalm seventy three said, I don't even talk to the the younger generation because I don't want to defend them. You know where we can go with our questions? Jesus. You know, it's a great truth. We don't have to hide anything as long as we come believing you've got the answer. I don't understand this, Jesus. Jesus. But you got the answer. And those who come to him, he will in no wise cast out. And I realize that verse in John 14 is talking specifically about salvation, but that's in every aspect of life. Because he is God. He knows the frailty of our frame. And he's okay with that. And he delights in you and I coming to him saying, God, I don't have this whole thing figured out. I need you. And you see a dichotomy in this passage here You see people who simply believe God. You see the centurion who God, I'm not even worthy. Don't even come to my house. I'm not even worthy to come to you. But if you just say the word, I know you can do something in my life that will save this my servant You see simple faith. You see questions that I don't have the answer to, but I know where to get the answers from, and it's from Jesus. And you see a dichotomy, you see people who have it all together. And we'll see them in a minute. But here we see John, first of all, who I got questions. And if you think to yourself, well, no, certainly John was just in prison. He was asking for his disciples' sake. Well perhaps he was, but I'm sure deep down within, here's a man who's preached the truth, who's seen God use him in powerful ways, and Jesus, what he says about him here in a few verses, we'll see. Jesus is not throwing John under the bus by any means. But here's a man who now, because he stood on truth, probably realizes I'm going to lose my head. This is it. Has it been worth it? And where does he go with those questions? He goes to Jesus. And where can you and I go with our questions? To Jesus. So we see here that John has questions for Jesus. John doubts Jesus, he doubts what's happening. John 6, all that the Father giveth to me shall come to me, and him that cometh to me I will now wise cast out. We can take our questions directly to him. Secondly, let's look at our passage again, and we see Jesus praise for John. Look what it says in verse 22. Excuse me, I've got to go back to the passage where we're at. Luke chapter 7, verse 24. Look what it says in Luke chapter 7, verse 24. And when the messengers of John were departed, he began to speak unto the people concerning John. What went ye out into the wilderness for to see? A reed shaken with the wind? Have you ever driven by a field and you've seen a field of reeds, like a marshland, that on a windy day? What are the reeds doing? Swaying back and forth. And what are they following? They're following the trends of the weather, correct? Was that what John was No, you wouldn't talk about a politically incorrect person, one and one who didn't care at all, but one who knew who he was following, who had been called by God when he was still in the womb. And knew that God is this is truth and what I'm doing is absolutely eternal. You have John the Baptist. He wasn't a reed swaying with the wind. No, no, no, no. He was a standard. He was a bulwark. In fact, he's the greatest prophet that's ever been born of women, Jesus says. John the Baptist in a wicked age, in a wicked day, was crying out to his opulent society, repent For the kingdom of God is at hand. Jesus is coming. The Messiah is coming. He was the forerunner of the Messiah. He was preaching truth when it wasn't popular. Did he dress nicely? Look at the next question. But what went yeah, verse 25, for to see? A man clothed in soft raiment? Was John wearing Gucci clothes and designer outfits? Did he eat at Ruth 's Chris Steakhouse every night? No, what was he wearing? Do you remember? I know that I'm asking Sunday school questions again. Yeah. What did he eat? Locust and honey. Mm -mm Some of you are shaking your heads like, uh-uh. So the guy didn't really care. In fact, look at Jesus answer. This this always cracks me up. But what went ye after the sea, verse twenty five, a man clothed in soft raiment? Behold, they which are gorgeously appareled and live delicately are in king's courts. He said, No, you don't go out to see some softy. The softies they're in the palace John, he wasn't a softie. He was a man's man. And he's a wow, this guy, the character, he's like an Elijah. One of those men that just stands out in the Old Testament and you go, whoa! But remember too that Elijah had his emotional doubts as well. They were just men. And even the best of men are at that the just men at best. Look what it says in verse 27. Excuse me, verse yeah, verse 27. Excuse me, back up to verse 26. But what went ye out for to see? A prophet? Yea, I say unto you, and much more than a prophet. This is he of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee. Now without looking, does anybody know where that's quoted from? Oh, I know. I'm asking questions on a Sunday night that's always dangerous. People are, I don't want to come back. He's asking too many questions. Well, part of it's Isaiah. My Bible says Malachi too. Part of it's Isaiah, part of it's Malachi. And he is the direct fulfillment of the prophecy in Malachi chapter 3. This is he who is quoted. This is the forerunner of the Messiah. Jesus confirms. This is the man that you've been looking for for the past 400 years. He's more than just a prophet. This is the guy you guys have been looking for for the past 400 years. And he he says in verse 28, and we know this. For I say unto you, among those that are born of women, there is not a greater prophet than John the Baptist. But then Jesus says something amazing. But he that is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he This is an interesting little statement. He that is least in the kingdom of God is greater than John the Baptist. It's mood lighting, it's effect lighting. But look at that statement again. But he that is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he. What is that talking about? Well, be honest with you, Bible scholars differ. You open up the different commentaries and you'll hear a couple different things, but whatever it may may mean, I would take it to mean this: that the person in the New Testament age who comes to faith in Christ has more benefit than John ever would of the New Testament age of grace. That's not discounting John's ministry or who he was or what he did. And we can debate about that. But Jesus says something similar, something very simple. He says, those who just place their faith and trust in Christ after the resurrection, those who are New Testament believers. They are in effect greater than John. I don't understand why Jesus would say that, but there it is. Jesus puts it on a low shelf and said, Hey, John's this great guy, but hey, hey, hey, those who place their faith and trust in Christ. Are greater than John. Wow. Notice verse 29. Well, you if you debate that, if you want to debate me that later, we we can do that. That's fine. But it's an interesting phrase nonetheless. But notice verse 29. And all the people that heard him and the publicans justified God being baptized with the baptism of John. So the people that heard him, they justified God. What does that mean, justified God? Does that mean God needed justification? No, it means that in their minds they said, yep, God's true. Yep, I believe God. Yep, that's right. And notice who else did it. The people that heard, and the who? Who were the publicans? Was that one of the uh parties, uh political parties of the day? It it was the tax collectors, but you know how they collected taxes? Through extortion. It was a mob Because you know, Joel owes hundred pence. And the tax collector comes to Pastor Joel and says, Hey, you owe 150 pence. And Pastor Joel's like, no uh, I owe a hundred. I got I saw the record. I knew what I made. I this is a hundred. And the tax collector says, no, you owe 150. He says, hey, boys. And Joel looks and Pastor Joel looks and I owe 150. It was the mob. Who likes getting strong armed? Anybody? No. And the publicans were a hated group of people. Who likes the mob running their life? Who likes getting blackmailed? Who likes getting coerced against their will? Nobody does. But you know what the Bible says? These publicans, they heard the truth. These mob people, these lowlifes, they heard the truth. And they said, Yep, Jesus is the Son of God. The people that heard it, yep, Jesus is the son of God. They justified God. And you know how we know that they did it? Why they why he even says, and you can see there in the verse, look again at that verse there. Verse number 29, they were had been already baptized with the baptism of John. They had placed their faith and trust in Christ, they saw the truth, they saw it, they knew it. Yep, that's truth There wasn't any duplicity. There wasn't any I don't know if I can believe it. Nope. That's truth. Notice verse number 30. But the Pharisees and lawyers rejected the counsel of God against themselves being not baptized with him. So not only do we see John's doubt, and secondly we see Jesus praise But thirdly, and most importantly, the point of the message tonight, we see the simples faith versus the Pharisees' scorn The simple's faith versus the Pharisees scorn. Matthew chapter 5 is the beatitude similar to what we just saw in Luke chapter 6. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God They had showed their sincerity by first trusting that John was right and that he was a prophet and they have been baptized at the baptism of John. And so when Jesus came along, it was a natural, yeah, that that's truth. I see it. I'm going to believe it. But the Pharisees and the lawyers rejected him. Why? Because they had previously rejected John. Notice the illustration that our Lord uses of these Pharisees. Verse 31. And the Lord said, Whereunto then shall I liken the men of this generation? And to what are they like? They are like children sitting in the marketplace and calling one to another and saying, We have piped unto you and ye have not danced. We have mourned to you and ye have not wept. Do you know that kids like to imagine things? How many of you have viewed little kids before, watched them imagine things? Yeah. I've got six little kids. Yesterday, my two-year-old had my son's nose sucker. You know that little bulb that snuck, yeah, that thing She had that and she turned it over and she's just singing it, going to town. I mean, I mean, I'm sure it was approved in all of our churches I knew yeah. But she's just going to town and she's just singing until she saw that I was watching her, then instantly she gets shy and because what do kids like to do? They like to pretend. And even today I saw kids pretending, and I my little girls were playing, and they were playing dolls, and they were playing house, and You know what do kids do? They want to come out and play. So you have this story here where the group of kids goes over and they say, hey, come on, let's play. Let's go play house. Let's go play funeral. Let's go play wedding These are kind of interesting things to play, but that's exactly what they're playing. Look again with the verse. They're like unto children sitting in the marketplace and calling one to another and saying, We have piped unto you and ye have not danced. We have mourned to you, and ye have not wept. You know, my daughters like to play weddings, or when especially when they were younger, not so much now. They would dress up, they would get these ugly flowers. They found in the yard. They'd walked on the aisle and of course they never wanted David David never wanted to walk with them. And so i yeah And my dad would humor them and be the preacher in the wedding and they would play. And we all laugh at that, ha ha ha. But that's exactly what kids do. Would it be natural for a child Some six or seven or eight-year-old. To be in another group of children and just to go, no, I don't want to play. Well, maybe shy, but typically kids who know each other, like I saw the group of kids that you have here at the church. My kids kind of joined it. They they play. They're out in the yard playing. They're playing. Um your your children's pastor over here was leading them through the the church over here, Tori. Yes. I I he he's so short I couldn't tell where the children started and the adults began. Love you, brother. But he was leading them and they were all playing, they're all exact. But here's a group of people, here's a group of children, who wants to play wedding, who wants to play funeral, and perhaps there's more to that than even what Jesus what we would see. But they want to play wedding, they want to play funeral, and there's this other group of kids that are just sitting there. Yeah. Yeah Yeah. Hey, let's let's play wedding, let's play funeral. Yeah. It's like junior high boys. Yeah. No offense to any junior high boys that may be here. You still friends? Still good? Okay, good. Sure you're not like that at all, right? But how many times have I gone to teen group, teen activities to preach teen, hey guys, you want to go do Yeah. Yeah. It's like all of a sudden we become Wookiees or something. So you just got that. But what is the point here? They're Pharisees, didn't matter what's going to happen. Let's play wedding? No. You want to play funeral? No. They're just going to sit on the sideline and be sour pushes the whole time. And Jesus says that's what you're like. You wicked generation, you're not going to get involved. Doesn't matter what happens. Doesn't matter what we're playing, you're just going to sit on the sideline and criticize because that's your heart. We could make application in the church too. There's people that just sit on the sideline all the time and criticize. And I'm not saying you're unconverted Pharisees. But I gotta be careful because I'm the analytical, like to analyze things, like to think about it. Maybe can be of the critical spirit sometimes You know who in this passage Jesus is honoring and Jesus is exalting and Luke is saying, hey, this is the right attitude. It's the people that simply go, yeah, that's truth. I believe. Yes, he's the Messiah. I believe. But I I gotta figure it out first. I gotta No, no, no, that's not the right attitude I've seen truth. I know it's true, and I'm gonna follow it with passion, but you don't understand it. It's okay. I'm gonna follow it still. This group of people were acting like kids who didn't want to play. Look again what it says And verse thirty through thro verse thirty-three. For John the Baptist came neither neither uh eating bread nor drinking wine, and you say he hath the devil. The son of man has come eating and drinking, and you say, Behold a gluttonous man and a wine bever, a friend of publicans and sinners. You get the impression that if truth had slapped them in the face, doesn't matter who it was, they still weren't going to believe. You know, sometimes I'm like that I prayed at the beginning of this message that we would see ourselves in this passage. And though I technically I know I'm not a Pharisee, I do believe that Jesus is the Christ. I believe he's the Son of God. Yet part of what these Pharisees do and part of their attitude convicts me. Because I'm an analytical, I like to think this through. I I I sometimes look at new Christians who are in Don't really know as much as I do, who don't have the Bible training, and I, well, you know, that's that's nice. I appreciate your your excitement and your enthusiasm, but you have to wait, and then you can understand the deeper things of the Christian life Sometimes those sincere believers make us feel uncomfortable because they convict us with their enthusiasm. And we can be the Pharisee and throw water onto their fire. And what Jesus is saying here is the people who God who he say Jesus marveled at the centurion in the first part of this chapter. What? He simply believed That's the type of faith that God wants you and I to exhibit in our lives, simply believing, simple faith. I'm all for education. I'm all for cemetery. I mean seminary. I got a lot of it, getting more of it. But at the end of the day, it's amazing. God chooses to use the simple things of this world. The humble to confound the wise. He uses those who are, you know the passage, rich in faith to be heirs. It's an amazing statement. God uses simple, humble people. That's good. Because the longer I live, the more I realize I ain't got it. Pardon my southern grammar. I don't have it all together. I need Jesus. It's possible for us to live the Christian life so long that we get, well, you know, I I've got this. I've been very disciplined. I've been very dedicated. I've been in this church for so long. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. What do you have? Nothing. What do any of us have apart from Christ? Nothing. And though technically we're not Pharisees because we're not rejecting Christ, we can adopt some of these Pharisaical attitudes. And we can doesn't matter who it comes, doesn't matter if the Apostle Paul comes to that door. I'm going to pick apart his sermon anyway. Oh, how sad. I think back, and I've shared this perhaps even here. I think back to my time, and in fact, you have a couple people that went to the same college, and so you would know where this is at, but I think back to my undergrad days. And Joel and I would know, Pastor Joel and I would know several of the same people who simply were simple-minded people, but they loved God. They were passionate. And you know, I could go down a list of young men who didn't get all that much education. And even what they did get, they didn't do that great in. They didn't make the honor all. But today they're faithful, humble servants of God, and God's using them. I can tell you other stories about men and women who are very talented, very academically astute, who got good grades, who went on for advanced degrees, who did very well, some of the greatest preachers that I saw in college, the most talented men and women preachers who you thought, wow, that man's great. That gal's great. They got it all together. They're doing nothing for Christ today. Why is that? It's because simple faith is where it's at. Humble faith. Hey, you may be here tonight saying, I I don't have that much to give to Christ. That's fine. It doesn't matter. Think about the lad. What did he have? A lunch. What did he do with it? He gave it all to Christ. You know what? He got to eat his own lunch back then too, and so did a couple thousand other people. Our attitude toward truth is absolutely critical. And I'm saying that pointing to myself because it's easy to sit in criticism of Bible preaching. Well, you know, I wouldn't say that point like this. And you know that well hold hold on, hold on. Maybe not. But sit there and just say, God, this is your word. It doesn't matter who's preaching the word. This has the power to change my life. I'm going to simply believe it. I'm not going to be critical. I'm not going to be like the Pharisees who nothing can please them. No, I'm not going to do that. Notice that last verse in our passage is verse 35, but wisdom is justified of all their children. Again, scholars have debated this. There's a couple different options of what people are saying, but it's probably this. It's probably Jesus is saying That the Pharisees, it didn't matter what was going to happen. They were going to justify their unbelief either way. Wisdom is justified of all our children. We could debate that passage again and again, scholars are divided. But what he's probably doing here is saying, Pharisees, you're gonna you would refuse no matter who came into the door. In fact, truth was standing right in front of them, and they they still refused it. Why? Because of their hard attitude. So, friends, as we begin this Sunday revival, this brief revival, Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, or left, let me ask each and every one of us to examine our attitude toward truth. Is it possible that some of us have been in church for so long that we've become complacent? Is it possible that some of us have been doing this Sing, we've been in ministry, we have Bible degrees from Bible college, and we think we've got this all together. No, we don't Is it possible that God has not used us in the capacity that He wants to be because of our pride and our arrogance? It's because simply put We need to be like the fairy we need to be like the publicans and all the common people. They simply hear the truth. They see Jesus working. Yep, I believe God. There's something to be said about simple faith. That doesn't mean we divorce our brain from what we're doing. But there's something to be said that I simply believe, whether or not I understand it, I'm going to believe it. That's truth. This is truth. He's the way, the truth, the life, and I'm going to believe it whether I understand it or not. Notice those last stories, and Luke includes these in chapter 7 for reason. Jesus goes, and many of you would know this story, he goes to the house of a Pharisee, and he sits down, and this Pharisee doesn't do anything for him. But the sinful woman comes in and brings an alabaster box of ointment, verse 37, and anointed and cried on him and touched him. Can you believe it? The sinful woman touched Jesus. And notice what Jesus says. Look at verse 44. And he turned to the woman and said unto Simeon, Simon, excuse me, Simon. Seest thou this woman? I entered into thine house, thou gavest me no water for my feet, but she hath washed my feet with tears and wiped them with the hairs of her head. Thou gavest me no kiss, but this woman since the time I came in, hath not ceased to kiss my feet. My head my head with oil thou dost not anoint, but this woman hath anointed my feet with ointment. Wherefore I say unto thee, her sins which are many are forgiven, for she loved much. But to whom little is forgiven, the same loveth little. And he said unto her, Thy sins are forgiven. And they that sat up meet with him began to say with themselves, Who is this that forgiveth sins also? And he said to the woman, Thy faith has saved thee. Go in peace. As you think about this whole chapter, now you know what we didn't do justice to every story. We couldn't the time allotted here tonight. But as you think about this whole chapter, you come back to the realization, we talked about this this morning, that God receiveth sinful, humble people. He rejects the proud. And those who think we've got it think that, oh, I'm better than that. No, no, no, no, no. Does God love you more than he loves any other person? No. Does God have more special favor for you than he does? No. God so loves the world. He wants all to come to faith in him. You know what that should do? It should humble us. It should motivate us. It should encourage us. James chapter 4, but he giveth more grace, wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the humble. Psalm 138, verse 6, to the Lord be high, yet he hath respect unto the lowly, but the proud he knoweth afar off. Now look at this passage, friends. And I'm convinced and convicted that I oftentimes have this thing whole all wrong. I look at what I am and what I can do and my intellect, my ability, my petty. No, no, no, no, no. It's not where it's at. Doesn't matter our background or anything like that. It's our faith toward Christ, I believe. And friend, if you will take the word of God at face value. And in simple, humble faith, trust him and follow him. God can use you. But to the proud, he knoweth afar off. You ever been shunned and rejected by somebody that you thought should treat you better? Maybe it was a friend that did something. Co-worker that you thought had your back in a project and yet stabbed you in the back and tried to get ahead. Maybe it was a family member or former family member. How'd that make you feel? You don't have to ask. I know that. I don't want you to have an answer. It's not fun. It's not good. And yet, when we look at ourselves and lift ourselves up in pride, God treats us afar off. But when we God I don't got it. I need you. Those are the people that God knows I see myself in this passage. Do you? And it's not on the right side of verses 30. It's not where I want to see it. May God help all of us to be simple, humble, believing. That's truth. I believe it. No reservations. As we finish tonight, let's all bow our head and close our eyes in prayer. How do we say tonight, Brent? God used his word to challenge, to speak, to encourage, to speak to me. Gotta be honest. Sometimes I look at these truths with a critical eye. I I look at people with a critical eye. I look at others with a critical eye. And God tonight spoke to me. He challenged me. He convicted me. Would you lift your hand? Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Anybody else? Tonight God spoke to me. He challenged me. I want to be that simple, humble person who simply sees truth and believes it. Anybody else? Amen. Right where you're at I'm going to pray in just a minute, and then I'd encourage you as the piano plays in just a minute, right where you're at, or maybe even come forward, whatever the case is, do business with this truth. If God spoke to you, take a few minutes while the piano plays, a few seconds even. And just respond how the Holy Spirit is asking you to respond. Father, work in our hearts. Help us to be open and honest to your truth. Help us to be different because of what your word says to us. In Jesus' name. With heads bowed and eyes closed, let's stand. The pianist is going to begin a simple hymn of invitation. If God has spoken, you do business with the truth right there at your seat. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for truth. Thank you for the stories of Luke 7. Would we be this simple, humble person, the centurion Would we be the simple, humble person who simply sees truth, believes it, doesn't make reservations, doesn't make excuses? Would we not be the children sitting making excuses, shrugging our shoulders? Would we be the ones who simply believe and do? Would you convict us when we become prideful and arrogant? Would we be the right kind of people in Luke 7? Lord, I pray you continue to work in our hearts and lives. I pray that you bring up more people tomorrow, and I pray that you'd help us to uh do our part to invite our neighbors, our friends, and even share our faith with others this week. I pray you'd give us opportunity. Pray for those who are even here this morning who are not sure they're on their way to heaven, who maybe have questions, or who just straight up haven't placed their faith and trust in Christ. I pray that you give us opportunity as a church body to share the truth with them and would they place their trust and faith completely in Jesus alone. We need your help for that. We can't change hearts and lives, but we know you can. Can. Lord, we need your help, we need your truth, we need your love. In Jesus' name, Amen