Well let's go ahead and turn in our Bibles to the book of John again this evening, and that's John chapter 18. And uh one of the things that I wanted to do, in fact we're we actually just finished our series on the Kings And we're going to start a new series in Isaiah. And I kind of played with the idea of do we start our Isaiah um series tonight or do we do something different? And I thought, you know what? During this season, here we are, this morning we do the Palm Sunday triumphal entry, and then this coming Sunday we're going to talk about the resurrection, but we're missing something in between, aren't we? We're missing the cross. And so if you're going to be with us on Friday night, we are going to spend that entire service up at Calvary looking at the cross on Good Friday. But I thought for those that are not going to be able to be a part of that, we really should take some time and focus on the cross. And so we're going to do that tonight. And not only are we going to do that tonight, but we're going to do that as we partake of the Lord's table together. And so What we're going to do is focus on John chapter 18, verses 1 through 8. But then from that, we're going to work our way through two chapters, not verse by verse. through two chapters. But some of the key components of those two chapters that I think really look at one simple theme. The cross was an absolute injustice from the human perspective. But the cross is the one and only way through which we are reconciled to God, and it was God's plan. And so let's go ahead and look in our Bibles at John chapter 18. Let's read this. Let's think about this. Let's pray together. And then ask the Lord to help this to be something that really causes us to reflect on the significance of what we will do when we partake together of the Lord's table. So John chapter 18, verse number one. When Jesus had spoken these words, he went forth. And by the way, that's All the stuff that's recorded for us in John about the upper room, lots and lots of teaching from John 12, what we talked about this morning, all the way to chapter 18. Verse one. When Jesus had spoken these words he went forth with his disciples over the book brook Kidron, where there was a garden, into the which he entered, and his disciples, and Judas also which betrayed him, knew the place. For Jesus oftentimes resorted thither with his disciples. Judas then, having received a band of men and officers from the chief priests and the Pharisees, Cometh thither with lanterns and torches and weapons. Notice the next statement. It's very, very important. Jesus, therefore, knowing all things that should come upon him, went forth. I want to pause and just say this. Could you imagine what kind of a weight you would carry? understanding everything that's about to take place in the next 24 hours. Knowing all things that would come upon him. When Jesus was there in the garden and he is praying, Father, if it is possible. If it is possible, remove this cup. But not what I will, but what you will. When he does that, he understands What's going on. In fact, one of the things that really stands out to me about the account of the cross is that as Jesus is hanging there on that cross, he is fully aware of the things that are going on around him. He even understands what is yet to be fulfilled as he hangs on the cross. And this is something that I'll talk about on Friday night, but as Jesus is hanging there on the cross, it says he knew all things had been fulfilled, which were spoken of him, and then he said, I thirst. It's like there's one last thing that needs to happen before he says, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. And he gives up the ghost and he dies. Jesus is fully aware of what's going on. He is carrying this burden, this weight, and he's completely willing to do it. He then goes on and says this, and he said unto them, Whom do you seek? They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus said unto them, I'm he. Judas also, which betrayed him, stood with them. As soon then, as he said unto them, I am he, they went backwards and fell to the ground. That would have been amazing to see. Then asked he them again, whom seek ye? They said, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus answered, I've told you, I am he. If therefore you seek me, let these go their way. What's he saying? This is all about me. And what God has sent me to do. Let's bow together for prayer. Our Father, as we think about these verses together, we think about the injustice and the betrayal. And we think about the suffering of the cross. I pray that we would recognize that all this was done so we could be reconciled to you. If Christ had not laid down his life, if he'd not taken our sin upon himself, if he'd not been punished in our place, we would have no hope tonight. We'd have no way of being reconciled to you. would be an absolute impossibility. But we thank you for his humility and his willingness to embrace this plan of redemption that was established even before the foundation. of the world. And so I pray that tonight we would be gripped freshly with these truths. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Let me give you kind of a synopsis of the flow of events that we read from chapter 18 and 19. So in verses 1 through 11, we kind of see the first phase of what John is laying out. He talks about the arrest of Christ there in the garden. Those are the things that I just read to you today tonight, just a minute ago. Then we move in verses 12 through 27 to kind of phase two. And in phase two, Jesus is standing in trial before the religious Now, it's not like he just stood on trial before one person or two people. There are actually six different events that he stands before someone in a trial. Five different people, five different officials. six different trials. I'll talk about those in just a second. But when John is recording these details, he just deals with this in verses 12 through 27. Then we come to the third phase where he stands before the Roman governor Pontius Pilate, and he records the details about that in chapters 18-28. through 19 verse number 16. Now the question is why does Jesus not just stand before the Sanhedrin? Or why doesn't he just stand before Caiaphas or Annas? Why does he have to stand before Pilate? Well the answer is pretty simple. Pilate has, we could say, the authority because he is the Roman governor. He has the authority to crucify Jesus. The Sanhedrin does not. And that's what they want. They don't just want him to disappear. They don't just want him to be humiliated. They want him to die. But they want him to die in a way that we could say is a cursed kind of death. In fact, if you were a Roman citizen, you could not be crucified. It was against the law because it was such a barbaric way to die. It was such a humiliating , it was such a terrible, terrible way for someone to be executed. That's what the Jews wanted. But they didn't have the authority to do that. And so they send him to Pilate, and as they send him to Pilate, they are putting as much pressure on him as possible to to do what they are demanding him to do. And then we come to the fourth phase. That's verses 17 through 30 of chapter 19, where he's actually crucifying Crucified later the next day. So to kind of summarize it, we could say it like this. Christ stands before six different tribunals or six different trials throughout the night. He stands before five different individuals. He stands before Annas, John chapter 18, and then he stands before Caiaphas, Matthew 26 records this He stands before the Sanhedrin as a body. In Matthew 27, he stands before Pilate the first time in John 18. Then he stands before Herod, Luke 23, and then he stands before Pilate again the last time in John 18, verses 39 through chapter 19, verse 16. All of this Was leading to an ultimate end of crucifixion. And so with this kind of big picture in mind, I want us to kind of notice the different injustices And the hypocrisy that was demonstrated by the people who plotted and schemed and put pressure behind these officials ultimately to lead to Christ's crucifixion The first one that I want to draw your attention to is in John chapter 18, verse 28. Notice what it says. Then led they Jesus from Caiaphas unto the hall of judgment. And it was early. And they themselves went not into the judgment hall And notice this next detail. It's very, very, very intriguing to me. They did not go into the judgment hall lest they should be defiled, but that they might eat the Passover Did you catch that? Now it's important for us to recognize that when we think Passover, we think like one meal. But really the Passover was a season. So we know that there's the beginning of the Passover week, and they set aside the Paschal Lamb, and then they have all these different things that are going on throughout the week. And then at the end of the week, they celebrate the actual supper, which is what Jesus was celebrating their, um, we call it the last supper, their um where he's with his disciples and ultimately he passes the bread and there he institutes the new covenant and he talks about the Lord's table. So the Passover is looking back at what happened historically when they're delivered out of Egypt, and then it's supposed to look forward from their perspective to the cross that's coming They didn't understand that. But that's what Jesus was doing. He was explaining this to them. Well, after that meal, then there are a series of Sabbath rest days. In fact, we know that when Jesus was crucified, one of the reasons that they were hurrying so much is because there was preparation for the Sabbath day. which would have been Saturday, and it was a high holy day, so it was a very particular kind of Sabbath. And then after this time period, then they would have a feast of unleavened bread. So basically what's going on is that these men say we don't want to defile ourselves in the middle of these festivities. We want to be able to participate in all of it. So, we have no problem condemning an innocent man. We have no problem manipulating behind the scenes and squeezing every single public official who has the authority to do what we do not have the authority to do. But we don't want to go into the building and defile ourselves because we want to be able to continue doing what we're doing Doesn't that strike you as a little odd? But it shows you the mindset of these people. Complete self-righteousness. Complete arrogance. To them, it was simply a series of religious observances. They did not understand the heart of what was going on. And the truth is they really didn't even care about it. The second example I want to show you is in verse 29, the next verse, chapter 18. It says, Pilate then went out unto them and said, What accusation bring you against this man? They answered and said unto him, If he were not a malefactor, we would not have delivered him up unto you. Did you catch that? What is your charge? We don't have one. You need to just trust that we wouldn't have delivered him to you if we didn't have a reason. And Paula goes, I think you misunderstood my question. What's the charge? How do I actually put a man on trial if I don't even know what the accusation is? What does this show you? It was corrupt on every single level from the beginning to the end. And by the way, Pilate knew this. Pilate knew that Jesus was an innocent man. Pilate knew that the motivation of these men was not we want to do what's right, we want to uphold what is true. He knew full well that these men despised Jesus, they were jealous. They were covetous. They were greedy. He knew it. What's the word? Corruption. Corruption is at the heart of the story. Thirdly, I want you to notice some of the hypocrite or some of the ironies here. In verse number 31, it says, Then said Pilate unto them, Take you him, judge him according to your law. The Jews therefore said unto him, It is not lawful for us to put any man to death. Did you catch that? What are they getting at? They're saying, Pilate, you don't understand what we want, we can't do So we need you to play along with us. The Jews did not have the authority to do what they wanted to do, but they were going to use Pilate, pressure Pilate. squeeze him so that he felt compelled to follow their wishes. In verse 37, we see that Pilate knows about Christ In fact, he probably even discussed this situation. Don't think for a moment that these Roman officials didn't know that there was a man, a rabbi named Jesus of Nazareth, who's going all over Judea. He's preaching. He's performing miracles. There's a following of people that are following him. These people think that Jesus is someone who is going to lead some rebellion against Rome. Don't think for a moment that Pilate didn't know about this man. He knew about him. I'm sure that he and his friends they talked about Jesus. They talked about this building tension that was going on. They probably discussed what are we going to do with this guy? So when Jesus is standing before him, it's not like this is an unknown character to him. Not to mention that everyone in Jerusalem is talking about the raising of Lazarus. And so in verse 37 it says this, Pilate said unto him, Art thou a king then? Jesus answered, Thou sayest I'm a king. What's he saying? You know who I am. To this end was I born, for this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth. Everyone that is of the truth heareth my voice. Pilate listens to this and he says, what is truth? Interesting statement. Another thing that's ironic about this is that Pilate even publicly admits that he knows Jesus is innocent. In verse 38, it says, Pilate said unto him, What is truth? When he said this, he went out again unto the Jews and said unto him, I find in him no fault at all. Now, how do you acquit a man and then condemn him to death? It's because you're corrupt. It's because you're weak. It's because he felt the pressure of these people. All of this is an ironic part of the story. We also see the animosity that is talked about in these verses. Look down in your Bible at verse 39. It says, Ye have a custom that I should release unto you one at the Passover. Will you therefore that I release unto you the king of the Jews? They cried all again, saying, Not this man, but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber. Pilate says, you know that during the season we try to appease you, you religious Jews And so, to kind of throw you a bone for lack of a better way to put it, we allow one of your political prisoners, somebody that we've arrested, we allow them to be released to you. You have an option. Do you want Jesus or do you want Barabbas? They said, well obviously we don't want Jesus. We want Braves. What does it show you? Complete disdain. Complete animosity. Complete hatred for Jesus. And then we see the political maneuvering. Verses 1 and 3 of chapter 19, it says, Pilate there foretook Jesus and he scourged him in the shoulders. plated a crown of thorns and put it on his head, and they put on him a purple robe and said, Hail King of the Jews, and they smote him with their hands. Verse number six says, When the chief priest and the officers saw him, they cried and said, Crucify him, crucify him. And Pilate said to him, Take you him and crucify him. I find no fault in him. These are amazing, amazing words. And then we see finally the compromise in verses 12 through 16. From thenceforth, Pilate sought to release Jesus. But the Jews cried out saying, if thou let this man go, thou art not Caesar's friend. Whoever makes himself a king speaketh against Caesar. Then he delivered him therefore unto them to be crucified, and they took Jesus and they led him away. You know, a a back part of this story is actually that historically there had been many different uprisings in this region. In fact, out of all of the regions during this time in the Roman world, this was probably the most volatile. In fact, times haven't changed very much, have they? This is a very volatile time. And Pilate was fairly new in his position and he had experienced some of that volatility himself. And so Pilate is trying very hard. to not anger the people of the region, to not get himself in trouble with those who had appointed him. And so Pilate is trying to find this middle ground. I don't want to make them angry. I don't want to stir up the crowds. What do I do? And he says, all right, go ahead. You take him. I wash my hands. It's on you. It's not on me. He compromised. But I want to tell you that when we think about the cross and everything that went on, the most tragic thing, the heaviest thing, is not the physical suffering. It's not the injustice. It's not the compromise. It's not the political maneuvering. All those things are there. But what makes the cross weighty Is what God the Father did to his son for us. Do you realize that? It's not beating his back It's not nailing him to the cross and shedding his blood. It's our sin being laid on his account. It says that he bore our griefs and he carried our sorrows, and our transgressions were laid to his account, and he was punished in our place. The weight of the cross is not about the physical suffering or the emotional agony or the humiliation or the betrayal or the injustice. It's about sin. And I want to just kind of cause us for a few moments tonight to reflect on that. Why was the cross so heavy? I don't mean physically heavy. I mean what metaphorically was heavy about the cross? It was heavy because of the weight of our sin. When we take this bread, it reminds us of Christ's body that was crushed. under the weight of our sin and punished in our place. When we drink this juice, it reminds us Of Christ's blood that was shed that washes us clean and removes the stain and the defilement of our sin And so as we eat this bread and we drink this cup, we remember what Christ has done for us. And when we do that, we need to think about the significance Of what this costs Christ. Our sin is a heavy offense to God, and it sets us apart from Him. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 3, it says this. We all had our conversation in times past. Fulfilling the lusts of our flesh and fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind. And here's the important statement: we were by nature the children of wrath. Earlier in Ephesians two one he says that he hath quickened us who were dead in trespasses and sins Romans chapter 5 talks about how we were without strength. We were ungodly. We were at enmity with God. Our sin stands between us And a holy and righteous God. And only the cross can remove that sin. Secondly, this sin is lawlessness and it has to be punished. Romans 6. 23, the wages of sin is death. Because we are sinners who have broken God's laws, we deserve a capital We have committed a capital crime. We deserve death. Not just to physical death, but we deserve this eternal separation from God. We deserve to be punished eternally for our sin because of our lawless deeds. Our transgressions. We have no way to remedy this great problem. Isaiah 64, 6 says that we are all as an unclean thing All of our righteousness is his filthy rags. So here we are, we have this sin debt. Spiritually, we are dead in trespasses and sins. We are estranged from God. We live at enmity with Him. And here we are going, what do we do? And we have absolutely no way to earn our way to Him. When we try to earn God's favor, the best we can give him is filthy rags. We we can try to be good and look good and do good and give money to the church and and and and and do our very best to be kind to people, but we cannot remove the sin debt. It is there. That stain is there. That guilt is there. We don't have the power. We don't have a mechanism through which we can remove that guilt. And this should terrify us. Romans 7, 23. He says, I see a law in my members warring against the law of my mind and bringing me into captivity to the law of sin which is in my members. If a person is listening to the gospel and the word of God is being presented to them and they see, first of all, their sin, then the sense that a person is going to get is this: I'm in trouble. I'm undone. The more I try, the more I fail. The more I realize God's state of, the more I realize I don't mean it And so what does Paul write in this passage? He says, Oh wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from this body of death? His answer is God. God does it. Why is the cross weighty? It's because of our sin. It's also heavy because it's the only hope that we have. In Romans 8, verse 3 it says, What the law could not do. And that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin condemned sin in the flesh. God did for us what we couldn't do for ourselves. The cross, more than any other event in human history, reminds us we are powerless to save ourselves. Only God can save us from sin. And only God can save us in such a way. And God did it. He did it for us. It's heavy because of what it costs Christ. And in Isaiah 53, I've already alluded to this, but it talks about him being wounded for our transgressions. Being bruised for our iniquities, the Lord laying on him the iniquity of us all, it pleasing the Lord to bruise him, him seeing the travail of our soul and being satisfied, him bearing our iniquities. That's why the cross matters so much because of what it cost Christ. And going back to that statement in chapter 18, it says that Jesus knew all things. that were about to unfold. He knew that. For you and for me. It's heavy because it satisfied God's justice. Romans 5:6. When we were without strength, Christ died for the ungodly. God commended his love for us. That while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. We are now justified by his flood. We are saved from wrath through him. When we were enemies, we are now reconciled to God through the death of his son. He did that for us. It's also heavy because of what it gives us. In Romans 8, verse 1, it says, There's now, therefore, no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. It says that the law of the Spirit of life in Christ has made us free from the law of sin and death. When I think about my standing before God, I'm free. I'm forgiven. I'm claiming Cleansed. I'm not condemned. And it's not because of what I gave to God. It's not because of what I give what I did for God. It's because I've accepted what He did for me. I'm clothed in his righteousness. I'm forgiven in his sacrifice. When I think about the cross, I'm reminded it's all of his grace, it's all of his work. I'm simply the recipient of a free gift. Eternal life. And I love this little statement in Romans 8. 18. I reckon the sufferings of this present world are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. Let me tell you, the cross doesn't just give us hope then, it gives us hope now. As I go through suffering in life, and the truth is, over the course of our lives, we go through seasons. There are people in this room that you're in a season that's that's suffering's the right word to use because it's not easy. It could be a physical thing. It could be a financial pressure, it could be a relational issue, it could be a family matter, it could be a work-related thing. There are so many different ways that people suffer in this world. And what does the Bible say? Because of our eternity that is secured in Christ, we can navigate all of those challenges With this understanding, this suffering does not compare to the weight of eternal glory. Because the cross. So tonight as we come to the Lord's table, as we take this bread and we eat it, Let's remember his body that bore our guilt, bore our shame. Let's remember that our Savior, as He hung on that cross, was punished In our place. As we drink that juice, let's remember his blood that was poured out on the cross, not to provide atonement, but to remove our sin once and for all. All. He didn't cover our sin. He removed it forever. Every time you struggle as a Christian and you get on your face before God and you say, God forgive me, I confess my sin, what are we reminded of? He's faithful and just to forgive and to cleanse from all unrighteousness. Why? Because the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. So when we drink this juice, let's remember what he's done. The suffering of the cross and Christ's willingness to embrace this suffering has given us so much. Let's pause. Let's remember. Let's rejoice. Let's purpose to walk in obedience. Let's purpose to live like the people that we are as Christians. We're redeemed, so we should live like redeemed people. Let's live with This in view. Let's bow together for prayer. Our Father, I thank you so much for what Christ did on our behalf. We didn't deserve any of it. Thank you that he was willing to go to the cross and suffer injustice and betrayal, to be mocked and humiliated. For man. But more importantly, he was willing to be nailed by men to a cross where he would offer his life to you for our sins. It pleased you to bruise him. And when you saw the travail of his soul, there was complete satisfaction There was no more payment to be made. It was done. And I thank you for that. Father, help us to have a sweet time of remembrance in these days. moments and we ask this in Christ's name amen