Okay, good evening. Hope you're having a good week and looking forward to our study tonight. Let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer, and then after that we will uh dig into Matthew chapter 7. Let's bow for prayer. Lord, we're so grateful for this day and the blessings that we've enjoyed. We thank you for the strength that you have given us, we think of just the grace that we need to accomplish each thing that we do each day. Pray that as we study your word tonight, that you would help us to have clear minds. Help me as I communicate these truths to do it effectively. And I pray that you will bless those who have joined us and also those who will be following on the live stream tonight. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, well let's take our Bibles and let's all turn together to Matthew chapter 7. Matthew chapter 7, and we are reading verses 15 through 20 together tonight. Matthew chapter 7, verses 15 through 20. And we are almost done with our study on the Sermon on the Mount. And after we finish that, my plan is that we're going to start a series in First Corinthians. And there's a lot of really interesting material for us to cover in the book of 1 Corinthians, a lot of practical things that we will get into. And so my prayers that that will be a very helpful series as we get into that. Matthew 7 verse 15, here's what God's word says. Beware of false prophets which come to you in sheep's clothing. But inwardly they are ravening wolves. Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns or figs of thistles? Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit, but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. Every tree that bringeth not good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire. Wherefore, by their fruits Now I want to remind you of what we talked about last week, the last section of the Sermon on the Mount. So if we begin in verse 13, And then we move to the end of the sermon. This is really like Christ's conclusion. And so the way that I'm dealing with this passage of Scripture, as I dealt with last week. And I will deal with the next passage this way, is I'm going to be looking at this passage, and then we're going to go back into the Sermon on the Mount and we're going to see where Jesus was addressing certain topics that kind of fall under this concluding application. And so I want to remind you of what he said at the end of this sermon. In verse 13 , We see the statement, enter in at the straight gate. And that that word straight means a narrow gate. So we are to enter into the narrow gate that takes us into the kingdom of God. And that gate is the Lord Jesus Christ. His death. and his resurrection and his righteousness. The second thing we find is in verse 15 where he says, Beware of false prophets. Which come unto you in sheep's clothing. But inwardly they are ravening wolves. Now that's what we're going to address tonight. The idea is beware of false teachers who present a false message. And part of that false message is it's concealed by a a smooth word or the way that this person looks or the way they carry themselves. The way they present their motives to people, people's impression of them is very positive, but the actual content of the message is extremely destructive. So we're going to address that tonight. And then the next section is in verse 21, where he says, Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. The idea is that we need to be sobered by the fact that not everyone who says Lord Lord is actually a Christian. Just because someone is religious and just because they attend church or if we're to go back into the time of Christ, they were faithful in the synagogue, they were observant of the various feasts and festivals and they were doing their best to be as conform to the teaching of the rabbis as possible, that doesn't mean that that person is genuinely converted, that they are a new creature who's had their sins forgiven and they're citizens of the kingdom. So Lord willing next week, that's what we're going to address. And then the last section is verse 26, where he says, Whosoever heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them, I will liken him, doeth him not, I will liken him unto a foolish man. Which built his house on the sand. And so the idea is don't build your life on a cheap substitute. Build your life on the Word of God. So that is the conclusion of Christ's sermon. When he talks about the narrow gate and he talks about the danger of false teachers, and he talks about the fact that not everyone who believes they're right with God actually is And we have to be careful what we build our lives on. Those are the applications of the things that he has stated earlier in the sermon. And so I'll summarize the passage in front of us in the following way. Christ warned his disciples to be on guard against destructive false teachers, providing a standard to judge their teaching, and comfort that truth and justice would ultimately prevail. So we see this concept of warning, we see the concept of a standard, and we see the concept of comfort. That's where this passage of scripture will take us. So the first thing I want us to do is I want us to look at the warning. And the word that I want you to remember tonight is the word vigilance. Can you say that? Vigilance. Vigilance, not vigilante, okay? It's vigilance, alright? And the reason we want to remember the word vigilance is because Christ is warning his hearers. that they need to be guarding their heart against a great danger. There is something they need to be vigilant about And we see this in verse 15. Here's what he says. Beware of or be vigilant, because false Prophets are going to come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves. The reason that we are to be vigilant is that there are some people that when they come to us, they will trick us by the way they present themselves. And what they're going to teach us is in fact very, very dangerous, and we need to be guarded about that. And so in this simple verse, there are three principles. I want to draw your attention to under this topic of vigilance. The first principle is this. We have to be realistic about Christian teachers. That's why he uses the word beware of false prophets. Now, just because someone calls themselves a pastor does not mean that what they're saying is biblically sound. Just because someone goes to a church and they say, well, we believe in Baptist doctrine or we we believe in sound Bible teaching, and just because they present themselves that way Does not mean that in fact they are a sound Bible teacher. There has to be some kind of standard that we are to judge their teaching by. And so we learn in this text that we need to be very critical of what we hear. What I mean by that is that as we hear things that are being taught We have to analyze it and ask the question, is this true? Does it pass the test of sound teaching and sound doctrine? We have to be critical, not critical of the Word of God. but critical of the way that it's being presented. We have to be discerning about it. And so, you know, you might be sitting in a chapel somewhere in a school or You might be sitting at a conference somewhere or you're watching a video on YouTube and this person is a very well-known person or somebody's recommended this as, hey, it's a great teacher, you need to hear what they have to say And as you're listening to them, it sounds very moving and very good, but then something sounds a little off. Oh, what is that? I don't know why it sounds a little off. And then something else sounds a little bit off, and something else sounds a little bit off That's a clue that you need to be critical in how you hear what is being taught. Not critical of the word, but critical of the way it's being presented. Secondly These are people who claim to speak for God, and this claim must be verified according to the standard of Scripture. Now this is not a new concept. If we were to go to the Old Testament, we read the book of Deuteronomy and we read the book of Leviticus, what we will see is if someone made the claim, I am a prophet of God, that claim was supposed to be scrutinized. There were certain tests that were able to validate or verify that in fact this person is a genuine prophet. The same thing would have been true in the New Testament era. when you have the apostles. It says that you have tried some who say they are apostles, they are not, and you have found them to be liars. It says that in Ephesians, or excuse me, in Revelation chapter 2, when when Jesus is addressing the church at Ephesus. In other words, you scrutinize their claim to be a prophet. You scrutinize their claim to be an apostle. And then when Paul is teaching Timothy at the end of his life , how he is supposed to teach. He talks about the fact that he's hold to hold fast to sound doctrine. He he is to follow the pattern of the words that have been given to him. And so just because someone claims to speak for God, which is what a pastor's doing, he's saying, well, the scripture says this, I am speaking the word of God to you. Or someone said in the Old Testament, I'm a prophet speaking for God, thus saith the Lord. Or an apostle. These are the words of Christ. That has to be verified, validated. And there's a standard that we are to judge that teaching by. The standard of Scripture. Third thing under this principle is that any deviation from that standard can have terrible consequences. And this is something that you learn in life. When someone has a certain idea and they build their life on that idea, if the idea is sound, There can be great blessing that comes as a result of that. But if the idea is not sound, guess what? A lot of problems. And so those three pieces are there. We need to be realistic about Christian teachers. Be critical of the things you hear. Just because someone claims to be speaking for God, make sure that you verify what they're saying. And even any deviation from the standard of Scripture can have great consequence, destructive consequence. Second principle, false teachers can look very innocent. You cannot judge the truthfulness of a person's words by how they look. You could have a person that comes to you and the fact is they don't impress you very much at all. They don't have a charismatic personality. The way they're dressed is kind of shabby. But what they're saying is absolutely true Somebody named Elijah? Anybody you know I'm talking about? Nobody thought Elijah was this great man in the way that he looked. Even Paul, they said, Oh, he speaks these great words and look at the things that he writes, but he's very feeble when he's in front of us. Or think about John the Baptist. When he's out there preaching in the wilderness to people said he's a wild man. He's just eating, you know, honey and locusts, and he dresses Wild, who is this guy? You don't determine what is right and wrong, what is true and not true based on how someone looks. You may have somebody walk into a room and everybody immediately says, Wow, that guy's got something going for them. Look at the way they dress. Look at the way they carry themselves. Think about the smooth words that he speaks. That's not how you determine what's true, what isn't. Notice he says they come to you in sheep's clothing. They look innocent. Are you scared of sheep? No, you're not. Okay. Well you might be if you weren't born in the country, but the fact is the sheep's not gonna hurt you. Very unassuming. But we cannot make truth judgments by appearance and demeanor. Lies can come in a lot of different forms. Things that are presented as innocent can be highly destructive And I mean, just look at our look at the time we're living in right now. Go to the library and pick up children's books. Look at the cover and ask yourself: is that safe for my children? If you judge those books by the cover and you bring those things into your house and you let your kids read them without any discrimination, guess what? You'll be shocked by the things your kids are going to bring into your house. Absolutely true. You might say, well, if somebody recommends this, this is a highly recommended author. You better verify before you put something in your child's hands. The fact is things can be presented as very innocent. But be very, very destructive. I mean, just think about think about what happened in the news yesterday. These guys had their pages on them. This is absolutely incredible. And they're just, you know, going about their business and 2,500 people's pages blew up right on their hips. I mean that's a pretty incredible thing right there. Nobody thought that they were gonna have that happen when they walked into the store wherever they were. Very unassuming. It's just a pager in my hand. So it's getting a little bit hot. Guess what? Not a good day for those people. The point is, you cannot judge a teacher by the innocent look on their face. Third principle. They will be highly motivated, extremely dangerous, and can cause excessive danger. Notice the words, inwardly they are ravening wolves. Now I don't know what you get in your mind when you hear the statement a ravening wool, but this is what I get in my head. A picture of the big bad wolf on the page that I'm reading from You know, he's like, he's sitting there in my lap and I'm reading to him about the big bad wolf and his eyes are getting really big. And he's like, why is he called the big bad wolf? Because he's salivating. He wants to eat someone's sheep, right? So he's motivated. This is what we can see. False teachers are often very aggressive. and highly motivated people. Sometimes people who who have the truth are more passive than false teachers. It's a common thing. The guy who has the truth is timid, and the guy that's presenting a lie can be very aggressive and can really push that agenda. And so that's the first thing that we see. We've got to be vigilant. And I want you to see a couple of examples in the Sermon on the Mount where Jesus addresses this issue. Of the need to be vigilant. The first example I want you to turn to is Matthew 5, 11. Here's what he says. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and shall persecute you. and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Now, why does Jesus start the sermon in the Beatitudes in verse number 11 talking about persecution? Well, it's because there are people who are going to be combative against the truth, and they're going to literally go after people who are exposing and resisting their false teaching. And so who are the people that are going to go after them? The false teachers themselves. I mean, who were Jesus' most aggressive opponents? Were they just the normal people living in town? The answer is no. There were the rulers in the synagogues. They were the scribes and the Pharisees, the Sanhedrin, the people who had power and authority. Why did they want to kill Jesus Well, because he disrupted the order of their situation. He was exposing their hypocrisy. He was combating their doctrine. And so the reminder is that a false teacher is going to be motivated and if you're holding on to something that's true but contradictory of what they are saying, they're not going to like you. Second warning. Their teacher will lead to eternal destruction. Their teaching will lead to eternal destruction if it is embraced. Matthew 5. 20, he says, I say unto you, accept your righteousness. shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees, you shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven. So the idea is that you've got to be more righteous than these teachers. You've got to hold to a higher standard than they do. And you say, well, what standard is higher? The righteousness of Christ. The real gospel, the death, resurrection, and righteousness of Christ. And so if a person was to absorb their teaching, build their eternal destiny on that teaching, they would be found to be lacking on the final day. Third, their teaching is powerless to transform people who build their lives on it. Matthew 5. 48, be perfect as your Father in heaven is perfect. And when we go through the Beatitudes, he talks about people who are poor in spirit and people who are mourning and he goes through all these different qualities. Why does he address those things? Because these are the qualities that you see in a person who is a genuine disciple of Christ. Someone who has been converted. They are alive in Christ. Their life is going to demonstrate the reality of the position that they have. So the first word was the word what? Vigilant. Ah, good job. Yeah, alright. A couple people remember that. First word is vigilant. We need to be vigilant because false teaching can come to us in a very unassuming way. Second word that I want us to remember is the word discernment. Can you say that? Discernment, alright? He provided a test for his followers to utilize. We see this in verses 16, 17, and 18. Look it down at what it says. He says, you shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns? or figs of thistles, even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit, but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit Now this is a very interesting passage of Scripture statement here. Jesus is making the very simple claim that a fruit is a demonstration of the tree. Okay? You're not going to find on a tree the wrong kind of fruit. So he talks about figs. And he talks about basically grapes. And I like those two illustrations because I got figs and grapes growing in my yard right now. And grapes are almost done. Figs are still going. And so if I want figs, I don't go to the grapevine. If I want figs, I don't go to a peach tree. If I want figs, I don't go to a place where I'm growing sweet potatoes. I go to the fig tree. And when I go to the fig tree, I don't go, well, why aren't there peaches on that tree? I don't see any apples. What's the problem with this tree? Where are the grapes on my tree? I don't do that. Why? Because the fig tree produces figs And a grapevine produces grapevine, uh grapes, and a peach tree produces peaches, and an apple tree produces apples. Well, mine don't, but maybe yours do, I don't know. But but the whole point is a tree Demonstrates what it is by what it produces. And so this point that he's going to make is really important. He says, I want you to have discernment about the kind of teaching that you're hearing. And this is a very important principle for us to understand. You can judge teaching by really two standards. I mean, the first standard obviously is the standard of Scripture itself. So if I see this deviation from the scriptures, then I know I have false teaching. But even if you don't have the ability to do that and dig into it, But you observe what that teaching is doing in the lives of people, it should clue you into the fact that something is right or something is wrong with this picture. And this is especially true when we talk about church culture or when we talk about family culture. If you look at a family and you see that every single one of their kids is rebellious and hates God and hates mom and dad Something's wrong in that household. You say, well, well, well, how do you know? Because there's a product being produced You walk into a church and everybody's cranky and disgruntled and they're angry with one another. Something's wrong with the teaching of that church. The culture of a family and the culture of a church and the culture of an institution, it is shaped by what's being taught at the base. And so this is the point that Jesus is making. Two principles. The first: the true nature of a teacher's theology will be revealed in the lives of those who embrace his teaching. Ye shall know them by their fruits. Interestingly, the them isn't talking about the doctrine as much as the teacher themselves And so I think he's really emphasizing the intention, the motivation, the thinking, the character of the one who is presenting the message. And the truth is, sometimes it's hard to separate the one giving it from what they're giving. So notice what we have here. True nature of the teacher, the teacher's theology is revealed in the lives of those who embrace their teaching. There is always a downstream effect from the ideas that people present. The culture of a group of people is shaped by the ideas that permeate that group. This is true in families, in communities, in work environments, in religious institutions. If we are concerned about what's being produced, we need to ask the question, what's going on at the source? What's going on at the foundational level? If I don't like what I'm seeing in my life, if I don't like what I'm seeing in my kids' lives, If I don't like what I'm seeing in the various contexts that I'm working, I need to get to the question of, well, what's going on at the foundation? What are people's lives being built on? Is it actually true or is it flawed? Is it falling from the standard of what is true and right or not? Second principle, sound theology produces godly people, false teaching produces hypocrites who are carnal. Every good tree bringeth forth good fruit, but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. A good tree cannot Bring forth evil fruit. Neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. What a simple statement. By the way, when James addresses this issue, he he basically quotes from Jesus here. in the book of James. So, a couple things to think about here. First, the truth sets people free. Lies enslaved. Truth leads to spiritual transformation and human flourishing. Lies lead to enslavement, darkness, contention, and entanglement. I I hate to say this, but I I guess I'm just going to put this out there. I have seen in some very conservative churches What I would say is enslavement, darkness, contention, entanglement. And you say, why is that? Because it's not conservatism that makes godly people. It's truth. There are people that they can hold to this very conservative standard of how they look and And in all these different areas, and they they they they're careful to cross every T just right and to dot every I just right. But if you were to really get down to the root of the way that they think it is not built on the gospel, It is not rooted in Christ alone. It is all about rules. It is all about standards. It's all about perceptions. It's all about maintaining this sense of goodness, whatever you want to call it. And the fact is that that could be a very good indication that there is a problem at the root. The truth sets people free. The truth causes people to flourish. The truth transforms people into the kind of people God wants them to be. And you know what's amazing? As we read through the Sermon on the Mount, this is really emphasized a lot in the Sermon on the Mount. And I just want you to see how many places This is emphasized. So the first example I want you to turn to, I really like you to turn there if you could. You're going to see them up there behind me, but I want you to see them in your Bibles as well. The first example is Matthew 5. 11. Here's what he says. He says, Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you and say all manner of evil against you falsely for my name's sake. You say, well, what's the point of that verse? Well, he's setting this contrast between two ways that people relate to each other. One would be one of peaceableness. Blessed are the peacemakers, they will be called the children of God. And then blessed are you when men revile you. Do you see this great contrast between those two things? One where people revile other people and one where people are peacemakers. What's the difference between those two? It's the doctrine they build their lives on. The person who is a genuine believer and loves Christ is a person who is merciful, a person who is measured, a person who's a peacemaker. And a person who's building their life on something that's off base, they're the kind of person that's living a life full of contention, animosity. Second example. Turn with me to Matthew 5. 19, just a couple verses ahead. He says, whosoever shall break one of these least commandments. And teach men so, he shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven. Whosoever shall do and teach them, the same shall be called great in the kingdom. Then a couple verses ahead, Matthew 6. 1. Take heed that you do not your alms before men to be seen of men. Verse number five, when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites. They love to pray standing in the synagogues and the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, they have their reward. Matthew 7. 3 and verse number 5. Why beholdest the moat that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam in thine own eye? Thou hypocrite, first cast out the beam out of thine own eye, and then shalt thou see clearly to cast the mood out of thy brother's eye. You know what all those verses have in common? They're setting a distinction between those who are very genuine in their interaction with other people and those who are hypocrites in the way that they interact with other people. Someone who gives because they love God and they don't want you to see what they're giving. They're trying to be totally anonymous in what they do. And the other person who says, hey everybody, look what I'm about to do. I'm gonna put that money in there. Would you like to know how much it is? Alright, alright. Let me tell you, hey, let me just get your attention. I'm about to do something great for God, alright? That's what he's talking about. That's a contrast there. Or this one guy that's like, you know, I see something in somebody's life and it concerns me, but before I go and talk to them, I better I better do some some personal inventory myself I better look at my own life and ask the question, am I doing the same thing? And after some real soul searching and getting right with God, they say, you know what I really do care about my brother or my sister in Christ. I'm going to go talk to them about that. And in a spirit of grace and humility and kindness and love, they sit down with this person and they work through an issue and they grow together. You say, well, what's the difference I mean one's built on the truth and the other one isn't. Or you have this person they're praying and they're like, I just want to get alone with God. Somebody's like, hey everybody, I'm about to pray and I'm about to change the wonderful words they and I'm gonna start Speaking like this so everybody knows that I'm talking to God today. I was like, all right, well why did you talk like that? Like like what's the difference? Well one is one was doing it for God and one was doing it for everybody sitting in the pews, right? What's he saying? There's a difference. And so the point is that you look at a context where there's all this contention, this animosity, guess what? That's an indication something's wrong at the root. You look at a place where everybody's very hypocritical and it's all about what people see and everybody looks good on the outside, but when you get to know people, you're like, there's something wrong going on here. What's the difference? It's at the root Another example, animosity, hypocrisy, Matthew 6. 7. This is an interesting one. He says, when you pray, use not vain repetition as the heathen do, for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking. You say, well, what's that one? Do you have a high view of God or a low view of God? Do you view God as somebody that you can just tell what to do? And He's like, oh yes, sir, I'll help you out. I'll do what you want me to do. Or do you realize I'm talking to the creator of the universe? I'm talking to somebody who has a lot more wisdom than I do. He knows the big picture better than I do. And so when I come into his presence and I ask him In the back of my mind, I go, I'm talking to my creator and my Lord and my God, and I can't manipulate him, and I don't want him to give me something that I've demanded in my own ignorance. I want him to give me what's best. Well, you know, when people have a problem at the root, guess what? Their view of God is that he's like he's their buddy they hang out with Or he's this person. They can push around. They can make him do whatever they want him to do. But what does the truth do? It gives you this. The sobered high view of God. Well, you recognize his love and his holiness and his wisdom, and you realize that you you live and enjoy every good thing as a gift. It's his grace. I mean, these religious leaders had a very low view of God. You know how I know that? Look at what they did to Jesus. Look at look at the incredible hypocrisy. Well, we don't want to leave him out there on the Sabbath day. Let's let's bring him down. Or we don't want to do this during the Passover because we don't want to disrupt everything. And we don't want to go into that court around those Gentiles because we don't want to be unclean during the Passover time. Like, you're willing to murder an innocent man? Who you hate and despise, but you don't want to be unclean because you came in contact with a Gentile. Like, what is that? Well, love you of God. Another example, Matthew 5. 21. Man, I could be here all night going through this, but I won't, don't worry. Alright, Matthew 5. 21. You have heard That it has been said by them of old time, thou shalt not kill, but whosoever shall but whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of judgment. But I say unto you, do not hate your brother without a cause. Now what's the point? Cultural accommodation. Jesus gives all these examples where basically what they've done is they say, well, you know, when you're in this situation, you got you could do this here and you could do this here and you could do this here, and Jesus says, Well just tell it straight. I mean just just call anger what it is. Just call lust what it is. Just just call greed what it is. That's what he's saying. And so making these accommodations so they wouldn't make anybody upset. Another example, Matthew 624. Greed. No man can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God. What's very interesting about that passage of scripture is he he indicates he touches on something that is a big time human problem, that is greed. I mean, what does it say in 1 Timothy chapter 6 he says that the love of money is the root of all evil? Like, like, like, why do people do nasty things? It's because they're greedy. It's because they're covetous. Because they want things that don't belong to them. And he says, guess what? In an environment where the truth is preached, people, they're not going to be filled with greed. The last one I'm going to mention is in Matthew 6. 25, and that is anxiety. I say unto you, take no thought for your life, what you shall eat or what you shall drink. Or yet for the body what you should put on. Is not the life more than need in the body than raiment? And he goes on to basically say this: just trust God. Trust God to take care of your needs. Trust God to do what's best in your life. Now, the reason I bring out all these issues is because these are things Jesus taught. And so when he's talking about this issue of false teaching, and he's talking about the downstream effect of false teaching, he's saying this. When you accept the teaching of the religious leaders, where it has departed from the scripture, you're going to get all of these things that I am hammering at. You're going to get all of them. But when your life is built on the truth, guess what? You're going to get the opposite of that. You're going to get the byproduct, the downstream effect of how the truth takes root in hearts and transforms people and it frees them. So, truth number three, the word I want to remember is justice. So let's see if we can remember those first two words. The first word is what? Huh? Vigilance. Alright, good job. Alright, second one is what? Discernment. What? Discernment. Alright. The first is like I got discernment a little better. Third word is justice. Justice. Now this is an interesting one. And you may not have picked this up immediately when you're reading the text, but I think once we get into it, you're going to go, oh, yeah, I think that makes sense. Verse 19, he says this, every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire. Now, you say, what exactly is Jesus saying here? Here's what he's saying. He's providing a comfort that truth and justice are ultimately going to triumph. I don't know about you, but there are times that I observe things in this world and my sense of justice starts getting a little bit boiling. You know what I'm talking about? You start you start seeing an idea take root and you see how it's hurting people and how destructive it is, and you know what? That sense of justice starts getting really boily mad. Or you you see how how a certain thing is starting to really affect our culture. I mean our culture's got a lot of these massive lies going on. People's lives are being destroyed by these things. I mean think about think about the whole transgender thing. I mean we have teenagers who are trying to transition their bodies and they are literally mutilating people's bodies I mean you don't go and get your body fixed when you decide, you know, it's time to go back to the way it was before. You can't reverse some of these things. People's bodies are literally being mangled because of a social experiment. And it's it's it's really it's really shocking and it's it's terrible. You talk about this discussion of abortion. I mean, you you realize that there are states in our country right now that A child could be born alive and they could let him die? It can happen in our country right now. It has happened in this past year. There are examples of that going on. And people's lives are affected by these things. There's going to be people that that down the road, because of decisions they've made, when they come to to really grasp the fact that I took the life of my own child. And that really sticks in their mind and they understand that and they process that. You think about the guilt and the pain that they're going to experience thinking about that? And the questions of what what would my child have been had I not made those choices? Or what could I have done in life had had I not swallowed that lie that that I swallowed as a 13-year-old and somebody let me go ahead and make those decisions and now the rest of my life I've got to deal with the consequences? I mean, does that not make you angry to hear those things? I mean if it doesn't, like maybe your sense of justice needs to be awakened a little bit. And when you see false teaching in the church, you go, look at the downstream effect of that. Look at how it's affecting people's marriages. Look at how it's affecting people's children. Look at how it affects people's eternities. But here is the comfort. God deals with false teachers. That's the comfort. Three principles. God will eventually confront false teachers. Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewed down. God is going to deal with that. Now, he may not deal with it as quickly as we want him to We may wish that it would happen quicker, but in God's own way, he works in history, in the lives of real people, to deal with false teaching. And what's amazing about false teaching is when false teaching rises up, God in his providence raises up people To address those issues and some of the greatest articulations in all of church history on things like who is Jesus, Trinitarian doctrine, all kinds of areas. Why were those statements made? Why did those debates happen? It's because false teaching got confronted And when false teaching got confronted, God in his mercy raises up people, and the church is able to build on what is presented there. Every tree that bringeth not good fruit is hewn down. By the way, think about contentions between you and other people. I know this is a little bit of a side topic, but not entirely. When you have a contention with another person, you have an opportunity for that to go one of two ways. Okay? One way is it goes really bad. You don't learn from the conflict and uh you're never able to resolve the issue. And then some people you can't resolve with. That's just the honest truth. But there's also another potential scenario. You have the potential to kind of meet each other in the middle and build a bridge and grow. And then you have something that's now strengthened your your relationship. And everybody in here that's married and still married, you've had a couple of those. You've had a couple of those. And if you've been at the same job for a long time, then you might have had a couple of those people you work with. Or even in the church context, if you've gone to church with the same people for many, many years, guess what? There's some people that You had issues and you worked through them and you grew together, you matured together, and there's bridges there that are left there. What's the point? God uses even these negative things to accomplish good. Second, they will face eternal destruction. He says they will be cast into the fire. The idea is in the end, God is going to judge people who have led others astray. There will be proper justice For the wrongs that have been done. Thirdly, this is something that should provide us great comfort. You say, well, where do you get that from? Remember what he says earlier on in the text. He says, beware of false prophets who come to you. He's not writing this for the benefit of the false teacher. He's writing this for the benefit of the believer. He's writing this for the benefit of the one who's frustrated, who sees the effects of it. And so his reminder is, I'm going to deal with it. I'm going to judge evil. Trust me. Take comfort in that. What's amazing is you see this all throughout the Sermon on the Mount. 5-3. Blessed are the poor in spirit. Blessed are those who mourn. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness. Blessed are the merciful. Blessed are the pure in heart. Blessed are the peacemakers. What's his point? God's going to take care of you God's going to take care of you. When we come to the ends of this the end of this passage in uh in Matthew chapter five verse twelve he says Rejoice and be exceeding glad because what great is your reward And heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets who were before you. What's his point? God's gonna set the record straight He's going to take care of you. Even when people persecute you and they do things that are wrong and it frustrates you and you feel the pain of it, God is going to set the record straight. Matthew 6, 18, your father which seeth in secret will reward you openly. Matthew 6. 30, if God so clothe the grass of the field which today is and tomorrow is cast into the oven. How much more shall he clothe you of you of oh ye of little faith? Matthew six thirty-three Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. Do you see the positive side of all of those statements? Why are you praying? Because things are challenging. What's he going to do? He's going to answer your prayer. Why are you struggling? And you need to turn your gaze to another place because God needs to refocus you. Why are you, what are you going to do when you're being persecuted? You're going to remember that He's going to reward you for your faithfulness That's the idea of these things. Alright, so having looked at those three three points, the question is how do you apply what's in front of you? So let me give you some final thoughts that I hope will be a challenge that can kind of pull all this together. The first statement is this: truth is shaped by an unchanging standard. What is that standard? God 's nature and the purposes that he has designed are that standard. How do we know what is true? It's what is conformed to reality. The nature of God, the purposes of God, his word is the standard. Secondly, Any deviation from that standard will result in natural and necessary consequences. The more I think about this, the more I'm convinced that when God says, Don't do that, that's sin, the reason he does that is not because he's like, I'm gonna get you if you do it, as much as he's saying, You're gonna hurt yourself if you do that. You decide to go down that path, there's going to be consequences. You make that decision, there's going to be an effect. And so I'm warning you, don't do that because I want what's best for you. I want you to do what is right and good. Fourth, we cannot allow ourselves, oh excuse me, teaching that consistently conforms to what is true will provide a context for maximum human flourishing and transformation. If people are constantly being taught what is right and they're embracing it, guess what? They can flourish. You say, well, what about when life gets nasty around them? I remember seeing this little picture of a little bird that was nestled in a crag in a rock. And all around that little bird is a storm. Anybody ever seen a picture kind of like this? Or maybe you see a guy like standing in front of a. uh a lighthouse and there's like this massive wave crashing around the side of that and he's just kind of standing there. Okay? The the the point of those pictures is to communicate something. There could be a lot of mess going on around you, but where you're at, it's okay. Where you're at, it's okay. And the point is this teaching that consistently conforms to what is true provides the maximum ability for you to flourish and be transformed where you are. Next, we cannot allow ourselves to be deceived by people's tone, demeanor, or projected projected motives. Someone comes to you and they look real good and what they're saying sounds really good. And they just seem so so charismatic and they seem so like so nice and That's not how you determine what's right and wrong, folks. Let me tell you, I've I've had some I've had some some situations where people lied to me and they could look me in the eye with a straight face and I was like, there's no way they're lying to me, and later on I see. I'm wrong a hundred percent. I'm telling you it's happened to me, yes. And guess what? It can happen when somebody's opening up a Bible and saying, Oh this is what God says and you go, Are you sure? 'Cause that's not what I'm seeing there. Alright? We've got to be careful that we don't get deceived by tone, demeanor, or projected motives. Next, we must learn to judge the content of a person's teaching by its conformity to that standard of Scripture. Next, we've got to learn to anticipate real-life consequences for good or evil to flow from the ideas that people embrace. And lastly, let's be discerning people who love the truth, live the truth, and contribute to the establishment of a truth-shaped culture wherever we have opportunity to contribute. When it comes to raising your kids, be standing on what is true. When it comes to our church, pray that we will stand on what is true. We think about our own, even our our country and the decisions that are being made. Pray that God would work graciously in our land, that people would turn to what is true. For the good of this nation. Righteousness exalts a nation. Sin is a reproach to any people. When a country turns to the Lord and starts living in a way that's consistent with his design, it's good for people. And when they don't, it's bad for people And so this is our challenge from the Word of God tonight. Let's beware of false teachers. Let's be a discerning people. Let's ask the Lord to help us with that. Let's bow for prayer. Father, I pray that we would take the Word of God as we've heard it tonight and that we would internalize it. And Father, help the Word to stick in our hearts Help us to be challenged by it. Father, help us to be a discerning people. Father, help us to take great comfort in the fact that you deal with evil in your time. Father, help us to be vigilant because indeed the landscape can be very tumultuous. Protect our families, protect our church. I pray that you'd help us to be Contributing to the good of our land, every opportunity that we have. We ask it all in Christ's name, Amen