Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And if you've been joining us this week, you know we're talking about missions And rather than reading the entire section like I typically do because it's a a lengthier passage of scripture, I'm just going to focus in on the section we're going to look at this morning, and that is verses 15 through 20. So again, that's Romans chapter 15, verse 20. 15 through 20. Here's what the word of God says. Nevertheless, brethren, I have written the more boldly unto you, in some sort, as putting you in mind because of the grace that is given to me of God. That I should be the minister of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles, ministering the gospel of God, that the offering up of the Gentiles might be acceptable, being sanctified by the Holy Ghost I have therefore whereof I may glory through Jesus Christ in those things which pertain to God. For I will not dare to speak of any of those things which Christ hath not wrought by me. to make the Gentiles obedient by word and deed. Through mighty signs, wonders by the power of the Spirit of God, so that from Jerusalem and roundabout to Elycrium, I have fully preached the gospel of Christ Yea, so I have strived to preach the gospel, not where Christ was named, lest I should build upon another man's foundation. Now, the passage we're looking at is dealing with Paul's burden and really his approach to missions And over the last couple of days we've been looking at pieces of this. So, you know, the first thing we did as we were digging into this passage of scripture was we saw that Paul wants the church to be a matured church. This morning what I'd like us to notice is his second priority, and that was that this would be a partnership that was based on prudence or wisdom. And so the way that Paul talks about the nature of his ministry, how he goes about it, it shows you the kind of character and the kind of mindset of people who are involved in the kind of ministry we want to partner with And so there are several marks that make this partnership with Paul a prudent endeavor. And I'd like to work through the verses so that you can see it for yourself. The first thing we see is found in verse 15. He says, I am putting you in mind because of the grace that is given to me of God. He said, I am a minister of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles. What he's basically saying is that the ministry that he has is a ministry that he was objectively called to. No one could make the argument that that Paul was not called to this position. Now, when we get to the practical side of this and how we work it out ourselves I think it is important to notice that the way that Paul was called into the ministry and the way that someone in our current situation is called into the ministry , is not the same. There are parallels, similarities, but they're not the same. We do not have missionaries today who can make the same kind of claim to the ministry that they have been called to, and I use that uh in quotes. the way that Paul has. They do not have the Lord Jesus Christ coming to them and speaking to them and saying, come and follow me and go to this place. They don't have that kind of a calling. Paul did. And so this is an important piece to Paul's ministry. The second is found in verse 19. He says that this was through mighty signs and wonders. by the power of the Spirit of God. The idea is that his work was unquestionably blessed by God. And the the the kinds of ministry that Paul was doing and the miracles that were a part of that were apostolic ministry sign gifts. So Paul's ministry was being verified by God. Again, we do not have the exact same kind of verification going on today. What we do have though is we can have evidence that a person's ministry is in and indeed it is blessed by God. This is a person who is spirit-filled. They're doing the work of ministry. God's hand is moving and working through them. We can talk about that again in just a minute. There's a third piece to this. And he was demonstrating that he was a diligent, rigorous, faithful man who endured difficulty. In verse 19, he says that he has preached the gospel from Jerusalem and roundabout unto Elycrium. He has fully preached the gospel of Christ in those regions. Now, if you want to know how large an area this was, Elycrium would be modern-day Croatia. So When I was a kid, it would have been called Yugoslavia, then it broke up uh in the 90s into a couple different countries, but from that region of Croatia all the way down to Greece, into cr modern day Turkey and then down into Lebanon and then modern day Israel. That whole region is the region that the Apostle Paul says he fully preached the gospel in. And so for about 25 years, the Apostle Paul was faithfully laboring in those regions, and he came to the position at the time that he's writing this letter, that he believed that there were no more places for him to go that needed a gospel witness. The gospel had been thoroughly spread in those regions. That's an absolutely incredible statement. It means that he was faithful, he was diligent, he was enduring, he had a rigorous pattern of ministry that he was establishing. So that was the third piece. And then the fourth piece, which I think is great, is found in verse 20. He says, So have I strived to preach the gospel not where Christ was named, lest I should build on another man's foundation. Excuse me, the fourth piece to Paul's ministry is that he had a pioneering spirit. He was an ethical man. He wasn't going and taking over another person's church or drawing people from another ministry, what he was doing was going to a region that had no gospel influence and he was preaching the gospel. establishing churches. And so these are the four key marks of the kind of ministry that he had. Now, I mentioned this earlier and it's important for us to make this distinction. We do not have active functioning apostles today like the Apostle Paul. And so each of these pieces that we talk about, there is an apostolic application and then there is an application that has similar parallels today but is going to be different and that distinction is something that we have to maintain. So what are the parallels for us today? What are the marks of prudent partnerships? Well, first of all, I would say it this way. We should partner with people who have been clearly sent out by healthy, principled local churches that take the duty of vetting ministers seriously. Now, when the Apostle Paul says, I was called, he means that Jesus literally spoke to him with an audible voice. When a person today says, I'm called, if what they believe is that God has audibly spoken to them, then I completely disregard that view. But if someone says, I believe I'm called, and what they mean by that is a combination of several pieces that come together and they say, I believe the Lord has directed us into this ministry, that's a completely different matter. The idea is that there is a coupling of desire, of character that is consistent with the qualifications of a minister of the gospel. There is an equipping that would be consistent with God having given them ministry gifts. There is a work ethic that would be consistent with the kind of ministry that they're going to have to be doing. And there is a family culture that is consistent with what God says is expected of those who are ministers the gospel. So we could talk about something like the way a person raises their children. Do they have a strong marriage? Is this a person who has been faithful to their strong marriage? Or is their marriage broken apart? Is this a person who has demonstrated that they have the ability to handle the word of God in sound doctrine? So if somebody says, I'm called to a particular ministry , And in fact, they do not meet those c those criteria, or if they claim to meet the criteria, but they don't have a church that is principled and healthy that's willing to send them out. then I would say that's a person we should not partner with because they do not meet this criteria. The second parallel is that they need to be ministers who are active in the work and seeing evidence of God's blessing Now, unfortunately, we could look at something like the fruits of ministry, and we could look at a situation where a person has a difficult ministry. And our evaluation could be that maybe God's not blessing their ministry when in fact he actually is. Or we could look at a person. who presents a lot of evidence of we could say number growth and those kinds of things, but in fact they're they're they're really presenting something that isn't entirely honest and accurate. And so the question we should ask is, when this person handles the word of God, is there evidence that the Spirit of God takes the Word of God And he uses the clear articulation of Scripture to awaken souls to their need of salvation, to grow believers in the faith, that in fact this person has the evidence of the Spirit of God's hand upon their ministry. Are they expounding the scripture? Is God moving through their teaching and preaching? Can they articulate the gospel with clarity? Do they have a good handle on sound doctrine? Can they articulate sound doctrine clearly? That's what I mean by this is a minister who is actively working and demonstrating that in fact God's blessing is upon them. The third piece. They have a well-reasoned and succinctly articulated plan to reach people. Now, the Apostle Paul was diligent. There was a rigorous pattern of ministry. He faithfully endured, and that is unquestionably there. And so if a person says, I'm called of God, I'm sent out by my church, I believe God's hand is upon my ministry, but they have no ability to articulate what they're actually trying to articulate. accomplish on a foreign field, then we should be hesitant to partner with such an individual. If a person comes and they have this elaborate plan , But it's it's a naive plan, it's an inflexible plan. Again, we should be cautious. But when a person has demonstrated that they have clearly thought through the issue , That it is well reasoned. It is flowing out of good solid biblical advice from people who have experienced And we recognize that they have a willingness to labor and to make adjustments where necessary. This is the kind of person we want to partner with. The last piece is that this is someone who's not an opportunist who just wants to draw people to themselves in an unprincipled way. Hate to say this, but I'm gonna say it because it's true. Some people who go into ministry have this uncanny ability to prey on other people and draw them into what they're doing and to use them because of their whimsical personalities. Some people are excellent at raising money. They're excellent at convincing people to get behind something, but in fact they do it in a very opportunistic way, and they are not very principled in character and in practice. And so we have to be very cautious to ask the question, is this a person who has real integrity? Are they willing to pioneer a work that will include setbacks? sufferings are they willing to faithfully endure? Can we see the evidence of this in the way that they've lived their lives? They've served in the local church. that has sent them out and the way that they've done the work of the ministry where we've had access to actually evaluate them. When we talk about prudent partnerships, we recognize that there was no greater uh ministry partner than the Apostle Paul in the early church. The way that he did ministry. is something that has a lot to teach us. And so I want to encourage you, let us be a people who are prayerfully following this pattern. The second priority is that we would be prudent in our partnerships. If this has been an encouragement to you, please share that. Hope you would have a good rest of your day in Lord willing tomorrow. We'll meet again by now.