Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for this week. And we are in the midst of a discussion on missions. And so if you're with us yesterday, you know kind of where we're going this week. But the text we've been looking at is Romans chapter 15. So please take your Bibles. Let's turn there. We're reading verses 14 through 24, and we're going to look at the first of the priorities that we find in Paul's ministry as it relates to missions. Here's what it says. And I myself also am persuaded of you, my brethren, that ye also are full of goodness. filled with all knowledge, able also to admonish one another. Nevertheless, brethren, I have written the more boldly unto you, in some sort, as putting you in mind, because of the grace that is given to me of God. That I should be the minister of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles, ministering the gospel of God, that the offering up of the Gentiles might be acceptable, being sanctified by the Holy Ghost. Excuse me, I have therefore whereof I may also glory through Jesus Christ, and those things which pertain to God. For I will not dare to speak of any of those things which Christ hath not wrought by me. to make the Gentiles obedient by word and deed, through mighty signs and wonders by the power of the Spirit of God, so that from Jerusalem and round about unto Elycrium I have fully preached the gospel of Christ. Yea, so have I strived to preach the gospel, not where Christ was named, lest I should build upon another man's foundation. But as it is written, To whom he was not spoken of, they shall see. They that have not heard shall understand. for which cause also I have been much hindered from coming to you, but now having no more place in these parts, and having a great desire these many years to come unto you Whensoever I take my journey into Spain, I will come to you, for I trust to see you in my journey, and to be brought on my way thitherward by you. If first I be somewhat filled with your company. Now I know that's a lengthy portion of Scripture, and it is longer than what we typically deal with when we're dealing with a text on a Sunday morning. But there's a lot of detail here, and it is really at the heart of Paul's missionary endeavor. One of the things that I love about this passage is that it shows us what was important to Paul. We know it was important to Paul because this is what he shared with the church And we know it was important to Paul because Paul was a man who was being guided by the Holy Spirit in the nature of his ministry. And not just in the nature of his ministry. But in the words that he's writing, these are not just Paul's words. They're inspired scripture. And so we see a tremendous pattern and the kind of priority that comes out of a biblical pattern for missions. The first of the priorities that Paul addresses, I think, is really going to lay the foundation for everything else he says. There is a sense in which what Paul is going to say here, if it is not properly addressed, is going to cancel out the church's ability to be able to follow these other priorities the way that they should. And so the order matters. And so let's look at what he says. In verse 14, he says, I myself am persuaded of you, my brethren, that ye also are full of goodness. filled with all knowledge and able to admonish one another. Now the question we should ask is why does Paul start here? And it's also important for us to maybe even step back and ask the question, how did Paul actually begin this letter to the church at Rome? A big portion of what Paul is going to say, what was motivating him to write this letter, was not just his desire to preach the gospel. But it was his desire to partner with the church at Rome as a missionary partnered with a local church. What's amazing to me about his desire to partner with his church was that before he talks about his desire to partner, he talks about theology. He talks about the foundation that's supposed to undergird a healthy partnership. And so before he addresses the pressing need, the church needs to be involved in missions, he says, I want to first preach to you. The gospel. In Romans 1. 15, he says, As much as in me is, I am ready to preach the gospel to you that are at Rome. Now a question that may pop up in your mind here is you say, Well, hold on a second. If they're a church, that means they're a body of Christians. And if they're a body of Christians, that means they understand the gospel. They've placed their faith in the gospel. Why is Paul desiring to preach the gospel to a church who is already believing in the gospel? Well, the answer is that the gospel is not just what saves us. The gospel is what ultimately is going to motivate us to live a healthy Christian life. And so Paul's desire is that the church is a healthy, matured, well-grounded church. And so that's what he spends. 12 chapters, well full eleven full chapters, and then pieces of the next several chapters dealing with this issue of theology and the proclaiming of the gospel. The second thing is that he's going to affirm his conviction that the people that he's writing to are in fact a matured church. So his desire is to strengthen them. His desire is to get them to be better grounded. His desire is to remind them of these things. But he's writing to them as people who he believes are actually matured in the faith. For instance, when I get up on a Sunday morning, And I preach a gospel message to the church, it's not my way of saying, oh, I think that this church is an immature church, or I think that everybody in this assembly is unsaved, therefore I have to preach the gospel. No, I'm preaching the gospel to people who sometimes are not saved, people who sometimes are immature, but the vast majority of the people that are hearing the gospel preached on a Sunday morning, from my perspective, are believers, are matured believers. It's that the gospel being preached again to the believer is something that stirs up their affections, it reminds them of truths that are important, and it presses them, it motivates them to have biblical priorities. And so that's what the Apostle Paul is doing. His desire is to stir up the affections of matured Christians. It's to remind Christians who have maybe begun to get a little bit distracted, to get refocused. And it's also important for us to notice that in verse 14, he actually affirms this conviction that these are mature Christians. He says, you are full of goodness. He's talking about the fact that they are a mature church in character. Their lives bear the marks and the evidences of being true Christians who are growing into Christ's likeness. He secondly mentions that they are filled with knowledge. He's talking about the fact that their perspective is matured. They are grounded in the faith. He would not speak of them as being filled with knowledge if he didn't believe that they were a people who had a matured perspective. And then the third thing that he mentions is that they are able to admonish. So it's not just that their character is being shaped by the Spirit's work and that they are people with a matured perspective, but they are matured in their practice. They actually have the ability to take theology and to focus it into biblical practice. And so these are all marks of the church being a matured church. So the second question we should ask is why did Paul take this approach? Why does he start with their maturity before he appeals to their need to partner with him? And the answer is a very simple one, but it's also a foundational one. A weak, divided, ill-equipped, or apathetic church is not able to receive Paul's missionary appeal. And so before he says, here's what you should do, he says, this is who you should be, and this is how you should think on the foundational matter. And by the way, this is something that was very common in the Apostle Paul's approach to ministry. For instance, in 1 Corinthians 3, verse 1, he writes. I, brethren, could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal, even as unto babes in Christ. Paul is saying there are certain things that I desire to say to you. There are certain things that you need to hear, but before you hear them, I've got to address your level of spiritual maturity. You are not as matured as you should be, therefore you're not in a position to receive these sayings that ultimately you need to hear. Or in Hebrews chapter 5, verse 11, we see something very similar. He says, We have many things to say unto you, and hard to be uttered. seeing you are dull of hearing, when for the time you ought to be teachers, you have need that one teach you again the first principles of the Oracle. of God, and are become such as have need of milk and not of strong meat. Now these are just two examples of the Apostle Paul speaking in this way, though Hebrews were not ultimately sure if it was Paul who wrote these words. But the point is that a level of maturity sometimes is necessary for someone to receive certain sayings. And so one of the most dangerous things on a practical level that a minister could do is to short circuit the order of ministry. We know that churches need to be evangelistic. We know that churches need to be involved in making disciples. We know that churches should be involved in missionary partnerships. But before the church is in a position to evangelize as it should, or in a position to disciple as it should, or in a position to partner in ministry as it should, it needs to be a growing, healthy, vibrant church. Another way to put it is, with a few questions. Do you really want ill-equipped ministers to make disciples I think the answer would be no, you don't. Do you want fleshly people trying to organize and guide churches that are going to be establishing churches? The answer is Not really. Do you want people to give and serve out of guilt and rivalry, or do you want their motivation to be pure and focused on a genuine love for Christ and a genuine desire to see the nations reach with the gospel? Well the answer is we want the second, not the first. Do we want unprincipled people to be spearheading the advance of the gospel and the establishment of churches? The answer should be no we don't. So while we do want the church to be involved in missions, we want the church to be healthy so that the way that it's involved in missions is in fact productive in the long term. And so healthy ministry is not the goal. Rather, it is the fruit of vibrant Christianity. And so Paul's method was both deliberate and it was critically important. Our first priority should not be to be a serving church, but to be a healthy church. Because healthy churches where people are growing in grace to the knowledge of the Lord Jesus, those are churches that serve But they're not just churches that serve and minister and partner, but there are churches that serve in a healthy way, and there are churches that partner in a healthy way. And their churches that ultimately prioritize and value the right things. I think our prayer this morning should be that God will help our church. to be a healthy church. Because if it's a healthy church, then it's the kind of church that can actively be involved in the ministry that God ultimately wants the church to accomplish in the world. May the Lord help us to be that kind of a church. Lord willing tomorrow, we'll take it to the next level looking at priority number two in what Paul has to say in this text of Scripture. Hope this has been a challenge to you. If it has, please share that. Maybe share some feedback and Lord willing tomorrow we'll meet again by now