Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a new week and another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I don't know about you, but I love Missions Month, especially having uh personally been a missionary and been so many missions, conferences, traveled to different churches to see how they do missions. Uh emphasis, I love the way that our church does it. And one of the reasons that I do that, uh, the way that we do is because I feel it's very effective for us to spend an entire month thinking about this issue of missions. And as a pastor, it gives me the opportunity to be able to really just share my burden and what I believe the Bible teaches should shape the way that we look at missions as a church So if you remember back to last week, and when I mean math week, I don't mean this past Sunday, but the week before, this past week, we've been looking at the importance of being motivated in this issue of missions and in many ways being re-energized and refocused in missions is is a is a type of reviving that God brings to his church. And so last week we talked about the importance of being revived and the importance of being motivated. This week what we're going to do is we're going to take that energy that we hope that we are beginning to see in our own lives and that refocus that's going on. And we're going to ask the question, what are the priorities that we should have as a church body? And we're going to answer that from Romans chapter 15. So this morning, what I want to do is I want to read the section we're going to look at. And then I'd like to talk about kind of the direction we're going throughout the week. And if you're with us this past Sunday, you'll know exactly where we're going in this very important passage of Scripture that lays out biblical priorities. Romans chapter 15, verse number 14 is where we will pick up this morning. It says, and I myself also am persuaded of you, my brethren. that ye also are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, able also to admonish one another. Nevertheless, brethren, I have written the more boldly unto you, in some sort, as putting you in mind, because of the grace that is given to me of God. That I should be the minister of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles, ministering the gospel of God, that the offering of the Gentiles might be acceptable being sanctified by the Holy Ghost. I have therefore whereof I made glory through Jesus Christ in those things which pertain to God. For I will not dare to speak of any of those things which Christ hath not wrought by me to make the Gentiles obedient. by word and deed, through mighty signs and wonders by the power of the Spirit of God, so that from Jerusalem and roundabout unto Olycrium I have fully preached the gospel of Christ. Yea, so have I strived to preach the gospel, not where Christ was named, lest I should build upon another man's foundation, but as it is written to whom he was not spoken of, they shall see, and they that have not seen shall understand. For which cause also I have been much hindered from coming to you, but now having no place in these parts, and having a great desire these many years to come unto you, Whensoever I take my journey into Spain, I will come to you, for I trust to see you in my journey, and to be brought to you brought on you on my way thitherto by you If first I be somewhat filled with your company. Now this passage of Scripture is a portion of Romans that a lot of times you don't hear preached out of. And the reason I think is that most people when they study the Book of Romans, they look at the theologically rich portions of the Book of Romans, which are the heart of the book. So from chapter 1 all the way to chapter, um, the end of chapter 11, you're dealing with very rich theological truths. But once you get into chapter 13 and you move through the rest of the book, you get into a lot of implications, a lot of here are practically the ways that you should respond to the theological truths that you have been taught in expounding the gospel to you. Well one of the one of the pieces to the story as to why the Apostle Paul wrote the book of Romans was that he had a desire to visit the church. He wanted them to know why he'd not yet visited them. And he wanted them to partner with him in his ministry to Spain, to the Western extent of the Roman Empire. And before he goes into, we could say those other aspects, which is a big part of the book of Romans, He lays out theological truths that are supposed to be the foundation for how the church is to think and what is going to motivate them properly to be involved in the work that he is doing And so that's really what's going on when we come to Romans chapter 15. So it gives you a little bit of the background. What I'd like to do is kind of remind you again of what we talked about last week and then see where we're going this week from the text in front of us. So last week we talked about motivation. We were reminded that we've been given a sacred trust, and that sacred trust is that we have received God's mercy. We're to be channels of God's mercy. The second part of that was what I kind of mentioned with God's mercy. He's poured out his mercy on us for a very distinct purpose. Part of that purpose was to save us from our sins. The other aspect is that we become channels through which he strengthens us and then ultimately ministers to other people. And so he has taught us so that we can teach others. He has saved us so that the gospel can be presented to others and he can save others through the word that he's entrusted to our care. The third thing we talked about was the need for our hearts to be stirred up again with a very deep love and a burden for the lost. It's very easy for us as we go about our normal tasks on a daily basis. to become bogged down with the cares of life and the personal details that we deal with in our own family and personal situations, and we forget that there are lost people all around us. And so a major portion of the text that we dealt with was reminding us to think again about really the condition of the people around us. The fourth thing is that we saw that he wants us to be actively involved in what he is doing and bringing people to himself. And so he reminds us that we're not supposed to just be spectators who sit on the sideline and we watch God work. No, we're supposed to actively be engaged in the work. And we get to witness firsthand, up close and personal, the work of God through us as his instruments. Well this week we want to talk about how to channel that proper motivation into solid biblical priorities. And in the verses that we've just read before us, Romans 15, these verses talk about Paul's priorities. And so what we see is that Paul is an excellent pattern. that we should try to imitate, we should try to do things in a Pauline manner because Paul was being guided by the Holy Spirit as he did the work that he did. And so there are quite a few pieces that I'd like us to draw out this week from what Paul says. For instance, we're going to talk about Paul's concern about the health at the Church of Rome and why that was so important. You know, before Paul says, why don't you partner with me? Paul says, let me tell you why I'm confident that this will be a good partnership. And part of what he says is he believes the church is a mature church. Lord willing tomorrow we're going to talk about what exactly he means when he says the church is a mature church. and why that matters. A second piece that we're going to look at this week, Lord Willing, is the kind of person or the kind of minister that we as a church should be desiring to partner with. Obviously, you couldn't get a finer example in the New Testament of the Apostle Paul when it came to ministry endeavors His approach to ministry, the heart behind it, the motivation, how detailed he was, all of those pieces are important. And the fact is that we should desire to partner with people. Who had the same kind of heart and passion and approach to ministry that the Apostle Paul did. And so I look forward to digging into that detail, Lord willing, later in the week. A third piece is that this is going to tell us the kind of work that these people should be attempting to do. Now this is significant Because not only does it talk about the kinds of people that we should be partnered with, but it really does in many ways shape the way that we should see ourselves serving and ministering in the community that God has planted us in. And it also talks about the way that we should pray for the people that we're actually partnered with. We should desire that our missionaries have a biblical approach. They have biblical priorities. They stay biblically motivated. And so by understanding the way that missions should actually be going on in the world, it's going to shape the way that we pray for these individuals, the way that we encourage these individuals. And so this third piece is very, very important. And then lastly, the fourth piece, is we're going to talk about the nature of the kind of partnership that churches have with missionaries. And the question is, what are we supposed to be doing in relationship to the missionaries that we consider ourselves to be partnered with? Do we just pray for them? Do we just give them money? What is the nature of our relationship? Well, Lord willing, on Friday, we're going to talk about that So that gives you a couple of things to think about as we begin our week. We're going to talk about the health of our church. We're going to talk about the kinds of people we should partnership. uh with a partner with or talk about the nature of the work that they should be engaged in we'll talk about the nature of that mission and so I pray that you will join us throughout the rest of the week. Maybe you have a friend who Used to listen to these or hasn't uh ever been exposed to that, you say, hey, if you want to hear some teaching on missions, then join us for these anchored in the words throughout the week. And Lord willing, each of these lessons are going to be very encouraging Very practical, and I hope that they'll be the help to you this week. Have a blessed Monday morning and Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow on Tuesday. Bye now.