Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection, and we're nearly to the end of our week, and I hope that the things that we have talked about have been a challenge to you and have given you some things to think about. This morning we're going to look in chapter 15 again of Romans and we're going to focus our attention on verses 21 to 23. And we're going to look at the third priority that we can draw from what the Apostle Paul says to the church at Rome. Here's what the text says. Again, Romans 15, verses 21 through 23. But as it is written, to whom he was not spoken of, they shall see. They that have not heard shall understand. for which cause also I have been much hindered from coming to you, but now having no more place in these parts, having a great desire these many years to come unto you Whenever I take my journey into Spain, I will come to you, for I trust to see you in my journey, and to be brought on my way thither word by you, if first I be somewhat filled with your company. Now there are three pieces to what the Apostle Paul is saying here that are very important. And so his first priority was we want the church to be a healthy church. His second priority, what we talked about yesterday, was that he wanted to make sure that they were having a prudent partnership. Well, this third priority that we see this morning is that he wants there to be a thorough ministry infrastructure in the places where he has labored. Now, if you can remember back to yesterday, he said that he had thoroughly preached the gospel from Illyricum, excuse me, all the way to Jerusalem. It's a very large area of land, lots and lots of different cultures within the Roman Empire itself. So we're talking about Croatia, we're talking about Greece, we're talking about Turkey, we're talking about Lebanon, we're talking about the land of Israel. These are very different areas. And the Apostle Paul systematically worked his way through those regions. for twenty-five years of ministry, from the time that he became a Christian, was called into the ministry, and now he's at the point where he's writing this epistle to the Roman church, desiring to go in to visit them and then to continue his ministry on. So you say, well, what are the three pieces? Well, let's move through one at a time. The first piece is that the Apostle Paul's ministry was built on the conviction that God had promised that he would save people. Now this is very important. One of the reasons that Paul looked at a region and said, I need to go to another part, I need to be thorough, is because he was convinced that there were promises in Scripture. that Gentiles who were not Christians, who did not understand the gospel, who'd never heard the gospel, those people would become believers. They would hear the gospel, they would embrace the gospel. And so it was with that firm conviction, the promise of God, there are people to be saved. people to hear the gospel, that he thoroughly does the work. And so in verse 21 he says, it is written, to whom he has not been spoken of, they shall see and they that have not heard shall understand. The missionary believes there are souls to be saved in the regions that they go to, and that is why they take the gospel to those regions. They take promises like that literally, and that's what the Apostle Paul was doing. This is what caused him to have a thorough ministry focus. The second piece is that He said that he systematically started congregations that would be able to sufficiency reach these people. Now when Paul says that there's no other place for me to preach the gospel, He's not suggesting that every single individual living in all of those regions has heard the gospel from his lips. Therefore, there's no more person for him to speak to to give the gospel to. That's not what Paul is saying there. What Paul is saying is that the infrastructure to reach those regions is fully established And so Paul saw himself as someone whose job was to start churches, not to pastor churches, but it was to start churches and to see them get to a place where they were well established and could actually reach their area with the gospel message. And so in verse 22 he says, for which cause I have been much hindered from coming to you. Now, Paul is telling the church that he wanted to visit them. He had actually not physically started the church at Rome. There were people that had ministered with Paul that had come from Rome to Corinth. And now we're back in Rome. Aquil and Priscilla are the two people that I'm thinking of here. And so it is in some sense that Paul has had a part in the establishing of the church at Rome, but he's physically not been there. He didn't physically do the work. He didn't physically interact with these people. For twenty-five years he has been focusing his labors on the regions that he's mentioned. And Paul has been thorough in that time. Also, we see that he's focused on investing in faithful men who will be able to teach others also. A few Sundays ago, we had a missionary, and he mentioned this text of Scripture, and this is exactly how Paul ministered the gospel. 2 Timothy 2. 2, he says. The things thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men who shall be able to teach others also. This is what Paul is saying. When he says there's no more place for me to go, he's saying that I taught the word of God to you And I've taught you so thoroughly that I believe you're in a position to literally do what I did with somebody else. And so Paul talks to Timothy, and now Timothy is grounded enough that he can teach other people, but Timothy has to be very careful about this because he wants to minister and invest in people who will be faithful ministers of the gospel. who will be able to multiply the work and it will have the ability to teach other people also. So when Paul says I've thoroughly covered this area, he's saying I've invested thoroughly enough in individuals who are now competent to be able to spread the gospel to a region that I think is sufficient for the nature of their work themselves And so that's what Paul is saying. He focused his attention on investing in faithful men who would be able to teach others also and multiply the work. The third piece here is that he communicated biblical expectations for those who would lead those congregations. So Paul didn't just teach the word and say, you go and do it. He taught the word. He said, you teach the word, and let me give you the instructions that are needed so that churches are established and they are properly pastored by men who are fit to do such work. And so in Titus 1. 5 he says, For this cause left I, thee, Titus, in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are lacking. and ordain elders in every city as I have appointed thee. So the Apostle Paul believed part of his ministry was not the pastoring of churches. churches, but it was the instruction of people who would be able to pastor churches, and then it was to establish a pattern in those churches for how to appoint these men to the office of pastor, elder, overseer. And so this was a part of what Paul meant when he said, I have thoroughly, I have thoroughly reached this region with the gospel. The last thing I'll mention is this. He finished his course in that region. And so when he looked at the region, he said, there's no more work for me to do. The work has been left to others who are thoroughly trained to do the work. And they have the character to do it faithfully. In verse 23 he says, but now having no more place in these parts, Paul believed that his ministry season in that region was finished You say, well, what is Paul ultimately telling us? He's telling us what the goal of a missionary should be. The goal of a missionary should be to go to a region where the gospel is not, to lead people to Christ. and to help those people who have been led to Christ to become faithful disciples of Christ. And from those disciples of Christ, he's going to invest in people who will have the ability to ultimately replace him. And as he's doing that, he's helping to establish local independent churches that are going to be able to do the work of reaching their community with the gospel. When we talk about the goal of missions, healthy church planting is going to be ultimately pastored by qualified local men. And those churches are going to have three important marks, and this is the goal of the missionary. The first mark is self-governing. That church has gotten to a place where it is not under the authority of another church. It is governing itself. The second point is that it is self-supporting. It has reached a point of maturity where it not only is no longer under the governance of another church, a mother church, but it's also no longer being supported by a mother church. It's actually supporting itself. Those people who are a part of that church are taking care of those who labor in the word and doctrine as the Bible commands them. And so they're not receiving support from outside their congregation. Their congregation is supporting itself. And the third piece is self-propagating. The idea is that this church is strong enough that it can actually start other churches out of it. It is strong enough that it can not only appoint its own pastors and its own deacons, but it has the ability to send out men who can go and establish other churches with the blessing and the encouragement and the support of that church itself. And so when we talk about a thorough ministry infrastructure, we're saying that the ultimate goal of missions is for churches to be established that are self-governing self-promoting, self-propagating, pastored by qualified local men. That's what we should be praying for when it comes to our missionary. We should partner with such missionaries, we should pray that this is what they do, and we should be looking to encourage them to that end. I hope that this has been an encouragement to you today. Lord willing tomorrow we'll finish out our series on this little section of proper biblical priorities and missions. Have a blessed morning. Bye now.