Turn with me to the book of Ephesians again, Ephesians chapter 2 this morning, and we are looking at verses 11 through 18. And the topic that we're going to be addressing is the topic of reconciliation. And this is a really, really important concept for us to understand. And uh as we were having our preaching discussion on Friday, in fact we got into a lot of interesting discussion about that because you know we are um in our group, we have people from other parts of the world, we have folks that are in Ireland, we have folks that are in Ghana. We have folks that are in different parts of the United States. And um it's just a really, really good time of discussion. And so this concept of reconciliation is something that we really need to understand biblically why, how, on what basis, all of those things. So let's go ahead and read verses 11 through 18. And here's what the scriptures say. Wherefore, remember that ye being in times past Gentiles in the flesh who are called uncircumcision by that which is called the circumcision in the flesh made by hands, that at that time you were without Christ. Being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the covenant of promise, having no hope and without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, ye who sometimes were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. He is our peace, who hath made both one and hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us, having abolished in his flesh the enmity, even the law of commandments contained in ordinances For to make in himself of twain one new man, so making peace, and that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by the cross. having slain the enmity thereby. And he came and he preached peace to them which were afar off, and to them who were nigh. For through him, we both have access by one spirit unto God. Let's bow together for prayer and ask the Lord to really help us to think through this passage. understand its implication and then to apply it in the most appropriate way possible. Our Father, I thank you so much for your word. This passage is so rich. It is at the heart of what it means to be a Christian, and at the heart of how to live like one who has been redeemed to you And so I pray that as we dig into this passage, as we consider the various treaties that are being presented, and we consider the part within the whole, I pray that we would be deeply blessed. spiritually enriched, and ultimately changed to be more like Christ and to live more consistent with who we are as your people. And so we ask this all in Christ's name. Amen. I want to begin by asking three questions for you to think about this morning. The first question is, should we forgive people who have wronged us? Should we forgive people who have wronged us? Second question. Should we let go of bitterness? Third question, why? Or why not? I guess we can also add the why not as well, because you may have answered that question, well it depends on the situation, or no, I don't need to forgive, no, I can hold on to bitterness, I can do whatever I want. Well, the reality is that there are certain things in life that when we hold on to them, they destroy us. Have you ever seen someone who became uh We could say dominated by some kind of chemical that they put into their body. Could have been drugs, could have been alcohol. You saw how a person who once was vibrant They were healthy, they were strong, they had a sound mind, they could work a good job, they got along with people, as they became, we could say, dominated by that substance, who they were completely changed. You ever seen that happen to somebody? We go to the Baltimore Rescue Mission every Friday. We go on Tuesdays. And the truth is there are people that are there at the Baltimore Rescue Mission that there was a time when they were married. They have children, they had jobs, some of them have more education than I do, and today they're homeless and they're living in a place like that. The question is, how did that happen? Well, it's not just drugs and alcohol that can dominate people and ruin them. Bitterness and unforgiveness can too. The truth is when people hold on to a grudge. And they obsess over that grudge, it can destroy them. Just like greed can destroy people. Just like sexual sins can destroy people. Just like drugs and alcohol can destroy people. The fact is that what's going on inside of a person can eat them a lot a lot. It can eat them up inside and completely change who they are as a person. And there are two basic approaches to how to answer that question. I want to present to you what I would say would be a non-Christian, but not necessarily unChristian model. There would be a lot of things in this model that actually are very common sense, but they go short of what I think would be the right way to look at this issue, and that is the therapeutic model. Let's say that you We're really struggling with these issues, and you decide, you know, I'm going to go to a therapist, I'm going to go to the pastor, I'm not going to go to a biblical council. I'm just going to go to a secular therapist. I'm going to lay my situation in front of them. And I want to hear what they have to say about it. If you were to do that and you were to ask them, should I forgive, should I let go of bitterness, there would be some nuance the way they would address that issue. There's no question about that. And what I'm going to say is kind of a generalization, but here are a couple of things that I think you would hear. The first is this. Holding on to bitterness stimulates stress hormones in your body And if you don't deal with that, you will become physically affected by the bitterness that's going on in your heart. It will actually be detrimental to your body. And you know what? That's true. The second thing they might say is something like this. The stress on your body can damage your cardiovascular system. It can wreck your immune system. You need to deal with this and don't internalize it. And you know what? That's true. A third thing they might say is something like this: constantly reliving painful circumstances will increase your risk to be anxious and depressed and to really have a lot of internal problems. And you know what? That's true. I might say something like this, ruminating over the things that you can't control or resolve will divert your energy away from personal growth and productivity. That is also true. Every single one of those things is true. And so if you were to go to a person, not a Christian, not a biblical worldview, but understands how the mind works, understands how the body works, understands how our body and our mind are are interconnected, and in our soul, if we obsess over things, And in our soul, if we hold on to bitterness, if we hold on to grudges, and we're unwilling to forgive, if we fixate on these things, it's actually going to destroy us as a person. You don't have to be a Christian to understand that's a bad idea. But I want to make this assessment. While there's a good practicality to all the reasons that have been given. And by the way, I have actually given people those advices before, those things as advice because practically they're true. They fall short. And here's how they fall short. They do not address the wrong in a way that is truly just. They do not give people the opportunity to experience true redemption in a, we could say, in a sense that relates them properly to God. And so the two glaring shortcomings is this. There's no real justice In the model. And number two, the wrong is overlooked, not because it's the right thing to do, and not because there's a basis to do it, but because that's what works best for you. It's for your well-being. But is the issue really being addressed? The text in front of us, interestingly, gives us a theological basis to forgive. It gives us a theological basis to have what we could say is biblical reconciliation. It actually addresses both this issue on the theological and also on the practical. And so what we're going to look at here is a really, really practical and helpful concept for us to understand. The biblical model is simple. Forgive as God has forgiven you. And this text gives us the alternative solution to what I would say has a lot of good practical sense, but it falls short. It gives us a real, a compelling reason to forgive, and yes, to even be reconciled to those who have wronged us. And by the way, I will say this. You can let a matter go and choose not to be the judge, and you can't resolve every issue. Reconciliation is only possible if two sides are willing to meet. That is true. But us holding on to a thing, particularly a bitterness in our heart, that's something that we are 100% in control of. The question is, what do we do with the burdens and the griefs and the hurts that we've experienced? Let's look at the text in front of us. First of all, I want to summarize what's here. We who once were helpless, God mercifully reached out to That's what it's all about. Here we were in a hopeless condition. We had no ability to change that position. And God in his mercy and God in his grace, he bridged that gap. And through the work of Christ, he drew us to himself. That's what this text is all about. And so as we work our way through the various details, I think it would be a very simple application. God wants us to live like a people that have been truly reconciled to him. So how do we do that? Well let's go ahead and first of all look at verses eleven and twelve and we will see that all of us, no exceptions, we were all born with a need. to be reconciled. Verses eleven and twelve. Wherefore remember that you being in times past, and by the way, there's a lot of this is a mouthful to say this. In times past you were Gentiles in the flesh. You were called uncircumcised by them who were called the circumcision of the flesh, made with hands. That's really wordy, is it not? Well there's a reason that he's saying that. At that time you were without Christ, being aliens of the Commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenants of promise. You had no hope. You were without God in the world. What is Paul saying to this church? He's writing to an audience that is mixed between Jew and Gentile. And I've observed this as I read through the New Testament, many, many examples here. As we work our way through the epistles, there were many tensions between those who came from a Jewish background and converted to Christianity They they understood Jesus is the Messiah. They were born again, but they still had the old culture. And those who were Gentile believers, they came from complete paganism. They were policyists. They did not know the Lord at all. When those two groups came into the same body, they've emplaced embraced the same gospel. There were a lot of potential challenges. Between those individuals because there were cultural differences, there were ethical differences, there were lots and lots of things that made it difficult for those two groups to mesh together. And so Paul writes these things to simply say it like this. No matter what your background was, you needed to be reconciled to God. Notice what he says in verse 11. In times past, you were Gentiles in the flesh. He talks about the fact that his audience, not all of them, but many of them, were people who understood what it meant to be separate and distinct from that covenant Old Testament group of people, the nation of Israel, the descendants of Abraham, they knew what it was like to be an outsider physically to those covenant promises in that people. They also understood a second thing, verse 11. They were viewed with disdain by the people who were a part of those covenant promises. By the way, that was not right, but it was true. And that's why he says it like this. You were called uncircumcision by those which were called the circumcision. It wasn't just like, well, you're a Gentile, but it's like, you're a Gentile. You're one of those people. You're one of those outsiders. You're one of those people that are excluded from God's covenant people. And by the way, Their perception of this issue was wrong. The Bible's filled with examples of Gentiles who were believers There are Gentiles who are in the lineage of Christ. So it's not like in the Old Testament the Gentiles were not loved by God and couldn't be saved. It's not true at all. But there was this pride and there's this hypocrisy and there's this exclusive attitude amongst the people. And that was still lingering in the church as Paul writes these words. Third thing. They were outside of the covenant blessings and promises. In verse 12, he called them aliens, not like extraterrestrial creatures, okay? Aliens, as in you were not a part of the people of God. You were excluded from that nation. Verse 12, you were strangers from the covenants of promises. Everything he said is like I'm outside. I'm outside, I'm separated, I'm not a part of these people. But then the fourth thing he states that is really, we could say the culmination of all of it is this. Verse 12, you had no hope. You were without God in the world. So the worst thing of all was not that they were Gentiles physically, that they were mocked by people who were of Jewish background. That wasn't their worst problem. That they were born outside of the covenantal relationship of the Old Testament. That's not the greatest of their problems. The greatest of their problems was that they had no hope because they were they were separated from God and that's how they lived. And by the way, that's why he said in chapter 2, verse 1, you were dead in trespasses and sins. That's not just true of those people, that's true of us too. All of us could have this said about us. Two thousand years of history has gone by, and the same principles still apply. He could say the same thing about you. He could say the same thing about me. The second thing I want you to notice here is that there is a complete change in the in the passage from the negative to the positive. By the way, this is exactly what we experienced when we were looking at the passages of the last two weeks. He says, you were this, you were this, you were this. But now you're not anymore. That's the wonderful about these scriptures. What I love about it is he lays out the negative side, but then he says something's changed. And what's changed is the grace of God. And so he says, now you are reconciled to God. Verse number 13 But now in Christ Jesus, you who sometimes were far off have been made nigh by the blood of Christ. Huge change. This is the heart of the passage. And so he states it in three simple ways. But now God's grace has made all the difference. Number two, in Christ Jesus. The reason that you are not in that foreign position is because now you're in Christ. He is everything. Our union with Christ gives us every blessing and every benefit that we have. So if we're in Adam, we're dead. If we're in Christ, we're alive. We talked about this a couple weeks ago. And the third thing he states is this, that union is made possible because Christ shed his blood on your behalf. You are made nigh by the blood of Christ. And so we have those three very simple statements. God in his grace has made all the difference. You have been united to Christ, and that union is possible because Christ shed his blood on your behalf. Now, he doesn't just leave it there with something simply stated and then walk away from it. Paul says, let me expand this a little bit more. Let me lean into this. I want you to really understand the heart and the beauty of what I just told you. You were, but now you're not. What's he gonna say? Verses 13 through 16. We see the third thing, this reconciliation is at a tremendously high price. Interestingly, last week we talked about salvation. It is by grace alone, it is through faith alone, and Christ alone, to the glory of God alone. Salvation is 100% based on not my work, but God's work. It's a gift. It's free. It's not through works of righteousness that we have done. It's according to his mercy that he saves us. And so when we talk about salvation being a gift and we talk about salvation being free, we should never get into our heads. Free means no cost. Free means no cost to me. But free came at a great price. And that price was the blood of Christ. And so notice how he puts it in verses 13 through 16. He says, this was by the blood of Christ. For he is our peace. Well, that's an amazing statement. He has made both one and has broken down the middle wall of partition between us. having abolished in his flesh the enity, even the law of commandments contained in ordinances For to make in himself of two one new man, so making peace, and that he might reconcile both unto God in one body, by the cross, having slain the enity thereby. Now there's a lot for us to process in those three verses. And so what I'd like us to do is just kind of look at it a little bit at a time so we can kind of process what he's saying. I would break down these verses into really two things. Number one, what did he do? And number two, what did he accomplish? What did he do and what did he accomplish? So let's work our way through it. First of all, here's what he did. He took two people That were so different. And he put them together and made them one. Verses 14 through 16. He has made both one. He has made one new man. He has made one body. And it's important for us to recognize that the two groups of people that he's talking about, historically They do not go together at all. It's like taking water and taking oil and shaking them up and then letting it sit there and see if they stay together. They don't They separate back out. Why is that? Because they're so different. He says, I take the Jew and I take the Gentile and I place them into one body because they are united by one message, by one person, Christ, Christ alone. That's what he did. We just think about it like this. Think about the history of those people after the exile. You have the Assyrians, they come come in in the 700s, and what do they do? They take the northern tribe, they take whoever they want, they kill people. They uproot them and they take them back to Assyria, and then Judah, they they do as much as they can to make life miserable in Judah, and they don't conquer Judah initially. Story of Hezekiah. But then the Babylonians rise to power, and what do they do? They go in and they completely destroy Jerusalem. They completely destroy the temple. They uproot in three different waves. groups of people going from those who are of the highest class of society, the educated, the wealthy, the leaders. They uproot them. They take them to Babylon. They say, you're going to be leaders and rulers over your own people for us. And so they rule in that sense. And then the Persians conquer the Babylonians and they send them back. However, there is still a lot of control there. And then the Persians are taken over by the Greeks. And then the Greeks assert control over that region. And then for over a thousand years the Romans control the region as well. And then we go all the way to where we are today. But here's the point. First century. When people living in that region who were of Jewish background thought of Gentiles, they said, these are the people that came and stole us out of our land. These are the people who came and destroyed our temple. These are the people who came and destroyed our city. These are the people who came in and they brutalized our people and they killed our people. And here we are trying to survive. And they are ruling over us and taxing us. And they're having their own laws, their own rules, their own leaders. And you can just imagine the anger. And by the way, when we read about the history of that time period, there was constant warfare, constant turmoil between these peoples. But it wasn't just about history. It was about social custom. It was about religion. It was about beliefs about God. It was about dietary practices. In every way you can imagine, Jews and Gentiles, they were just so different. Even their calendar of events. You have people trying to follow the Levitical system. Passover and feasts and all those different things. And then you have all of these Gentile polytheistic religious ceremonies, and they're all trying to mix together. Does it work? Even if something as simple as the Sabbath, if you're a Gentile, you didn't rest on Saturday. And you're like, what's wrong with these people? They don't know how to work? They gotta rest on Saturday? You can just imagine the tensions. And it was on both sides. Gentiles had complete disdain for Jiz. Jiz, complete disdain for Gentiles. And if Paul was a pragmatic man, he would have said, we have the Jewish church, we have the Gentile church. It's good that we're all saved, but we're not going to get together. That's not what he did. He united two peoples. God did. Second, he addressed the offense between them. And this this is a really, really fascinating statement. Verse 14, he hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us, and he has abolished the enmity thereby. Now I've read quite a few commentaries on this statement. He broke down the middle wall of partition. I will tell you that there's not consensus about what he's talking about. But there is a piece of history that I think is very significant that gives us insight into what I believe Paul is talking about. Where was Paul when he wrote this epistle to the Ephesian church? He was in prison. It was one of the prison epistles. Question two. Why was he in prison? If we want to know the answer to this question, we have to go to the book of Acts. And when we go to the book of Acts, Acts chapter 21, we'll see that Paul went down to Jerusalem to celebrate a festival, and with him, he took an Ephesian man. Who was not Jewish. And when Paul goes down to the temple and he came into that court of the Gentiles, there was a wall that separated between the court of the Gentiles. Where his friend could go, and where he was permitted to go as a Jewish man. That wall was there for a reason. The history is kind of interesting. It actually goes back from that time almost 200 years. And during the period of the Maccabean Revolt, the Greeks got so upset with the Jewish people there in Jerusalem that they said, We are going to desecrate your temple and we're going to make a point that we have utter contempt for you and your God and your religion and all of it. And you know what they did? They broke into the temple. And they offered pigs in the holiest of places there in the temple. And you can only imagine how infuriating such an event was. And when they were able to reconquer that region and establish their rule, guess what they did when they were working in the temple? They built a wall. A stone wall that had signs on it that said this, you pass this wall and you're not Jewish, you will die on the spot. Do you know that? It was there. And the reason that Paul was imprisoned is because he was accused of taking that Ephesian Gentile into a place he was not permitted to go. Literally, the Romans had to rescue him by arresting him so he wasn't ripped apart there at the temple. It was a very intense moment in Paul's life. And so here is Paul writing to a church, and that was the story as to why he was actually in the position he was in. What I believe he's talking about when he talks about this middle wall of partition is actually the wall that had been built by the Jewish people during the time of Herod that said, Gentiles are in this court. Jews are in this court because you cannot cross this point. You do not have access. And can you imagine the tension that welled up in the hearts of people on both sides of that issue? This is what Paul says. Christ tore that wall down. It isn't there anymore. I mean, physically it was still there as he writes this. It wouldn't be there a few years later. But that wall was removed by an action in history. And it wasn't a Jewish action, it wasn't a Gentile action, it was a God action. It was what Christ did for us. Christ went to the cross and he tore down that wall and he took Jews and Gentiles and he put them into one body in Christ. The third thing we see is he addressed the greatest problem. He personally removed the offense. I love how he states in verse 14, it says, He is our peace. He is our peace. Verse 15, he satisfied the law's demand for full justice. He abolished in his flesh, the enmity, even the law of commandments contained in ordinances. That stigmatization that separates, we could say, man from God, our sin, and groups of people on different sides of this issue from one another, he addressed the issue. It's pretty amazing. And the third thing that he did, verses 15 and 16, is he did this in a way that it's applicable to every person. Doesn't matter your background. He says, so making peace that he might reconcile both unto God. God didn't make two ways of salvation or four ways of salvation or ten ways of salvation. There's one way of salvation. It's Christ. And it's Christ alone. And so that's what he did. He addressed the greatest problem that you could ever imagine, and he did it in his own body. So that moves us to how he did it. How did he accomplish this? Well, he gives us the answer. The first thing is this. He did it by shedding his blood. Verse number 13, it says, this was by the blood of Christ. We can get a lot of other scriptures that talk about the significance of the shedding of Christ's blood at Calvary. Colossians 1. 14, we have been redeemed through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins. Hebrews 9. 22, almost all things are by the law purged with blood. Without the shedding of blood is no remission of sins. But now, once in the end of the world, he has appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. So Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many. First thing that he did is he shed his blood on the cross so that our sin could be removed by that action. He gives us Cleansing before the presence of a holy God through the shedding of his blood. But there's a second thing that is stated here. It's not just that he shed his blood, but he did it in his flesh. His body bore something for us. Literally, his body bore our guilt and the punishment we deserve. Listen to some of these scriptures. 1 Peter 2. 24. It says, who, his own self, bare our sins, how? In his own body on a tree. That's very important. 2 Corinthians 5, 21, He hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, so that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. So here is Christ. He's nailed to this cross. Not only does he shed his blood for the remission of our sins, but our sin is placed on his account, and he is punished in our place so that we can be reconciled to God. He literally kills the stain of our sin by offering himself on the cross. There's a third statement. Verse 16, it's by the cross. His cross demonstrated that he became a curse for us. This is something we should not miss. Philippians 2. 8 says that being found and fashioned as a man, Jesus humbled himself and he became obedient unto death. And then Paul states it like this: even the death of the cross. Why does he say even the death of the cross? Because there's something very specific about that kind of a death. Hebrews 12, 2, it says, Jesus is the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy set before him endured the cross, and the next statement's important, and despised the shame. Why does he say that? Because there was something very particular about the nature of that kind of a death. The cross was a shameful death. The cross was one that indicated one is under the curse. And he states it very clearly, Galatians 3. 13. Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law. How? By being made a curse for us. For it is written, curse is everyone that hangeth on a tree. So what does Paul say Jesus did? Paul says, Jesus takes these two people completely different, he unites them. He takes these two people who are separated and he removes the wall of separation. And the question is, how did he do it? He did it by giving his life, shedding his blood. Bearing our guilt, being a curse for us. In other words, when God reconciles a sinner to himself, he does it with a basis. And that basis is the cross of Christ. God does not bring you to Himself and say, I forgive you simply because I love you. And because I'm a nice God and I just want to be kind to you. He says, I forgive you because Jesus paid it all. And I'm a good God, and I love you, but Jesus Jesus paid it all. He doesn't compromise his justice. He deals with it. And this is something that's very important for us to recognize. When we forgive, or when we are forgiven, there's always a basis for that forgiveness. It's not just I'm arbitrarily forgiving you because I want to do it, or because I don't want to deal with the grief and I don't want to deal with the pain and I don't want to deal with the misery, I don't want this to eat me up inside, or because I'm a nice person and I don't want to hold you, you know In contempt the rest of my life. Those things could be true. But that's not the greatest reason to forgive. That's really not a principled reason to forgive. That's a pragmatic reason to forgive. But God's forgiveness is perfectly principled because Christ dealt with our sin at the cross. Fourth thing I want you to see. This reconciliation has several layers. Verses 17 and 18. He came and he preached peace to you who are far off. And to them that were nigh, for through him we both have access by one spirit unto the Father. Three simple statements. One. He preached peace to you who were far off. Who's he talking about? He's talking about Gentiles. He's talking about me and you. He's talking about us. He preached the gospel to us. Secondly, he says, and also to those who are nigh. Who's that talking about? Well, the Jew. These are people that had the law, they had the prophets, they had the covenants, they had so much access to information, as Paul says in Romans 10. He says, My heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel, they'd be saved. They have a zeal for God, but it's not according to knowledge. They're ignorant of God's righteousness. They're going about to establish their own righteousness. They've not submitted to the righteousness of God. He says this gospel is for those who have never ever heard this. And those who've heard this their whole lives, but they never understood it. But here's the third thing. It was to unite two people to God and to one another. Verse 18, it's through him we both, we both have access by one Spirit unto the Father. You know what the cross says? It takes people from every walk of life, every background, every ethnic background, uh how much money they make, how much education they have. I I mean the kind of sinful life they've lived versus another person. It does not change the fact that when it comes to the cross, we all come the same way. Through the same means. The cross is the ultimate equalizer. All these people that look at society like I I hate to see all the divisions and all the bickering and all the anger. And I say, well the the gospel could really help that out a lot. And they're like, oh don't give me religion. What do you mean don't give me religion? How about the gospel gives us the basis for this reconciliation that the world wants? Maybe. Maybe once. Who knows? So what are the implications? The gospel is the good news of reconciliation in two senses. It addresses the need for vertical reconciliation. That's between us and God. It also addresses the need for horizontal. That's me to you. Or me to someone else, or you to someone else. That reconciliation on the horizontal actually flows out of the vertical. We can reconcile with one another because we have been reconciled to God. We should reconcile with one another because we've been reconciled to God. That's what Paul is saying here. And so we see that there's two levels, two layers to this. concept of reconciliation between me and God and between me and my fellow man. The basis and the motivation for reconciliation is the cross of Christ. And you know the Bible is so filled with examples of this kind of language. Listen to this. Matthew 5. 44. Love your enemies, bless those that curse you, do good to them. Pray for them that despitefully use you and persecute you, that ye may be the children of your Father who is in heaven Why? He makes his son rise on the evil and on the good. He sends his reign on the just and on the unjust. Be therefore perfect, as your Father which is in heaven is perfect. It's a pretty amazing statement. He says, you want to be like God? Then love people that don't love you. Because every person that is redeemed to God was his enemy when he first loved them. We love him because he first loved us. We don't love him because it started with us, it started with him. And so he makes that point. Romans 5. 10, when we were the enemies of God, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. The Bible is so clear. We weren't looking for God. He went after us. We're like Adam in the garden. God comes in the cool of the day. Hey Adam, where are you? Don't make any noise. I want God to know where I am. He's hiding from God. Adam, why are you hiding? That's what he does with all of us. He comes to us. We don't go to him. When we begin to respond to the gospel, it's because God in his mercy and grace, he brings people into our lives, he brings circumstances into our lives, and he draws us and he convicts us. of sin and righteousness and judgment when we were his enemies. That's when he loved us. That's when he pursued us. That's when he drew us to himself. We are called to be like our Father. Matthew 5. 9. Blessed are the peacemakers. They shall be called the children of God. He's not suggesting you become a Christian by being a peacemaker. He said, and that's how people know that that's your father. When they can see that you're not, you're not like the rest of the world. There's something different in you. Why? Because you have been reconciled to God. You understand this concept. But this is the one that really hits it just squarely. Colossians 3. 12. He says, put on as the elect of God. Put on vows of mercy, put on kindness, put on humbleness of mind, put on meekness, long-suffering, forbear with one another, forgive one another, and then this is This is important. He says, if any man has a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye. And let the peace of God rule in your hearts. What's he saying? Are you a forgiven person? How did you get forgiven? In the same way that God has extended grace and mercy to you and forgiven you on the basis of the cross, why can't you extend grace? Why can't you love? Why can't you forgive? Why can't you forbear? That's what he's saying. In other words, there's a basis and there's a compelling reason to do such a thing. thing. So how do we apply this? Well there's two potential situations in this room. Either you're a Christian or you're not. Either you're born again or you're not. Either you're in Christ or you're in Adam. We have those two options. There's not a middle ground. If you've never placed your faith in Christ, then the compelling response to this text is simple: God loves you. Even though you are living in rebellion against him , maybe you never thought of it that way. You think I'm just living my life, I'm doing my thing, I don't think about God. If if I don't, I'm just gonna do what I want to do, and I don't want to hear about it You know what the Bible says? Rebellion against God. Enmity against Him. But even though you and I find ourselves in such a position, God loves us. And he goes to us. And he says, come. He is pursuing you and has done everything necessary for your sin issue to be addressed fully. That sin that stands between me and a holy God, Jesus dealt with it 100% at the cross. He is our peace. He bore our sins in his own body on the tree. He became a curse for us. He shed his blood so our sins could be washed away. And he says, Come. The question is: will you humble yourself and be reconciled to God? Simple application. If you're not a Christian, turn to Christ, place your faith in Him. Second group. Would be to the believer. And there are three things that I'll mention here. One is this. We came to church to worship. More than anything else, we came to worship. Not to get beat over the head. Hopefully you didn't get beat over the head. You came to worship. You came to hear, yes, I'm a sinner. Yes, my life bears the marks of enmity against God, and yes, but God who is rich in mercy has saved me. Bittersweet glory to God. That's what we came for, worship. And I'm reminded of an amazing text in Revelation chapter 5. This is what it says. And this is what we're going to do in heaven. It says they sang a new song saying, Thou art worthy to take up the book, to open the seals thereof, for thou wast slain. And hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation, and has made us unto our gods king, unto our God kings and priests, and we shall reign with him on the earth Praise. Every Christian should walk out of this room saying, God, thank you for being merciful to me, a sinner. I don't want to ever get over that. Second thing. We ought to have peace in our souls if our soul is restless. The truth is we may know that we're saved, but we still feel restless in our soul. And the reason for that is because when it comes to how we feel in our standing before God, We stop looking at the simplicity of the gospel and we start looking at our performance. And we start comparing ourselves to other people, and we start allowing certain thoughts to pop into our head and we start going, does God really accept me? Has he really forgiven me? Does he really love me? I had this happen. I did this. I feel this. I heard this. And all of these things, you know what they do? They disrupt the peace of our souls. And so the second thing I'd say is this, may God give us peace in our restless souls as his children. Romans 8. 1. There's therefore now no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. That's true about you, believer. No condemnation. Romans 8:15, ye have not received the spirit of bondage, again to fear, but have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba Father. The sufferings of this present world are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. Before I became a Christian, you know what the Spirit of God's purpose was for me? It was to show me you fall short, no hope outside of Jesus. In other words, it was to reprove me. And you know what the Holy Spirit does now in the life of the believer? He comforts. He says, remember who you are and live like it. Don't ever forget it. He lifts us up. He comes alongside. He strengthens the spirit of God who indwells us. He's not the spirit of bondage to fear, but he's the spirit of adoption that says, that's your father. Don't ever forget it. Romans 5. 1, being justified by his faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. We have access by faith into this grace, and we stand and rejoice and hope of the glory of God. Even later on in Ephesians 6. When he tells us to put on the armor of God, he's going to say, stand, having your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. You know what gives a Christian strength and stability? It's knowing that there's peace between me and God. And why is it there? Because of what he did for me. That's it. What he did for me. There's a third application, and this one is a little tougher. And that is in our interpersonal relationships we need to be forbearing and forgiving. Now I know this is a topic that involves a lot more talk than what I'm going to say here. But the bottom line is that we as God's people should be patient, forbearing, gracious , forgiving. Now, I can't reconcile with someone who is unwilling to resolve an issue. As much as lies within you, live peaceably with all men. There are some people you can't reconcile with, and that's true. But I can always extend grace. I can always let go of the bitterness in my heart and say, God, this is on your shoulders, not mine. You carry that burden, I won't. I can be kind. I can love someone who isn't very lovely. And those are the qualities that should be in all of us as God's people. Colossians 3, put on, as the elect of God, kindness, vows of mercies, humbleness of mind, meekness, long-suffering, forbearing one another, forgiving one another If any have a quarrel against any, as Christ forgave you, so also forgive ye. Do you want to know what God's will is for your life? It includes that. It includes that. This text gives us an alternative solution that does not compromise justice. Actually, it gives us a real compelling reason to forgive and reconcile. And so my encouragement is very simple. Let's live like we've been reconciled to God. May God help us to do that. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we think about your word, this passage really is so profound, and it touches on so many personal. So many personal issues. I pray that you'd help us as your people to live like the people we are. We are a forgiven people. We have been the recipients of your love and grace even as we were hardened in our hearts toward you. Christ went to the cross before we even existed. And here we are, a forgiven, cleansed , righteous people, because we have received the gift. May we never get over that. May we live with peace in our soul. Because of what you have done for us. May we be filled with worship and praise to you because of what you have done for us. And may we be an extension Of that mercy and love that we have received. We ask this in Christ's name, Amen