I want to welcome you all to our study tonight. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then we will get started in Matthew chapter 5. Father, we're so grateful for your word, the opportunity tonight to open the Bible and to dig into a very familiar but sometimes misunderstood passage, and I pray that as we're working our way through the Sermon on the Mass , That we'll understand the intent for which these passages were given, and I pray that we would, as your people, apply these things. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Matthew chapter 5 is where we are, and we're going to focus in on verse 4, but before we look at verse 4, I'd like to just kind of read the entire section of the Beatitudes because uh there is a logical progression and I'm I'm going to show you that tonight, hopefully. And then we're going to look at the second of the Beatitudes. So here's what the text says. And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain. And when he was set, his disciples came unto him. And he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my name's sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. Now we're going to focus our attention on verse number four, which says the following. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Now, when we read a statement like this, it's important for us to recognize that this is a statement that is really made in a bit of a proverbial way. What I mean by a proverbial way is This isn't like an absolute statement. Every single person who is mourning is in a good position. They're blessed. There's a very particular kind of statement. situation or kinds of situations that Jesus is thinking about when he gives this, and in order for us to understand it, it's important for us to pause. and think it through. Another thing that's also very helpful about a verse like this one, and really all of the Beatitudes, is that when we go to the book of James James takes a lot of content from the Sermon on the Mount, and he takes that content and he expands it. And so tonight what we're going to do is we're going to move into the book of James. at the end of this discussion, and we're going to see how James applies that particular statement. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. He's going to give a whole bunch of different scenarios where that statement is clearly true. So first of all, let's start with a summary statement and from that look at an important observation. God is working in our lives even when it causes us to experience momentary sorrow. And this will always result in future comfort. Now, notice the statement, momentary sorrow resulting in future comfort It's not like God enjoys seeing people suffer. He does not. But God does know that suffering and pain and discomfort momentarily may serve a bigger purpose and actually be a valuable thing and be for our good. We're going to look at some examples of this. So whenever God allows us to to face a challenge or a difficulty, he's not doing it because he's sadistic and he likes seeing us struggle, it's because he's trying to accomplish something through that in our life that is ultimately for our good. And so what God wants us to do in this text is he wants us to understand that even while we are mourning as believers, we are still in a blessed position. So let's begin, first of all, with the truth that there is a distinct progression in the Beatitudes. This is an important principle when we're looking at a sermon like this one. We can't just take one verse. Ignore the rest of the sermon, ignore the rest of Scripture, and be able to come to a proper understanding or interpretation of that particular piece. In other words, we've got to look at the whole of the sermon. And once we understand the whole of the sermon, then we look at how that piece fits into the big picture. And then we look at other passages of scripture and we go, well, well, how are these truths, how are they explaining expounded in other places? Or how is Jesus expounding something that was stated in the Old Testament? That's the way that we have to go to these passages. of Scripture. We have to interpret Scripture with Scripture. So I want you to notice the progression that we find in the Beatitudes. First of all, we see the foundational quality of being poor in Scripture. spirit. And last week we looked at that con well actually it wasn't last week because we were at camp, but the week before, uh you had Pastor Chris last week, um we saw that poor in spirit has the idea of I understand That spiritually I do not have a righteousness that is acceptable to God. If God is going to accept me, I have to receive a righteousness that is outside of me, and this is really at the heart of the gospel. God declares me righteous on the basis of the righteousness of Christ. And in order for me to recognize that I need that, and in order for me to desire to have that, I've got to see that my righteousness Falls short. And so that was the first of the Beatitudes. The second one, the one that we're looking at this evening, is the emotional response to our spiritual bankruptcy. In fact, when we talk about repentance that leads to faith, many times the way that someone expresses what's going on internally is that there is, we could say, like a grief over sin. There is a sadness over their sin. And when I think of myself before God and His Holiness, and I think about the great chasm, the great distance between me and Him. All of a sudden, that brings sorrow to my heart. That would be the natural emotional response. So you can see how there is like a logical connection. Poor in spirit, how do we respond emotionally? We mourn. We are saddened by our condition. And then we move to the third point. The character qualities that distinguish those who are growing into Christ's likeness. From those who are in the world. So he mentions meekness. By the way, being meek is not weak. It's not, I'm just a pushover. In fact, meekness is a strength position, but I'm willing to show deference. I'm willing to be patient. I'm not going to be forceful, instead I'm going to be very, very patient. That is the sense of meekness. We'll dig into that. Or hungering and thirsting after righteousness. I desire to live consistent with the character of God. Or purity of heart. A person's not a hypocrite. What they say and what you see is what's really going on inside. And let's let's just be honest The vast majority of people that we deal with are not they're not pure in spirit. They what you see is is completely different than what's going on internally. But somebody's growing into Christ's likeness is like that. What you see is real. It's genuine. It's the real thing. And then he talks about being a peacemaker. The idea is you can you care about people who are at odds being brought into fellowship or communion. It's a lot of work. It takes a lot of patience. It takes a lot of wisdom. It's a lot of love in order for you to help people who are at odds. So you see the progression. I see that I have no righteousness. My heart is broken by that. I turn to Christ. I place my faith in him. And now he begins to shape me into the image of Christ. Sanctification. And then we move to the last part. Well, how does the world respond to this? Radical difference of values. Persecuted for righteousness' sake. So if I'm really living distinctly as a Christian, the world doesn't understand that. They don't know how to make sense of that. They say, why are you thinking in such a way? Why are your values shaped by the Bible instead of just doing what you want to do? There's a progression here. And so let me explain it. Repentance leads to faith alone in Christ. That is what that foundational quality is describing. Humility and brokenness over sin finds its comfort in the finished work of Christ. His personal work in our lives and our future inheritance. So, what we're saying is that God uses that brokenness of heart to point us to himself. So we place our faith in Christ. And he uses that brokenness over sin to do what to the believer? To shape them into the image of Christ. And he uses the challenges of life, which we are all going to encounter. He uses those to purify us and to mature us and to strengthen us and to make us long for our future inheritance. And make us appreciate our future inheritance. That is the progression that we find in the Sermon on the Mount. Second truth: suffering in a fallen world is a reality that is universally experienced. Now, one of the great struggles I think in some Christian churches is that they're not willing to speak honestly and objectively about how life is. Righteous people suffer, and so do unrighteous people. Rich people suffer, so do poor people. Strong people suffer, so do weak people. People who are very wise suffer. People who are unwise suffer Believers suffer, and so do unbelievers. You see, it doesn't matter what category you find yourself in. You will experience hardship in life. One of the things that the Bible does is it prepares us how to process The things that we're going to encounter in life so that we can live through them and triumph in the midst of those things. So that we can grow through those things. Suffering in a fallen world shouldn't shock anybody. Okay? And I'm not saying that we should have a martyr's complex, that we want to suffer. That's not what I'm saying. What I'm saying is we understand this is a part of living in a world where all of us are sinners, and this is a fallen world, and so lots of complications are going to ensue from that. Let me read you a couple of scriptures that just lay this out so clearly. The first one I'll mention is in Ecclesiastes chapter 11. We did a study through the book of Ecclesiastes about was it a year and a half, two years ago? I forget. I can't remember. I think it was during 2020 is when we did it. It was like a year, year and a half long. This is at the end of the book, this is what it says. If a man live many years and rejoice in them all, yet let him remember the days of darkness. Darkness. Hold on a second. He's talking to a person who's lived a good life. I mean, as we get to the end of our life, we kind of categorize it as this person's lived a great life, or this person's lived a hard life. But the person who's lived a hard life has experienced certain blessings. And the person who's lived a great life has experienced some real serious hardships. He says, let this person remember the days of darkness, for they shall be many. All that cometh is vanity. I love this statement. Rejoice, O young man, in thy youth, and let thy heart cheer thee in the days of thy youth, and walk in the ways of thine heart and the sight of thine eyes, but know thou this. That for all these things God will bring thee into judgment. Therefore, remove sorrow from thy heart, put away evil from thy flesh, for childhood and youth are vanity. Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth. While the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh, when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them. Basically, what Solomon is saying is this: Young people make really bad decisions. And it's because they don't have perspective, okay? And older people live with regrets Because they were once young. Okay? And he says, listen when you're young to older people who are like, hey, when you do that, this is what happens 20 years later. You know, like like some of some of you that were athletes, you know, and you're you're going, you're getting like a hip replacement surgery. I got two I got two new knees. Kind of Okay. That kind of stuff. Well, you know, the the fact is that the reason that people have these problems is because when they were 18, 20, 22, 24, they treated their body like they were always gonna be 18, 20, 22, 24 Or maybe their job made them treat it like it was sad, I don't know. Things like that. But the idea is that one day life plays out and you you experience the consequences of the choices that you make. make. Job 5. 7, he says, man is born unto trouble as the sparks fly upward. Job 14, 1, man that is born of woman is a few days and full of trouble. Now listen, I'm not here to make life Miserable and to make you all leave depressed. Actually, this is going to leave in a fairly hopeful uh viewpoint, I believe. But we have to be honest. We have to be honest about life. We have to be honest about the kind of world that we live in. There are all kinds of sufferings and a fault. There's physical sufferings. Well, there are people in our church that they would love to be able to come out to services. Physically they can't do it. There are relational pressures. You know, the closest relationships we have are the ones that we sometimes struggle the most in. Because these are the people that spend time with us the most. They're the ones that have the most to gain or to lose by our interactions. Think about how troubled our conscience is when we sin. You know, the world doesn't want to talk about sin, but they have to live with the reality of it. We are moral creatures, so that means that when we violate our conscience, we're going to be affected by that. Think about anxiety and fear. Think about in our society today, how many of our young people are just crippled by anxiety, crippled by fear, crippled by uh all these kinds of internal struggles, injustice. When people treat us wrong, objectively wrong, and there seems to be absolutely no settling of the matter, there's nothing that makes you more angry in life than that. It's the truth. Or when you see somebody else that is treated unjustly, and those who are in the authority position who are supposed to deal with it and they don't, that's infuriating. This is a part of the kind of suffering and struggle we deal with in life, unmexed unmet expectations. We expect something to play out a certain way. Hey, it worked out this way for them, but it's not working out this way for me. And that that bothers us internally. What's the point? There are all different kinds of suffering. There are all different kinds of ways that internally we deal with struggle. Nobody can escape these types of sufferings. And God is not obligated to insulate us from every single effect of living in a fallen world. But he mercifully lightens our loads. And here's the key: He uses trouble for responsibility. Redemptive purposes. We know Romans 8. All things work together for good to them that love God. To them who are the called according to his purpose. If you're a Christian, God takes all of these challenges And he uses them to accomplish good in your life. I'm not saying that they're good. I'm saying he uses them for good. In other words, he chooses not to intervene He allows us to experience the challenge, but he takes that challenge and he uses it to accomplish a good thing. You say, well, where are some examples of that? We're going to get to some in just a minute. Third thing I want us to notice before we get there, we're blessed ultimately because there are always redemptive purposes for us when we suffer Now, if you're not a Christian, if you don't know the Lord Jesus as your Savior, this is a different category. We'd have to talk about this from a totally different perspective. Because the world gets its best life now, not later, now. For instance, listen to what Matthew 5, 43 says You have heard that it has been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy. I say unto you, love your enemies, bless those who curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them that despitefully use you and persecute you. And then he says, here's why. That ye may be the children of your Father who's in heaven. For he maketh his son rise on the evil and on the good. He sendeth reign on the just and on the unjust. Do you know what that's saying? You want to be like God in how you deal with people? Treat your enemies kindly. You say, well, that's what God does? Yeah. I mean, do you think that there are farmers that are atheist and they have just as good a crop as their Christian neighbors? The answer is yeah, they might even have a better crop. Do you think that every non-believer in the world has a poor marriage? No, that's that's not true. Does every single person who's not a Christian have a complicated, messy family life? No, they don't necessarily do that. The truth is if they make wise choices, even though they don't know the Lord as their Savior He'll bless them materially because of the choices that they make on this side of eternity. But that kindness does not eliminate the emptiness of the very best the world has to offer. Even though God is kind to the person that rejects him and kind to the person that doesn't know him, that does not change the fact that there is a hollowness to that blessedness. There is an emptiness that is under the surface of that because this is not all there is. There is an eternity that follows. And we see this in Luke chapter 12, verses 20 and 21. Listen to what Jesus says about this concept. There was a man who had. Went out into his fields and he had this incredible harvest and he says, I'm gonna I'm gonna take my my produce and I'm gonna build these massive barns I'm going to fill these barns and I'm going to kick back and I'm going to enjoy the rest of my life because I'm blessed. This is what Jesus says. God said unto him, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee. Then who shall those things be which thou hast provided? So is he that layeth up treasure for himself is not rich toward God. Do you see that? The man was materially blessed. But because he didn't consider eternity, it was hollow. It was empty. The best he gets is putting it in the barn. And somebody else is going to get to enjoy it. That's what he's saying. And he says, if you reject God and you reject the gospel and you don't consider eternity, it's not that God gives you a terrible life. He's actually pretty kind to you. But there's a there's an there's an endpoint on that. Or the kindness will not provide an escape from his future eternal judgment against sin. Romans 2, 3, thinkest thou this, O man, that judges them which do such things that thou shalt escape the judgment of God? He says, despiseth thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance, not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance? What's the point? The point is God is good to people. But when they reject the gospel, there's an emptiness to that goodness. There's an endpoint to that kindness, and there is in a future judgment that they will not escape. That's what he's saying. But the Christian is totally different. The Christian experiences good in this world and difficulty in this world, and God uses the good and he uses the bad. And it's all in the light of eternity. And that is really what is being captured in Matthew 5. He says, blessed are those who mourn, because they will be comforted. There is a future aspect to this. And so in Romans chapter 8, verse 18, this is what Paul says. He says, I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to compare with the glory which shall be revealed in us. Okay, life's hard, but this life is not the end. And God uses the heart to accomplish something that's good. So we have to reckon that in fact the suffering that we experience today is not worthy to be compared with the weight of the glory that's coming in the future. There's temporal value in the sufferings we experience as Christians. There is future value, and there is a triumph, and it's all about what the gospel gives us. So I want you to turn me to the book of James because I want you to see how James takes this concept. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted, and how he kind of expounds it all throughout the book of James. Okay? The first example I want to give you is in verses 2 and 4 of chapter 1. Here's what it says. My brethren, count it all joy when ye fall into diverse temptations. Knowing this that the trying of your faith worketh patience. But let patience have for perfect work, that ye may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. Now James is not saying rejoice in the thing that's going on that's bad. He's saying rejoice in how God uses the bad to accomplish good. That's really what he's saying. And what he's ultimately saying is you rejoice because it produces a maturity. If you want to grow spiritually, Then the way that it happens is you have to go through difficulties. You know, it's like a person who wants to get into shape. You don't get into shape by sitting in your lazy boy chair and watching TV. You don't get into shape by making a plan and then examining your plan and saying, oh, that's a really great plan. You don't get it for signing up for an app. You get in shape by going to the gym. And it's not by going to the gym once or twice. It's establishing a pattern. Of training your body. You don't get good at playing the piano by just paying somebody who plays the piano. You don't get good at playing the piano by listening to people play the piano. Or dreaming about how good you could be at it. Envisioning it. You get good at playing the piano by doing it. You've got to put in the time. There's a process. Anything in life that has value has a process that must be gone through in order to actually get that outcome And so if we say, God, please mature me spiritually, he's going to say, All right, are you ready from some difficulties in life? In fact, it's not just reading the Bible that matures us. It's reading the Bible and walking through the challenges of life and taking the scripture and applying the scripture in the challenges of life. That's how we mature. It's that combination. It's the reading and the meditating. It's the challenges we encounter, and it's the Spirit of God growing us through those difficulties as we apply the Scripture. This is a great example of what he means by blessed are those who mourn because they shall be comforted. This is the person that is experiencing testing, and the testing of their faith is producing patience. Second example, turn just a few verses ahead to verses 9 and 10. This is a fascinating statement. He says, let the brother of low degree rejoice in that he is exalted, but the rich in that he is made low. Because as the flower of the grass he shall pass away. Again, this is a proverbial statement. The rich person should rejoice in the fact he's brought low, and the poor should rejoice in his low degree being exalted. You say, well I don't want to be poor and I don't want to go through hardship and I don't want those difficulties. But he says the person who has the struggle is actually the one who's in the better position. Why? Because God's using that in their life. And the person who has everything going well for them is a reality check. And that's what he means when he says, let the rich, and that he's made low, because as the flower of the grass he shall pass away. In other words, when I'm proud and I'm self-reliant and I feel like I don't need God, I'm in a terribly dangerous position. The best thing that God can do for me is give me a reality check. Now I'll give you like the sports analogy. It's like the you know it's the first competition of the season. You got all these guys, you know, they're they're wrestling, they're playing baseball, basketball, soccer, whatever it is, and they go against an inferior s opponent. And the coach knows it's an inferior opponent. And they go out there and they stomp their inferior opponent. And they come to practice on Monday and they're like, Man, we've arrived in life. And the coach is like, Well, the next one on the skin Schedule is uh gonna gonna give you a reality check. And the kids don't work hard. They play games, they're all talking while the coach is trying to train 'em and they're loafing in practice, and coach goes, Well, you know what? This next week you're going to get a reality check. And they go into that competition. They get stomped. And he says, all right, so where are we now? Now we're in the position to work. Now we're in the position to learn. Now we're in the position to grow. And all of a sudden, these kids, he doesn't want them to be demoralized, but he wants them to be sobered. And they say, okay, that loss is what's going to make us good by that. Well, the same thing is true in our walk with the Lord. We need to get a clarifying dose of reality, and God allows us to struggle at times. Because that is what we need. Third, James 1:12. He said, Blessed is the man that endureth temptation, for when he is tried He shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that love him. This is a fascinating statement. He's going to receive a crown And you say, well, when does he receive the crown? And what's the basis of this crown? Well, what James is actually referring to is something called the judgment seat of Christ. We as believers, we are saved by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. But one day we're going to stand before Christ. And we're not going to stand before Christ to determine do you go to heaven or hell? That's been determined already. The cross established a basis for us to go to heaven. But what God is examining at the judgment seat of Christ is whether or not we have been faithful stewards investors with the resources that he's given us. It's an evaluation of service. Have you been faithful or have you been unfaithful? That's really what it comes down to. And so basically, what he's saying is it is through the struggles of life that an objective basis is established for you to be found faithful on that day and to receive the crown. You don't get a medal for going and watching people run a marathon. You get the medal when you run and you endure and you finish and you finish whatever the level is for you to receive the medal. And so we don't receive the reward at the judgment seat of Christ without a basis for it. And so part of that basis is the struggles. of life. God allows us to go through these difficulties so that one day he can say, you know, that season of life you're in when you are 35, 40, 55, 65, 82. That health difficulty that you got, the way you you were treated in that situation, you grew through that, and you know you were faithfully enduring through that difficulty, and I took note of that. And I will reward you for that faithfulness. That's what he's saying. So the sufferings of life serve a redemptive purpose. If you're not a Christian, this isn't true for you. These things are not there. We then look at another passage, James 2. 5. Don't worry, there's only ten more. No, there's not ten more, don't we? Just a couple more. James two five. You're like how many chapters in the book? James two five. Hath not God chosen the poor of this world, rich in faith, and heirs of the kingdom? Which he hath promised to them that love him? There's a refining value that comes through suffering. Think one of the best examples of this. Is what I as a pastor experience when I go and visit older Christians who are uh they're in the hospital. They they've had uh a very difficult health experience, maybe they're dealing with cancer. Maybe they've just had a surgery. They've had some kind of major health issue. Or maybe frankly, they're just physically declining. And they're going to be in the hospital or in a rehab facility for the rest of their life. Now, if I put myself in that situation, I I think of how frustrated I get at a red light. Okay? I think about how frustrated I get when I have some kind of like Not a debilitating injury, but just something that's not it's it just slows you down. You know what I'm talking about? That's not what we're talking about for these people. They're laying in a room, all these IVs, oxygen, nurses come in and check on them. They may have very few friends that come to see them. But you go and you sit down at the side of a person like that, and you just let them talk. It blows me away. The kind of strength of faith sometimes people have in such a situation. I asked myself the question, could I do that? I'm a pastor. I study the Bible. I teach it. And I ask myself At the stage in life I'm in right now, if I was in their shoes, would I respond the same way they are? Well, how do they get there? They live life. That's how they get there. In other words, God shapes them as they go through all of life, and when they come to the end there, there is a strength and there is an endurance that is it's it's it's a grace from God. God. And I think that is one of the senses of what happens when we go through the struggles of life. James 4 6 Listen to this one. God resisteth the proud, but he giveth grace to the humble. Submit yourselves, therefore, to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you Draw nigh to God, He will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners, and purify your hearts, ye double-minded. Be afflicted and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning, and your joy to heaviness. Humble yourself in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. This is the way life works. All of us need a good dose of humility. You know what humility is? It's us seeing ourselves the way that God sees us. It's not us lowering ourselves. It's us seeing ourselves objectively. And there's really one of two ways that we can be humbled. Either one, we could do it ourselves. That's the good way. Or two, God can use circumstances to do it for us. In other words, he can allow us to struggle in an area of temptation. You say, well I thought God doesn't want me to sin. Of course he doesn't want you to sin. But if you're arrogant and self-reliant, guess what? He's going to let you struggle so that you will see you have to depend on him. See, you've got it all figured out. It's like the person that's 18, 19, 20 years old, and they know how to raise kids. And all of a sudden they get married and they have kids and they're like, I didn't know how to raise kids. I've been there, okay. You know. I know these people they need to get there, act together with their children. And I'm like, whoo, life is tough, man. Just trying to hang on here. What is that? It's it's a dose of humility. So God uses the hardships of life. To humble us. One of the great effects of listening to the preaching and teaching of God's Word is it is God's gracious way of bringing us to humility without having to make life hard. It really is. When we will when we will submit our wills to what he's saying through the word, it it it keeps us from having to deal with a lot of hardships and But God brings us a reviving and a spiritual renewing when we go through hardship in life. The last one I'm going to mention. is James 5. 14. And this is a passage of scripture that is probably misrepresented many times. But I want you to see what I think James is saying. He says, Is there sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the church. Let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer of faith shall save the sick. The Lord shall raise him up. And this next statement is very interesting. If he hath committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. Confess your faults one to another, pray for one another, that ye may be healed. Say, well, what's he talking about? I think what basically James is talking about is what happens When God has to use something severe to get our attention. Now, chastening is something that is a part of the Christian experience There are times that God is dealing with us, we could say, on the conscience level. So we you know we we have a conversation with somebody and they say, hey, I've noticed this, I'm a little concerned about it. It pricks our conscience, but we just kind of push it to the side. You know, we sit in the message and the pastor has no idea what we're dealing with, but he hits this point and you're like, whoa, it's like he could see me. Well, I I mean I can see where you're sitting, but I didn't know you were dealing with that situation. Had no idea. But God knew. And so he took that text and just drove it home. And there's conviction. The person just pushed it away. I'm not gonna listen to this. I'm not gonna listen to this. And then things get a little bit complicated in life. We get a little bit challenging in life. And what do we do? We buck up and we get even tougher. We get even harder. And so God just progressively tightens things up, and eventually he says, all right, you've crossed the line. I'm going to make life a little bit more difficult. Why does he do that? I know, because he's so hard and he's so cruel and he's so mean. No. Whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth. That's what the Bible says. And so he uses hardship to humble us because he loves us. He values our growth into Christ-likeness more than our temporary ease. That's what it's all about. So, what's the point of all these verses in James? The point is very simple. James is taking the concept, blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. And he says, here's about six, seven different examples of that principle playing out in the Christian life. You say, well, well, Pastor, how do you apply this? Well, let me give you a couple of thoughts in closing. The first is this: we need to process life like a Christian. There's something wrong when a Christian thinks like they're not one. Okay? It's just that simple. Now, I'm not saying that you stop being a Christian because you aren't thinking like one. I'm saying there is this there is this dissidence between those two things I understand that Christ died for my sins. I understand that sin 's bad. I understand that there's eternity. I understand I'm God's child. I understand he wants me to walk in holiness. I understand all those things, but I live like I don't believe them at all. Now if you ask me, do you believe those things, you say, I believe this and this and this, I can affirm them all But the way that I think betrays what I say I believe. It's like a practical atheism. Not a literal atheism, but a practical atheism. We need to process life like we really believe in eternity. Like we really believe God is good and God is wise. Like we really believe that we don't deserve God's kindness. Lots of Christians believe that they twist God's arm by showing up the church. I mean, I'm not saying God doesn't care if you're here. He wants you here. But he doesn't bless you because you're here. He blesses you because he's kind. He blesses you because he's good. He uses what's being taught to strengthen you as a person. But that's not a tool of leverage. It's not like, oh, I can I can I can make God do something because I just put some money in the offering. And oh, I prayed a good prayer, or I showed up, or I opened my Bible and I read. That's not giving you kudos, or not giving you a good standing before God. We don't deserve his kindness. We don't act like we believe that spiritual growth is more important than temporal ease. Like we're living for a future inheritance, not this world. That's what I mean by we need to process life like a Christian. I know every single one of those things. If you're a Christian, you know they're true. But do you live in the light of that? That's the question. Second, we must have a healthy tension in our disposition. Now here's what I mean by that. We as Christians should feel the weight of our sin and be grieved by it, and at the same time, this tremendous freedom that we have in Christ, that we are forgiven and we are the objects of his grace. That's what I mean by attention. So I know that sin is bad. I know that I sin. It grieves my heart. But I also feel the freedom that I have in Christ. I'm in this position by grace. I am grateful. I am joyful. In other words, I'm not just down and I'm not just up. I feel this tension between the two. And we as Christians have to live in that place. We understand His grace, we glory in His grace, and we feel the weight of sin, and we are grieved by sin. And so there's never this flippancy about sin. And there's never this self-righteousness about position. We find the balance. Thirdly, the way that we think and live must be distinct from the world around us. The way we make decisions should be totally different. You know, why does the world decide to do what they do? Well, what do I want to do? What feels good? Where do I make the most money? What's in it for me? The Christian goes, how does this affect my spiritual growth? How does this affect my kids? How does it affect my wife? How does this affect something related to God? The things that we desire and pursue are totally different. We're not living for this world. Not that we say this world doesn't matter, but that's not what drives us and motivates us. The way we process life should be completely different. And so I encourage you, let's ask the Lord to help us build our lives on this very simple process. Principle. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Let's pray. Father, I thank you for this text of Scripture. And really, there are a lot of scriptures that are built around this principle. Thank you for the passages in James that we could go to where James is simply taking this concept and he's expanding it into very specific areas of Christian living. Help us to recognize that as your people, we need to live like and think like we are truly Christians. Father, help us to recognize that as your people, we need to live with this tension. Between the weight of sin and the joy of a gracious position that's purchased freely, that we enjoy freely through the purchased work of Christ. Father, as we spend time together in prayer, I pray that our hearts should be strengthened, that we'd have great fellowship together. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen.