Let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer and then continuation of our study of the Sermon on the Mount. Let's pray. Father, we're so grateful for how kind you are to us And tonight as we open up the scriptures, as we look at Matthew chapter 5, verse 7, I pray that you'd help us to recognize the tremendous level of mercy that you extend to us, not just have extended to us, but you continue to extend to us. And we will experience all the way until we meet you face to face. face. And Father, I pray that you'll help us tonight to be able to take this text and appreciate it and then to apply it. And as we gather together for time of prayer, as we lift up requests to you, I pray that we would see your hand very evidently at work. And I pray for the children in the back, help them to have a wonderful class, as it's their last summer class going into the fall quarter. And we ask that you would just work in all these things. We ask all of it in Christ's name. Amen. Alright, Matthew chapter 5 is where we are tonight, and we're going to focus our attention on verse 7, but I'd like us to kind of read the whole section because there's a progression. in the Sermon on the Mount and the Beatitudes. And so we don't just take one of the Beatitudes and just separate it from the rest, but if we really want to understand each of the Beatitudes, we need to see how they are connected logically. in the flow of what Christ is teaching. So Matthew chapter 5, verse 1 says the following. And seeing the multitude, he went up into a mountain. And when he was set, his disciples came unto him. He opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall be called for they shall obtain mercy. Now, we're going to focus our attention on that last statement. I'll say it again. Blessed are the merciful. for they shall obtain mercy. Now, I'm going to just give you a little plug for a resource that's out there. And I know I've mentioned Martin Lloyd Jones a couple of times over uh when I'm preaching a lot of times and he's someone that I really appreciate how he handles the Sermon on the Mount. And you can read it as a book. I have it in book form. You can also actually listen to someone reading the book. And originally it wasn't a book, it was actually a whole bunch of sermons on the Sermon on the Mount. But the way that he handles the Beatitudes is extremely helpful. And so a lot of what I'm sharing with you really I I have been shaped in some ways. by the things that I have listened to and I've read in that. And so this particular topic of mercy is one that is extremely helpful. And so I want to encourage you, if you appreciate what's going to be presented here tonight, go back and if you can find some of those messages, listen to them. But let me give you a summary statement. And then a few introductory thoughts, and we're going to dig into the meat of our discussion tonight. Here's a summary statement. The progression that is laid out by Christ in the Sermon on the Mount to this point has emphasized the connection between who we are and how we think about ourselves. Matthew 5, 7 is going to redirect this progression into a new direction by showing how who we are shapes how we think in relation to others You know, for instance, when he says, blessed are those uh who are uh blessed are the poor in spirit, that is a statement about how I view myself. Or when it says, blessed are they that mourn, again, that is a statement about how I view myself. Or when he talks about the meek, again, this is how I view myself. But when he talks about blessed are the merciful, all of a sudden, mercy isn't so much about me. It's how I view you. Does that make sense? And then then he's going to go on to the pure and hard. He's going to talk about our motivation in relation to other people. Blessed are the peacemakers. Again, I'm thinking about other people. So what we're seeing is that who we are isn't just shaping how we view ourselves, but it actually goes a step further, how I view myself also influences how I view other people. And so this issue of mercy is the very first one that he mentions. Now as we look through this passage of Scripture and the other passages that we'll bring alongside, I think what the Lord wants us to understand is that How we view ourselves before God and how we view this issue of mercy, it's supposed to shape our attitude toward other people. That's so very important. How we view ourselves and how we view this issue of mercy, how God is related to us, it's supposed to shape how we relate to other people. And by the way, when we hear the word mercy, I don't want you to think the word compromise. It's like in some people's minds they think, well, if I extend grace Or if I extend mercy, then somehow I've compromised justice. I'm not looking at things in a holy way or in a righteous way. That is not the case. Mercy is not saying, oh, you're good and what you're doing is okay. That's not what mercy is. Mercy is how I view a person even when what they're doing is wrong. And I'm going to try to draw that out in just a minute. But let's look again at some of the things that we've been talking about. These qualities mentioned in the Beatitudes are all evidences of God's grace at work in our hearts. These are not natural dispositions. So when we talk about each of these qualities, including the one of mercy, this is not just, well, some people are naturally inclined to being merciful and some people are naturally inclined to being unmerciful. That is not the point of this. This is a Christian grace. And when I say Christian grace, I mean if you're saved, you have the Holy Spirit indwelling you, you're a new creature in Christ. The Holy Spirit is working in you and he's changing how you think and how you relate to other people and it begins to flow in a different disposition towards other people. That's why we say it's a grace. It's something God is producing in me through his work. It's not naturally in me. It's not just my personality. It's an evidence of sanctification at work in my heart. Second thing, these are all clearly presented in a logical progression. And I've already kind of mentioned that, but I think it's helpful for us to understand that when it comes to the interpreting of these things. A lot of times what he's saying is this Here is the future outcome of a person who has this quality. Not if you have this quality, you earn this future outcome. That is not what he's saying. So for instance, on this issue of mercy, he's not saying, Blessed are those who are merciful, because they've earned on the judgment day mercy from God. That's not what he's saying. He's saying that those who receive mercy on that final day are people who have this quality because of something that's happened inside of them. Those who have the kingdom of God didn't earn it by being poor in spirit. Poverty in spirit is what brought them to the point where they placed their faith in Christ. That's the idea. And so it's important for us to notice that detail as well. The third thing I want to mention is that the emphasis of the Sermon on the Mount. has constantly been about who we are before what we do. It's who we are before what we do. Now, I'm not suggesting that Jesus doesn't care about what we do I'm not suggesting that the Bible is not telling us how we're supposed to behave and how we're supposed to act. But this is not just a moralistic message. This is a gospel-centered message. So before I do, I am. Does that make sense? Because who I am is what enables me to do what I'm supposed to do. I can tell you you're supposed to do this and you're supposed to do this and I go through all these lists of things and technically speaking those things might actually be true. But if you're not a Christian, then what's the point of me giving you all these commands? Other than to say you don't measure up and you need to be saved. But to expect you to do them, to live the Christian life not being a Christian, it's an absolute impossibility. So because we understand God's holiness and his righteousness, that is why we see ourselves as spiritually bankrupt. Because we see how far short we fall. That is why we mourn over our desperate situation. Because we see ourselves as fallen creatures. before a holy creator. That is why we relate to him in meekness. So tonight, because we have come to understand God's mercy We have become the recipients of this mercy, and we are compelled to be channels that reflect this mercy toward others Do you see the connection between all those things? Because this is true, now this is what we're supposed to do. So it's more about who we are than what we do. They're both important. But they start with who we are These qualities also are all contrary to the values of the world. The world does not believe that mercy is good until they want it themselves. Okay? The world doesn't value Christ's righteousness and God's righteousness. The world doesn't say it's okay to be To view yourself as morally bankrupt or you have this need for righteousness. The world doesn't believe that The world believes that you are supposed to be the strong one and you're supposed to be the forceful one, not the meek one, not the merciful one, not the forgiving one, not the righteous one. Do you understand what I'm saying? So these points are all important for us to remember. So let's begin, first of all, by looking at this concept of mercy. And I stated this last week, and I I think it flows into this beatitude on mercy. Mercy starts with God. Mercy doesn't start with you and me. It starts with God Truth begins with God. Righteousness begins with God. Mercy begins with God. We cannot define righteousness if we don't know God. We don't have an established basis for truth if we don't know God. We don't have godly wisdom without God. We don't have mercy without God either. And so in order to appreciate mercy, we've got to start what the Bible has to say about God in this issue. So I want to take you to a couple of scriptures because I want you to see them for yourself. The first one I want you to turn to is Exodus 34. Now, I don't know about you, but I would say probably a lot of Christians, especially more conservative Christians, when we think about God, mercy and grace are not generally the first qualities that we tend to think of. I think most of us tend to think of holiness, justice, righteousness But mercy, we go, well, I know that God's gracious and merciful, but that's certainly not his foremost quality. But when we talk about God, we're talking about someone who is the perfection of all these qualities in perfect proportion. And so it's not like God is merciful sometimes and he's just sometimes. He is always just, he is always righteous, he's always holy, and he's always merciful as well. Notice these scriptures. Exodus 34, verse 5. Here's what it says. And the Lord descended in the cloud and stood with him there and proclaimed the name of the Lord. And the Lord passed before him. This is talking about Moses. He's seeing the glory of the Lord. And the Lord passed by him and proclaimed, The Lord, the Lord God, and listen to the next word. Merciful and gracious, long -suffering and abundant in goodness. Now, when we think about the glory of the Lord We think about God's holiness and his terror and his righteousness. And as Moses sees God's glory to the extent that he was permitted to see that. The very first qualities that he mentions are mercy, grace, long-suffering, and abundance of goodness. Isn't that significant? He is not saying, well, God is this sometimes and he's this sometimes. As you see the glory of God, you also see these qualities of mercy, grace. Long-suffering goodness. By the way, God couldn't relate to us. He would not relate to us if it wasn't for God having these qualities. He's a God of truth. He's keeping mercy for thousands. Forgiving iniquities and transgressions and sins. But notice the next statement too. And that will by no means clear the guilty Visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children, upon the children's children under the third and fourth generation. Now some of you go, well, hold on a second. Is he merciful or is he just? He's both. He's both. The fact is this, even the person that God judges In the harshest of judgment, he has extended tremendous patience to them before he does that. He has been very long suffering with them before he does that. And by the way, when God looks at a sinner in his misery, he doesn't look at them with this hardened, callous anger. He actually sees them with a spirit of mercy. And you're going to understand hopefully what that is in just a little bit. But this issue of mercy is important. This is how God views people. The second passage I want you to notice is Psalm 103. Please turn there, Psalm 103. Verses 8 through 16. I love this description. Of God's mercy. It is a powerful, powerful description. Here's what it says: Psalm 103, verse 8: The Lord is merciful and gracious. Slow to anger and plenteous in mercy. Now, is that saying that God never deals in wrath? The answer is no. doesn't say that. Is it saying that God isn't just? No, he's not saying that. But God is slow to wrath. He is merciful. He is gracious. He is plenteous in mercy. He goes on to say this: he will not always chide, neither will he keep his anger forever. He hath not dealt with us after our sins. nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. For as the heaven is high above the earth, so great is his mercy toward them that fear him As far as the East is from the West, so far as he removed our transgressions from us. Isn't this a beautiful description of how God has dealt with us? I love this next statement. He says, like a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. The word mercy and that word pity is essentially the same concept. So, you know, think about if you see one of your children sick. You know, my whole family's gotten sick over the last couple of years. weeks. And Owen, he's he's a miserable mess. I hope my wife's trying to watch right now, but Owen's been crawling all over her. And he he's just been a mess. And you know, when you look at your child in this kind of situation, his belly's bothering him, got a fever, all these different kinds of things, you look at them and you're like, you feel bad for them. You're sad for them. Your heart is moved. Now, sometimes dads, their hearts not always moved. Sometimes they're frustrated too. But but when we are looking at them with compassion, And tenderness, that is what mercy is. And so he says: this is how God is toward his children. As a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. He knoweth our frame, he remembereth that we are dust. Think about what it says in Hebrews. We have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our He was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. He's saying Christ understands by experience what it is like to suffer in this world. And because he does, when we come to him, he doesn't look at us and go, what's your problem? Just toughen up, man, toughen up. No. He's compassionate He knoweth our frame, he remembereth that we are dust. As for man, his days are as grass As a flower of the field, so he flourisheth. The wind passeth over it, it is gone, and the place thereof shall know it no more. He says, our lives are of vapor. They're so short. They're so fragile. So when God looks at us, he is compassionate. Another one, Psalm 100. Maybe I should have done Psalm 100 before 103, but I messed that up. Psalm 100, verse number 1. Here's what it says. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord all ye lands. Serve the Lord with gladness. Come before his presence with singing. Know ye that the Lord He is God, it is He that hath made us, and not we ourselves. We are his people, and the sheep of his pasture. That's a beautiful illustration. The sheep of his pasture We use the word pastor. Pastor is like a shepherd. But the ultimate shepherd isn't the person who preaches the word of God. The ultimate shepherd is God Himself. He shepherds our soul. He is the one that we are supposed to pattern our shepherd and care after. And he says, so we are his people, the sheep of his pasture. Enter into his gates with singing and his courts with praise. Be thankful and then bless his name. For here's the reason. He is good and his mercy is everlasting. You see that word mercy there. And then Psalm one hundred six, verse one. Praise ye the Lord, give thanks unto the Lord. He is good, for his mercy endureth forever. Who can utter the mighty acts of the Lord? Who can show forth all of his mercy? Praises. And by the way, the Psalms that are clustered in that area, that statement, the mercy of the Lord endureth forever, is stated over and over and over and over again. You say, Pastor, we understand God is merciful. Well, we know in our heads he's merciful, but do we understand he's merciful? They're not the same. Okay, you can get the answer right on a test, but does that mean you understand it? Does that mean that you understand it by experience? That you believe it and it shapes you? That's the question. Now, can I answer it on a twice? Yes, true or false? God is merciful. Yes, true. It's true. But do I know this experientially? So how would I summarize this? I'll put it this way. This mercy is ultimately God valuing people even though they're sinful. That's really at the heart of mercy. I look at a person's behavior and I see that it is unjust and it is sinful. But I also see that they are valuable to God, and therefore the way I relate to them has a bit of temperance to it. There's a compassion side to it. It looks at sinful people in their pain and their misery and has compassion on them and pity on them. It moves God to take decisive action to remove our guilt. Strengthen us in our weakness, comfort us in our misery, and provide redemptive ends to our temporal suffering. That is what mercy is. Now, if we don't understand that, then the rest of Matthew five isn't going to make sense. We will not live it out. Why? Because the capacity to show mercy begins with our appreciation of the mercy we have received. We could talk about loving our enemies. We could talk about forgiving someone who has wronged us. We could talk about casting judgments on other people. Those areas connect back to this concept of mercy. When I forgive somebody, why do I forgive them? Well, as God has forgiven me, so I forgive them. So as someone who understands God's forgiveness, then I go, I have to do this. This is a far less cry lesser crime than the ones that I've committed against God. And so it would be completely wrong for me to hold this against this person to be bitter and resentful and unmerciful. And so that logical connection it applies here. So that moves us to truth number two. Those who understand God's mercy also reflect God's mercy. If you understand it, if you've experienced it, then you will reflect it. And by the way, that's at the heart of what Jesus is talking about here in Matthew chapter 5, verse 7, where he says, Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. When he says, for they shall obtain mercy, he's not saying, because you're merciful, you earn mercy. That's not what he's saying. He's saying those who are going to get mercy, they've received it, so they give it. And so you can see the character and the quality of these people who are going to be in this final position. On the final day. That's what he's saying. And so let's look at this connection. First of all, what is mercy? So in 1 Timothy 1:2, there are several passages that this formula, if you will, is used. We know that mercy and grace are similar. We understand that they're kind of used in the same context, but they're not the same. There's a nuanced difference. So I want to show you this. 1 Timothy 1. 2, it says this. Unto Timothy, my own son and the faith, grace, mercy, and peace from God, our Father, the Lord Jesus Christ. Second Timothy one two to Timothy, my dearly beloved son, grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. Titus 1:4. To Titus, mine own son, after the common faith, grace Mercy and peace from God the Father and our Lord Jesus Christ our Savior. Question. Is he just being redundant? Is grace and mercy the same thing? The answer is no, they're not. They're a part of the same big concept, but they are giving us different aspects of how God deals with us when he forgives us of our sins. Mercy and grace are inseparably related, but they are also distinct. They are different. And so I want to give it to you this way. Here's what grace is. Grace is God's kind response to me in my sin. A common definition that you'll hear is it is unmerited favor. That is probably the most common definition. that we hear. And that's a great definition. But that the idea is that this is in relation to justice. Okay? So in Romans chapter 3, 24 it says, being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. That is the justest matter. Or Titus chapter three verse seven. Being justified by His grace, we should be made heirs according to the hope of eternity. So it's like this. God is looking at you and He's looking at me, and He says, You don't deserve to be forgiven. You don't deserve to be declared righteous, but because Christ has paid your penalty Your sin debt is removed. Because Christ's righteousness has been imputed to your account. Because you're in Christ, you can be declared righteous on the basis of that Imputed righteousness. This is a legal matter. God is giving me grace. He's giving me something I don't deserve. On the other side of this is mercy Mercy is God's kind response to me and my catch this misery. Did you catch that? The first is God's kind response to me in my sin. Mercy is God's kind response to me in my misery, the consequences of my sin. Okay? You ever had a person that you you you care about that could be a family member? They made a lot of bad decisions in life and they they finally come to you and they're like, you know what? I I've made a total mess of my life and I don't even know what to do, and they start telling you all these things. And they got this question, that question, how do I clean this issue up and how do I clean that issue up? And you just sit there and you just look at them and you're like, oh Now, in your head, you know all those things that they've done, they chose of their own free will. God didn't make them do it. Their parents didn't make them do it. Their siblings didn't make them do it. They chose it. Right? And you know that all these terrible things that are happening are the direct result of their poor choices. Now we could sit there and we go, well, you know, that's just what happens when you sin. And that would be totally true. But we look at them and we're like, I know that's true, but I'm so sad. what I'm looking at right now. Did you see what I'm talking about? I'm so sad. That's what mercy is. Instead of me looking with like this self-righteous attitude towards this person whose life is all messed up. I look at them with a sadness, with a compassion, with a pity. I want them to get on track. That's the mindset that I'm taking into this. Not this, oh look at you, what did you do? I mean, it is entirely true. And and and when you look at a person at in a situation like that with pity, it's not you saying, well, I don't believe in justice. And I don't believe in righteousness, I don't believe in holiness. That's not what's going on. You know those things are true, but your attitude towards them is compassion because you value them as a person. That's what mercy is. It's compassion, it's pity. Now, I'm not going to be able to go as deep into this tonight as I planned to. I have to go into two parts. But I want you to see an example of grace and mercy in a story that Jesus told. And I told this last night at the rescue mission. you guys that were at the rescue mission. You already know where I'm going with this. But the example of the prodigal son just vividly illustrates this concept. I'm going to read to you a little portion. I'm not going to like expound the whole thing, but I want to hit some highlights. And I want to show you how there's a mercy side to this and there's a grace side to that. Luke chapter 15, verse 11. Here's what it says. And he said, A certain man had two sons. The younger of them said to the father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. He divided unto him his living. Not many days after the younger son gathered together, took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living. And then it goes on and it says, This later on, when he came to himself, he said , How many hired servants of my father have bread enough to spare? I perish with hunger. I will arise. And go to my father, and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before thee, and am no more worthy to be called thy son. Make me as one of thy hired servants. Now, we tend, when we're looking at this passage, to emphasize the rebellion of the younger son. That is a huge part of the story. But that really wasn't the main focus of why Christ gave this parable. The reason that Christ gives this parable is to set you up. To have an attitude of condescension towards the younger brother. And then when a father shows grace and kindness, you're going, that doesn't make any sense. That's the point of the parable. And then he's saying this. That's how God deals with people. Okay? So the people that are listening to this parable, they're wanting to see the younger brother get it. And they're reveling in the fact that he's he's feeding the pigs and he's starving and he's just eating the husk and he's gonna die there in the swap. And then he goes, you know, I should just go home and plead with my dad. Please have mercy. And this is what it says. Here is the focus of the story. Verse 20. But when he was yet a great way off, his father saw him. And had compassion on him, don't forget that word. And ran and fell on his neck and kissed him. And the son said unto his father, and he goes into his thing. But this is what the father said. But the father said to the servant, Bring forth the best robe, put it on him, put a ring on his hand, shoes on his feet, bring hither the fatted calf, kill it, and let us eat and be merry, for this my son was dead. and is alive again. He was lost and is found, and they began to be merry. Now Here's the difference between mercy and grace. It says, when the Father saw him yet a great way off, he had what? Compassion, that's mercy. You know, he saw he saw his boy coming and he could have been like, are you kidding me? Who does this guy think he is? And he gets up off of his porch and he walks into the house and he says, somebody go tell that boy he's not welcome here. I mean that's kind of the way we would have been, right? Or he would have been like, okay, I got my tally right here. Here's all of what you owe me. When you settle this and this and this and this And you just go down your list, all of your depths, then we'll talk. That's not what he did. When he saw him, he had compassion. That's mercy. Now, did the father know he'd been disrespected? Of course he did. Did the father lose a lot of money because of his son? Yeah, in fact, he lost even more after he spent all the stuff on his son. But his attitude towards his son was one of compassion. You know why that is? Because that was his son. He loved him. As messed up as the kid was, he still loved him. And so when God looks at you and God looks at me in our misery and he has mercy toward us, what it's saying is not that he ignores justice and ignores his righteousness, he says, I still value you. I want you to be right with me. I'm willing to do everything so that that can be established, that basis for us to have communion. So mercy is compassion. But then the other part of this is that he says, bring forth the best robe, put it on him. Put a ring on his hand, shoes on his feet, bring the fatted calf, kill it, and let us eat and be merry. That's grace. And so when we talk about our salvation, we think about all the blessings that we enjoy as Christians. We are forgiven. We are cleansed. We are declared righteous. We are awaiting this eternal inheritance. We're new creatures in Christ. We have the Holy Spirit. You just go through all of these things. Grace, grace, grace, grace, grace. What's God's attitude towards us in this? Mercy. And so what Jesus is saying in this Sermon on the Mount Beatitude is this. The people that have this quality, they're the ones who receive mercy in the end. Not because they earned it. But because it tells you something about them positionally. That's what it means. In fact, the result of this infinite is this infinitely beautiful display. of kindness that looks at the sun with compassion, love, and a willingness to extend undeserving favor. And so I want to leave you with this tonight. We're not going to be able to get into to truth number three because we'll be here for like an hour and a half. There is a difference between grace and mercy. And I think a lot of us probably need to just sit down and we need to remind ourselves again of this concept of God's mercy on us. It's in relation to where we've been, okay, in this room. There are some people you got saved later in life. And guess what? You got saved out of a lot of stuff. And some of you, praise God, you didn't get saved out of a lot of stuff, you got saved from a lot of stuff So you grew up in a home where you were taught the word of God when you were a young child. You went to Sunday school, you went to church, you were taught God's word, and and and God saved you at a young age. And thankfully, you didn't end up where you would have most definitely been had it been a different set of circumstances. And so I think what we need to do is we need to sit back and go, God? Could you please remind me again of the weight of your mercy? Because that is supposed to shape how I view other people. And if I really understand it, not only is it supposed to, it will. It will shape. You'll have the situation, you're dealing with a person, and there's a part of you that just goes, bring their neck. In the back of your mind you're like, but how has God dealt with me? And you hold back. And instead of extending that harsh disposition, you extend compassion. It doesn't mean that you necessarily let them off the hook. They may they may to actu they may actually need to face consequence for what they've done. But in the consequence, there's not this vindictive attitude of anger and animosity. There's a sadness. But you recognize that this person, they do need to experience consequence. They do need to be restrained. That has to take place. But your attitude towards them in the midst of it is not one of vindictiveness. That is at the heart of this beatitude. Blessed are the merciful, they shall obtain mercy. Lord willing, next week we will continue. Continue our study. Let's bow together for prayer. Our Father, we thank you so much for this concept. Please give us a fresh reminder and expla uh understanding of how much you dearly love us as your children Help us to go back to these Psalms and to be reminded again that you pity us like a father pities his children. And you know our frame and you remember that we are dust. And when we stumble and we falter, we recognize that you, you dearly love us, and you are saddened by what you see. We thank you for the weight of the cross that established a basis for us to come into your presence. I pray that we would enjoy that, we would delight in the relationship that we have with you through Christ. And that this would shape every aspect of how we relate to one another. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen