Okay, well good evening. I'd like to welcome you to our study tonight. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then we will uh dig into this passage we've been looking at. Um we started it last week and we'll continue tonight. Let's pray. Father, we're very grateful for your word. And I pray that tonight as we open up the scriptures, that you would open our hearts, that we would understand exactly what the Word of God says. Help us to have a sensitivity to what you will show us. And I pray that as we look at this passage, that we will understand the implications that we find here. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, Matthew chapter 5 is where we are tonight. And we've been looking at verse 9. I'm going to read the entire section just so that we can kind of get a sense of it. And I will give you a couple of reminders from last week when we were looking at this passage. And then we're going to look at the second part of it. So here's what it says, Matthew 5, verse number 1. And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain. And when he was set, his disciples came unto him, and he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they that do hunger and thirst after righteousness for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers. for they shall be called the children of God. And last week we looked at that section where it says, Blessed are the peacemakers. They shall be called the children of God. And we summarized it this way. When a believer cares enough about the ministry of reconciliation that they will engage in gospel-centered resolutions, others will recognize their claim to be God's child is a credible claim. And so as we were digging into this passage, we kind of began by talking a little bit about how we can identify something. So we we talked about how you can identify a plant, how you can identify an animal. You look at certain characteristics. Well, how can you identify a Christian? We talked a good bit in depth about that. We talked about what a person believes, what they they state, this is what I believe, and then we we went beyond a statement of what our understanding of the gospel is. to whether or not we would say we have personally trusted in the gospel. But then we saw that there was another layer to this, and that is how has the gospel changed you? Is there actual evidence that the gospel has changed a person? And what that ultimately does, that's not how we become a Christian. That's not how we say a Christian, but what it is, is it's what influences a person to be convinced that in fact what you say about yourself is actually true. And so we tried to explain the statement, verse 9. It has a couple of parts. It has the part of the peacemaker, and so this is not a person who's just weak and appeasing. or passive or agreeable, this is a person who is willing to initiate resolution between people who are at odds with one another. And then we saw the second part is that they will be called the children of God. And that word called doesn't mean that this is how they become a child of God. It's how you recognize that their claim to be a child of God, in fact, it is a credible claim. You actually believe that what they say is true. And so we saw that James chapter 2 gives us a lot of insight into the kind of thing that is being talked about here. When we look at James 2, and he talks about a person being justified by works. James is not saying this is how you become a Christian. He's saying how does a person who claims to be a Christian, how does that claim actually be believable to the people that they are listening to? And so the idea Is that a person's claim to be a Christian can be strengthening or weakening the validity of that profession of faith before others based on the way that they live their lives? And so the focus of the passage begins with the presupposition that someone's profession of faith can actually be validated or it can be undermined. And so we talked a good bit about all of that last week. What I'd like to do this week is I'd like us to look at this issue on the practical side. How is it that a person who is a Christian has a desire to actually be a peacemaker? And how is it that a person who is a Christian and being a Christian is shaping their worldview, how does that actually influence how they go about trying to resolve issues between people in a practical way? And so I'd like to break it down with a couple of thoughts to think about tonight. First is this, interpersonal tension. is a regular and continual part of living in a fallen world. Now when I say it's a regular and continual part, I'm not saying that that's a good thing. And I'm not saying we should just throw up our hands and say, well, that's just the way it is. And so we shouldn't strive to be different. But let's be realists. We live in a fallen world. We are fallen ourselves. Everybody that we interact with is a fallen person. And because of that, tension is a part of life. Tension is a part of family life. Even the strongest of marriages are going to at times have conflicts between them. And by the way, Those conflicts between a husband and a wife can can down the road become something that actually strengthens their marriage. It doesn't have to undermine their marriage. Two people who think differently. Sometimes they sin against one another. There's going to be conflict. There are going to be conflicts between parents and their children. And sometimes the conflict is uh almost fifty-fifty. The parents and the children are both the problem here. Or sometimes there's a greater problem on the side of the child or a greater problem on the side of the parent. But The reality is that God can use those things to accomplish good in the lives of people. But interpersonal contention is a part of life. You say, well, where does it come from? Well, it comes from the heart of people. And there's a lot of scripture that talks about this. Proverbs 13 10 it says, Only by pride cometh contention The question is, well, where does pride start? It starts in the heart. Now when we see what we call pride, we are looking at the way that the pride is manifesting itself. But the actual pride itself is something that is within the heart of a person. James 4. 1, he says, From whence come wars and fightings among you. Come they not hence even of your lusts? That war in your members? Where is lust starting? It's in the heart. Luke chapter 6, verse 45. A good man out of the good treasures of his heart bringeth forth that which is good. And an evil man, out of the evil treasure of his heart, bringeth forth that which is evil, for out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh. And so we understand that these kinds of issues are going to take place because people are fallen. And by the way, as Christians, we recognize that when there's contention, you can't just assume that it's all on one side. Okay? In fact, you can almost assume that it's going to be split on some level between those two individuals And so this is the starting place if you want to actually work through an issue with people. The second thing I'm going to mention is this. Each of the qualities that are mentioned in Matthew 5, 1 to 7 are an essential part of being a peacemaker. Think about it this way. Look back at these verses. He says, Blessed are the poor in spirit. If you want to help two people who are at odds, And pride is the thing that is causing contention between them. Do you think that you will effectively help them resolve their issues if you step into that situation with pride as well? The answer is no, that is not how it works. Your pride will probably inflame the situation worse. So when he talks about a person who is poor in spirit, this is a person who has humbled themselves. They recognize that they have no moral righteousness makes them acceptable to God. They're a person that needs God's grace. There is a mindset of humility that is characteristic of the Christian, talked about here in the Sermon on the Mount, that is an essential part of helping people work through their issues. Well, he talks about blessed are those who mourn. This is a person who understands. I fall short of God's standard of righteousness, and I recognize I've got a problem. And so this is a quality that's very helpful in you being able to resolve issues with other people. He talks about the meek. This is a person who is controlled and they are measured, and they're not coming down with a hammer. But they're actually, they're very controlled and measured in how they resolve issues. Well, if you're going to help people resolve their conflicts, you have to be a meek person. He talks about those who hunger and thirst after righteousness. You want what is true. That's what you care about, what is most. You understand the standard of God Himself. Blessed are the merciful. You actually have compassion. Blessed are the pure in heart. You're not coming into these issues with ulterior motives. The reason that I know that I bring your attention to these things is that each of the qualities that he talks about that are characteristic of a Christian, someone who has a thriving, growing walk with the Lord, these are qualities that are an essential part of being a peacemaker. Being a peacemaker is kind of like it's the practical working out of these things. It's the context in which you actually see these things manifesting themselves. The third thing I want to mention is this. The greatest concern of a peacemaker is peace with God first. Peace with God. Before you're concerned about helping two people get things worked out between themselves, one of the questions you should ask is, are you right with God? Does that make sense? You know how many situations are better resolved when a person that you're dealing with is actually Christian versus someone who's not a Christian? Now I'm not just saying someone who claims to be a Christian. In fact, some of the most difficult people that you can deal with are those who they claim to be a Christian, they're actually not a Christian, and in their self-righteousness they hold this position, okay? But the idea is that a person who is a peacemaker is concerned about a person standing with God first. And there are two passages of scripture I want to draw your attention to. The first one is 2 Corinthians chapter 4, verses 1 through 6. I'm not going to read the entire verse section, but I want to hit some highlights that I think are very, very important here. This is what he says. Therefore, seeing we have this ministry, as we have received mercy, we faint not. You say, well, what is this ministry that he's talking about? It's a ministry of reconciliation. It's a ministry of us proclaiming the gospel to people so that they can be reconciled to God. That's what he's talking about. When he says we have this ministry. And he says God strengthens us in this ministry. Later on, he goes on to say this if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost. And in the God of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine unto them. We preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord, and ourselves your servants for Jesus' sake. So do you see what the Apostle Paul is saying? He's saying, my greatest burden in life is that people who do not know God, who are separated from him , who are in enmity with God, that those people can be reconciled to God, a ministry of reconciliation. You know what that is? That's a peacemaker. Okay? They are being an instrument in the hands of God to connect people who are separated from God, alienated from God, at war with God. to bring them to reconciliation. And we don't have the power to reconcile them. We have the message that God uses to reconcile them. And then he says later, he says, God commanded the light to shine out of darkness and has shined in our hearts. That's a great text. And we have missions coming up, 2 Corinthians 4. 7. This passage of scripture is actually that statement is in the passage of scripture we're talking about right here. And he emphasizes the fact that we have this incredible message that God uses to reconcile lost people to himself, and we're just clay pots. We're earthen vessels. And we are fallible creatures, yet God chooses to work through us and to use us. But then as he continues on in 2 Corinthians 5 , He says this in verse 14. He says, the love of Christ constraineth us. It's like it's captured us and it presses us and it motivates us to speak. And he says, if one died for all, then we're all dead, that they which live should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him which died for them and rose again. And so again, he's talking about this ministry of reconciliation. In verse 17, he says, all things are of God who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ. and hath given unto us the ministry of reconciliation to which God was in Christ reconciling the world unto himself. He hath committed unto us the word of reconciliation. Now that we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech you by us, we pray you in Christ's stead be reconciled to God. Now, these are just two scriptures that we could go to. There's so many other ones. But when he talks about in Matthew chapter 5, blessed are the peacemakers, they shall be called the children of God. A peacemaker starts with this great desire to see people who are sinners and separated from God, see them to be reconciled to God. But there's another piece to this I want us to notice as well. And that is that this piece in the vertical sphere begins with the gospel. A couple of passages I want you to turn to. The first one is Philippians chapter 4, verse 1. Now, this is a passage that I know that many of you have heard of, and we hear of these two people, Jodius and Syntheti. And uh their claim to fame is that they're they're the people that for 2,000 years of church history we've known that they had a conflict with one another, and a brother was asked to go and to help them resolve their conflict. But this is what it says. Therefore, my brethren, dearly beloved, long for my joy and crown, stand fast in the Lord. My dearly beloved, I beseech Yodius? And I beseech Syntiche, that they be of the same mind in the Lord. And I treat thee also, true yoke fellow, help those women which have labored with me in the gospel. With Clement also, with others, my fellow workers, whose names are the book of life. Now the reason I bring this up is because I want you to notice how Paul tells this individual to help these ladies. Notice these statements. Therefore, my brethren and dearly beloved. That word brethren isn't just like, oh, y'all are my like biological brothers. That's not what he's talking about. He's saying you are my brothers in Christ. When he talks about them being dearly beloved, he's not just saying that I genuinely love you and have affection for you. He is saying that But he's referring to them as those who are a part of the body of Christ. And he's talking about the bond that we have one with another in Christ. We see another statement. He says, stand fast in the Lord. This is a statement about their position. And then at the end he says, be of the same mind in the Lord. The point is that when Paul tells his brother, go and help these two ladies, he appeals on the basis of their position. But there's another scripture that I think lays us out even more clearly, and that is in Colossians chapter 3. And the section that I would I'm not going to go through every single piece of this. I'm going to hit highlights. But from verses 1 all the way to verse 16, the way that Paul speaks about holiness And the way that he speaks about how we're supposed to resolve contentions, all of those issues are set in the context of because you are a Christian, this is how you're supposed to live. So let me read to you a couple of the pieces here and then draw your attention to them one at a time. He says, if ye then be risen with Christ, Seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affection on things above, not on things of the earth For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God. He skips on and he says this: Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth. Verse number eight. But now ye also put off all these things, anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communication. Lie not one to another, see that ye have put off the old man with his deeds, and have put on the new man which is renewed in knowledge after the image of Christ. Later on he says this, put on therefore as the elect of God, holy and beloved, bows of mercies. Kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long suffering. Now I'm going to stop there because there's some pieces that I want to draw your attention to that are very important to showing you how a person who is a peacemaker How they're going to approach these issues because of their being a Christian. The first of these I want to show you is what it says at the beginning of the text in verse number one. He says, if Ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above. Now, Paul could have very easily said, hey Here are the things God wants you to do. And he would have been completely right in approaching it that way. Okay? Here's a list of things that you should do. But that's not how he did it. He starts with a statement. If You then are risen with Christ. He's saying these apply to you in particular because of your position as a Christian. That's what he's saying. So when a person is a peacemaker, especially when they're trying to help two brothers or two sisters or a brother and sister adopts with one another, one of the first things they're going to say is, well, are you a Christian or not? And if you're a Christian, well then the way that you and I approach this is totally different to the world around you. We then see another statement later on. He says this Set your affection on things above, not on things of the earth, and the next word is important. For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ and God. So in the same way that earlier he says, if these things are true, then this is what you're supposed to do. Later on he says, here's what you're supposed to do for or because you're dead and your life is hidden Christ. Do you see how at the heart of how we're supposed to live is the gospel? Later on he says, mortify therefore your members. And that word mortify means to take those lustful passions that dwell inside of us and put them to death. That's what it means. So that desire of a lustful passion needs to be put to death. And that desire of pride needs to be put to death. And you go through any kind of lustful response, It needs to be put to death. But he says, mortify therefore. What is he saying? Well, because you're a Christian, then that's what you're supposed to do. He then goes on and he says, but now put off all these things. Now when he says, but now he's basically saying, well, there was a time when you were living in these things, and you lived in those things by nature, because you didn't know the Lord Jesus as your Savior. You were not a Christian. But now that's not true about you. And so because you're a Christian, these are things you need to put off. He goes on and says this Having put on the new man, which is renewed in the knowledge of him, after the image of him that craved him. But this is where it really gets interesting. Because this is where he starts getting into this issue of resolving conflict. Here's what he says. Put on, therefore, as the elect of God. Did you catch that? Put on, therefore, as the elect of God. You know what that statement means? If you are God's child, the elective God, that's what he's talking about. If you're his child, there are certain things that you're supposed to do. Okay? So he's appealing to their behavior from the position that they have in Christ. And then he tells them the kinds of things that they're supposed to put on. Bowels of mercies. This is like a deep-seated compassion. Kindness, humbleness of mind , meekness, long -suffering Forbearing one another, forgiving one another. Do you notice how all of these pieces, which by the way, if you want to resolve a conflict with a person, You have to put on bowels of mercy, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, forbearing one another. That means they're not acting right, but I'm going to be patient with them. Yes, they've done wrong, and now they've there's a repentant heart and they want to resolve the issue and I'm actually going to extend forgiveness and we're going to try to get this issue resolved. I'm going to actually respond in such a way Where does it all start? It starts with put on, therefore, as the elect of God. That's what he's saying. Then he goes on to say this: even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye. So as a Christian, if I'm unwilling to forgive, I'm basically saying I don't understand what forgiveness is. I'm not in any way thinking how God has dealt with me at all. When I'm unwilling to extend grace, when I'm not willing to be merciful to a person, when I'm unwilling to forgive a person who has wronged me and they really want to make the issue right, what I'm basically saying is I'm not thinking anything of how God has dealt with me. It's completely inconsistent with how a Christian should be thinking. And so this is the argument that Paul is making. As Christ forgave you, so also do ye. And then here's another great statement. Let the peace of God rule your hearts. Now listen carefully. That verse is not, here's how you make a decision. Either you have peace or you don't. And God gives you this subjective guidance. That is not biblical, okay? It is not a biblical way of making decisions. It is a mystical way. It's a dangerous way, and I could say a lot about that. But in this passage of Scripture, he is explaining how people who are at odds resolve their differences. You know how they resolve their differences? They let the peace of God rule. You say, what's the peace of God? It's called a cross. It's called God reconciled his enemy to himself by his grace. So when he says, let the peace of God rule in your hearts, he's saying, do you need to think about what Jesus did for you? You think about how he has resolved this conflict between you and himself. And that is supposed to govern how you deal with other people. That's what he's saying So he's not talking about how you make a decision. He's talking about how you resolve conflict with people who've kicked you off and they've truly wronged you and they haven't treated you the way that they should. And you stop to think and you go, How has God dealt with me? That's what he's saying. Let the peace of God rule in your hearts. What's the point of all this? The point is this. People who understand the gospel, and people who understand their position in Christ, and people who really have been overwhelmed by the way God has dealt with them. They are the only people who are in the right position to be able to help people at odds. It's the truth. Because they have the humility that is needed. They have the grace that is needed. Their heart is moved with compassion in a way that is necessary. They have the wisdom that is needed. They have an objective basis to be able to actually address those issues and help them work through those issues And so that is what ultimately is being stated in Colossians chapter 3. I'm going to move on to one more piece before we move to our final thoughts, and that's this. People who are known for striving to make peace in these two senses reflect the character of their father. Anybody ever had somebody say at like a family reunion or maybe it's like at a wedding, you you got all these pic this happens, you know, you go to you go to a wedding or you go to a funeral, okay, and you see all these pictures of of of people at different stages in their life. And all the family members are kind of sitting around. They're wa they're looking at these videos and they're looking at this slideshow and they're like, oh man, you look so much like your dad. They're like looking at the dad when he was four and there's their four-year-old and they're like, what in the world? This is crazy. Or they're looking at a picture of the older brother, and you're like, the like the little brother, man, he looks just like his older brother. And they look at that and they see those resemblances. Or, you know, somebody goes and they get they get a job and they're working for somebody that knew their dad 20 years ago. They say, man, this is crazy. You're just like your dad. I mean, you got the same personality. The way you talk is just like it's just like your mom. And what why are they trying to insult you or something like that? No. Or maybe they're trying to, you know, pay you a compliment. Scott's laughing. They might be trying to pay you a compliment. Actually, they may just be saying, you know what, it's amazing how we resemble our parents. You know, it's it's it's in the DNA. It's the way we grew up. Our household shapes us in so many ways. And here's the simple fact. Christians resemble their father. Not perfectly. Trust me, not perfectly. The church is a very imperfect place. But when you compare the true church of God to the world out there, it is a stunning difference. Now, if you can't see the difference, then that means there's a problem in the church. Okay? But those who are true Christians, and those who are growing into Christ's likeness, and those who walk with the Lord, they are so different than the world around them. And the difference is in the way they think, and it's in their demeanor, it's the way that they handle situations around them. It's the way that they process suffering and the way they process everything in life. And when we talk about this issue of making peace with others, when a person cares about souls like that, that is a resemblance of their father. Now I think about what Jesus says when he talks about a person being like their father. He says that he makes his rainfall on the just and on the unjust. It's almost like you have these two next-door neighbors. The one person loves the Lord and they're a faithful Christian and the other person is an atheist. They mock God, they hate God. And the fact is they live in the same neighborhood. They grow their garden. They get the same amount of rain. They experience many of the exact same blessings. And the fact is that God is so kind to people who despise him. They hate him. They mock him. They want nothing to do with him. He is patient with him. He will one day judge. But he extends his hand of grace in their life for so long. And he says, when you're a merciful person, you're like your father. When you love your enemy, you're like your father. That's what he's saying. When you're a peacemaker, you're like your father. And so in Ephesians 2. 4 he says, God who is rich In mercy for his great love wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, he hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace you're saved. That in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. You know that verse says, God looks at his enemies and he says, I want to reconcile you to myself. And I'm willing to do everything to make that happen. And I'm going to reach out to you in love and in mercy and in kindness and in patience. And I will forbear with you to bring you to myself. That's what it means. Romans 5, 6. When we were without strength in due time, Christ died for the ungodly. He says, if we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of His. son. So when a Christian cares about the lost, he's reflecting his father's character. When a Christian a Christian cares about Two brothers or two sisters or brother and sister who are at odds with one another and they want to see them reconciled and they make the effort to help them work through their differences. What are they doing? They are reflecting the character of their father This godly concern for people in their misery is something that reflects the Father's character. This willingness to patiently engage with people, it is a reflection of our father's good character. And the gospel is the centerpiece of their resolutions. You say, so Joel, what is the conclusion? Here it is. We should ask ourselves, are we peacemakers? Are we peacemakers? Do we actually care about the loss around us? And do we actually care about the conflicts that we We see in front of us, are we just cold hearted say, I want nothing to do, I want to deal with this, I'm just gonna leave it there? Or are we willing to actively go and engage those situations to the extent that we can in wisdom to actually help them be resolved? Next, do we have the humility, the burden, the self-control? The passion for God's glory, the purity of heart that is needed to be an effective peacemaker. A lot of people, I would actually encourage them not to engage the situations because they'll make it worse. You don't just step into it because you know you think you got it all figured out. Humility, a burden Control of your passions. Okay? You know, if you if you blow up at people and you can't control your emotions, don't get involved in other people's problems. You're just gonna make it worse. But the fact is, as we are maturing and growing, guess what? We should have the ability to actually get involved and help people work through their situations. Does your way of life strengthen the validity of your confession of faith, or does it undermine it before others? Now I'm not encouraging us To get the mindset like, oh, you know what, I really don't live much like a Christian. I don't want people to doubt that I'm a Christian, so I gotta start stepping it up a little bit. That's not the point here. The point is this. If there's a problem, I've got to go to the root. And the root is, I'm not walking with God. I'm not living consistent with my position. And so, like we talked about on Sunday morning, one thing is needful. Go back to the source, Martha. Mary cares about what cannot be taken away from her. And that's what we need to do. And so my encouragement is this. That the Lord help us to grow in maturity in such a way that we would live consistent with our position. That's the encouragement tonight. And that's what I want to ask the Lord to help us to do. Let's bow in prayer. Father, as we think about this very, very important topic. I ask that you would help us to be a people who are growing in maturity in such a way that our life would be consistent with the position we have in Christ. Help us to be living with the vitality that is available to us. Help us to be growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus. Help us to have a deep love for one another and a willingness to engage in these challenging situations and the character to actually be a help. I pray that you will help us to be sobered by the things we've talked about tonight and also encouraged as we strive to be faithful in these areas. And we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.