Good evening. I want to welcome you to our Bible study tonight. If you have your Bible, let's turn to Matthew 5. And then we will get started with the word of prayer. Matthew chapter five. Let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you again for the opportunity to gather. Thank you for every person that's here tonight. And we are so privileged to be called your people. We recognize that it is all of your grace that we stand before you, righteous and forgiven. And tonight as we dig into this text of scripture, we will see that at the heart of our Christian disposition Should be a recognition of the fact that we have no right to stand before you and no right to call ourselves your children outside of Christ's work. And so I pray that as I communicate this tonight, I would do it with And then as we lift up these requests, I pray that you would really knit our hearts together, help us to have sweet fellowship with one another. Please bless in the classes that are going on. On in the back. And I pray that your your word would be expounded with clarity wherever it is presented tonight. We ask all of it in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, Matthew 5 is where we are tonight, and I'm going to read the section that we call the Beatitudes, and then we're going to focus in On one of the Beatitudes, the very first one, verse number three. So let's go ahead and read it together. Here's what the scripture says. And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain. And he was set, his disciples came unto him, and he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my name's sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. Now, as I mentioned at the beginning of this text, we're going to focus our attention on the third verse, which says the following: Blessed are the poor in spirit. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Now, before I give you a summary and before I tell you the questions that we're going to dig into this evening I want to remind you about what we talked about last Wednesday night. Last night we talked about the fact that when we look at these qualities, every single one of these qualities are qualities that the world would not consider to be good. They wouldn't consider them to be a blessing. They would consider these to be qualities that are contrary to what the world would say to do. In fact, we actually went through those things and if you If you uh didn't get to see the message last week, I'd encourage you to go back and we kind of contrasted what does the world say in this? What does the scripture say on these issues? And so on the very first of these issues, It is really foundational to everything else that we're going to say in the Beatitudes. In fact, the starting point here is very significant, and you will see why in just a few moments. So first of all, let me give you kind of a summary statement of what is ultimately behind this statement: blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. This is the summary. Genuine believers have a disposition of humility that is rooted in the understanding that their position is entirely of God's grace rather than their merits. Let me say it again. Genuine believers have a disposition of humility that is rooted in the understanding that their position is entirely of God's grace rather than their merits. We talk about whether or not a person is a Christian or not. We would have to say that this particular statement Blessed are the poor in spirit is at the heart of whether or not a person is truly a Christian. Because in order to have faith in Christ, in the biblical sense, your view of self has to be correct. Because if it's not correct, you're not going to believe you need a savior and you're not going to desire a savior. You have absolutely no compulsion to place your faith in Christ because you'll say, why do I even need Christ? Why do I need the cross? Why do I need the gospel? Because I'm good. I'm okay. God should accept me on the basis of what I do for Him. And so this quality is very important for us to understand. So here are the questions that we're going to ask ourselves this evening. The first question is, why is this quality mentioned? Now I understand that in the text it never says, oh, here's why I'm going to put this first. However, when we study the Sermon on the Mount and we think about what Jesus Jesus is saying, it makes complete sense that this would be the very first thing that he mentions as we move our way through the sermon. And In order to understand the part, you have to understand it in light of the whole. And so we're gonna we're gonna investigate that question. The second question we're gonna ask Is what does it mean to be poor in spirit? Okay? Does it mean that we're all we're all having an ewer disposition and we're just always tired and we always see things as very negative and dark and discouraging. Is that what he means by porn spirit? Well the answer is of course not. There are lots of unbelievers who have very dark perspectives on humanity and life. They do not have a poverty of spirit in the sense that the Bible is talking about. And there are people that have, we could say, very outgoing perspectives, they are very outgoing personalities. They look at life in a very bright way, they're very optimistic, and they can have a poverty of spirit. So this is not about personality. It's not about kind of like your view of life. Is it half full or half empty? Is it a beautiful day, lovely day, or is it a dark and gloomy, miserable day? That's not what this is all about. But we're gonna ask the question, what is it? it mean thirdly what is true of those who are described as poor in spirit i mean that is kind of the heart of the whole beatitude And then the last question I want us to investigate is, well, how does this quality practically affect various areas of our life? So that's where we're going tonight. Hopefully if I'm moving appropriately through this, we will be able to get through all of these questions. So first of all, why is this quality mentioned first? Part number one, the significance of this quality's position in the section. I'm going to start out with this statement. This is the first quality mentioned because it is the most fundamentally significant quality mentioned in the section. You do not have people mourning and hungering and thirsting after righteousness, and you don't have people who are pure in heart, who are being persecuted for righteousness. You don't have people who are salt and who are light and all the other things we're going to deal with in the Sermon on the Mount. If it does not start with this simple beatitude, they are poor in spirit. There might be a person that's saying, I don't want to be poor in spirit. Well, I hope after this message you'll say, I hope I am poor in spirit. Poor in spirit is what the scripture means when it refers to the word repentance. We hear this word a lot. So a lot of times when we're giving the gospel, someone will say, repent. And believe the gospel. Okay? Paul used that terminology. Sometimes the word repent is not used in a context. It's just the word believe or trust or depend. Sometimes the word repent is used alone, and the word faith or belief is not used. And so it's important for us to understand what the word Repent means in the context of giving the gospel to someone. I would contend that the statement poor in spirit is really a description of the heart of a person who is repentant. Toward God and trusting in the finished work of Christ alone. So when we talk about repentance , It is the radical thinking change that must take place in my heart so that genuine faith can be placed in Christ alone. It is not correct for us to view repentance as here's a grocery list of all the sins that I've got to stop doing. I'm going to stop doing this one and stop doing this one and stop doing this one. And stop doing this one. And so once I stop doing all those things, then I can come to God. That's not what repentance is. Repentance is not just I feel sorry for my sin. Repentance is a thinking change primarily. And that thinking change is not going to be completely disconnected from what's going on internally in my heart. It is the thinking change that must take place in a person's heart and mind in order for them to place their faith in Christ alone. And the truth is, every single person, when it comes to this issue of repentance, may have different roadblocks that are holding them back from faith alone in Christ. I think when we're doing evangelism with people. It's important for us before we go to telling them how to get saved, we should ask them questions to figure out what they believe they're supposed to. faith is determines where we need to take the scriptures so that they can say, okay, either this is rooted in the truth of the gospel or it's not. We have to get into that. So you may have a person that says, I'm not savable. I have all these terrible sins in my past. I'm struggling with sin in my present. There's no way God would ever accept me. And so the way that I deal with that person would be completely different than a person who says, Man, I go to church. I read I read the Bible, I pay my tithes, I keep the Ten Commandments, I'm doing a great job. God has to accept me because my my good works just they totally outweigh my bad deeds. And that person has a completely different starting point than the other person. They have the same fundamental problem. They're not trusting in Christ. But one is not trusting in Christ because they believe God doesn't want to save them. God can't save them. The other person is believing or not believing in Christ because they believe they don't need him. Their view of the gospel has nothing to do with Christ's death and resurrection. It's all about their performance, reforming their own life. So, repentance is the thinking change that's got to take place in order for a person to be able to trust in Christ and in Christ alone. And I'm going to develop this a little bit more in this next question. So you cannot be a Christian if you do not possess this quality. You can't. Why? Because in order to believe on Christ Your heart has to think about yourself and him different than it did before you were saved. This is not just paying a lip service like, okay, yeah, yeah, I believe those things, and I just kind of continue on my way. If a person has come face to face with the realities of the gospel the realities of their sin, and they understand who they are, and they understand they have absolutely nothing they can do to earn their way to God and understand what Christ did. They're going to turn to him, they're going to trust in his finished work. And that's something that fundamentally changes how they look at life in every single way. This also does not mean That they're always that every single Christian lives consistent with what they believe to be true. Okay? So we're not saying that a Christian doesn't have the ability to be proud. To live very contrary to what they ultimately believe. We can become like that. I mean, every single one of us, when we sin, we are making a decision that is contrary to what we believe to be true. I mean when when somebody asks you, is that wrong? And and you're like, yeah it is. Well then why'd you do it? Do you believe it's wrong? Yes. Then why'd you do it? Many times we do this. We we act contrary to what we know to be true, what we technically believe to be true. And so when the Christian relates to others in prime, they're living inconsistently With the values that are consistent with their position in Christ. So, I want to go from that to this next question. Well, what does it mean to be poor in spirit. So let's define being poor in spirit. Putting it simply, it's we see ourselves as spiritually bankrupt. What we mean by that is that when I look at myself and I look at my righteous credentials I realize that they do not move the needle even the slightest bit to giving God a reason to accept me. None. God doesn't look at me and say, Well, you're a pastor, okay, you're faithful to your wife, you're trying to raise your children, you're you're you're handling your finances well, you're you're reading your Bible, you're trying to keep the Ten Commandments. So all of those things check, check, check, check, check. Okay, those are helping your case. That's not what the Bible teaches. We're going to get into that quite a bit in just a few minutes. It's seeing that we are spiritually bankrupt. Nothing to give God to merit our salvation, nothing to cling to, nothing to stand on. We have nothing that makes us acceptable to God. Now, don't misunderstand me here. I am not suggesting that a person who understands this believes that they are worthless. You can have tremendous value yet have nothing to give to God to give you a righteous standing. Okay? Because as image bearers, we have value to God. So we're not talking about someone who feels worthless, they loathe themselves. That's not what we mean by being poor in spirit. Poor in spirit is about my religious credentials. It's about how I view my righteousness. It's about how I view my good deeds. This is not a physical poverty. This is not, oh, I hate myself and I feel worthless. This is not a personality trait. So what is it? A correct view of this quality is that a person, first of all, recognizes that they are a sinner. So you cannot be poor in spirit if you don't accept the fact that you're a sinner. But it's not just this casual like, well, yeah, everybody's got problems. Everybody messes up. Everybody's got weaknesses. Most people in the world would at least be willing to tell you that. I am a sinner who deserves God's just wrath against my sin. Now those two things are different. Everybody messes up. I'm a sinner who deserves God's just wrath for eternity. Not the same thing necessarily. We recognize that we have nothing we can give to God to appease his wrath or remove our guilt. Now we say appease his wrath, we're talking about his just Wrath in his holiness against our sin. So I recognize I'm a sinner. I deserve his judgment. eternally and I look at myself and there's nothing that I can give to him to merit a position before him. Nothing I can give him to remove my guilt, to remove my sin, to satisfy his justice. I can't do it. That's what poor in spirit means We see ourselves as hopeless, as spiritually bankrupt. Now, the fact that I see myself as hopeless does not mean there is no hope I don't see hope in myself. Those things are different. We recognize we need a savior Not a helper to clean our life up. Someone to save us from our sin. Someone to save us from the penalty that we deserve. for our sin. We need somebody to not just give us a good example, give us a pep talk, encourage us, go 50-50 with us. We need him to save us doing all the work for us. Say it another way, it's a very distinct way of thinking. It's a very distinct way of values. It's not how the world views righteousness and how the world views goodness and how the world views sin. It's how God views those matters. It's a very distinct disposition of the heart. I'm humbled by the fact that if God does nothing for me, I'm on my own. It points us to the finished work and the righteousness of Christ. That's what porn spirit means It means that every single leg that we by nature try to stand on is knock out. One, one, one, one, one at a time. And we recognize there's nowhere else for me to stand. I must turn to the only one who can save me. And that's Christ. I want you to see this practically. I want you to see this straight from the scriptures. Because this concept is so fundamentally important. And I know that on a Wednesday night I'm preaching Primary to Christians here, okay? But the fact is on our live stream we may have some people that don't know the Lord is their savior. It's possible even to be here tonight and We we hear the gospel week in and week out, and it just kind of like blows past us and we don't really think about the weight of it. Or it this really can shape the way that we present the gospel to people. We need to deal with this issue of righteousness and sin and the substitutionary death of Christ and the imputed righteousness of Christ. All those pieces are very, very important. So, the first passage I want you to notice is Romans 8. 7. So if you have your Bible, turn there quickly. Romans 8. 7. And here's the statement. I cannot please God in my flesh. I cannot please God in my flesh. This doesn't mean that God doesn't love you. This doesn't mean that God despises you. This doesn't mean that God doesn't want to save you. It simply means in your flesh you can't please God. Listen to what it says. The carnal mind is enity against God. Another way to put that is at war. Okay? Fighting God. The carnal mind is at enmity against God. It is not subject to the law of God. Neither indeed can be, so that they that are in the flesh cannot please God. Just put it very simply, as an unsaved man, I can do nothing to say, hey God, take this, accepts me. I can't do it. I break his laws all the time. I live at war with him. I'm living contrary to the purpose for which he created me. That's the way that we live. The second scripture is also in Romans, Romans chapter 3, verse 10. It states this. There is none righteous. No, not one. There is none that understandeth. There is none that seeketh after God. They are all gone out of the way. They are together become unprofitable. There is none that doeth good. No, not one. I'll summarize it this way. I'm unrighteous. And I'm not the only one. We're all born into this world unrighteous. If it wasn't for God's intervention on our behalf, not just on the cross, but his intervention to get our attention to draw us to himself, to convict us by the Holy Spirit, to send people into our lives to give us the Word of God. If it wasn't for God's gracious work , On our behalf, both in securing salvation through the work of Christ and drawing us to see the truth through the work of the Spirit, through the preaching of the gospel, nobody'd believe it. Nobody be saved. Third text I want you to notice. Isaiah 64, 6. We are all as an unclean thing. And uh if you want to do some research in a commentary, you'll see that it's a very descriptive, unclean thing. All our righteousnesses are as filthy racks. We all do fade as a leaf. Our iniquities like the wind have taken us away. I guess I'll use this illustration to help you to appreciate what we have here. Here. So, my son still wears diapers. Not Joel. The baby. Okay? The baby still wears diapers. So Joel, now you listen back there. He's in the sound room. Okay, the baby still wears diapers And so, you know, he gets changed and the little diaper gets wrapped up and tossed in the trash can in the bathroom. And sometimes we forget to close the door to the bathroom. And guess what? If we forget one time we have this, I'm telling you, this dog, he is trouble, if you know my dog this dog will come up into our room and he'll slide into that bat and he'll pull out a dirty diaper out of the trash and he'll shred it under our bed So, that's what he means when he says all our righteousnesses is filthy rags. Okay. You'll never forget it, I promise you, you'll never forget it Great mental picture. It's even it's even nicer to clean up. Man, I don't like my dog very much at that time. Here's the point. When we say God here accept my righteousness, he goes, that Come on. Are you kidding me? I mean really this is the this is the sense here. Except it's not like, are you kidding me? It's like, that's offensive. Because really what we're saying is, accept this in the place of your son. Accept this in the place of his sacrifice. Accept this in the place of his righteousness. That's what we're saying. You see what poor spirit is? It's when we realize, oh, that doesn't cut it. That doesn't cut it. Romans 3. 19 Now we know that whatsoever things the law saith, it saith to them that are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world become guilty before God. Therefore, by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in his sight. For by the law is the knowledge of sin. I cannot be justified before God by my own righteousness. I can heap up my credentials for the rest of my life, and God will never be satisfied with any of it. That's what he's saying. The law doesn't give us a roadmap to heaven. The law doesn't give us a ladder to climb up to God. The law gives us something to knock out every leg that we Stand on so that it says, it's Jesus alone. Turn to him. That's what the law does. It stops all of our, but what about this? And what about this? And what about this? He says, there's nothing for you It's only Christ. Philippians 3 is probably the greatest text in all the New Testament to kind of explain this concept. I love this passage. Listen to what it says. This is the Apostle Paul's personal testimony. This is amazing. He says, though I might have confidence in the flesh, if any other man thinks that he hath rub that he might trust in the flesh, I more This is what Paul's saying. There is nobody living that has a greater case to lay before God than I do. Such a humble man. He says, I'm the best of the best. And then he lays out his credentials. He says, I was circumcised on the eighth day. Of the tribe of Issach of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, and Hebrew of Hebrews, as touching the law of Pharisee. He says we didn't just keep the law, we built laws on top of the law, and we kept those too. He says, concerning zeal I persecuted the church. You go, well, wait a minute. Well, in Paul's thinking, the church was perverting the way of salvation by telling people it's grace. By telling people that Jesus of Nazareth was nailed to a cross and rose from the dead, and through faith alone in him you could be saved. And Paul said, I abominate that message. I hate it. I despise it. He persecuted the church, touching righteousness, which is of the law blameless. He says there was nothing That somebody can say, Oh, I know Paul, he does this and he does it. I mean, your kids could probably point something out in your life and my kids could point something out in mine. Paul says nobody can point out anything in my life. I was blameless. Nothing sticks to my reputation. He says, what things were gained to me, those I counted loss for Christ. Yea, doubtless I count them all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Jesus my Lord. For my suffered the loss of all things, and I do count them But dung that I might win Christ, or another way to put it is, the dog got the diaper in the trash can. Paul says, There was a point in my life when I recognized Everything I was trusting in was worthless. That's poor in spirit. That's what it means. He said, I don't have anything to give God. And then he goes on to say this. He says, and that I might be found in him Not having my own righteousness which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. That's called the imputed righteousness of Jesus. He basically says, so before I was a believer, I lived my life to build these credentials, and I was so proud of how I was doing it. And I felt so good about myself and I felt so strong and so mighty and God needs to accept me. And one day, God just like completely knocked every leg out from under that chair. And he showed me that my righteousness is worthless. And I counted it, but dumb. I said, it is worthless. I agree with God. That's repentance. I believe what he says is true. And he turned to Christ and he said, You're my only hope. Not found in, I was found in him, not having my own righteousness. Which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness of God by faith. God gives me a righteousness that is not in me. I have this righteousness in Christ. That's salvation. That's how we're saved. There's no other way. And so then we move to a third part. What is the position of those who possess such a quality? Well, he states it two ways. He says that they are blessed. These blessings are all rooted in God's grace. They're not earned or kept. This person has embraced the truth. They're able to enjoy the benefits of the truth. And because they understand these realities, they can enjoy them richly. You know, there's a difference between being saved and enjoying the salvation you have. Okay? In one sense, they're the same, you're going to the same ultimate destination. But one has a richness of experience and the other one has a leanness of experience. And it's not because one gift is superior to the other person's gift. It's about how we think about it. It's about how we live in the light of it. And so he says this guy is blessed. He's the one who is happy. He's the one who has vitality Richness of life, not leanness of life, but an eternal life that is full and meaningful. That's what God says is true of this person. So the world says, oh, poor in spirit. Uh-huh. Yeah. You think that you're so, you know, you don't have anything to give God. And okay, yeah, yeah, yeah. That's not the way the world thinks. Say, I have nothing, but I have everything in Christ. And he says that person's blessed. He also says they're a citizen of God's kingdom. Theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Like Jesus says to uh Nicodemus, unless you're born again, you'll not see the kingdom of heaven. Matthew 16, 25 Whosoever will save his life shall lose it, whosoever will lose his life for my sake, the same shall find it. What is it prof what what is profited a man if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? What's Jesus saying? Are you gonna let pride keep you out of the kingdom? Are you gonna work your whole life to build your credentials like Paul did, and you're gonna miss the grace of God and the redemptive work of Christ? That's what he's saying. And so this person is blessed, and they're a citizen of the kingdom. Part number four. How does this relate to the every area of our life? Well, folks, if we have this quality of poverty of spirit, it affects everything about the way that we think. Being a Christian isn't just a part of our life. Being a Christian is supposed to be our identity. Do you understand that? So, because I'm a Christian, it affects what I think, it affects how I respond, it affects the choices that I make, it affects the jobs that I'll take or not take. It affects how I respond to grievances that people. have disrespect from others, frustrations, fears. It affects every single area of life. Being a Christian isn't just, oh, that's a little piece of who I am. That should be the centerpiece of who I am. That should be the center and the core of our identity. And so a person who is poor in spirit, who's placed their faith in Christ, that disposition affects everything about their life. For instance, our justification. This is great. Romans 5, 1 and 2. Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. We have access by faith into this grace. Wherein we stand and rejoice in hope of the glory of God. Well, how does that shape your perspective? Well, we're blessed because we understand our standing before God correctly. We can be humble and recognize, you know what? I don't deserve this position. I don't deserve to be forgiven. I don't deserve to be cleansed. I don't deserve to be God's child. I don't Deserve to be called a saint And that that humbles me. It should humble me. Security. We don't have anything to secure, to strive to keep, or that we should fear of losing. A person that believes you earn your way to God lives their entire life with a club over their head. Because in their mind they're like, boy, if I mess up here, it's over. If I mess up here, it's over. On Sunday, we were talking in Romans chapter 8. He says, you've not received the spirit of uh of bondage again to fear, but you've received the spirit of adoption Of children whereby we cry, Abba Father. The idea is that you say when you understand the gospel, you place your faith in Christ. You don't serve God because you're terrified He's going to crush you You serve God freely. Like you actually love Him. And that's the idea. And so that shapes your perspective. When it comes to this issue of peace, we have a settled heart because we recognize we're not we don't have to gain God's favor. We have it When it comes to our growth into Christ's likeness, 1 Corinthians 1-2, he says, unto the church of God which says at Corinth, to them which are sanctified in Christ Jesus. Called to be saints, with all that in every place call upon the name of the Lord Jesus. I love that statement. Sanctified in Christ, called to be saints. Sanctified in Christ is a positional thing. He's saying you are saints. Now you're supposed to live like it. That's really what he's saying. Well well the idea is that someone who's poor in spirit recognizes like my position had nothing to do with what I've done. It's what he did. But I sure want to live in a way that's consistent with with that. And it shapes it. We think about this issue of endurance in the Christian life. You know how many Christians Whenever something bad happens, the very first thing that they think is, I wonder what I did to deserve this. Is the most common way that Christians respond. But really, let's be very frank about this. Is that biblical thinking? I mean, does God like crush you every time that you sin? Well, we'd all be like pretty beat up if that's the way that it was. God extends tremendous kindness, tremendous mercy, tremendous Patience to us. I mean, there is chastening. There's no question about that. But I will tell you that God extends his hand of kindness and mercy and grace to us long before he deals with us harshly in chastening. And so a person that believes, oh, everything's going good because I'm doing everything right, everything's going bad because I'm doing everything bad, that mindset is not consistent with scripture. It's really not. We go to the book of Job and and we we kind of flush this out in one of our uh Sunday school classes. But the idea is that God's blessings really come of grace. And God allows hardship sometimes, not because he's punishing us, not because he's trying to make us miserable, but he's trying to build us, he's trying to strengthen us, he's trying to sh He's trying to help us to become more mature. For instance, in James one two, he says Count it all joy when ye fall into diverse temptation. Knowing this that the trying of your faith work is patience. Let patience have her perfect work Well, if the writer of James was thinking the way you and I do, he'd say, you better ask yourself why you're getting punished. That's not what he said. He says, Count all joy when you fall into diverse temptation. Because the trying of your faith worketh patience. In other words, James understands that a believer who's walking with God and doing what is right can face tremendous hardships. It's got nothing to do with you stepped out of line, I'm crushing you. It could simply be that God is bringing you through a process of growth and material. Our relationship to material success and blessing. We don't have to fall into the trap of the prosperity theologians that use doing right as a bargaining tip with God. It's like, okay, God, I want this car. I know I don't go to church. I know I don't tithe. I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't read my Bible very much, but man, I would really love this car. And so I'll tell you what, let's make a deal. I'm gonna start going to church, and I'll tell you how many times I'm gonna go, and I'm gonna start giving my money, I'm gonna start doing this, and if I do that, then you're obligated to give me this thing that I desire. Lots of Christians think this way. Some people even teach people to think in such a way. But living for God is not a bargaining. In fact, Paul flatly confronts such a thing as a false teaching. He says, James 1. 9, let the brother of low degree rejoice and that he is exalted, the rich and that he's made low. Fascinating statement. So we need to recognize that the the ups and the downs of life are not necessarily connected to, okay, everything's going great because I'm doing everything right, everything's going bad because I'm doing everything wrong. It's not that simple. It's a lot more complicated than that. Our attitude towards our need to grow. First John one eight, if we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves The truth is not in us. Phil Philippians three thirteen, brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, reaching forth unto those things which are before. We think about our future glory. We think about our relationship to other people, having no pride in our relationships. Philippians 2, let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others. better than themselves. What's the point? The point is this being poor in spirit, that quality That is a part of what has to happen in a heart in order for me to turn to Christ and place my faith in Christ is something that touches every, every, every area of life. And so how do we apply this? How do we live in the light of this teaching? Let me give you some final thoughts. The first is this. We need to walk with a consistency between our doctrine and our practice, what we say we believe, and how we live. Now, nobody in this room is perfect. I will start with myself. None of us are perfect. We are sinners. Saved by grace. And yes, kept by the power of God, but struggling in our walk with the Lord in many, many ways. We need what we say we believe, what we affirm to be true, to be consistent with the way that we think, the way that we live, the way that we respond. And so a person who understands the gospel needs to live like the person that they are. That is the whole argument of Romans chapter 6. six. Two, we need to continually remind ourselves of what Scripture says about us in our lost condition. Well someone might say, well Joel, that's morbid introspection. I don't want to sit there and like think about how how miserable I am and this and that. No, no, no, no, I'm not suggesting that. I'm saying we have to look at ourselves with a balance. We see the value and the dignity and the worth of us as image bearers and God's tremendous love for us as his children. But we also set beside that the tremendous weight of our sin. And what does that do? It positions us to recognize the depths of God's grace. Part of preaching the gospel to ourselves and reminding us of these things and reflecting on them and meditating upon them is reminding ourselves of the weight of our sin and our lost condition. And the great gap between our righteousness and God's righteousness. I mean, the longer that you become a Christian, the more you realize the standard is absolutely impossible to even come close to. Why? Because we recognize how holy God is. And we should continually rejoice in the position that we have in Christ with all of its benefits. benefits. This is what gospel centered living is. It means that my my my my position in Christ and my love for Christ and the weight of this sacrifice, it shapes everything about what I I do. A temptation pops into your head and you're inclined to do something, you go, I'm a Christian. I can't do that. That's inconsistent with who I am in Christ. Christ. These hands don't belong to me. These eyes don't belong to me. These feet don't belong to me. They're Christ's. I'm in him. I don't have any right to do such things. We need to think in those kinds of terms. We need to relate to life's greatest challenges from a biblical point of reference. When things are going great, let's not get in the mind, oh, I guess I'm I've arrived in life. Because things can turn quick. When things are very hard and very discouraging and very weighty. We 've got to get back to the truths of scripture and go, God, is this simply that you're helping me grow and mature and you're stretching me and you're building me and you're helping me to mature and endure or are these the consequences of my sin? Or have I been resisting you for a very long time, and you are lovingly getting my attention? I mean, all those things could potentially be true. It's not just one, it could be any of those scenarios. And we have to be objective and we have to ask questions. We might even need to talk to a godly person who loves us, who can work through this with us. We need to relate to others in genuine humanity. There is no room for the Christian to be brash, to be arrogant, to be harsh, to be vindictive. We're a people who have a position all of God's grace. We don't deserve it. We look at another person whose life has been great misery, and the fact is that at the cross we're the same. We look at somebody and the consequences of their sin, and we can get kind of high and mighty and self-righteous and ask the question, hold on a second. If it hadn't been for God's intervention here and here, that's exactly where I'd be. It's the same gospel that can save them that saves me We've got to relate to one another in humility. We talk about being poor in spirit. This is the foundation piece for how a person is going to function as a disciple of Christ. Christ. You cannot believe on a gospel if you don't believe you need it. You will not believe in a gospel that you do not want. And poor in spirit makes you flee to Christ. Christ. That's what it does. Let's bow together for prayer. Our Father in heaven, I pray that you will help us to have a very clear understanding of this concept When we give the gospel to people, I pray that we would do it with clarity and patience, wisdom. Father, when we live as Christians, I pray that we would live consistent with what we have Affirm to be true. I pray that when we relate to others, that we would relate in grace and in love and in humility. Father, help us to live the way that you call us to live in. It is your people. We ask all of this in Christ's name, Amen