Hope you're having a great week. And uh we're getting these little tastes of fall. So excited about that. Uh looking forward to our study tonight as we continue what we were looking at a couple weeks ago. In the Sermon on the Mount, let's bow for prayer, and then we will uh dig into the scriptures after we sing an opening song. Father, we're so very grateful that we can gather tonight. And as we open up the scriptures, I pray that you would help us to have very clear minds that we would understand the intent of this very important text of Scripture. And as we think about what Christ says about the merciful, I pray that we would understand what mercy is. We'd understand where it comes from. We'd understand what it says about a person when they have a merciful spirit towards others. And I pray that you would just uh prick our hearts where we need that and encourage us where we need that. And uh just bless our time together as we lift up one another in prayer, as we remember our missionaries. As we talk about various burdens and challenges, I pray that we would uphold one another in prayer. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, number sixty-five in our blue book is where we'll be tonight for our opening song. And it's God Has Spoken, and we're actually going to sing this in our Sunday morning service, and uh looking forward to What we'll be looking at in the morning service and this song will be really at the heart of what we're going to talk about on Sunday morning. So 65, God has spoken. We'll sing all three verses together, please. Okay, well the text of Scripture that we're dealing with tonight is found in the Sermon on the Mount. We're in Matthew chapter 5, and we're going to focus our attention on verse 7. But I'm going to read all the verses up to verse seven just so that we can kind of get a sense of the context. And because it's been a couple of weeks since we were in this text I want to give you a little bit more of a reminder of what we talked about than we might usually, and we're going to kind of pick up where we left off the last time we were here. Matthew chapter 5, verse 1. Here's what it says. And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain. And when he was set, his disciples came unto him. And he opened his mouth and he taught them saying. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they which you hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. And here is the verse that we're going to focus on tonight. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Now, each of the qualities that we've talked about on each of the nights that we've been dealing with this passage of Scripture, these are qualities that we would put in the category of being a Christian grace. What I mean by a Christian grace is this is something that is not naturally in us. It's something that God develops in us as we grow into Christ's likeness. So as a as a believer matures in the faith Some of these are qualities that begin to come out of them. Like, for instance, when we talk about walking in the Spirit, he talks about some of the fruit of the Spirit, like love and joy and peace and gentleness. Goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. Those are qualities, dispositions that are not natural to anybody. But when a person is a Christian, the Holy Spirit's working inside of them, these are the things that the Spirit produces in them. Well, this concept of mercy is one of those qualities. It is a fruit of the Spirit, and it is one of the things that Jesus focuses in on when he's talking to his disciples about the qualities of the disciple. And so I want to remind you of the summary that we have here, and then we'll kind of dig into some of the details we talked about. The Sermon on the Mount has emphasized the connection between who we are and how we think about ourselves. For instance, blessed are the poor in spirit. That's thinking about myself. I see myself as being spiritually bankrupt. I've got nothing to give to God. Therefore I know I need salvation. Or he says, Blessed are they that mourn. Again, I'm thinking about myself as a sinner who's separated from God. I'm unrighteous. I'm undone. If it's not for God's grace, I have no hope. Each of these qualities would fall into that category. But then he shifts in verse 7, and the emphasis is now going in a new direction. Now, it's not entirely disconnected from what he's been talking about before. But the emphasis has changed. And here's what he says. It is focusing the direction toward how we think and relate to others. So when a person becomes a Christian, it doesn't just change how they view themselves. In fact, in order for me to actually be a Christian, I have to recognize I'm a sinner. I'm broken. I have no hope apart from the work of Christ. That's what poor in spirit is. But it also changes how I view other people. In other words, what I think about myself, I'm going to start logically thinking, you know what, my view of others is different too. And here is the example of mercy. A person who is a believer, who is a mature believer, who's growing as a believer, is a person who is merciful And I want to ask this question just to think about. Would you consider yourself to be a merciful person? I say a lot of Christians would have to honestly say no. I am not a merciful person. I'm a harsh person. I'm a contentious person. I am an easily offended person. I'm someone who has a hard time letting go of offenses. I think that's where most people are That's certainly where the unbeliever finds himself. But if I'm a Christian, those qualities should not be distinct of me. I should have a completely different mindset towards other people. And Jesus is going to draw our attention to this. He wants us to understand that a fundamental part of being a Christian is reflecting on how God views sinners and their misery. And so we started last week with, or two weeks ago, with this statement and ver of this first truth. Mercy starts with God. Mercy doesn't start with you. We are not naturally merciful people. Just like we talked about the fact that truth begins with God, righteousness begins with God Mercy also begins with God. And the reason that it begins with God is because God is by nature a merciful God. Now The fact that God is merciful doesn't mean that he's unholy. It doesn't mean that he isn't righteous. It doesn't mean that he won't judge. Okay? God can be merciful and still be just. and still be holy and still be righteous, he's ultimately going to judge every person who rejects the gospel. There are no exceptions to that. But God doesn't delight in the destruction of the wicked. And so in Exodus 34, he talks about the fact that the Lord passed before him and proclaimed the Lord God, merciful. gracious, long-suffering, and abundant in goodness and truth. Then we went to Psalm 103, where he says that the Lord is merciful and gracious and slow to anger, plenteous in mercy. As a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. He remembers that we are dust As for man, he is as the grass, as the flower of the field, so he flourisheth. That is one of the greatest texts in all scripture about the mercy of God. His tenderness toward people, even though they are sinners. Psalm 100, we talked about that passage, and Psalm 106. But the summary of all this was this. Mercy values people even though they're sinful. Did you catch that? So God can look at you and he can look at me and he can say Sinner, unrighteous, at enmity with me, yet he can still value us That's what it's saying. That's what mercy starts with. It looks at a sinful person in their pain and misery and has compassion and pity. Now this is not where we tend to go We look at a person who is all messed up and we go, uh-huh, you brought it on yourself. And here's the truth. Being very frank, technically speaking The misery we have in life is is generally a direct result of our very bad decisions. That's just the honest truth. And we could very easily draw our attention or the attention of others to those terrible decisions that they made and say, this is why you're here. But how does God look at the sinner? He has compassion. He has pity. He looks at them in their trouble and he says, you know what? That's not what I created them for. I carry them for something better than that, something greater than that. That's mercy. It moves God to take decisive action. To remove our guilt, to strengthen us in our weakness, to comfort us in our misery, and to provide a redemptive end to all temporal suffering. And so when we say that the Bible says that God is merciful, it's not just, well, he feels compassion, he feels pity towards people in their sin and in all their misery, but he actually does something about it. That's what's key. If there was no cross, then it would just be feelings. He actually took action so that guilt could be removed by the cross. When we are in our weakness, he will strengthen us, he'll comfort us in our misery, and everything that's going on, the difficult things that we encounter. He takes them and he uses them very wisely to accomplish good things in our lives. So that's kind of the summary of this fact that mercy begins with God. The second thing we looked at is this. Those who understand God's mercy also reflect it If you're not merciful, then you don't understand God's mercy. You say, well, I do understand God's mercy. And I'm still a little, you know, a little callous towards people at times. No, you don't understand it. You see, I do understand. I've read the Bible, I know what it says, God is merciful, and I understand this in my head, but you do not understand it experientially. You have not felt the weight of the way that God has dealt with you if you do not have a merciful disposition towards other people. Knowing God's mercy, understanding God's mercy is not just an academic matter. It's not just answering yes or no, true or false, A, B, C, or D. Understanding this issue of mercy is not just in the head, it's in the heart. In other words, I have felt the weight of the way that God has dealt with me. Well, for me to understand it, I have to begin with understanding like how you would even define mercy. Okay? And we talked about that the last time we were together. We saw that there's a difference between grace and mercy, and this is the distinction that I made. Grace is God's kind response to me in my sin in a legal sense. For instance, Romans 3. 24, being justified freely by his grace, there's the word, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, or Titus 3. 7, being justified by his grace. We should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. So we talk about the legal side of our salvation How a sinner is declared righteous before a holy God. That is the essence of our salvation. That is a legal matter. That's not a relational matter primarily. There is a relational side of salvation. But that question is primarily a legal question. Okay? And so it is the grace of God, his undeserved favor toward me in a legal sense. That gives me a righteous standing before him. Justification. But then we have the mercy side. Mercy is God's kind response to me in my misery. Okay? That is more of a relational aspect. Okay? So you could have a judge who is in a courtroom and he hears the case. Okay? He knows that the person is guilty. And when he renders the verdict guilty, which is the right verdict, in the heart of the judge. He feels pity towards the person. Is that possible? I mean it's also possible for the same judge, as he renders guilty and hears the verdict, to have this very callous disposition towards the same person. Okay? He could be hardened towards them or he could be softened towards them. And so when he talks about mercy, he's talking about the fact that he looks at us in our misery and he has compassion on us. God takes no joy in having to render guilt. He is compassionate. One of the greatest examples of this is the story of the prodigal son. And we talked about this the last time we talked we were in this passage. In Luke 15, Jesus tells this story about a boy. And he basically just disgraced his father. And when when I use the word disgrace, And and we in America we just kinda like blow past this. But when I when I think of the word disgrace, I think of it the Ghanaian context, okay? The shame on our culture. When you use the word to use the word disgrace, you cannot say anything higher than this person has made a mess and they have just completely blown their honor. Completely blown the honor of the family. That was the young man in this story. He disgraced his father, he took the money, he went to the far country, he was the money, he lived a an extra Exceedingly wicked and sinful life. He blows all this money and now he has no more money. He has nothing to show for it. All the friends who loved spending the money with him, they're gone And now there's a famine in the land, and in the famine he's basically starving. And the only way he can survive is he goes and he works for a man feeding pigs. He's a Jewish boy. Don't forget that. He's feeding pigs, and the guy's not paying him. The guy's not giving him food from his table. He's like, if you don't want to starve, eat some of what you give the pigs. That's what he did. And so here's this young man, and all of a sudden, in the midst of that, he comes to his senses. In fact, the way the text puts it is, he came to himself. And all of a sudden he sits and he thinks about this. He says, you know, my dad, who I disgraced, he has servants in his house He takes good care of them. He makes sure that they have proper clothing. He makes sure that they have good food. He pays them wages. And here I am, I'm serving. And says, you know what? I should go back to my dad and plead with him that he'll just he'll let me work as a servant in the house. But really the heart of the story is that when he goes back to the father's house, there's the father at the front of the house sitting on his porch. And he sees this young man coming and he knows who it is. Anybody anybody come across somebody that you haven't seen in a decade? And you look at him and you're like, I think I know who that is. But I'm not totally sure. Anybody had that experience? All right, Pastor Josh and I, we're we're looking at uh college yearbook, okay? And we're like trying to remember people's names. And I'm like, oh yeah, I saw that guy recently. He has like no hair now. He looks so much older. And and of course they're probably saying the same thing about us, you know. But the idea is That's just you know, living a a good American dream kind of life. Imagine if you've been been starving in a pinpin for a while and here comes this young man. And the dad could have looked at him and gone What is this? I'm not gonna talk to him. Hey, somebody go go tell that that boy, I don't even know who he is. You tell him he's not welcome here. He could have easily done that. That's what anybody would have done living in that culture. They would have never allowed him to even come back to the house. That's not what he did. It says when he saw him, he had compassion on him. That's the word, compassion. And that's what mercy is. He saw him and his heart was moved. Not with anger, which he had every right to be angry. It was moved with compassion. It says he ran to him and he hugged him. Oh man, can't even think about that. He hugged him and he kissed him. And he said, Bring a robe, bring shoes for his feet. Kill a calf, a fatted calf, and let's have a celebration. He's back. Okay, that's what mercy is. And so the whole reason that Jesus tells that story, we're going to come back to this in just a minute. The whole reason that Jesus tells that story is because he says that's the way God is. That's his character. That's his nature. That's how he views sinners. If God wasn't like that, none of us would go to heaven. There'd be no cross. Jesus wouldn't have come and died for us And in fact, think about how much you have resisted God over the course of your life. I mean, just think about it. He could have just easily just like, I'm done with you. I'm not going to deal with you anymore. You know, here I've given you life and I've given you all these good things and you've wasted it, and when I pursue you, you just blow me off. I'm just gonna let you die in your sins and leave you where you are. He could have done that. That's not the way he did it. And so that moves us to truth number three. Mercy is a grace that is produced in regenerate people Now, that word regenerate is a word that we maybe don't use a lot, but it means that a person has been made spiritually alive. Now, when a person is spiritually dead, it basically means this: they don't have fellowship with God, they don't have a relationship with God. Okay? They are physically alive, but they are spiritually separated from God. And because they're spiritually separated from God They have no ability to grow in a Christian experience because they're spiritually dead. They don't have that ability, okay? But when a person is made alive in Christ, Ephesians chapter 2, it says you have to quickened, that means made alive. Who were dead in trespasses and sins. In times past, he walked according to the course of this world. And he goes through the whole passage. He talks about what they were now, what they are Mercy is something God produces in the lives of his children. People who are spiritually alive People who have the Holy Spirit indwelling them. People that are growing into Christ's likeness. You want to know if a person's a Christian? Well one of the things you can do is you can see evidence of that life. You don't become a Christian by doing good, okay? Don't think that that is in any way what it's teaching. The point is, if you are a Christian, there's evidence that in fact That is true. Let's say that that that there was a car accident on the road, and you came up on the car accident, and you see a person laying on the ground. Well he's not moving. Oh, he's dead. You don't know that. Oh, you you walk over. Well maybe you wouldn't, but you might get somebody to, and they're gonna check, is there any pulse? Is there any evidence of them breathing? Is their heart pumping, okay? And if it's not, they're gonna try to do it CPR and get them going again. But the idea is this, if his body has has warmth and there's blood flowing. If he's breathing, he may be laying there and he may not be doing what you and I can do and we're healthy and vibrant. But he's alive. There's evidence, there's signs of that. Well, if a person's a Christian, there's evidence of spiritual life. If a person's a healthy Christian, then there's really obvious evidence of spiritual life. If a person is a very weak and immature Christian, there'll be evidence of that too To the evidence of spiritual life, but not spiritual maturity. And so mercy is a grace that God produces in his children. Genuine Christianity has a visible and practical sight to it. You cannot separate who you are from what you do. You can't do it. Now it doesn't mean there aren't people that imitate Christianity. Okay? They try to look like a Christian, but there will come a day When that will come to a head and then you'll go, Okay, I see what it is. It's been a hypocrisy the whole time. In other words, if a person is forgiven, then that means that there was a point where there was a repentance toward God and faith in Christ. Christ. Okay? Or if a person is a forgiven sinner, they desire to be forgiven. Or they desire to forgive. Or if a person's a repentant sinner, they desire to be forgiven. In other words, they say, I know I'm separated from God. I know that my sin 's a problem. I want God to save me. I want him to forgive me. I want him to cleanse me. Or if I've been forgiven, I go, you know what? I know this person's wronged me, but I understand God's forgiveness so much. I know I need to forgive them. That's not how you go to heaven. But if you are saved and you're forgiven, you understand that. Guess what? You know , I can't hold this against this person. I need to actually forgive them I need to show them mercy, even though, you know what, they really don't deserve that. Why? Because there's something inside of us that pricks our conscience because what we know affects what we do. A justified sinner wants to walk consistently with their position. I know that I'm saved, and so I want to live like I am. A humbled sinner is willing to submit to God's ways. Sinners who understand God's mercy are compassionate towards other sinners in their misery. There is a logical connection between all those things. And by the way, when I mentioned those, a repentant sinner wants to be forgiven, that's going back to blessed are the poor in spirit. There's the kingdom of God. A forgiven sinner wants to forgive. Those are all connected. But the natural disposition of a person who's not a Christian isn't like that at all. This is kind of interesting. I was watching a, I don't know if I used the word documentary, but there was an individual who was saying, this guy, he's a very woman person, I'm going to say his name. Because he's controversial, I met that. They said he's talking and acting like he's a Christian. And this is what the guy did. He was going out and he was having conversations with people just in general places, like like at a mall, at a concert, at a boardwalk, and he's asking them questions about how they view themselves, how they view sin, how they view God, all those kinds of things. And then what he was doing is he was taking all these questions and these conversations, and then he was setting it aside next to this guy who was talking about some of the things that he was coming to discover as he was reading the Bible. And it was it was stunning the difference. The way this guy talked about sin and the way these guys talked about sin, it was like radically different. The way this guy talked about God and the way that these people talked about it, it was like radically different And he went through , he was comparing and contrasting. He was saying, question, why do you think he's talking like that and they're talking like that? It's because of what they believe. It's because of what's going on inside the heart. The natural disposition of an unsaved person is completely different than that of a believer. Completely different. Now, there are a person who is an unbeliever, so it's a conscience. Okay? You ask a person, are certain things wrong? They might be doing them, but they they know that it's wrong, and you can tell because they'll look down when they answer your question, or they'll they'll kind of start you know fidgeting and looking around. Why are they doing that? Well, because they know Their conscience bears witness. And by the way, when you take the Bible out and you say, God says, thou shalt not, and then you say it, you can just see them going like, oh And they might say, I don't believe that book, but their conscience is showing you that they they know it's true. They know it. Their conscience bears witness. So There is a sense in which we understand intuitively because we are moral creatures that you know what I should be a forgiving person, I should be a kind person, I should be a I should do good to people. person I should treat people the way that they treat me. We understand that, but we don't have the heart to do it. But the Christian comes at it from a very different, a different side. I want you to notice what it says in Romans chapter 8, verses 3 to 4. It says, what the law could not do, the law can't make anybody righteous. The law can't take anybody to God. It's impossible. The law just tells you you're wrong. The law just says you're guilty. The law just says, here's how far short you are from the standard. The law doesn't say, oh, you're doing great. You're there. That never does that. What the law could not do in that it was weak through the flesh Because people are sinners by nature, the law has no power to declare them righteous because they're not. The law doesn't make you anything. It's just a standard that you judge by. Okay? That's just the way that it is. You know, if I pull out a tape measure and I say, oh, that's uh that's 12 inches long, did the tape measure make it 12 inches? No. The tape measure told you it's 12 inches. Or if somebody says, oh, that's 12 inches, you say, well let's let's measure it. And you measure it like, oh no, no, that's actually four inches. They say, no, no, it's 12. You say Um no. Well, I can I can I can use this tape measure to make it 12. No, it doesn't work that way. What it is is what it is. The measure tells you if it falls short, it tells you what it is. That's all it is. It has no power to change what it is. It's simply a standard that helps us to know what it is. And so he says what the law could not do in that it was weak to the flesh. God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, I love the statement, he condemned sin in the flesh. For what reason? That the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. It's a fascinating statement. What it's saying is the law does not make you righteous. The law doesn't change who you are. So God sent his son to condemn sin in the flesh, not just to forgive you, but also notice what it says, that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. That's what sanctification is. In other words, God doesn't just forgive you, He gives you a new nature, and then you begin to grow into Christ's likeness, and as you grow into Christ's likeness, your life actually begins to reflect the position that you have. That's what he's saying. And so we know God's standard of righteousness. We've been gripped by how far we fall short of it. We've learned by experience in Scripture that God is compassionate and how he has related to us. We stand before him by grace alone. We've been gripped by this reality. We have a new nature in the presence of the Holy Spirit working continually in us to remind us of these truths And those principles will fundamentally shape our reaction to other people. They will. We see them in their misery, and our heart is moved with compassion because our heart has been properly captured by the magnitude of the God. Of God's mercy and grace toward us. That is really what Jesus is saying when he says, blessed are the merciful, they shall obtain mercy. He doesn't say, blessed are the merciful, because they're merciful, they're going to get mercy. That's not what he's saying. The people that have this quality are also the same people who are going to receive this in the end. Why? Because God saved them. And the evidence of it that you can see, the visible evidence, is in the way that they relate to other people. So we go back to the story of the prodigal son. Notice the attitude of the Pharisees and the scribes in Luke 15, 1. Then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners for to hear him. And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners. And eateth with them. Why did they think that way? Because they didn't understand forgiveness. You know why they didn't understand forgiveness? Because they weren't a forgiven people. Do you know why they didn't have mercy? Well because they didn't really understand God's mercy. Do you know why they didn't extend grace? It's because they didn't understand his grace. In other words, these people were self-righteous, unsaved, they had no concept of God's forgiveness, no concepts of God's mercy, no concept of God's grace, and the way that they related to other people proved that. It's the truth. And so Jesus tells this story, this parable, so that by the end of the story, they'd be sitting there going, you know, it's funny, I'm a lot like that older brother. Why is that? And he'd say, I'll tell you why, because you don't understand God's grace. You understand God's forgiveness. You understand his mercy. Let me tell you about it. That was the sense of the parable of the prodigal son. But then we see the transformed disposition of the prodigal son in verses 18 and 19. He says, I will arise I will go to my father and say unto him, Father, I've sinned against heaven before thee, and am no more worthy to be called thy son. Why did he think that way? Well the bottom line is he was humbled. It's like when a person is living in rebellion against God and they they finally see that I'm a sinner and I'm condemned and they understand what Jesus has done for them. And they turn to Christ, they trust in Christ. In that moment of humiliat, they're thinking about so many things is fundamentally different. Now, does that mean that they understand everything about the Christian life? No. Not at all. There's all kinds of things in their life that have not changed at all at that moment. And it may take years for them to recognize that's wrong I shouldn't do it anymore. And that's wrong I shouldn't do it anymore. And I know that's wrong, and now I actually have grown to the point where I'm I'm living different than I did ten years ago. It may take them many, many years. But the fundamental thinking about themselves towards sin and other people, it changes. And if you've been leading a person to the Lord, you've sat down, you've gone through the gospel with them, and you're opening up your Bible and you say, do you want to trust Christ? And that person really understands what you're saying. They're really convicted over their sin. And they really want to trust Christ. You know what? You can see it in their eyes. You can. If they're looking at you like, eh, uh I 'm I'm cool. If you want to do that, whatever, they don't get it. You're wasting your time Don't encourage them to make a decision to trust Christ because they don't get it. You can see it in the disposition. You can see it in the way that they're , you can see the evidence of that. And so you see that with this boy. You see the compassion of the loving father when he was yet a way off. The father saw him, had compassion, ran and fell on his neck and kissed him. Question. I know the point of the story is not to say, well, how did the the prodigal who returned think about other people ten years later? But just think about it for a minute. If you had received that kind of kindness from somebody who had disgraced the way that you did, do you not think that would impact the way you related to people after that? There's no question that it would. There's no question about it. And that's really the point of the story. But then we see the pride of the older brother. Verses 28 to 30. He was angry. He would not go in. His father came out and entreated him. He answered him, saying, Lord, all these years do I serve thee, neither transgressed I any time thy commandments. Well, I doubt that's true. Is there a day that goes by, parent, that your child does not disobey you on some level? I just come on. Like A great day is when you probably only had to correct five to ten things, right? That's a really good day. And the way that your child responded when you had to correct them was yeah, pretty humble and and teachable. All these day all these days, Dad, I've never violated your commandment ever. Whatever Yet thou never gavest me a kid. That I might make merry with my friend. But as soon as this thy son, he and he's like, I don't he's not my brother. I mean, I know we have the same dad, but he's not my brother This your son has devoured thy living with with harlots thou hast killed from the fatted calf. Jesus is basically saying, listen. If you've never experienced forgiveness and mercy, that's how you think. But if you have, you know those things are true, but the heart attitude towards that person is different. That's what he's saying. And so the ultimate point is what Christ says. Listen. You need to look at your brother the way that I do. That's really what he's saying. In other words, the ultimate point is that the merciful are a blessed people who've received mercy. Well continue to receive mercy and continue to desire that God shows mercy to other people. Now I'm not going to go through these verses, but in in Psalm 37 we see an example of that concept. We see the same in Psalm 41. And in 2 Timothy 1. But for sake of time, I want to move to how we would apply this concept here. To put it very simply, our view of self directly shapes how we relate to other people. The Christian who is mature is not the one who has the harshest disposition towards sinful people. It's the one who doesn't compromise how he views sin, but he still cares for those people. There's actually a difference. Okay? When you go to a person whose life is a miserable wreck, Do you take glee in pointing out how miserable a wreck it is? Or is there something in your heart that says, man, I really, this is not the way it's supposed to be? I want you to know what God's done for you. I want you to know you still have value to Him. As messed up as you are, as messed up as everything is, I want to tell you about God's forgiveness. It's available to you. And you've got to receive it. You've got to turn to it. You've got to trust in it. That's really what it's all about. Our desire of self is going to view it's going to affect how we view other people. So the question we should ask is: do we see God as a merciful God? Have we properly understood the weight of His compassion toward us in our desperation? As I said earlier, this is not an academic thing. True or false, God is merciful. Oh, true. Oh, you got it then. I don't think that that's that's not understanding that God is merciful. Understanding that God is merciful is when you begin to actually process the way He has dealt with you. And you know, you know it might be very helpful for you to just go back and reflect on your life a little bit and go, you know what? This is who I am. This is where I've been. This is what I've done. This is how much I've wasted. And you just go down that list and you reflect on it and you say, but this is how God met me And this is what God did for me. And this is what God saved me from. And this is what God saved me to. And this is what He's kept me from, because that's where I was going. You know, when when when the when the the hill is going down, you go faster the longer you're on the hill, okay? That's the way it goes. And so God at some point interrupted that journey and he saved you. And so if you really want to understand how compassionate God is towards you, And how great the desperation of your own life was. You need to stop and reflect on that. Not so that you wallow in the misery, but so that you actually consider how kind God is. Another question is, do we value the people around us? And do we have the ability to see their sin objectively, yet with eyes of compassion? I'm not suggesting, and the Bible is not suggesting, that we should be compromisers, or that we should just kind of like rename sin to say, well, you know, it's just it's a sickness. It's a challenge, it's a little difficulty, it's a little bump in the road. No, sin is sin. We need to call it what it is. But at the same time Do we take delight in the fact that God judges those evils? Are we hoping for a vindictive end to the story? God is just and he's going to punish sin. He isn't going to leave anything undone. The fact is We should value the people enough around us to be able to objectively look at them in their value and also have compassion towards them in their misery. Do we long for justice from a vent or do we long for justice or a vindictive spirit? Can we hate sin and still love and value the person whose life has been wrecked by sin? Think about what it says in Romans chapter 5. When we were without strength, in due time, Christ died for the ungodly. God commended his love toward us that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. In the book of Romans, he talks a lot in terms of we were at enmity. Another word we could use is we were at war with God. And so while we were at war with God, he loved us. That's a fascinating concept. In other words, his heart still valued us, even though we were an absolute rebel in a mess. And so the conclusion is that the merciful are a blessed people who have received God's mercy, who will continue to receive God's mercy, and continue to desire that God shows mercy to others And so my prayer is that that's the heart we would have towards other people. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we think about this text of Scripture and we think about the concepts that we've examined this evening. I pray that you help us. Help us to value people. Help us to genuinely love them, even though their lives are wrecked by misery many times. Father, help us not to take personal. What is ultimately an offense against the Creator? Any person who has sinned against us has sinned against you far greater than us. And I pray that we would think in those terms. Father, I pray that we would have compassion on people in their misery, that we would long to see them saved, reconciled to you, forgiven, cleansed restored and walking in fellowship with you, living consistent with the with the purpose that you've designed for their lives. Father, I pray that you'd help us to not get over how kind you've been to us. And help us to reflect on it and help us to understand it in a very deep and experiential way. And may that really humble us. May it help us to be very grateful people. May we be very joyful people as we think about what we have in Christ. And especially as we go to the Lord in prayer, and as we lift up these requests, as we pray for unsafe people, as we pray for those who are wayward, as we pray for those who are hurting, I pray that we would have mercy on them. Them. And we ask it all in Christ's name, Amen