And there's a buzz in the air, and uh Looking forward to our study tonight. And as you can see, we have decided we're just going to step into the fall today. And so if you walk down the hallway, you'll see that we're moving into the fall colors on the bulletin boards. And I even accidentally dressed in fall colors today, so that's great. All right, well let's go ahead and uh bow for a word of prayer, and then we'll sing a song that I think will be uh really appropriate for what we're talking about tonight and then we'll get into our study. So let's bow for prayer. Father, we're so grateful that we can gather as uh brothers and sisters in Christ. Um friends, people who love you and love one another and are united by the gospel, we can gather together in the week and we can We can bear one another's burdens, we can uplift one another in prayer, we can sit under the ministry of the word, we can fellowship together, and I pray that tonight that is exactly what we will have here. We will have A very sweet time of fellowship, a time of heartfelt prayer as we lay out these burdens and requests before you. That we our faith will be strengthened as we see you at work and lives, and that you would feed us through the word this evening. And we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Number 68 is what we're going to sing tonight, and the song is Holy, Holy, Holy. Holy, Holy, Holy. 68 Bring it out. Here we go. Alright. Well, what we are gonna deal with tonight from the term on the mount is going to be done very well with what we just say. So if you have your Bible or wanna ask you We're gonna repurchase one three lever, and then as we've been doing, we purchased it on our last version. Uh birth number eight will be the one that we look at on the last Here's what? And few of the multitudes we line up into a mouth field. I would exactly precise this week. What does the point here have been? Okay , so it's not what we need. They couldn't have the earth. Well, no, they were too hungry for that the right one. Well, it has a microphone for those who are sick out there. What is Now that last statement, blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see See God actually sounds very similar to a psalm that we dealt with some time ago, where he talks about who are those who will be in the presence of the Lord in his high and holy hill, and he says that those who have clean hands and a pure heart in whom there is no guile. Very, very similar statement. The question I think we should ask before we dig into the content of this is who has a pure heart? I mean, you've lived long enough in this world to recognize that the people around you many times will tell you things that they do not mean. People will present themselves in a way that is not consistent with who they are. Many times people have a divided heart where there's a part of them that wants to do this, but there's also a part of them that wants to go in a completely contrary direction. And so the question we should ask ourselves before we get into this is who in the world is going to see God because who in the world is actually pure in heart? That's a question we should begin with. And I'm going to kind of answer that as we get into this passage of scripture as we break it down, but I don't want you to forget that question. as we work our way through. So first of all, I'm going to give you a summary statement that I think kind of summarizes what Jesus is saying here. And then I want to give you an illustration that I've kind of alluded to at some other points. In our discussion in the Sermon on the Mount. The following portion of the Sermon on the Mount reminds us that the blessed people who will one day see God are a people who are distinguished from the world as those who are pure in heart. So, he is not suggesting that the way that we earn the right to stand in the presence of God is we are pure in heart. He's simply saying that there's a kind of person that has a kind of quality about them, they are pure in heart. That person is going to have the privilege of seeing God. And you go, what in the world is that talking about? In fact, there's been a lot of debate in church history about what the statement they will see God actually means. Some people have given kind of a spiritualized answer to that. Some say, well, we're gonna actually literally physically see God. We're gonna actually get into what I think it's saying. But the whole point is this. There's a kind of person that has a kind of character whose ultimate end is they're going to see God. That's what Matthew 5. 8 is all about. And so what God wants us to do this evening is He wants us to understand the reality of this verse in front of us, and then to live consistent with the position that we have in Christ. Because if indeed we are in Christ, this is going to be true about us. And you say, how in the world is that possible? Well, let's dig into it. So first of all, I want you to picture in your mind two trees. One tree is one that you put up seasonally, and the other is one that it grows in your yard and hopefully produces fruit seasonally. The first tree is a Christmas tree. Now, when you go to get a Christmas tree, if you do that, you go into this place and you see all these trees growing. Or you see these trees that are stuck on stakes and they're all there and you walk around and look at the price and you go, Oh, I can't believe how expensive these things are getting And you go and you take pictures with your kids, and then you pick the one that you want. They go, they cut the end off of it, and they take the tree and they run it through this thing and then Put it on top of your vehicle. Anybody ever done that? I see some hands, all right? That tree, when you bring it home, is it alive or dead? It's dead. Now, does it look alive or dead? If you just paid $100 for it, I hope it looks alive. But the tree is not alive. It's dead. When you take it home, you take that tree and you put water. Why do we put water? I don't know. But we do that so that it doesn't die as fast, right? So we put the water in it and then we put all this stuff around it. Maybe you put tinsel anybody do the popcorn thing? You eat more popcorn than what you strings it. You put the popcorn up, you put the lights up, you do all those things. That tree is dead and it's decorated. And we put it up seasonally and hopefully it doesn't catch on fire before we get rid of it, right? That other kind of tree is totally different. This tree is alive. It produces fruit. I have a lemon tree that's sitting. on my back porch area and I'm all excited because the lemons are getting bigger and as soon as it starts getting a little cooler they're gonna start turning yellow and I just cannot wait Those two trees are completely different. One is alive, and it's vibrant, hopefully, and it's producing fruit The other is dead and it's decorated. You say, well, why do you start there? I start there because the Christmas tree has qualities that are very similar to man-made religion. Man-made religion like the tree is dead. It is decorated externally. It has the appearance of life and it's set up to be viewed, but guess what? It's not alive. It can't produce anything that gives life or produces life or sustains life. It is powerless to do that. The other, the fruit tree, has qualities that are very similar to real Christianity It is living, it produces fruit that begets life, it radiates its health, hopefully if we're taking good care of it, and its nature, if it's a lemon tree, it produces lemon. If it's an orange tree, it produces oranges. If it's an apple tree, it produces apples. If it's a peach tree, it produces figs. No, it doesn't do that. Nobody's paid attention, right? I was hoping you catch that. All right. It produces after its own kind. It's living, it's productive, it radiates health, it's consistent with its nature, it sustains life because you eat its fruit. And it produces life because you take the seeds out of the fruit, you put them in the ground, and you get all these baby trees. Do you see the incredible difference between those two? Yet here's the truth. People would rather be like the Christmas tree than the fruit tree. And the reason that Jesus addresses this issue in Matthew 5, in fact, all of these issues that he's talking about, he's laying the distinction between those who are in a dead religious system and those who are spiritually alive in Christ. And the qualities that he talks about are qualities that are only produced where there is real spiritual life That's really what it's all about. And so when we talk about this quality that we're going to look at this evening, and probably for at least one other evening, maybe two, when he talks about purity of heart. This is something that is only produced in the life of a real Christian. Okay? It is not possible for a person who is involved in dead religion to have Purity of heart in the sense that Jesus is talking about here. So the first thing I want us to do tonight is understand what Jesus is actually saying. What is Jesus saying? And there's several different parts. He has a very specific kind of person that he's addressing. And he's he's talking to those who are self-righteous, whose chief concern is to be seen of men. And he's contrasting that mindset with the true disciple of Christ, the one who understands who Jesus is, they understand that they are sinners, they understand that they're unrighteous. They mourn over their sin. They desire to be forgiven and cleansed. And they recognize it's only through Christ. He has in mind those who are following self-made religion. Self-righteousness and those who are true disciples of Christ. And you see the distinction in the way that they view even the religious practice, you could say. The way that a person gives. If a person's a genuine believer, they recognize I don't have to give to get heaven. I'm giving because I love God. The person who believes that they are in heaven, guess what? They're gonna get everybody's attention when they put that money in. They're gonna think a lot about what they're doing. That person who prays. One is praying because it is a form of genuine devotion to God. He loves the Lord. He pours his heart out to God. He trusts God. He believes God can work in his life. The other person, it's about building credentials in front of God, in front of other people. One person envisions standing before God and he recognizes, I got nothing to give God. The only thing I have is the work of Christ. And the other goes, man, I 've done this and I've done this. And they think about every single thing that could potentially give them a standing with God Your worldview shapes how you view your religious practice. So here are the details. The first detail we're going to notice is the realm of the focus that Jesus has. Now when we say realm, what we're saying is this. Jesus is not as much concerned with the action as he is with the motivation behind the action. Now, I'm not saying that Jesus doesn't care about what we do. We can sin with our hands and we can sin with our mouth, but we sin in our heart before we sin with our hands, and before we sin with our eyes, and before we sin with our mouth. And so Jesus says, what I'm most concerned about is not what you're doing, but what is the source of what you're doing. And we're going to see this concept all throughout the book, or all throughout the Beatitudes and the Sermon on the Mount. His focus is on the heart. And you say, well, what is the heart? Well, the heart is the inner part of us, okay? It's that part of us that fakes the intellect. And the way that we think is shaped by something. It's the part of us that feels emotionally. So the way that we think drives how we feel about life. And it also drives our will, what we do. What we desire most is ultimately what we choose. So a person may say, you know, I'm struggling in this particular area, and what they're basically saying is this, I know this is right. And I know this is wrong. And there's a part of me that's inclined towards what is right, and a part of me that's inclined towards what is wrong. And my will is I'm going to choose what I want most. Okay? And so what happens is that the believer recognizes that the Holy Spirit of God works in me to will and to do of his good pleasure. And so he talks about the heart first. How we think, how we feel, the choices that we make. The second detail that I want you to notice is the disposition. of that realm. The disposition, it is a pure in heart kind of a person. Not someone who is duplicitous Or someone who is divided. And so you might go, well, what does he mean by a pure heart? There are actually a lot of different ways that we could go with this, but there are three very important details. that I think we should notice. The first is this. When he uses the word pure and heart, he's saying it's a heart that's not tainted by a sinful disposition. It's a heart that is driven to think and act in accordance with God's design. And so, Psalm 32, 2. Blessed is the man unto whom the Lord Imputeth not iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no guile. I preached on this several weeks ago. Well, probably be a couple months ago, actually, if I think about it. But the point that I made is this. When he talks about a person who imputes not iniquity, he's talking about how God deals with our sin because our sin has been laid on Christ. Christ has been punished in our place. His righteousness has been imputed to our account. And so God can declare us righteous on the basis of the righteousness of Christ. Justification. But God doesn't just forgive us, He cleanses us, and He makes us a new creature in Christ, and He puts the Holy Spirit of God within us, and we begin this process of growth into Christ-likeness. We are set apart to God positionally, and now we are practically growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus. So when he talks about the person unto whom he imputeth not iniquity, he's talking about the positional reality of how he deals with sin. And when he talks about in whose spirit there's no guile He's talking about what we commonly refer to as sanctification. A person is growing into Christ's likeness. God is taking that disposition and he's Changing it. Or in Romans 12 it says that we're not to be conformed to this world, but we're to be transformed through the renewing of our minds. And so that's what he means by, in whose spirit is no guile. It's the transforming work of the Spirit of God and someone who is regenerate. They're alive in Christ. And so the first aspect of this pure in heart is it's a person whose heart is actually clean. 1 Timothy 1:5. The end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart. And of a good conscience, and of faith unfeigned. Second Timothy 1. 5, I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith That is in thee, which first dwelt in thy grandmother Lois, and in thy mother Eunice. First Peter 1 22, see that ye love one another with a pure heart fervently. So basically what these verses are telling us is that when a person gets saved, they are forgiven. They are cleansed. They are declared righteous. They are regenerated, made alive in Christ. The Holy Spirit indwells them. And God tells them, walk in holiness. Not so you get heaven, but because that would be consistent with the position that you have in Christ. And as a person grows and matures in the Christian experience, they begin to live more and more consistent with the position that they have. In other words, God is purifying them. He is maturing them. He is shaping them into the image of Christ. And so that is one aspect of what he means by pure in heart. But there's another aspect to it as well. And as the idea of it's not a divided heart. In fact, if you look at it in the original language, it has the idea of it doesn't have layers to it. Okay? Think about an onion. When you have an onion, you peel off the one layer. Or the same thing is true with a cabbage, you peel off the one layer. And then you find another layer. Maybe you have experienced this where you get that cabbage, you cut it, and you peel off the one layer, it looks really good, and you start cutting it and then a slug falls out. You're like, oh, yeah, he was tucked in there somewhere. Okay? That's what I mean by layers. It's like your heart doesn't have these layers in it, these divisions in it. where there's the part of it that's dedicated to God and then, well then there's this other little side that is just kind of like, well, it's the area that God doesn't have access to. Someone who is pure at heart, what they are here is what they are here. That's what he's saying. They don't have all these little compartments where they can compartmentalize their life. You know, this is really easy to do. It is so easy for us to tell our children, do this, and we ourselves don't do it at all. To handle the word of God and we say, This is what thus saith the Lord, we know it's true, but we don't do it. There's even a part of us that wants to do it, but there's a part of us that doesn't want to do it. And we vacillate between between these two realms that are not just inconsistent with one another, but they're literally at war with one another. another. And so he says, pure in heart is not tainted, but pure in heart is not divided. There's not this dual allegiance. A lot of scripture talks about this. Let me give you some examples. Matthew 6. 24 says this. No man can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon. Now, if a person is serving wealth, money, mammoth, riches, what they're really doing is they're serving themselves. And money is the vehicle through which they serve themselves. In fact, we could even say that almost any form of idolatry ultimately is us putting ourselves in the place that rightfully belongs to God. We just use stuff around us to do that. And so he says you can't serve God and yourself and money and the things of this world at the same time. You can't do it. They're incompatible. They're at odds with one another. James chapter 1, verses 6 to 9. I think he states it even clearer. He says, he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. Let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord. A double-minded man is unstable in all of his ways. Now, when we go to James chapter 1 and we read this passage and we think about the context, here's what's going on. Basically, James is writing to people who are suffering. They are struggling. And when we suffer and we struggle, and we all will at times. On varying degrees. Sometimes it's it's the immediate pressure we feel. Sometimes it's how long something is. Sometimes like it's like waves, one after another after another. But what ends up happening is as we get squeezed We start trying to make sense of what we're experiencing. And there's really two different ways that we can approach it. We can walk in godly wisdom and we can approach it on this side, or we can walk in worldly wisdom and approach it on this side. And what James is basically saying is you can't go here and then go here and then back here and back here and go back and forth. You can't do that. That word double-minded means two souls. It's like your heart is divided between these two different ways that you really desire to go. And so he says you've got to be committed to God's wisdom and God's ways. And so the double-minded man, he is unstable. I'll use this illustration. The other week I I was riding with some people and I was I was in a 15-passenger van, whatever they are now, maybe they're 12 or something like that. I'm used to being the driver, not the rider. Okay? And not only am I not used to being the rider, I'm not used to being the rider like three rows back. So here I'm I'm sitting there and this guy's sitting behind me and he's asking me these questions and I'm turned and as we're having this conversation all of a sudden I just start feeling awful. I'm like, you know what? I get I get motion sickness, alright? And and basically say this is what will happen to you. You'll be like that guy on the boat, like up and down and up and down, and all of a sudden you're in trouble. Kind of like I was sitting in that car, that that van. Circle, circle, back and forth. I was like, I can't do this. I just gotta like just kind of like hold it out. They're like, do we need to pull over for you? Oh don't do that But that's how we live our spiritual lives sometimes. Some of you are really enjoying this. I can see this. We bounce back and forth. We don't have a pure heart. We have a heart that is between two extremes. 1 John 2. 15. He says, love not the world. Neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. Now when he says love not the world, he's not saying throw trash on the ground. Okay? He's talking about a system. That is opposed to God. It's opposed to godliness. It's a system that is in rebellion against God. And he basically says, you cannot love God and love this world system that is in opposition to him. So, when we talk about these verses, the first part is he's focusing in on the heart, because the heart is the source And secondly, he talks about the heart being pure, meaning that it's a heart that is clean. It's a heart that isn't divided. And there's a third part to this. And that is, it's not hypocritical. In other words, what you see externally is an accurate reflection of what is within. It's not that a person says, I want to serve God and I want to serve the world and I can't really decide which one it is. It's more like I want to serve the world, but I want to use God to do it. And I want to give the people around me the impression that I'm actually serving God while I'm serving myself. I mean, that's pretty unsavory, is it not? That's why Jesus was so harsh with the Pharisees. Jesus was gentle. and patient and kind and merciful with most of the people he dealt with. But there was one group he was not so And that was the religious elites, the Pharisees. Listen to what he says. He says, Woe unto you, scribes And Pharisees, hypocrites. I want you to listen to the things that he says. Six times in Matthew 23, he says this statement: Woe unto you, scribes, Pharisees, hypocrites. He says in verse 13, ye shut up the kingdom of heaven against men, and ye neither go in yourselves. So what these guys would do is they didn't understand the righteousness of God. They didn't understand the law of God. They didn't understand the way of salvation. Or the extent to which they understood it, they rejected it. So what they did is they taught people, you want to go to heaven, you want to be accepted by God? Follow us. And you know what they did? They essentially, through their false teaching, they sealed the fate of people who embraced their false teaching. And so he says, Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. Verse 14, he says, ye devour widows' houses, and for a pretense make long prayer. Now you think about this. These people use their power and they use their authority to abuse and take advantage of the absolutely most vulnerable people in society. And while they were doing it, they were kind of like making everybody think they were good people. This is a human problem that goes throughout all of human history. We see people do this. So they used religion, they used the law to abuse people under them. And they gave them the impression that they loved God. Verse 15. Ye compass sea and land to make one proselyte, and when he is made, ye made twofold more a child of hell than yourself. They were very diligent to spread their false teachings, to spread their ideas, to make disciples. Say uh honestly the Apostle Paul was like this. He says, considering zeal I persecuted the church of God And so Paul would have identified himself right there in the midst of these people. Verse 23, ye pay tithe of mint and anis and cumin, and have omitted the weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith They kept this very carefully recorded, detailed record of how much they had given to God, how they made sure they didn't cheat God in any way. At the same time, while they were not cheating God, they were cheating everybody around them. That's hypocrisy. Verse 27. You're like white walled. Oh no, verse 25. Sorry. You may clean the outside of the cup and of the platter, and within they are full of extortion excess. He says they were so great at at building up the the exterior, making the exterior look good. But what was going on inside? It was vile. It was evil. Verse 27, you're like white whited sepulchres which indeed appear beautiful outwardly, but within are full of dead men's bones and of all uncleanness. Very self-explanatory. You build the tombs of the prophets and garnish the sepulchres of the righteous. What's the point of everything that Jesus is saying here? The point is this: these are people who love self. And they were using religion to pat themselves on the back. They were abusing what had the potential to be good. And so the point is, when we talk about a pure heart, we're talking about a person who is clean, a person who's not divided in heart, and a person who's not a hypocrite. They're not sending a false message of who they actually are. They're not using, we could say, their religious credentials to present a false narrative. And so the question we should be asking ourselves is. What kind of people are actually like that? You realize that there are people out there that by the grace of God they're a totally different person than they were before they became a Christian. It's true. In fact, the Bible is full of examples of people like that. Not that they've arrived and become sinlessly perfect or anything like that, but they are a changed person. This is who they were. This is now who they are by the grace of God. That's where Jesus is going when he makes these statements. The third part of this that I want you to notice. is the future privilege of those who possess this quality. He says that they shall see God. Now this is actually the most controversial part of what Jesus says, because people say, well, what does he mean by they're going to see God? And so I'd like to kind of wade into this just a little bit to give you an idea of what I believe Jesus is ultimately saying. First of all, this is a future reality that is guaranteed on the basis of the promise of God. Okay? They are going to see God. That's what he says. And this is something we can't fully wrap our minds around. But we do know that there are scriptures that tell us, first of all, there's no one that has seen God. And then there are passages that talk about how there is an aspect of God that people have seen. And I want you to notice those things. And I want you to notice where where we'll end in the end. So first of all, the scriptures that state explicitly, no man has seen God. John 1. 18. No man hath seen God at any time. The only begotten Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him. So Jesus stands to reveal the Father to people. John, 1 John 4, 12, it says, no man has seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwells in us. And his love is perfected in us. And the point that John's making is if you want people to see the glories and the goodness of God, the way they see it is in the lives of Christians whose lives have been transformed by the gospel. That's really what he's saying. But there are other scriptures that affirm that there are some aspects of the way that people have seen God in a certain sense. I'll give you some of those. The first one I want you to turn to is Exodus 24. Listen to what it says in Exodus 24, verses 16 through 18. It says, and the glory of the Lord abode on Mount Sinai. The cloud covered it six days. The seventh day he called unto Moses out of the midst of the cloud. And the sight of the glory of the Lord was like devouring fire on top of the mountain in the eyes of the children of Israel. Question. Did they see God? Well, you could say, well, in some sense, the answer is yes. Did they see God fully? The answer is no. But they saw him in one sense. It goes on to say this. And the sight of the glory of the Lord was like a devouring fire fire. And Moses went up into the midst of the cloud, got him up into the mountain, and Moses was in the mount forty days and forty nights. Now this is a terrifying scene. In fact, the children of Israel believed, because of how long Moses had been up there, that he died when he went up onto the mountain. And that's the story of when they decide that they're going to make an idol and they're going to worship that idol. And Moses comes down with the Ten Commandments and he's livid because There he is. He's just had God tell him, Thou shalt have no other gods before me, and there they are, they're worshiping an idol. But the people saw a glimpse of the glories of God. Moses saw this to an even greater degree, and we see this in chapter 33, verses 11 to 23. This is interesting. He says and he said, I beseech thee, show me thy glory. Now don't forget this, don't miss this Moses for 40 days and 40 nights has been on the mountain, and where from the people's vantage point, he was in a situation where the glory was so great he would die. Okay? Moses was in the midst of the glory of the Lord, and he says, I want to see your glory, God. In other words, Moses understood that what he saw from his vantage point was only a limitation, a limited part of this. And it was more than what the people had seen from their vantage point. He says, give me more of a glimpse of your glory. That's what he's saying. And so it says, God says to him, I will make all my goodness pass by before thee, and I will proclaim the name of the Lord before thee, and will be gracious to whom I will be gracious and will show mercy to whom I'll show mercy. He said, Thou canst not see my face, for there shall no man see me and live. The Lord said, Behold, there is a place by me. Thou shalt stand upon the rock, and it shall come to pass while my glory passeth by. I will put thee in the cleft of the rock, cover thee in my hand while I pass by, and I will take away mine hand, and thou shalt see my back parts by my face, but my face shall not be seen That's telling us. That's telling us that what the children of Israel saw was terrifying What Moses saw was even to a greater degree glorious and terrifying at the same time. And Moses said, I want to see more. And God said, I can give you a small glimpse. But I'm going to have to shield you from the full glory of who I am. Are you catching that? This is why the Bible says no one's seen God. Because the reality is, nobody can look on their eyes at a holy and righteous God and see him in all of his glory and survive it. That's what he's saying. But there are degrees to which God can reveal himself to people so that they can see him. And the example of Moses, he did that. We see another example in Isaiah chapter 6, verses 1 to 5. You probably have heard this passage. You've read it, you've heard it preached before at some point. Here's what it says: In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up. His train filled the temple. Above it stood the seraphim. Each one had six wings, with twain they covered their face, with twain he covered his feet, and with twain he did fly. And one cried unto another and said, Holy, holy, holy, Lord of hosts, the whole earth is full of his glory. And the posts of the door were moved at the voice of him that cried. The house was filled with smoke, and he said, Woe is me. For I am undone, because I am a man of unclean lips. I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips. Mine eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. Now, in every single one of the examples in Scripture that we find, whether it's a Moses or whether it is Isaiah here, in all of these situations. The glimpse of God's glory that these people saw was something that was wondrous. Terrifying, magnificent. But in every single one of these cases, there was a limit to how much God allowed them to see. Always. And the reason we know that is because they told the story. They would not have survived these things. So when we read Matthew chapter 5, verse 8, and he says, Blessed are the pure in heart, they shall see God. My contention, or what I believe it's saying, is that you, one day, believer, are going to see God. And see him revealed in a way that these people themselves never saw. That's ultimately what he's saying Most likely saying that the revelation of God that we will have the opportunity to see is as if God has removed the veil that has limited our ability to see his presence, and he allows us to see him to a degree to which we could not on this side of eternity. For instance, in 1 Corinthians 13, 12, he says, Now we see through a glass darkly, but then face to face. Or think about Matthew chapter 17. This is when Jesus was transfigured on the mount. It said after six days, Jesus Taketh Peter, James, John, and his brothers, and bringeth them up into a high mountain, and was transfigured before them, and his face did shine as the sun, and his raiment was white as the light. You know what those verses are telling us? Here is Jesus. He's God in flesh. He's walking amongst these people, walking amongst the disciples. They are talking to God in flesh, but his glory is veiled. They don't have the ability to see it. And they're on the Mount of Transfiguration. It's like God says, let me just remove the veil a little bit so you can see who you're actually dealing with here. That is the sense that we're talking about. Or Paul talks about this in 2 Corinthians chapter 12. He says, I knew a man in Christ about 14 years ago Whether in body I cannot tell, or whether out of body I cannot tell, but God knoweth. Such an one was caught up into the third heaven. I know such a man, whether in body or out. I cannot tell. God knoweth how that he was caught up into paradise and heard unspeakable words which it is not lawful for a man to utter. What's the point? The point is one day, you and I, because of the work of Christ for us, will get to see God. In Revelation chapter 21, this is what it says. I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away. There was no more sea. I John saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband, and I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men. And I love this next statement. He will dwell with them. And they shall be his people. And God himself shall be with them. And be their God. And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes, thus shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither any pain, for the former things are passed away. He that sat on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new Write these words, they are true and faithful. And he said unto them, Unto me, It is done. I am Alpha and Omega, beginning in the end. I will give him that is a thirst of the fountain of the water of life freely. He that overcometh shall inherit all things. I will be his God, and he shall be my people. Take this all together to say this. When Jesus in Matthew chapter 5, verse number 8 says, Blessed are the pure in heart, they shall see God. He's saying there are people, they are sinners who have been saved by grace. Their lives have been transformed by the gospel. They are growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ, and in spite of all the misery and troubles and the struggles of life which we all experience. One day they're going to see their Savior. One day they're going to see God face to face. They're going to get to see God in his glory in a way that Moses didn't see. That Elijah didn't see, that Isaiah didn't see, that Paul didn't see, we will see him in a way that we cannot even begin to comprehend. And that's what Matthew 5. 8 is all about. It's a really nice way of saying the Christian is one who's changed and he's going to see God. I asked this question. This is only part one. We'll get into part two next week. My question is, does that not encourage you? Does that not give you something to strengthen you when life is very hard? Life is hard. Life is painful. Life is frustrating. Life is discouraging. Sometimes there are things in life they don't make any sense to us. Sometimes the things that we witness, we can't make sense of them. And there's a lot of struggle and a lot of misery and a lot of challenge. But God tells us that there's coming a day that we are going to see God, the creator of this world. The one who orchestrated our salvation through the work of Christ, the one who saved us and sustains us and strengthens us and matures us and grows us into the image of Christ, we're going to see him face to face. to face. And it's all of his grace. We don't deserve it at all, but that is something that should strengthen us in life You know, when we read through Ephesians chapter 6, he talks about putting on the whole armor of God. One of the things that he says is, he says, take the helmet of salvation. And put it on. You say, what is the helmet of salvation? The helmet of salvation is us reminding ourselves of the future goal. That's what the helmet of salvation is. It's a salvation. It's the aspect of our salvation we've not yet experienced yet. It's guaranteed, it's secured in Christ. There's nothing that can stop it from happening. But we've not tasted it yet. We've not experienced it yet. When we get discouraged and frustrated in life, we've got to look for it and go, you know what, God, you've promised that is what awaits me. And I will endure and I will be faithful, and I will walk this path that you've called me to walk, because I know that there's a glory that awaits. And I anticipate that with tremendous As Paul says in the book of Romans, he says, the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be I think that's what he's talking about. The privilege that you and I will have one day. Lord willing, next week we will try to understand why this statement is so shocking. And I want you to think in light of human nature and what we are apart from Christ. And I want us to be able to think about that a little bit more deeply. Deeply. So that's where we'll stop this evening. Let's bow for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to help us to really get a good grasp of this and that it would encourage us. Father, as we think about these truths, help them to resonate in our hearts. Father, help our hearts to be filled with great joy and anticipation as we realize that one day we will see you in all your glory. We'll stand in your presence, and we will enjoy the eternity that awaits us. And I pray that you help us to endure faithfully because we know what awaits us. Help us not to give up, help us not to be discouraged, help us not to quit. Help us to encourage and uplift one another as we go through life. I pray that you will use these things to strengthen us, and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.