And we're going to be continuing our series in Ephesians. Our text is in Ephesians chapter 1, and we will start in verse 11 for our text. And after I read the text, we're going to start very broad and then narrow ourselves to the passage itself, and I think it will help us. Because before I even read the passage this morning, sometimes you read a passage and it makes your eyebrows go up or your hair fall out, or you're there's something that just seems like it could be challenging. And you can soak in that passage of Scripture, and you can rush to conclusions or have some thoughts. And what we can do is get lost just staring at that tree and forget to stop back, stop, take a bigger picture of the whole forest. And oh, this is what the Bible is saying. And so that can help us. Anytime we come to a difficult passage of Scripture, we can see what it might say, what it might not say, based off the broader context of Scripture. So as I read this text, I will do so, and then we will start very broad and then get more narrow to our text. And I think we will by the time we get to the text itself. I think it will be great help, blessing, and encouragement to you and have a further understanding of what the Word of God is communicating to us through this passage. So we're going to look at the blessings of believers have in Christ in Ephesians chapter 1, verse 11. The word of God says, in whom also we have obtained an inheritance. Being predestinated according to the purpose of him who worketh all things after the counsel of his own will, that we should be to the praise of his glory, who first Trusted in Christ, in whom also ye trusted, after that ye heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and whom after that ye believed You were sealed with that Holy Spirit of promise, which is of the earnest of our inheritance, unto the redemption of the purchased possession, unto the praise of his glory. Let us bow our hearts and minds. and heads to the Lord. Father, we are so thankful for this passage of Scripture that we can gather today, this day, on your day, focused upon your word. Would who be sensitive, the Spirit of God, as he uses your words. to speak to us, to challenge us, to encourage us. As Father, we do have many blessings because of what Christ has done. for who he is. And would we have a better understanding of that and our position that we have and the blessings that result And we can just come to you with thankful hearts, filled with his great blessings, and knowing that we can have a home in heaven because of what you've done for us on our behalf through trusting in your So blessings believers have in Christ. Now I'm going to start very broad in the biblical context. And if you saw the opening slide there, there's a picture. of railroad tracks. And this is the greatest illustration I've heard that I like to use when it especially when it comes to the sovereignty of God and the free will of man. As you're standing on the train tracks, and as we have the sovereignty of God and the free will of man, they are two distinct tracks. And as you saw in that opening picture, when you're standing there on the tracks and you look down afar, Those two tracks look like they combine together. Now what you could do is you could stand in their tracks and you can decide, you know what, I'm going to walk these tracks and I'm going to get to the point where they come together. And you can begin making that track and you can keep on walking. But as I've learned, I used to, my dad used to take us running on the train tracks all the time. You can run and you can run and you can run and you can walk. Did you know what? Those tracks, though they look like they're together, they never actually come together. But when you look in the distance, it's as if they are one. That's kind of the illustration that I like when it comes to God who's in control of all things and having great sovereignty and the free will of man and us having a decision. They are two distinct, different things. And off at a distance it looks like they come together, but at what point they come together is hard to tell. And for us as men to try and figure, figure out and sort these things out is very difficult. So what I'm going to do here before we get to the text is I'm going to start very broad and get some basic understandings of some truths of scripture. So by the time we get to our text, you'll most definitely be certain, wait a minute, it cannot be saying this. So it's gotta be saying something more along this line. And so that's what we're gonna do. Like I said before, if you run into a difficult text or something you don't understand What does the rest of Scripture say about this issue? What are some cross-references? Where are these words used in Scripture? So that's what we're going to do. So starting with the broader biblical context, we're first going to look at how Christ died for all. And I have a lot of scripture up here. Some of them are very familiar. And they are all chosen for a reason. And I will say we're going to look at two broader issues. One, Christ died for all, and two, that faith in Christ is necessary for salvation. And I'm going to admit that some of these verses, if you're going to get picky, you can put them in different categories between one and the two, because there's overlapping thoughts in some of these. But first looking at how Christ died for all. I think this is hugely important for us to understand before we even go to the text. So in John 1. 29, the word of God says, And the next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him and saith, Behold, the Lamb of God that taketh away. The sin of the world. This is John the Baptist. He sees Christ. He sees him. He knows this is the Lamb of God. This is the one who is to take away the sin of the world. All inclusive. Everyone. We're more familiar, probably even with John 3, starting with verse 15. In John 3, 15, keep in mind, all these are trying to show that Christ died for all, for all mankind. In John 3. 15 it says that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever believed in him should not perish, but have everlasting life For God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. So here, John, once again in John 3 is telling us it takes Whosoever believes in Christ and you get everlasting life. And if you ever are witnessing to someone, could be a family member, maybe it was just recently from Christmas or Thanksgiving, or maybe a neighbor. And you get a little nervous and you don't know what verse to go to. One of the verses I like to use is John three sixteen. And the surrounding verses Because in John 3. 16, it says a lot, and it's very familiar, especially to the person you're talking to. They may not know a lot of scripture. They might know John 3. 16 and probably Matthew 7. 1. You can't judge me. Okay. But in John 3. 16, there's a great promise there. Whosoever believeth, are you whosoever? Yes. What does that whosoever do? He believes in Christ. And the promise by the end of that is you will have everlasting life. You're not going to perish, be eternally separated from God. You will have everlasting life because of your faith in Christ. And that is for whosoever, for everyone. In 1 John 2. 2, we read, and he is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only, but also for the sins of our of the whole world. So just in case you're wondering, if Jesus Christ only died for those who end up believing in him, not according to the scripture. Not according to John 2. 2, not according to John 3. 16 and surrounding text. Not according to John 1. 29. It's whosoever, and it's for the sins of the world. This is extremely important to understand. And I think we can see this so far as we look at these verses of scripture. Christ came and he died in our place. to appease God's wrath on mankind for the sin of the world. Through Adam man sinned. Romans 5. 12, wherefore it's by one man sinned of the world, and death by sin. So that death passed upon all men for that all have sinned. And that is why Christ came, for the sin of the world. Extremely important. The second part of Acts 17 verse 30, but now commandeth all men everywhere to repent. to change the way we think. Everyone in the world is to change the way that we think from thinking that you can earn your way to heaven to think that you are a God to think that the world revolves around you. To stop, to pause, and to think. I need to change the way I think and agree with God and what his word says. And this is for all men everywhere to repent. Titus 2. 11 says, For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men. Just continuing to reaffirm, I want us to grasp without a shadow of a doubt that when Christ came, it's for whosoever can believe in Jesus Christ. And Jesus Christ died for all men. Not leaving any out. This is why Christ came, not for the few, but for all And then we see in 1 Timothy 2, verses 3 and 4. For this is good. And acceptable in the sight of God our Savior. So what is good? What is acceptable? What is something that God likes to see? Who will have all men to be saved? And to come to the knowledge of the truth. What is God like? What does He want us to see? He wants us to see. He wants us to know that all men can be saved. Those that think that they've sinned too far, that they cannot approach God, Christ came and died for that individual. For those that think that they're too good and they don't need anything. They have everything in themselves. Well, Christ died for them to. This is good. This is acceptable in God's sight to see that Christ paid the penalty and died for all mankind, for everyone in the world. This is why we dedicate a whole month focusing on missions. Every soul is important. Every life matters. Not a select few, not some. Christ didn't just die for Israel. Christ just didn't die for those who may or just believe in him down the road at some point in their life. Christ died for the sins of the world. Our final verse in 2 Peter 3. 9. And the Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness, but is long-suffering to usward. Not willing. That's a desire. What is a desire that God has? Not willing that any should perish, but all should come to repentance. Once again, this is the seventh one I've put on there, several different verses. The seventh text, that God doesn't desire. God's will is that every man, that all should come to repentance. that none should perish, that none should be separated from him for all eternity. That is what God desires. That is what God wants. But here's what's amazing. God so loved the world that he gave us a choice. He paved the way. He made the price possible. He sent his son to die in our place for all the world. The decision is for us. God's will, God's desire, always, if you're praying, I don't know the Lord's will in this situation, you always know it's God's will for someone to get saved. Will they get saved? Will they make that decision on their own? Maybe that's up to them. That's why you see sometimes the scripture says they might be saved. Because God gives us a decision But we do know God's desire. God doesn't want us to be separated from Him. God wants us to be with Him. God wants us to enjoy fellowship now and through all eternity. So through all these passages. I have chosen all these two for us all to see that Christ died for every single person. No exceptions. All the world. And it's whosoever. So the broader biblical context, I want us to see that Christ died for all. The second thing I want us all to see in the broader biblical context. Is that faith in Christ is necessary for salvation? At the same time, God wants all the world to be saved. And his desire is for everyone to know Jesus Christ is their Savior. And he died for all their sin. of the whole world, also he also makes it necessary for us to believe in Christ. We're going to see this a lot in Romans. We're going to start with Romans 3. 25 whom God have sent forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood To be declared righteous for the remission of sins that are passed to the forbearance of God. So what this is saying is God sent Jesus Christ to die, his shedding of his blood. This is what the Old Testament sacrifices were a picture of. It was a picture of the Christ to come, the Messiah that we were waiting for, all those lambs and all those animals that were their blood was shed. That was to picture Christ coming. And what this is saying is That Christ was made possible for us, but we can choose by faith to believe in what Jesus Christ has done for us. That's a choice. You can choose to believe this. God made it possible, but through faith in his blood. Romans 5. 1. Therefore, being justified by faith. He's concluding one section, moving to another there in Romans 5, and he's saying, therefore, because of what I just stated, and he is heavily that all have sinned in the first several chapters of Romans up to this point. That we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. How do we have peace with God? How do we go from being under God's punishment and his wrath as a sinner, which is deserved, to at peace with him? We get that through being justified, being declared righteous by our faith in who Jesus Christ is. Extremely important. It's who Jesus Christ is and our faith in Christ. That's how we have peace with God. That's how we have peace on earth and goodwill towards all men. Romans 10. 13 For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. You're calling in him. You're trusting in Christ alone. Not your works, not how much money you put in the offering, not how many times you prayed or read your Bible or came to church this week. It is not, it's whosoever here shall call on the name of the Lord. Who is Jesus Christ? Do you believe that he is God's son? Do you believe that he is God in the flesh? He is a man without sin who died in our place. And it takes our faith, our trust, our dependence in nothing but Christ alone. An example that I'm using that we just covered in Sunday school this morning in Genesis 15 6. I love this passage. This is talking about Abram. And he believed in the Lord and is counted to him for righteousness. Quoted in the Old Testament, what did Abraham do to be counted righteous, to be declared righteous, as we just read in Romans? He believed in God. In the Old Testament, they were saved the same way that we are today in the New Testament. It's not a difference. The only thing is they looked forward to the Messiah to come, to believe in the Messiah that would come. All we do is we look back at the Messiah who came. It's still faith. Abraham believed God. It was accounted unto righteousness, quoted twice in the New Testament. So Abraham believed, and he was counted righteous. It's the same for us today. They were looking forward. We look back. That is the only difference. It's still by faith in Jesus Christ. That is it. And we see one of those passages is in Galatians 3. 6. I told you there were two. Here's one. In Galatians 3. 6, it says, even as Abraham believed God, it was accounted unto him. So what did Abraham do to be righteous before a holy God who must punish sin? He believed in the seed that would come. He would believe that God would provide a way. When he believed Jesus and that would eventually come, he can be saved. So what have I done so far? What have we looked at so far? The bigger broader biblical context, we have to understand is Christ died for everyone, no exceptions. We've also seen that faith is necessary for salvation. Just because it's provided for all men does not mean that all men will get saved. We have to choose to believe in Christ and what He's done. That's where the train tracks are separate. God has provided a way that's unchanging, but we also have a decision to make. That's the other track. God is not going to make us. He still loves us. He allows us to make a decision for ourselves. We either believe in him in his word or not. Abraham was a specific example we pointed out. He personally believed in Christ. And where these things come together, God creates a way and He knows He's over all things and He's sovereign, but yet God has a choice. Where those exactly come together and where they meet, I don't know. And I've walked a long ways and ran many miles on train tracks in the years past, not recently. But in years past, it just they they stay separated, but it looks like they come together. I think that's an illustration of what we've seen. So with this being said, Christ died for all. All can choose to put their faith in Christ. Now let's look a little more specifically at Ephesians chapter 1. Very quickly, I just want to break it down. Long sentences. Don't you love Paul? God used Paul and Paul had this amazing way to string on these sentences. I don't know if you ever noticed. And the first time I really noticed is when I was studying Greek. And doing my best to keep it in my head. But boy can Paul go on and on and on. I don't have the talent or the ability to string all those commas, semicolons, and all that's altogether colons and the whole bit. But here we go. Very quickly, just to look at the this broader context that can add sometimes when you have these long sentences, it adds a challenge. Okay, where's the verb? What's he talking about? What's the main idea here? And he strings all these little details in here, like, wait a minute, what are we talking about? Sometimes that gets to be a challenge. So admitting, sometimes that is challenging with these passages. So to break down very quickly and very easily according to sentence. We see the first sentence in Ephesians 1 and 2. It's the greeting. That's the first sentence. That's I think the shortest in the chapter. Very close to it. Our second sentence, which Pastor broke down, I believe, a couple weeks ago, we see the work of God the Father in Galatians 1, 3 through 6. That is our second sentence in chapter 1, is verses 3 through 6. Our third sentence, we see the work of the Son of God in 7 through 12. That's where our text begins, because our text that we're going to hit is 11 through 14. But in 12, we're going to see, or from 7 to 12, the work of the Son of God. That all is one sentence. From 7 to 12, look at it. It's one long sentence. Then we go back to a little short set shorter sentence. Our fourth sentence in the chapter is the work of God the Spirit in chapter 1, verses 13 and 14. So once again, that or verse 1 and 2, I didn't do a word count, but it's close Two verses, one sentence. And that's the work of God the Spirit. And then Paul, for the rest of the chapter from 15 to 23, is another long sentence of Paul's prayer. And I think Pastor will deal with that, I believe, next Sunday. So we have this chapter divided into just a couple of sentences, five sentences total. That's crazy. And what we're going to look at here, and we're going to see by the end, there's distinct little markers that will help us to see each of these things. So that's long sentences that could add to complications. That's why I wanted to start with something easy, basic, lots of scripture to help us understand some basic truths of the Word of God as a whole, the bigger, broader context before we even get to our text. So now that being said, we're going to now look at what we have in Christ, blessings that believers have. in Christ. This is two believers, those who have trusted in him, as he said in his greeting and in his opening. These are four believers' blessings. So what do we have? In Christ, we have an inheritance In Christ we have an inheritance. Verse 11 and 12. Let us read these verses. In whom also we have obtained an inheritance. being predestined according to the purpose of him who worketh all things after the counsel of his own will, that we should be to the praise of his glory, who first trusted in Christ. So we're going to look at this predestinated in verse 11, in whom we've also obtained an inheritance, being predestinated Our inheritance, that is as a child of God, if we were to look back at verses 5 and predestined really means here to be determined beforehand. To basically know ahead of time. We can say before Genesis 3. 15, God had a plan and a design. To be determined ahead of time. So here, what's determined ahead of time? Well for the children of God, if we look back to verse 5. Because in verse 5, it says, having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will. So we God has chosen for us. He has made the way possible for us to be his child. I just want to pause really quick. Not all of us are God's children. This is a common phrase that gets all, oh, we're all God's children. That is not true. It is not accurate. Those who believe in Jesus Christ, those who put their faith in Christ, become a child of God. That's what we're saying in verse 5. And that's what he's kind of hinting at here. God's purpose, God's design is for all to be saved. We covered all those passages. That's what he wants. That's his will, as it says here. who worketh all things after the counsel of his own will. What is God's will? What is his desire? For all to be saved. But he also wants those to choose. He allows us the option to by faith, trust in what he wants for us. So those who have trusted, what happens? What's determined ahead of time? If we choose, we become a child of God. That's his purpose. That's what he wants. That's what he desires. We've seen lots of scripture already saying this. And in verse 5, child of God, hear. according to his purpose. And we looked at many different verses saying these things. So we have eternal life. But predestined, what's predetermined, what's known ahead of time. Beforehand, what is determined? Those who know Christ will have everlasting life. As a child of God. We see this in Acts 26, 18. It says, to open their eyes and to turn them from darkness to light, from the power of Satan unto God. That they may receive forgiveness of sins, and the inheritance among them, which are sanctified by what? By faith that is in me. Paul is saying, by the faith that I have in Christ. I have an inheritance. It's the same for us. By faith in Christ, we have an inheritance. We have everlasting life as a child of God. Hopefully this becomes more clear as we've looked at the broader context and all these things. We can see how this will fit very nicely one to another. Then we get to verse 12. That we should be to the praise of his glory who first trusted in Christ. I like this phrase here. We see is throughout this book. We should be. In verse 12, we should be. We're not made to be. We're not forced to be. We should This is like when a father suggests something to a child. You should do this. That's a kind way, children. That's a very when your mother or father say you should do this, that's a very kind, nice way of saying do it Do it. I mean they're kind of making a nice friendly suggestion, but what it means is, okay, I got the hint. They're not actually giving you the option, although you do have an option. You can do this the easy way, or you can do this the hard way. You should be this way. What is he saying we should be right here in this verse As a child of God, as a blessing of this inheritance, we have, because we are in Christ as believers, that's exciting, okay? That we should what? We should be the praise of his glory. It's a blessing to God. It's a praise to him that we believe in what he has done for us. It's the praise to his glory. Who what? Who first trusted in Christ. Not who arm wrestled and made in God that you have to do this. God is giving us the option. If you trust in Christ, it's for the praise of his glory that you can be his child and you have now this eternal inheritance in heaven. Not on any merit of your own, but simply putting your faith in the work of Christ, and that is all to the praise and to the glory of God. That's what we should be. I also like this should be statement, because we've already seen this. If you're in Ephesians, you can look at verse 4. And I'm going to read verse 4. According as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love. You know what we should be as Christians? Do you know what we should be as saints? Do you know what we should be as the children of God? We should be holy and without blame. That's what he wants from us. But so many times we make the world and we give them credit by saying that we believe in Christ, but live no different. We are proving them right. Because we are not choosing as we should be wholly. Now, I'm not saying we're all going to be perfect. We will make mistakes, and that's why they they love to jump on the Christian. Because we are sinners too. We're sinners saved by grace. But we need to understand who we are in Christ. And we do have many blessings. This inheritance is wonderful and eternal and it is a great blessing. Yet at the same time, we are to be holy. And without blame. That's what we should be. And this is to the praise and glory of God. Also, I want to tie this in later what we should be. Look in Ephesians 5. 27. So at the very beginning, he says we should be holy and without blame. Then towards the end of this letter, in Ephesians 5, 27 , In the context of the church and the more practical part of the section of Ephesians, because keep in mind the whole book of Ephesians could be split up with doctrine, chapters 1 through 3, and more practical, 4 through 6. So here in 527, look at this. that he might present it to himself. A glorious church. That's us. Not having spot or wrinkle. Yeah, that's what we should be from verse 4. And it's to the praise of his glory that we just read. Or any such thing, but that it should be holy and without blemish. Do you know what we should be in Ephesians? We should be holy and without blame. We should be holy with no blemish. That's what we're trying to do. Because we are in Christ, we should be motivated to do these things. Now it is hard and it is difficult, but that's who we should be. That's understanding who we are as a child of God, understanding our inheritance and the blessing we have as the God's children, but yet it also comes with responsibility. I need to do my best. Now keep it in mind. This holiness and this blameless, this is not to earn salvation. This is to give evidence of who you are. We're not working, for by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves is a gift of God, not of works, less any man should boast. And many other verses we already shared. We are working and doing our best to live as God's children. Maybe you've had a time in your life when a parent or someone says, you're a lender. Fill in the blank, whatever your name is, you should know better. We don't do these those things in our house. That's kind of what we should be here, in a sense of what God is saying. He basically almost ends and starts the book with this idea of being holy And without blame. And if we can do this, we can be more effective as a child of God. Understanding the blessings we have in Him And with the inheritance that we do have and possess, because of what Christ has done on our behalf and our faith in him. So that's what we should be, and this is all to those who have first trusted in Christ. You can't expect someone who's not trusted in Christ to really be holy and without blame. It doesn't work. Because without Christ, and without the Spirit of God, which we're going to get to in a little bit, without Him living in us and working through us, Sinners just sin. That's what they do. We can't expect a lost person to love God and to have a desire for Him. What they first need is understand who Christ is. Actually, before that, they need to recognize I'm a sinner before a holy God, and that's why Christ has come. So it's to those who have first trusted in Christ, and this is the praise and the glory of God. God. So we've seen the broader biblical context. We've looked at what we have in Christ. In Christ we have an inheritance. What else do we have in Christ? In verses 13 through 14, we're going to see, in Christ we have been sealed. By the Holy Spirit of God. We've been sealed by the Spirit. Let's look at verses 13 and 14. In whom ye also trusted. Notice the emphasis of the trust. He ends verse 12. In first year trusted In 13, he starts, in whom also ye trusted, after that ye heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, in whom after that ye believed, you were sealed with that Holy Spirit of promise. Which is the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession, unto the praise of his glory. So the blessings believers have, hey, we have an inheritance. And we've been sealed by the Holy Spirit. So let's look at this. First, it says, we first trusted and you've heard the word of truth. How are you going to trust in something if you've never heard of it? How are you going to believe in something if you don't know anything about it? It's very simple. But he's saying you've trusted after ye heard the word of truth. So what this means is you've heard the word of God. What are you going to do with it? That's where the choice comes in. That's where the faith comes in. A lot of us have heard God's truth. Some of us have been putting it off. Some of us are thinking you all go to church, I'll be okay. We've just had Christmas and I did some of the Christmas thing and I visited some family. But have you recognized that you have sinned before a holy God and that you have personally never trusted in Christ as your personal Savior? Because these blessings will not apply to you. This text and this inheritance and to the praise of his glory and this ceiling of the Holy Spirit does not happen. Unless you have first trusted in who Jesus Christ is and what he's done for you. So you've heard the word of truth. What are you doing with the word of truth? And this truth is the gospel of our salvation. This is what takes us from everlasting death and punishment to everlasting life. This is our salvation. We're delivered from that. And we can be delivered from understanding and better discernment of truth from error even now, presently. And whom after that ye believed. Notice he's referring a lot to the past tense. After you believed, after you've heard. So you've heard, you believed, and then what happens? After you do these things in this order. Then what happens? You heard, you believed, and then what happens? And then you are sealed with that Holy Spirit of promise. And in Romans 10. 14, it was in our opening passage of scripture that we read. It says, How shall they call in him whom they have not believed? How shall they believe in him and whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? Because we hear and we believe we are sealed. What does this sealed mean? What does it mean to be sealed? It's an identifying mark. Something that makes a distinction to that person to identify them. A common way we might do this is a signature. It's like you're identifying mark. Oh, we need your signature. And it has to look relatively close. Don't you love the electronics when you're trying to like use your finger to write your it's like I don't even recognize I wouldn't approve that That's horrible. I mean you're taking this fat finger to write on this pad that's worse. It's like a 90s technology. And it And it starts writing before you touch it and then as it it's horrible. And that's supposed to be your identifying mark. That yeah, that's me. Maybe it looks like one of my kids did that But this sealed, it's an identification, it's a way that we can be set apart, identified by. In ancient times, they used to do this with wax and a king's ring. The king's identifying mark. You see this in Ruth. They would put like a wax of some sort and the king's ring would then get sealed where where the letter would go so that way they know if the seal was broken, someone tampered with it. And the king's seal, there should only be one of those. And if it was sealed, if that impression, that identifying mark was pressed in there, they knew this was important. This came straight from authority. This is straight from one like a king. An identifying mark. It leaves an impression, you know who this came from. In this context, that understanding of being sealed with the Holy Spirit is when you trust in Christ as your Savior, there's a lot of things that happen. One of which is when you believe in Christ as your Savior, you receive and you get the Holy Spirit. Remember, after you heard, after you believed, then you're sealed. You receive the Holy Spirit of God. In Ephesians 4. 30, we also see this, and grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby you are sealed until the day of redemption. We're sealed until God takes us home. In 2 Corinthians 1. 22, who also sealed us and have given us us the earnest of the Spirit in our hearts. And we're going to get to that earnest here in a second. So he has given us the Holy Spirit after we have believed. So let's look at the verse again. Then to verse 13. You were sealed. with that holy spirit of promise. We have this identifying mark. We receive the Spirit of God. And then it goes on to say in verse 14, which is the earnest of our inheritance. So we already have this inheritance. That's one of the blessings of believer. We have this inheritance. We have everlasting life. But you know what we have? This earnest here. Is the idea of a down payment. This is like a non-refundable deposit. Don't you love those? They do that to try and get some commitment out of you. It could be for team camp It could be for teen winner retreat, hint, hint, nudge, nudge, elbow, parents, teens, okay. You put money ahead of time to show your commitment. We had the privilege of just uh two years ago or so, just over two years, uh to do an earnest on a house, earnest money. As a part of the down payment distance. You have to give them money ahead of time saying, we're serious, this is what we really want. That's the idea. We're getting something ahead of time showing this is what's going to happen. We're showing forth that this is going to happen. It's the idea of this ceiling. I'm making it, I'm serious, it's a down payment. I'm showing forth how serious you are by doing this. We see this in 2 Corinthians 5. 5. Now he that hath wrought us the self-same thing is God, for also he hath given to us the earnest of The Spirit. So the Spirit of God, after we believe in Christ as our Savior, we receive the Holy Spirit. This is what God's way of a seal identifying mark. You have the Spirit of God. This is my down payment until you come to see me again. This is God's guarantee. When you believe in Christ, you receive the Spirit of God. You will have the Spirit of God until you see me. It's his down payment on you as you as his possession as his child. Now you're his child. You believe in Christ. You receive the Holy Spirit. You are sealed. That's his down payment on you and your everlasting life God has made a payment for you, not only with Christ on the cross, but now once you believe in Christ and when he's on the cross You get the Spirit of God. He's got to commit to this. He is going to keep it. And it's God doing this. His intention is it's going to happen. We should have no doubt. This is a wonderful way of understanding that we are secure. God has given us his guarantee. That he has a plan for us until we're redeemed, until we see him again. He's given us, you have God's guarantee. You have those guarantees and those warranties, and they always plan it out where it expires right after. They know the timing. It usually breaks around, you know, seven months, so we're gonna give them six months of a warranty. I think they've done the math on that. I I I'm I'm convinced of that sometimes. But that's not how God works. God has given you a guarantee we have the Spirit of God working in us as the comforter, as the paraclete, the one who is called beside us, to work in us and through us, to encourage us in the Word of God. This is a blessing that believers have. So, yes, we have an inheritance. We get everlasting life, but it's better than that. As believers, not only do we have an everlasting life, We have God's guarantee it's going to stay that way with the Holy Spirit living in us and working through us. That's a great, wonderful truth. We have the comforter, God Himself, who is living and dwelling in us by way of the Spirit of God. And we get to keep that until we're redeemed, until we see Him again. That is excellent. And how does all this take place? And why does all this happen? Look how the verse ends. Which is the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession unto the praise of his glory. So this is all done to the praise and the glory of God the Father. And all of these sections are to the praise of God. As mankind, sometimes we like to praise ourselves. Sometimes we like to talk about how good we are, or sometimes how your kids or grandkids are. It's a very normal thing. I'm not saying you can't always do that, but ultimately we are to praise and bring glory to God. And here's what's interesting about this phrase, to the praise of his glory. So this concludes this section of the work of the Spirit. The work of the Spirit concludes with, this is to the praise and the glory of God. But then look back with me in verse 6. Remember we talked about the beginning the structure of these long sentences? The work of God ends with verse 6. And if you look at the end of verse 6, what's it say? It starts with to the praise and glory of his grace, whereas he hath accepted us in the beloved. So it's to the praise and the glory of God that his work in us were accepted in this beloved, and it's to the praise of God that ends that first sentence outside the greeting. In verse 12, this is the section that ends the third long sentence of the work of the Son of God. Look at it in verse 12. That we should be to the praise of his glory. Who first trust in Christ. So to trust in Christ, to be accepted in the beloved, these things are to the praise and glory of God. And then verse 14, our short sentence, other than the greeting, our other short sentence, ends with this same phrase. And it ends with, unto the praise of his glory. So if we're to take all this and recognize the blessings that we have in Christ, who has died for all mankind, who has given us the option to believe in him. The blessings are we have an internal inheritance in heaven. Now, once you've trusted in Christ, you are sealed with that spirit. And what's all this done for? It's done to the praise and the glory of God. All of it. Every one of these long sentences outside the greeting up to this point has had in that last portion of the sentence to the praise of God So as a believer, are we praising God? Are we living more? Are we living to be holy and blameless? If we're not God's child, if we're not sure exactly what that means, if we have not trusted in Christ as our Savior, you can resolve that today, and it is all to the praise. And to the glory of God, to trust in him, to understand the work of Christ and what he's done. Are we understanding our believers that we have in Christ? Or maybe we need to first believe in the Word as it's been revealed to us through it and the work of the Spirit of God in us to believe in Christ. As our Savior. May we bow our word, our hearts, and heads in prayer. Father, we come before you very thankful And privileged to the blessings that we have in you as believers. Father, for those who have called upon your name, would we do our best to understand that we are your child? That we should be holy and without blame. And yet for others, maybe they have conviction coming from you, you desire for all, for everyone in the world to know Jesus Christ. is your savior. Would you work in their heart? May they call upon you, recognizing they are sinner. They are in need of a savior, Jesus Christ. Christ, and that by faith they trust in him, they too can be saved. Would you do your work in the hearts and lives of your people and those who need to be your child? And all this can be done to the praise and the glory of God the Father in whose name we pray. Amen.