Return in your Bibles to the book of Ephesians. And uh this week is going to be the beginning of a new series on Sunday mornings. We'll still continue doing our series through the Psalms. We still have several years that we will be in the Psalms. There are 150 of them for us to work through. But on the other Sundays, we're going to be working our way through the book of Ephesians. And This is a wonderful book. It is so rich. It is so full of deep theological truths. Yet it is also such a very practical book. And so What I want to do this morning is I'd like us to kind of look at the very beginning of this book, but then I'd like us to step back and try to get a big picture view of what the letter to the Ephesians is all about. So Ephesians chapter 1, and we will begin reading in verse number 1. Says Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the will of God, to the saints which are at Ephesus and to the faithful in Christ Jesus. Grace be to you, and peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings. in heavenly places in Christ, according as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love. having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace. wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved. Let's bow together, ask the Lord to really open our understanding. to this wonderful book that we will be spending many, many weeks, months, maybe even a couple of years in. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, thank you so much. For this rich gospel. We are so thankful for your plan of redemption that even before time, before the very first man was created, before there was a fall. You had a purpose to redeem people to yourself. And Father, you promised this plan of redemption. You gave so many pictures throughout the Old Testament to point us to this reality that would take place. And then you sent your son who took on flesh. And he dwelt among his people. The Lord Jesus Christ, the righteous God in flesh, who went to the cross, was nailed to the cross, bore our sin on his own body. Shed his blood for the remission of our sins. He bore your wrath and judgment against that sin. And then after his death, he rose triumphant from the grave. Because of all that he has done, every spiritual blessing that we enjoy has been purchased by him. And we are the recipients of this great grace as the Spirit has worked in our lives. I pray that this morning, as we open up this book, you would open up our hearts As we dig into it verse by verse, week after week, I pray that we would see the rich truths here and we would behold them with joy. And we would worship from the depths of our soul. And then as we move into the practical implications later on, I pray that we would live like the people that we are in Christ. that we would glory in this position that we enjoy all of your grace. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. I'd like to summarize what we're going to talk about this morning, and really for quite some time, I'd like to summarize it in the following way: since we have been united to Christ. We must understand the rich implications of that position and then live consistently with that position by God's gracious enabling. Very, very simple. Because we are in Christ, we can and we must live like it. That's really what we're talking about. We need to live like the people that we are. And so the question we should ask is how do we do this? Well, as we dig into the book of Ephesians, we're going to see lots and lots of amazing truths that I hope that as we lay these before you, you will see them as rich. as beautiful, as simple, as foundational to living the Christian life. In fact, if all you had was the book of Ephesians You would have plenty of truth for the rest of your life to dig into, to chew into. By the way, I'm not suggesting that's all that we have. We have the entire Word of God. But this book is that practical It's that foundational. So what I'd like to do first of all is talk to you for a few minutes about the fascinating background of the book of Ephesians. And if you were able to join us over our missions month, we talked a little bit about that. I'm not going to go into all the details that we went into during our missions month, but I want to just kind of hit some highlight pieces that I think are important to understanding what's going on in this book. Ephesians or Ephesus was a very unlikely place. For there to be a vibrant church that was one of the most influential churches in all of the first century. In fact, when we think about the story, we know that the city of Ephesus was a declining city. What I mean by that is that they they were even going through economic challenges. There was a time when it had been a port city, the port silted in, and so larger boats could not come in as they had in the past. And so there was this shift in the economy there in the city of Ephesus that went from kind of your traditional trade to being more of a selling of religious icons. And an icon is an idol. It's basically a part of their idolatrous worship there in the temple in Ephesus. And so you can imagine how filled with idolatry this city was. And then the city also had a fairly decent number of Jewish individuals, and so they had a synagogue. And there in the synagogue is the first place that Paul went and he preached the gospel. And there in the synagogue, some of the people embraced the gospel, some of the people rejected the gospel, and the very first place that Paul is really opposed is there in the synagogue. And so what does he do? He leaves the synagogue, he goes out into the general public and he begins to preach the gospel there. We also know from Acts chapter 16 that Paul's desire was initially almost two years earlier to go down into Asia Minor, and probably Ephesus was going to be one of the places that he would have focused his attention. But the Spirit of God forbid him to go. Twice he says, don't go there. The third time he says, go to Macedonia. and help us. And so what does Paul do? He goes into Macedonia. He hits several different cities and in each of those cities there's a small group of believers. He's basically kicked out of those cities. He's running for his life. And Paul eventually ends up at Corinth. And there at Corinth he meets Aquila and Priscilla, who he leaves at Ephesus, and that would be the beginning of this small little body of believers, which would become the church at Ephesus. Paul experienced some ministry success in those early days, but that success came at a cost, and the cost was that the city was turned into a tumult. In Acts 19, we see the story of what happened. There were seven individuals that were known as the seven sons of Skeva. And these individuals were Jewish exorcists, and they saw that Paul had the power to cast out the demon-possessed. And we we realize that this is the very idolatrous city, and so as they saw what Paul was able to do, they said, We want his power We want to do what he's doing. And so what do they do? They try to do the same thing that Paul was doing in the name of the person that Paul was casting out these demons by. And that person is Christ. But there was a huge problem. These men did not know Christ. And what was the end of the story? Paul's ministry was validated, and these men were humiliated, and they're running for their lives. And as the city sees what's taken place, it begins to open up many doors for the gospel to penetrate a very dark city. In fact, the conversion of these people was absolutely transformational. In Acts 19 In verses 19 and 20, this is what it says. And I want to kind of put into perspective what he's talking about here. When these people embrace the gospel, it says, many of those who used curious arts, brought their books together and burned them before all the men. I do note it does not appear that they were told to do this. You see, so why were they spontaneously taking all of these resources and saying, we're burning them? It's because they understood that they have a new master. They understood they now belong to Christ. They understand that that part of their life is dead and they're dead to it and they want nothing to do with it. And so they bring all of these books, they burn them together, and he he notes it says, fifteen thousand pieces of silver is the total cost of the material. Now you and I have no idea what that means, do we? I mean we fifty thousand pieces of silver, it sounds like a lot of money. In fact we were in the car this morning, we were driving and and my wife and I were talking about pennies and uh the fact that I guess they're not minting pennies anymore. Kind of interesting, right? So we have almost no idea of what 50,000 pieces of silver would have been worth. So I want to put it to perspective. I want you to kind of get an idea of how much money this was. So one piece of silver was the equivalent of a day's wage at the time that the people were living. And so that's a lot of money. You're talking about the equivalent of 50,000 day wages. So if we were to say, let's just take a general idea of somebody who's working a 40-hour week and they're making $20 an hour Hopefully you're making more than that if you're trying to support your family. But forty hours a week, $20 an hour, is about $800 before taxes start decimating what you're making, right? And so if that's the amount of money that you're making We're talking about eight million dollars worth of material. That's a lot of stuff. And then here's another question. How many people do you think participate in that? I mean if we were to look at the size of the number of people that are here right now, if we were to take this number of people, that's all the adults, that's all the kids, that's all the teenagers. We're probably right in that hundred and seventy, hundred and ninety, somewhere in that. I have no idea. I haven't done the calculation today. But if you were to take that number of people in that ancient city and they were the ones that were doing it, what you're saying is this Every person brought the equivalent of an entire year's salary and they burned it in the street. Did you catch that? An entire year salary. You think about what you make for a year and then you take whatever you have in value in your home and you burn it and you say that's what those people just did. That's crazy to think about. It takes a lot longer than a year to get that much stuff. To kind of make it even clearer, you know the story of when Jesus was there the week before his death and betrayal? And there's a woman that breaks this ointment and she begins to wipe it on her feet. You know that story? Do you realize that what she broke out was about the same numerical equivalent, dollar equivalent. As what these people are giving. And you saw how Judas responded. He had disdain for her. Why do I go into the weeds on this issue? The reason I go into the weeds here is to simply say this. When these people got saved, their lives were really changed. They were not the same people. I mean, we know that when you get saved, you're not the same person theologically, spiritually speaking. But their lives demonstrated this complete transformation. And this transformation brought a lot of trouble to the the city. And in chapter 19, verses 23 through 29, we see the story of how the silversmiths come together and they basically say this if what we've just witnessed is is just the beginning of what's to come, we've got to crush this. We cannot allow it in our city. And so there's a tremendous confusion in the city because of what has taken place. That is the the storyline of the church at Ephesus in a small little nutshell. And the truth is that we talk about churches being planted, not too many churches have this kind of a story. It's a pretty awesome story, isn't it? So here we are, probably eight to ten years after Paul's initial interaction with the church, and he writes this letter. And so that moves me secondly to the distinctives of this letter. What are the unique features of the book of Ephesians, which was a letter written to a church That we're going to work our way through week by week as we study the book of Ephesians. The first thing that really stands out to me about the book of Ephesians is that this book is very easy to break down into two distinct parts. What I mean by that is the first part of this book is all about the believer's position in Christ. And we see that from chapter 1, verse 1. I know that there's an introduction, but once you get past the introduction. From chapter 1, verse 1, all the way to chapter 3, verse 21, that entire section is all about who we are as Christians. It's all about what God has done for us. Interestingly, there is not one example that I could find in those first three chapters of Paul saying, go do something. It's not about what we do for him, it's about what he did for us. That's where he starts He starts with saying, here's what God did for you. Here's why that matters. Here's who you are. Think about that. Glory in it. Worship him. That's where he starts And we see this in chapter 1, verse 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places. In Christ. We're going to come back to that little statement in Christ because it's really important. And so the whole first portion of the book is about Praising God for how he has blessed us. And then chapter 3, verse 21, he says, Unto him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages and world without end. Amen. And that's how he closes out that little section. So you know what that means? That means as we study the book of Ephesians, you're going to hear a lot of theology. Why is that? Because that's where he starts. That's half of the book. Now we're not just gonna stay there, but we're gonna move all the way through. But what it shows you is that the foundation for what we do as Christians is who we are in Christ and how he has dealt with us. Before we do something, before we're commanded to do something, we are to remember who we are. Very, very important. And then the second part is practice. I don't mean practice like practice makes perfect. I mean practice like how you live, what you do, how we're supposed to live as the people that we are in Christ. And that's chapter 4. 1 to chapter 624. And you can kind of see this highlighted and how he opens up chapter 4, verse 1. He says I, therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you are called. He's saying, because of everything I just told you, here's how you're supposed to live. And then when we come to the end of this section, chapter 6, verse 10. He says, finally, and by the way, people like finally, when Paul says finally, there's a whole lot more to go, but finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord. And in the power of his might put on the whole armor of God that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. So what is distinctive about this book? Well, it falls nicely into two little sections. Who you are and how you're to live. Second thing I want you to notice about this distinction is that prayer is a major theme in the book of Ephesians. He opens the book with prayer, he closes the book with prayer, and then right in between, when he transitions from the theology and position to the practical implications of that, he prays for the people. And I want you to listen to what he says, because this is very instructive for how we should pray for one another. Here's what he opens up. Chapter 1, verse 16. I do not cease to give thanks for you. Can we really say that about one another? Paul did. I cease not to give thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers. That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give unto you the spirit of wisdom. And revelation and the knowledge of him, the eyes of your understanding being enlightened that ye might know what is the hope of his calling, the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints. You know what Paul is praying? He's saying, I pray that you will understand everything I'm about to say about who you are in Christ. And then what's really interesting is his second prayer is a transition between the first and second halves. Chapter three, verse fourteen. For this cause I bow my knee unto the Father of our Lord Jesus, of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named, that he would grant unto you according to the riches of his glory to be strengthened with might by his spirit in the inner man, that Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith, that you being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all the saints the breath. and the length and the depth and the height and to know the love of God which passeth knowledge that he might that ye might be filled with the fullness of God Now don't miss this. The first prayer was, I want you to know who you are and what God has done for you. The second prayer is, I want what you now know to change you. That's what he's saying. That you might be filled with the fullness of God. So what's he doing? He's blending what we know with how we live, and he's putting them together and saying spiritual maturity is knowledge and practice put together. And you know what? That's what he prayed for the church. When we pray for one another, we should pray that we grow in a knowledge of the Lord, and we should pray that that knowledge transfers into growth, into spiritual maturity. And then the third, this one's very interesting. Chapter 6, verse 18. He says, praying always with all prayer and supplication, the Spirit watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints and for me that utterance may be given unto me that I might open my mouth boldly and make known the mystery of the gospel for which I'm an ambassador in bonds. Therein, I may speak boldly as I ought to speak. Now what's he saying there? Well that's kind of how he closes out the uh Christians' armor. And you know, there's a song that we sing, uh, it's written by the Wesleys, and it says Each piece put on with prayer. Very, very interesting little statement there when he talks about how the Christian is to put on his armor. In other words, he says you put it on prayerfully. Because prayer is supposed to be intermingled with how we think, how we live. Every aspect of the Christian life is supposed to be shaped by a prayer life. If there's any area that I think that we often are very deficient as Christians, it's in our prayer life. Because we're really good at knowing and we're really good at performing, but we're not really good at depending. And that's what it's all about when we pray. But notice what he says. Pray for us. I've been praying for you, and I want you to pray for me. I love the way that he ends this book. I'm praying that you'll know what I'm about to say. I'm praying that it's going to impact your life. And as you mature and as you live out the Christian life, I'm praying that you'll pray for me so that as I go out and I do it, I do it effectively That's a huge portion of the book of Ephesians. Third thing. See, talks about some very rich theology in the book of Ephesians. I want you to think of it like this. Paul spent a lot of time at Ephesus. In fact, by comparison, we know that Paul spent at least Three years at Ephesus. Why do we know it? Well, because he says it. In Acts chapter 20, verse 31, he says, Remember that for the space of three years I ceased not to warn everyone night and day with tears. Could you imagine having Paul ministered to you for three years and he's constantly warning you and praying for you and with tears in his heart or in his eyes? ministering to you? By contrast, we have the book of Cor of the church at Corinth. We know that Paul spent at least a year and a half there. It says he continued there, Acts 18, a year and six months Teaching the word of God among them. Or Rome. We know that he was under house arrest. In Acts 28, it says Paul dwelt two whole years in his own hired house and received all that came in unto him. You say, well, why do you take the time to mention all that? The reason that I mentioned this is important. Even though Paul spent more time, at least we know of, at Ephesus than Corinth and Rome. Corinth and Rome are first, second Corinthians and the book of Romans are way more personal. He talks about lots of different people's names. He addresses some very personal problems. And you know what's interesting about the book of Ephesians? He doesn't do that. He doesn't mention a bunch of names. He doesn't dig into a bunch of problems. He's like, I heard this, I received this letter from you, and I'm writing back. He doesn't do that. And so it's a very interesting letter because it's more theologically focused than personally focused. Not to say that Paul doesn't have a heart for these people, he loves them, but this book has a different feel. than say 1 Corinthians or Romans or Philippians. This is a book that is all about theology. And so more than likely, this epistle was actually a circular letter that was giving a basic theological summary of what Paul was teaching in the various places that he went. Now the Bible doesn't directly say this, but if you make the comparison you think about it, you will see that that's a very plausible situation Acts nineteen verse nine it says, When divers were hardened and believed not, but spoke evil of that way, he departed and separated to the disciples, disputing daily in the school of one tyranus, and he continued there for a space of two years. What was Paul teaching at Ephesus? A lot of the things that we're talking about right here in this passage of Scripture. Or when Paul writes a letter to to Timothy, who was at Ephesus a couple of years later, 1 Timothy chapter 1, verse 3. I besought thee to still to stay at Ephesus, that thou mightest charge some that they teach no other doctrine. What doctrine is he talking about? Or 1 Timothy 4, 16, take heed unto thyself and unto the doctrine. Continue in them. And doing this thou shalt save both thyself and them that hear thee. What doctrine are they taking heed to? Or 2 Timothy 3. 10, thou hast fully known my doctrine, manner of life, purpose, faith, love, and suffering, long-suffering, charity, patience. Here's the point. When Paul writes to Timothy and says, hold fast to the doctrine, Timothy knew what he's talking about. And the book of Ephesians is a perfect layout of what Paul would have been talking about. Where he lays out the positional side, the practical side, this is how the Christian should think and live. Third thing I want you to notice is the tone of the letter. And this letter is all about praise to God. The word that we'd use is doxological. This book is not just about knowing and doing. It's about worshiping God. We should love the Lord Our activity as Christians should flow out of a love for Him, an affection for Him. It should be an expression of worship and praise. And so how does He start this book? He starts with a hymn of praise. He talks about the Father's work in our redemption. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. He transitions to verses 7 through 12 and he celebrates the Son. He says, in whom Christ we have redemption through his blood. the forgiveness of sins according to the riches of his grace. And then he moves in verses 13 and 14 to the Spirit's work, in whom also after you believed you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise. which is the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession unto the praise and glory of Him. By the way, don't worry. We're going to go back to those verses. We're going to dig into them. But I'm trying to make a point here. He starts with praise, and you will see praise all throughout the book of Ephesians. Christians should not be defined as just thinkers and doers. We should be lovers of God. If we think right, we will love. And if we think right and we do love, we will do with a pure heart. And that's what this book is all about. The fourth distinction here is the fountainhead of the book. What I mean by fountainhead is what is the source of everything Paul is going to say in this letter? Well, you would have to think it would be something he talks about a lot. And that would be our union with Christ. In fact, if you were to dig into the book of Ephesians, you would find anywhere from 30 to 40 times in this letter that Paul references either directly or indirectly what we would call our union with Christ. What I mean by that is this. When a person becomes a Christian, they are placed into Christ, and that changes everything. Just a couple of examples. Chapter 1, verse 3. Blessed be he has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places. In Christ, every spiritual blessing is found in him. Verse 7: In whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. In who? In Christ. We are redeemed and forgiven. Verse 13, in whom also after you believe, you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise. We are sealed as his possession in him. Verses 5 and 6 of chapter 2. He hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace he are saved. He has raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ. You could say there are even three references to our union with Christ in verses five and six that emphasize that we are redeemed and we are regenerated and our position has radically changed from under wrath, dead, and now alive in Christ. It's all about our position in him. Verse 7. In the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. We 're the objects of his grace. 13. Now in Christ, ye who sometime were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. He is our peace. We are reconciled to God in Him. Verse 22 of chapter 2, in whom also you are builded together in habitation of God through the Spirit, built up together as his dwelling place in you. In him. Just a couple of examples. We could sit there, we could we could be here all day going through and picking these apart. And as we work into these passages, we'll we'll emphasize this. But but what's the whole point? Why does this matter? Well it matters because of this When we were placed in a Christ, our identity changed. I am not the person that I used to be. That doesn't mean I look any different Doesn't necessarily mean that I feel any different. It doesn't mean that I don't have some of the same tendencies and struggles and I got the same background. All that's still there. But what has changed is the old man is dead. And a new man in Christ is who I am today. If any man is in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away. All things are become new. Every spiritual blessing that we enjoy is found in him. And we are called to live like the people that we are in him. And we are empowered in that position to walk. Why? Because we are in him. And so our union with Christ is everything. So that moves me to a final question. How do you apply this? This letter has an end. I don't mean like the final word. I mean that everything that Paul writes is moving in a direction, and that direction is going to have a final destination. And you say, what is the practical end of this letter? The first word that I want us to remember is the word perspective. Do not doubt what God is able to do through the gospel. All scripture is written within a story. And this story is always one of God's grace and his power The truth is, when we look at the book of Ephesians, a lot of times we don't think about what went on before this book was written. We don't think about the lives that these people were saved out of. We don't think about how radically different the orientation of their life was when they placed their faith in Christ. We don't think about the cost that came to them. We don't think about the struggle that was going on in their heart as the gospel was being presented to them. But God can do it in any heart. He raised up a godly church in a spiritually broken community. This church is an example of what God can do. And what a church should be. The second word is the word practice. Find the healthy balance between doctrine and practice. What I mean by healthy balance is I don't mean that doctrine and practice are in conflict with doctrine. one another. What I mean is that doctrine and practice are to be united together and they're to move in perfect unity. In other words, we are thinkers. We are lovers, we are doers, and all of it is worship to God. As we dig into his word and we understand who he is and what he's done for us, it moves our hearts. It moves us to action. It moves us to worship. And so the balance is that these two work together and they move in unison. God calls us to learn before he calls us to work. But that call does not end with idle hands. This work comes out of a position and divine enabling. The third word is the word prayer. I'd like to really challenge you when it comes to this issue of prayer. Are you Do you feel that prayer is an essential and important part of your walk with God? What I mean is, do you actually spend time in private prayer on a daily basis? I don't mean like, you know, I'm about to take a test and I didn't study and I'm gonna beg God to have mercy on me. We've all done that before, right? Some of you are like, I knew that, that's how I'm getting through school right now. I don't mean that, or it's a sports game. And like, let's plead with God to let us crush the enemy, right? On the other side. And they're praying the same thing. I'm not talking about that. Or you got a problem and you're finally backed up into a corner. You're like, all right, I'm gonna go to God and I'm gonna ask him to help me in this. I mean that prayer is a normal part of life. Just like you come home and you talk to your spouse, you come home and you talk to your kids. Just like you interact with the people that are closest to you in your life, there is a normal line of communication between you and the people that you love. Do you pray? Do you love God? Do you bring the names of people that are dear to you before the throne room of God and say, God, work in their souls? Does the way that we pray actually reflect the kinds of things that the scriptures tell us we should pray for? We should live lives as Christians that are humbly dependent on Him. Prayer should be a central feature in every aspect of our Christian experience. Our growth and knowledge should come with an open Bible on our knees. Likewise, our work should start with an open Bible on our knees. knees. And I don't mean like literally you need to be on your knees while you're reading your Bible. I'm not suggesting that, but what I'm saying is this the position of your heart is one of humility before God and a recognition of your limitations and defections. Your limitation to understand, your limitation to apply, your limitation to endure, you recognize you need God to work in your life through His Word. The next word is the word praise. Live each day as an expression of gratitude for God's grace. We are redeemed by grace alone to God. As redeemed sinners, we should praise the Father for his gracious plan of our redemption. That's where he starts the book, right? As redeemed sinners, we should praise the Son for his gracious sacrifice to secure our redemption. Where does he go from the Father's plan? He goes to the Son's obedience and what he did for us. As redeemed sinners, we should praise the Spirit for his gracious work to keep until the full realization of our redemption. Are we in heaven today? No. But one day we will be. Why? Because we are kept by the power of God. We are sealed unto the redemption of the purchased possession, to the praise of his glorious grace. And so Paul starts with praise, and from praise he moves to labor. The last word is the word position. Live like you believe you are the person the Bible says you are. A lot of Christians don't live like they are. And the problem is not a lack of being saved. The problem is a lack of thinking. It's a lack of Of actually taking the Word of God at face value and saying, I believe it is true, I will live as if it is actually true That's what it means to reckon ourselves dead to sin, but alive unto God. He's saying, act like you believe it's true. Just because you don't feel like it's true sometimes doesn't mean it isn't true. Just because you don't always act like it's true doesn't mean that it isn't true. We need to get back to the truth and let our feet stand firmly on the foundation of what the Bible says about us and what God has done for us. Our union with Christ is everything. It gives us the new identity. Every blessing we enjoy is in Him. We're called to live like the people we are, and He's given us everything we need to do it. I hope that our series in Ephesians will be a great blessing to your heart in the coming days. Let's be off of prayer. Our Father in heaven, we thank you so much for your word. This is an amazing book. Just a letter, but so filled with truth. Laid out with such careful detail And as we work our way piece by piece through these wonderful theological concepts, as we consider what God has done for us and his heart that has moved him to do it. And what we enjoy because of who we are in Him and how He equips us and enables us. I pray that these truths would take cement into our soul and would build out the foundation of our lives. And I pray that we would be deep lovers of you. We would worship you in spirit and in truth. And that we would live practically in the light of who we are and what we have in you. Lord, use your word for your Your glory in our lives, and we ask this in Christ's name, Amen life.