Okay, well good evening. We're gonna go ahead and uh get started here in just a second, and we will forego our opening hymn tonight. And we'll just go straight to our opening prayer. So um welcome. Good to see each of you tonight. Let's bow for a word of prayer. Ask the Lord to bless our time. And then we will get back into Matthew chapter five. So let's bow for prayer. Father, we're so very grateful for the privilege of opening up the Word of God and being able to examine these wonderful truths. And I pray that as we remind ourselves of what we talked about the last time we gathered, and as we move into the rest of this uh time looking at uh Matthew chapter five verse eight. I pray that you would really help us to understand these truths and pray that you really work in our hearts through those things. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen Yeah, let them know that we're started. Okay, we're in Matthew chapter 5, and we're looking at verses 1 through 8 together. Obviously, we're going to read the whole section so that we can remind ourselves of the content. And then we're going to look at verse number eight. Matthew chapter five, verses one through eight. Here's what the scriptures say. And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain. And he went and set his disciples, his disciples came unto him. And he opened his mouth and taught them saying. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they which hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy And then this is the verse that we're looking at tonight. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Now, last week when we gathered, we were looking at this verse, and we kind of did some introductory things to understand the main thrust of what's going on. And so I want to remind you of those things because I think they're very important for us to think about when we talk about some of the applications. So we summarize the passage this way. The following portion of the Sermon on the Mount reminds us that the blessed person or blessed people are those who will one day see God. These are people who have a distinction from the world as those who are pure in heart. And as we were working our way through these different beatitudes, some of them we saw are talking about the way that our heart is toward uh toward God. And so when we talk about someone who is poor in spirit, This is the person when when they think about themselves before God, they say, I don't have any righteousness that is acceptable to God I can't come to God and say, here accept me because I'm a good person. See, I do all these things for you. And so that's what poor in spirit means. It means they recognize that spiritually they're bankrupt. Then we move on to blessed are those who mourn. The idea is the person who understands before God, I am undone, I have no righteousness, there's no way I can earn my way to God. That person is going to be conflicted in their soul. And they're going to say, what do I do? How can I remedy this situation? And there is a grief, there is a mourning in the heart because they recognize their condition. And then he says, well, that's the person who's ultimately going to be comforted. And that comfort isn't going to come through them thinking different about themselves and saying, well, I'm a good person. I should just think that way of myself, it's that they see that there's the gospel and they see what Christ has done for them. And they recognize that the comfort that they have is outside of them. It's in God's work for them. And so that's the way that these Beatitudes have gone. They've talked about different qualities of the heart that are distinct of a person who is a true believer, a Christian. So this passage that we're looking at, verse 8, falls into that same category. When he says a person who is pure in heart, This is another way of describing someone who is a genuine believer. Now, he's not describing how you become a believer, and I will talk about that. a little bit as part of the study. But he's talking about a distinguishing quality that is unique to someone who's actually a Christian. And we'll see why that distinction is there. And so we we began with some illustrations to help us to understand that. And we had two trees to picture in our minds. One tree is a Christmas tree. A Christmas tree is something that is dead. So when you go and you pick it out, uh it's already been dead for a while. They probably cut it. Or maybe you go and you cut it there and then you put it on the top of your vehicle, you drive home, you put it in water, but the truth is that it doesn't have a root system, it's not alive like it was before. It's no longer having the vibrancy that it once had. But the reason that you put up a Christmas tree is because you want to decorate it. You want to put things on it. On the other side, you have A tree that produces fruit. And I really like our prayer bulletins that we have here for the month of September. And on that, you see there's an apple tree, and there are all these apples hanging on it. This is Kind of the time of the year when you start getting out there and picking some of the fruits that have been have been getting there on those trees all year. And so the a healthy fruit tree is alive, it's filled with fruit, and that fruit that is on it is consistent with its nature. So if it's an apple tree, it's producing apples. If it's a peach tree, it's producing peaches. If it's a fig tree, it's producing figs. These two kinds of trees really are a great illustration of the difference between man-made religion and true Christianity. Man-made religion can look really nice on the outside, but like the Christmas tree, it's dead. The Christmas tree has qualities that are similar in the sense that it's dead, it is decorated externally, it has an appearance of life, and it is set up to be viewed. On the other side, the fruit tree has a genuine quality of being alive. And so it produces fruit, that is, after its nature, and it radiates health. As it produces that fruit, hopefully, if it's a healthy tree, it does that. And it's being planted to sustain life and ultimately to reproduce life. So within each of those apples that you pick are all these seeds, and you have the potential to plant all kinds of fruit trees just from a few apples. And so that's the way the Christian life is. It's real life, not just something external, a decoration. And so last week we began by looking at Christ's statement. The statement has three distinct parts. The first is the realm of the focus, and that is the heart. The heart is the intellect, the emotions, and the will. And then it talks about the disposition of that realm of the heart. It is a heart that is pure. And when he talks about it being pure, we broke it down into a couple of different aspects. One is that it's not tainted. It is driven according to the design that God has for it. It's not a divided heart, a dual allegiance. And we talked about Matthew 6. 24 where it says that no man can serve two masters. Either he will hate one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and he'll despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammoth. And then the third part of that is that it's not hypocritical. It's not just, oh, I see this, but inside it's completely different. And when the Lord Jesus was talking to the Pharisees, many, many times he made statements like this, Woe unto you, scribes! and Pharisees hypocrites. And then he began to describe an aspect of their religious system that was completely external and it was completely different than what was going on inside the heart. And so when we talk about pure in heart, we're saying that it's actually pure in its quality, it's not divided, and it's not hypocritical. The third aspect that we looked at last week is that this draws our attention to a future privilege that is going to be enjoyed by every single Christian. And that future privilege is that we will see God. And that's an absolutely stunning statement because of the way that the Bible describes people's ability to see God. In fact, there are some verses that say it's impossible for you to see God in all of his glory. The closest examples we have of someone seeing God are always a a veiled reference to their ability to see God in his glory. For instance, the nation of Israel in Exodus 24, they saw God on the mountain and they saw his glory on the mountain, but they were not in his presence. And then we see that Moses had the privilege of going into God's presence, but when he was in God's presence, he still was not able to see God in his full glory. In Exodus chapter 33, it says that Moses asked God if he could see his glory, and God said, I will allow you to see a portion of my glory. And the way that it describes it is amazing. It's almost as if God passes by Moses and he veils his glory so he's not killed by this view of God's glory. And then as he passes by, he says, now you can see what I will allow you to see. Isn't that an amazing thing to consider? We see Isaiah and Isaiah chapter 6 was able to see God's glory on some level. But in all these examples , We see that there is a limit to what people were able to see. And most people did not have that privilege. You and I have not had the privilege of seeing God in his glory. But the text of Scripture in front of us tells us that if you're a Christian, you will see God one day in his glory. And so I think of 1 Corinthians 13 it says, now we see through a glass darkly, but then face to face. And when he talks about seeing through a glass darkly, he's describing how when we read the scriptures, we have the privilege of seeing God and his glory, but it is not direct. Okay? We are reading the scriptures and we are getting this picture of God's greatness and his glory and his grandeur and his holiness. But we're not physically seeing this. We're reading about it. But he says one day it'll be different. One day it will be face to face. That's what he says. In Revelation 21, he describes that there will be a day when the tabernacle of God will be with men. And he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people. And at that time there'll be no more death or sorrow or crying, neither shall there be any more pain, because the former things have passed away. I also love the way he describes at the end. He says, I will give unto him that is a thirst of the fountain of the water of life freely, and I will be his God and he shall be my son. These are amazing statements in the Bible. Now, I can tell you they're amazing statements, but after we go through the next part of our study tonight, I think it's going to even further emphasize why these are stunning statements. So the second thing we're going to look at tonight is understanding why the statement is stunning and shocking. And we're going to work through a series of biblical concepts that are going to help us to appreciate why this is a stunning series of statements. That those who are pure in heart will one day see God. You and I, God's children, are going to have the privilege of seeing him. It's an amazing thing. The first thing is this. When we understand The human heart. It emphasizes that this is a shocking statement. Notice some of these scriptures. The first one I want to read to is Isaiah 64:6. Here's what it says: We all All of us are as an unclean thing. All our righteousness are as filthy rags. And we all do fade as a leaf, and our iniquities like the wind have taken us away Now, there are lots of different ways that we could illustrate this concept. I'll give you one that happened today. Today I was I was making Uh vegetable chicken noodle soup. When I make vegetable chicken noodle soup, this stuff is like, it's got a lot of veggies in it. It's got a lot of garlic and all that good stuff. Well when I'm in there and I'm making that stuff, the first stuff that I that I deal with is the chicken. And so I get that chicken out and I get my sleigh knife and I have my cutting board and I cut these pieces of chicken into little chunks. And when I get that chicken, I put it in uh in a in a pot and I start cooking it, and there's all kinds of spices and things like that that that I use when I do that. But the knife that I have is contaminated because of the raw chicken. Now some people don't think about this, and this is why you get sick when you go grill at somebody's house, okay? Because we always cross contaminate. I I don't I don't like that. It grosses me out And so I take that I take that knife and I get that antibacterial soap and I ladder that thing up into really hot water and I wash it and I wash the cutting board and then I put it in the sink and then I get a new cutting board and I get a new knife. Why? Because I'm OCD. Okay, well that's part of it. No, it's because I don't want to contaminate the food. I don't want to contaminate the food. Because we understand that that raw chicken meat has bacteria on it. And because it has bacteria on it, it's it's unclean. That's one word we could use. Well when Isaiah 64, 6 says, we are all as an unclean thing, and all of our righteousness is as filthy rags, what basically he's saying, and he he's actually using another illustration, but I'll leave that one there. He's basically saying the very best you do and the very best you can give to God is contaminated. It's unacceptable. It's like a filthy rag. Jeremiah 17. 9, it says that the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Who can know it? I remember when we were missionaries in Ghana, we had this little uh gospel booklet that we would use. We would give to people, and one of the first lessons that we did, one of the questions that was in that booklet was, what is the most deceptive thing in the world? Is it Satan? Is it demons? And then we would say, read Jeremiah 17, 9. And it says, the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. And people would look at you like, oh, come on. Say, well, it's the Bible. It's what it says. The human heart is deceitful. The human heart is sinful. It's desperately wicked. In fact, in Romans chapter 3, he says, there is none righteous. No, not one. There is none that understands. There is none that seeketh after God. Verse 18, there is no fear of God before their eyes. Romans 8, 7. The carnal mind is enmity against God. It is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be, so that they that are in the flesh cannot please God. We're just scratching the surface of what the Bible has to say about the human heart. And here's why the statement, blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God, is so stunning. It's because nobody by nature is pure in heart. Nobody. The scriptures are so Very clear. So for someone to be able to be described in such a way is a direct result of God's grace alone. Very, very important. The second thing I want us to notice here is what the Bible has to say about the holiness of God. Now, again, there are lots and lots of scriptures that we could go to here, but I'm just going to hit a couple of them. just so that we can get a sense of it. In Psalm 96 verse 1 it says this, oh, worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. And the next word is the word fear before him all the earth. And by the way, that word fear has the idea of trembling because we recognize who we are in the presence of. I hate to say this, but a lot of people do not think of God in these terms at all. I think of God as a peer. Someone they can push around and tell to do whatever they want him to do. They feel like they can put God in a little box and they can use him like a genie in a bottle. But that's not the way the Bible describes God. He says we're to worship him in the beauty of holiness and to fear before him because he is holy. So when we think about the sinfulness of man and the holiness of God, our response should be to tremble and say, Woe is me, I'm undone. I've got no hope. Psalm 113, 4-6, it says that the Lord is high above all nations, and his glory above all the heavens, who is likened to the Lord our God, who dwelleth on high. And I I love this next statement. Who humbleth himself to behold the things that are in heaven and that are in the earth. You realize that when God looks down and he beholds us, He lowers himself. And so when we read Revelation 21, verse 7, where it talks about what will happen to all those who have rejected the gospel. Shouldn't surprise anybody. It says, he that overcometh shall inherit all things, I will be to him his God, and he shall be my son. But verse 8 the fearful and unbelieving and abominable and murderers and whoremongers and sorcerers and idolaters and all liars shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. Verse 27. And there shall in no wise enter into it, that is the new Jerusalem or heaven. Anything that defileth, neither whatsoever worketh abomination or maketh a lie, but they which are written in the Lamb's book of life. That scripture shouldn't surprise anybody if we understand we are sinful, God is holy, and we are undone unless He does something on our behalf. And so when this verse in Romans, or Romans, Matthew 5. 8 says, Blessed are the pure in heart, they shall see God, that's a stunning statement The third thing I want us to notice, and this is where it begins to be, well, it's still stunning, but in a different way. A biblical understanding of the gospel. Now every single person in this world, there are no exceptions, we are born into this world, and the way that those scriptures have have described humanity, that's us. What's sad is, while that is true about us, we do not understand that that is the condition that we have. We go throughout life by nature thinking we can somehow peace God. We can somehow earn his favor. We can somehow build credentials, climb this ladder to God. And God has to show us that in fact we're wrong. And in John chapter 16, he talks about how God does this. John 16, verses 8 through 11, he says, when he has come , He will reprove, and that word reprove has the idea of a conviction that opens a person's eyes. It's like it's removing this veil so that they can see clearly of what's there. It's almost like a person who has cataracts. If a person has cataracts, all of a sudden their ability to see is clouded. Doesn't mean they're completely blind, but what it does mean is that what they're seeing is clouded. They can't see clearly. And so if they can get the cataracts removed, they can see clearly again. And so what God does is through the Holy Spirit's work, he takes those veils and he moves them back so that we can see. That is the convicting work of the Holy Spirit. And so he reproves the world of sin. He says, you're a sinner. You're unrighteous. You have no means of reconciling yourself to God. He reproves the world of sin, of righteousness, and of judgment. Of sin because they believe not on me, of righteousness because I go to my Father and they they see me no more, of judgment because the prince of this world is judged. And so A biblical understanding of the gospel begins with the fact that God, in His mercy and grace, He convicts sinners of sin, righteousness, and judgment. He awakens them to that desperate plight that they have. Every person in this room, if you're a Christian, if you've trusted Christ as your Savior, there was a day, and I say a day, it may have been a period of time. Where God was working in your heart. Maybe it was through a friend giving you a gospel track. Maybe it's through sitting in services. Maybe it was listening to something on the radio, on the internet. There's lots of different ways that God takes the gospel to people. But God began to open your eyes and you began to feel the weight of your sin and the separation between you and God, and you began to understand if God hasn't done something for me, I have no hope. That's what these verses are saying. And so the second thing that we see is not only does God awaken sinners, but he's provided a basis in himself to reconcile sinful people to himself. Romans 5, 6. When we were yet without strength. Now that's a description of how we all are. John 16 describes how we come to recognize that that's where we are. He reproves the world, he convicts the world, he opens our eyes of sin, righteousness, and judgment. All of a sudden, I see I am without strength. I can't save myself. And so he says, in due time, Christ died for the ungodly. For scarcely for a righteous man, yet would one die, yet peradventure for a good man, some would even dare to die. But God commendeth his love toward us. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Much more than being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. If when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. We see the words reconciled, saved from wrath through him, justified. These are all descriptions of what God has done for us. He's made it possible that we who are sinners and unrighteous can be declared righteous in Christ. We who are God's enemies and we have broken his laws and we're living in rebellion against him. He's made it possible that we can be brought into fellowship with a holy and righteous God, reconciled to God, and it's through the death of his son. And so if God didn't do that, we would have no hope. But because he did it, we can be saved. The third thing we see is that he reminds his children that Christ's sacrifice stands forever to keep them secured before actually let me let me I skipped one. Let me not go to that one yet. Uh the order is actually kind of important. So I I'm I jumped ahead of myself that Let's go to Romans chapter 8, verses 5 through 9. He began shaping us into the image of Christ. Now, this is an important piece of what we're talking about tonight in the Matthew 5. 8 passage. When he talks about someone being pure in heart, we understand that that is not naturally how we are. Okay? How a person can be called pure in heart is a result of God's work. And so through the gospel, what God does is he shows us you're a sinner, you're unrighteous, you're undone, you have no hope, but Christ did everything so that you can be reconciled to God. Okay, that's what he does. So when we understand this and we turn humbly to God in faith alone and we trust in what he did for us. We depend on the death, the burial, the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. We rest in his sacrifice and not our own. That is when we are saved. So God declares us righteous, he forgives us, he cleanses us, very important word, he positionally places us in Christ and declares us saints. What a statement But you know what he also does? He begins to grow us into Christ-likeness. He actually makes us alive in Christ. The word is regeneration. And Romans 8, 5-9 talks about this. Another passage that we hear this talked about, lots of scriptures talk about this, but in Ephesians 2. 8-9 it says, by grace are you saved through faith. Not of yourselves is the gift of God, not of works the city man should boast. And then he says, For we are his workmanship. This is the aspect of our salvation that really is kind of the focus of the Romans or the Matthew 5. 8. statement. And so he says this they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh, but they that are after the spirit the things of the spirit. Well, well, what kind of a person minds the things of the flesh? Well, a person who's not saved. And you say, well, why do they do that? Because that that is the option available to them. They're not spiritually alive. They don't have the Holy Spirit indwelling them. But the person who's trusted Christ, he's now not spiritually dead, he's spiritually alive. He had the Spirit was not with him. Now the Spirit indwells him. And so he says They that are after the Spirit, they mind the things of the Spirit. He says that the carnal mind is enmity against God, not subject to the law of God. Neither indeed can be, so then they that are in the flesh cannot please God, but ye are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. Do you see the distinction here? So he's saying that when a person gets saved, they're not just forgiven and cleansed and placed in Christ. Those things are all true But there's an additional element here. This is the practical side, what what we commonly refer to as sanctification or growth into Christ's likeness. And so he begins to mature this person, shave them into the image of Christ's. the same person who saved them. Second Corinthians 3 says, We all with open face, beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed into the same image from glory to glory. Even as by the Spirit of the Lord. Same same same idea. Or Romans chapter 12. We are transformed through the renewing of our minds. Same concept. So he shapes us in the image of Christ. Well, someone might say, well, that's great. I guess Christians don't sin anymore. Well, that's obviously not true. Because there's a lot of New Testament instruction to talking how the believer who is saved, declared righteous, called a saint, needs to not sin. Okay? A lot of scripture dealing with that. And so we see that he continues in Romans chapter 8 and verse 31, reminding the children of God that Christ's sacrifice stands forever to keep them secured. before him. Here's what he says. If God be for us, who can be against us? Now question. Why does Paul say this? Well, it's because they're Christians who feel like their sin stands between them and God, and so God doesn't love them anymore God hasn't forgiven them, or there's something more that they have to do, or maybe they've lost their salvation. They don't feel saved. And so they feel like there's this distance between them and God Why would he say this? It's because it's possible for a Christian to be in this position where he feels as if God's against him and that he's got to do more in order to stay in that position. Or even questions his position. So he says, if God is for us, who is against us? He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? He says, Who shall lay any charge against God's elect? It is God that justifieth. It was he that condemneth. It is Christ that died. Yea, rather is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, making intercession for us. Well, as we continue in Romans chapter 8, it's clearly showing us that a person who is distinct from the world and that he ha has the Spirit of God, he was once spiritually dead, and now he's spiritually alive. That person who lives different than the world around him can still feel condemned, can still feel defeated, can still feel like there's something between him and God. Can even begin to question whether or not he's going to see the full benefits of his salvation someday. You say, well, how is that possible? Well, it's possible to think wrong in lots of different levels. And so he reminds us of the fact that Christ continually intercedes on the behalf of the believer. And so when we sin and we in our hearts feel the conviction of our conscience, knowing we've wrong we've done wrong. And we know that it's inconsistent with our position and it bothers us and it torments us. And in the back of my our mind we go, Am I really a Christian? Those thoughts pop in our heads. You know what Jesus says? Do you remember what I did for you? Do you remember what I've done for you? Do you remember what the cross accomplished? Do you remember what my shed blood purchased? That's what he's doing. He is reminding you that there is no charge that can be validly laid to your account because it's paid in full. That's what he does. And so what it reminds us is that as believers, we're in this position of we are already saved, but we've not yet experienced every aspect of our salvation. And so this has a lot of bearing on the passage in front of us in Matthew 5. So the third thing I want you to notice is how we put it all together. And in order to do that, I want you to turn with me to 1 John chapter 3. Because in 1 John chapter 3, I think what we have is a classic example of the scriptures interpreting the scriptures. In other words, a passage of scripture that we have a little bit of trouble with understanding what it's saying, we can go to another passage of scripture where God clarifies exactly what he means in the other passage. And there are lots and lots of examples. In fact, the Sermon on the Mount is full of applications in books like James. James is full of examples of statements in the Sermon on the Mount being flushed out in a practical way in the book of James. But this passage, 1 John 3, verses 1 to 3, I think it very clearly articulates. What Jesus is stating in Matthew 5. 8. Here's what the text says. It says, Behold what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us. Now that word us means Christians. Okay? John is talking about himself. He's talking about the believers at the church at Ephesus, and he's talking about you and me. Okay? Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. Unquestionably he's talking about the Christian here. He says, therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. You see the distinction between the believer and the unbeliever? While the world is at enmity with the Christian, because ultimately the world is at enmity with God, and the more you live life. your position in Christ, and the more that your life reflects the character and the disposition of your Savior, the more the world can be bothered by that. That's just what he's saying. He goes on to say this, beloved, now, not, oh, we're going to be the sons of God. Now are we the sons of God. And it doth not yet appear what we shall be. Did you catch that? Right now I'm God's child. But it does not yet appear what I'm going to be. That means that I am positionally in a sound state where nothing can change. But I've not yet experienced the full benefits of that position. And he's going to talk about a very particular aspect of benefit of that position. Now are we the sons of God, it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. And everyone that hath this hope in him purifieth himself even as he is pure. Now, I know I've made this statement several times about the word hope. But we talk about the word hope as it relates to the gospel. We're not saying that a person's rolling a dice and going out a 50-50 chance of I'm going to heaven or I'm not. That's what we're talking about. It is a confidence that should be comparable to how reliable the one is that that made the promise. Okay? So if you're um If you're dealing with a person that's not very reliable and they say, I promise you I'm going to do that. Kind of like you're out on visitation, you give somebody a track and they say, hey man, I'm going to be there. I'm going to be there. I've heard that a lot. When somebody says that I just smile and say, I I I'd love to see you. And in the back of my mind I go, uh , probably won't, but it's okay. I mean, sure, why not? When I say hope there, I mean like it'd be nice to see them, but the confidence level is not super high. And then you have a person that they're they're pretty reliable. I mean They most of the time follow through with what they're gonna say with what they've said they're gonna do. And I don't mean that the person is intending to be dishonest or deceitful. I mean They they make a commitment and they just don't always think it through, but if everything's aligned properly, they will follow through with what's there. And so with that person, when you say, yeah, I hope they're going to do that, it's a little bit more confident than, well, maybe they show up, maybe they don't. We'll see what happens. You see, I I think I think they'll be there. But if you have somebody that you've never seen them drop a commitment ever , you ask them, could you do this and they say, well, let me think about it. What they mean by that is they're going to consider all the factors that are involved and they will commit if they really want to do it and if they know that they can fall through with it. And so a person thinks it through and they either they say no or yes based on whether or not they really can commit. And they just they are very consistent, they are very faithful, they are very reliable. When that person says, I'm gonna do that, you go, it's gonna happen. I got pretty high confidence. When we're dealing with God's promises, that doesn't even come close. There are no human examples you ever deal with. That you should be as confident as with the Lord. He is God who cannot lie. God isn't learning new things. He's not up there in heaven going, oh, I never thought about that before. Hey, that's a that's whoo man, that one caught me off guard. God doesn't do that. Okay? He knows everything. He's all powerful. He when he has purpose to do a thing, he will do it, and nothing can stop it. And so if God says that when you trust Christ, you are kept in the power of his hand, there's nothing that can change that. He's not going to get caught off guard. He's not going to say, well, I know I promise this, but yeah, there's another condition in the fine print I didn't tell you about, and you you didn't do that. He doesn't do that. And so that word hope means steadfast confidence. When God says it, you can take it to the bank. He will not lie. It's impossible for God to lie. It's contrary to his nature. And so we see these details. Let me break it down this way. The first thing that it shows us is there's this great distinction between the believer and the unbeliever. Verse 1. Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed on us that we should be called the sons of God. Therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knoweth him not. The next thing we see is we are now the children of God. Verse 2. Now are we the sons of God. But we also see in verse 2: it does not yet appear we shall be. We are not yet. In the practical sense, experiencing the full benefits of the position that we have in Christ. Verse 2 But we know that when we sh when he shall appear, we shall be like him. One day we will be like him What he means by that is that our maturity is going to be, we could say, a completion of maturity. We'll be in a glorified state. We'll be sinless. In this world we are forgiven and we are justified, but we're not sinless. On that side, we'll be glorified. One day we will see him as he is. Verse 2, we shall see him as he is. And there is the statement. That I think is ultimately what Matthew 5. 8 is saying. The pure in heart shall see God. John, 1 John chapter 3 is describing exactly what Jesus means by that. And here's the last little statement in verse 3. Every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself even as he Christ Is pure. The person who is a believer takes walking with God seriously. The person that is a believer cares about walking consistent with their position Now, the passage is clearly showing that you never arrive, that you always fall short. This is not why we're saved. But what it's showing you is that there's something going on inside of you that presses you to want to live consistent with the position that you have. And this is the consistent teaching of the New Testament. We are saved by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, not by works of righteousness that we've done. It's according to his mercy saved us. And we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good works. So the believer, the downstream effect of that position is that the believer wants to walk for the Lord. He wants to walk consistent with the position. Not to maintain it, not to keep it, not to earn it, but because he knows internally what is right and God is working in him to will and to do of his good And so when we look at Matthew 5. 8, I believe that's exactly what he's saying. The pure in heart is a description of the true Christian. The one who has been forgiven, he has been cleansed, he has been justified, he is positionally righteous, and he cares about growing into Christ's likeness. The one who has this hope in him purifieth himself even as he is pure. That is what he means by pure in heart. And as the text in 1 John 3 says, and as the text in Matthew 5. 8 says, they shall see God. You realize every person in this room who trusts to Christ as their Savior is going to have that privilege someday. And I want to encourage you, let's live like a people who are going to have that privilege. See, how you concluded, I would give you these final thoughts. We need to be sobered by the brokenness of human nature And I think it's easy for us to talk about the brokenness outside, but it's in us too. It's by the grace of God we are saved people. We are we are justified sinners, forgiven sinners. The second thing is we should be overwhelmed by how good God is. His grace, his love, his goodness. These are very rich concepts. Third, we should be grateful for the way he has dealt with our sin. If there was no cross, if it wasn't for the humiliation of Christ, his willingness to come and take on flesh and go to the cross and die and rise from the dead, if it wasn't for his redemptive work, we'd have no hope. Fourth, we should be distinct in our lives from the world around us. People shouldn't look at a Christian and go, are you really a Christian? And it's not about something physical. It's about the kind of person you are internally. And that what you are inside radiates by the way that you think, the things you say that you don't say, what you do, what you don't do, how you carry yourself, everything about you is shaped by what's going on internally. And lastly, we need to rejoice in the future privilege that we have. We ought to live with that very confident assurance that God is going to complete all these things. And that's something that we can be sustained in life through. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to help us to think on these things. Father, please take the word as we thought about it tonight. And I pray that these truths would really sink into our souls. Help us to recognize that as your people, there is a clear distinction that should set us apart from the world around us. I thank you that we will one day see you. And that is a glorious thought I pray that on that day we will not recoil in shame, knowing that we have wasted so much time and energy, but that we will be humbly grateful for how you accomplished anything in us. Through us. I pray that we would live with that steadfast confidence and that that would strengthen us and stabilize us in a very troubling world. And we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.