Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And today we are in Luke chapter 6 again, so if you have your Bible, I'd like to encourage you to take it. And we're just looking at a short section, as we have been the last couple of lessons. Luke chapter 16 verse 21 is the verse we're looking at. The verse is this, Blessed are ye that weep now. For ye shall laugh. Again, let me say that. Blessed are ye that weep now, for ye shall laugh. Now I want to remind you that what we've been talking about is are are small sections of Christ's Sermon on the Mount. And when we look at the Sermon on the Mount in Luke versus the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew, what we see is a fuller explanation in Matthew 5 than in Luke chapter 6. It doesn't mean that it's talking about a different sermon or that the details are in conflict with one another. It simply means that Luke chose, because he was being guided by the Holy Spirit, to write this section in a more abbreviated way than Matthew did. And so when we come to this section of Scripture, sometimes it's helpful for us to look at both accounts because when we look at both accounts, we get a fuller understanding. sometimes by seeing the Matthew account. On the other hand, we need to recognize that we could look at just the Luke account and we could still get a very good understanding of what Jesus is communicating A lot of what Jesus is saying is being spoken in parables, being spoken in illustrations, and this is just another example of that, a parable kind of a statement, or a proverb kind of a statement. So first of all, I want to give you a summary statement here, and then we're going to look at a couple of simple facts that I think will help us to understand what Jesus is saying and why this concept of being blessed by God's comfort is such an important concept. First of all, our summary statement. People are humbled by their sinfulness. and find God's forgiveness and cleansing through Christ's work on the cross are blessed, and will rejoice in the unparalleled blessings we find in Christ. Basically, what we find in the Bible is that if you're going to be saved, you have to first of all come in contact , you have to recognize your sinfulness You have to recognize that you need salvation. When the Bible talks about repentance, what it's talking about is the thinking change that precedes faith in Christ. It's impossible to trust in Jesus for salvation from sins if you don't believe that you actually need salvation from sins. If you don't feel the weight and the seriousness of your sin, if you don't see your own brokenness and God's holiness, it's impossible to turn to Christ and trust in the finished work of Christ. And so one of the things that that that Jesus emphasizes in the Sermon on the Mount is what takes place in a person's heart that leads them to the point that they actually receive God's forgiveness and they receive God's cleansing and they receive God's comfort. That's really the sense of what we're looking at in these verses. Mourning, weeping, is going to be preceded, it's going to lead to laughter or joy or rejoicing In other words, you don't rejoice unless you first of all recognize your terrible condition. That's what Jesus is trying to emphasize here. And so let's kind of break this down a little bit and reflect on the nature of Christ's statement that really could be looked at as a proverb. Fact number one, the weeping that Christ is addressing is a very specific kind of weeping. Now we've already talked about the fact that the person who is poor is not just a general statement of poverty. But he's talking about a very specific situation. He says, ye poor, the people that are in his midst, people that recognize that they are spiritually bankrupt, they have no hope of standing before God. in their own righteousness, that their sin separates them from God, those are the people who see themselves as spiritually poor that receive the kingdom of God. Because they receive the kingdom by faith alone in Christ. He talks about those who are hungry and thirsting after righteousness. And that that statement really is talking about the character of a person who's been forgiven and cleansed. and has a new disposition towards God, a new nature. He's been regenerated and the Holy Spirit indwells that individual. A person who is saved longs to walk in holiness. There's a new disposition inside of them, a new nature that is pressing them in the direction of being a disciple. And so he emphasizes that. Well, in this statement, blessed are ye that weep, he's emphasizing how we relate to God when we see our sin before him. The idea is that we're broken over it. It's something that causes us to weep or to mourn. It's something that causes us to feel heaviness in our heart. And that heaviness in our heart is what positions us to be able to turn to God and to find forgiveness, cleansing, and yes, comfort and joy because we see what Jesus has done for us. It points us to the cross and the significance of the cross, and when we understand the significance of the cross, all of a sudden now we're in the place to rejoice. He says, ye that weep now, he's emphasizing the fact that they are specifically there for reason. They've seen their sinfulness. They've seen the emptiness. of a life lived apart from God. And it's it's actually weighing on their heart. They're grit by the reality of their sin These are bas this is basically a continuation of his thought on the poor in spirit, those who see themselves as spiritually destitute, those who hunger and thirst after righteousness. those who have been regenerated and now they desire to walk with God because they're now a new creature in Christ. The second fact that we see is that there are a few possible ways that we could look at the passage. Now obviously the statement is that a person who mourns is going to be comforted. A person who weeps is going to experience joy and gladness and laughter. But the question is, why is the person weeping? Well, he could be talking about the difficult circumstances that God will often use to bring us to see our spiritual brokenness. The truth is, if God didn't allow us to face the consequences of our sin, if we always had an easy path in life, we wouldn't recognize that we actually need God. We wouldn't see ourselves as we actually are. we would have a misplaced view of ourselves. And so he may be emphasizing the fact that God brings circumstances in his providence to humble us and to bring us to the point where we are broken over our sin and we recognize our dis our need to turn to Christ He could be talking about the grief or the sorrow that accompanies genuine repentance before God that points us to Christ, where we will place our faith in Christ. He also could be looking past the time when a person is born again to the fact that now he is born again and now he's a new creature in Christ. And now when he sins, that sin is going to be accompanied with grief and a conflicted conscience, and the person is going to recognize that they need to deal with that issue before God so that fellowship which has been broken can be restored. Very similar to what we talk about in 1 John 1, where he says that if we're going to walk in fellowship with God, we have to walk in the light as he is in the light. And that the blood of Jesus Christ, the Son, cleanseth us from all sins. And if we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. The idea is that once a person has been born again, he's going to continue to experience this grief over sin. Because though he has been declared righteous before God, forgiven before God, He still lives in this world and he still struggles with sin and temptation. And so when the believer sins, what happens? The Holy Spirit convicts him of that. And the fellowship that's been broken can be restored because the person comes to God and remembers what Jesus has done for him and he acknowledges his sin before God. He confesses it before God. And God restores that broken fellowship. That could be the sense that he's talking about there. Or he could be talking about that continually, that continual work that God does to humble us. and to shape us into the image of Christ and to cause us to really grow in spiritual maturity. Whichever of those four senses Jesus is emphasizing. In fact, it may very well be that he's kind of talking about all of those different things. The circumstances God uses to humble us, to bring us to faith in Christ. that the experience that we have in repentance toward God where we see our sin and we recognize what Jesus has done for us, the fact that as a new creature in Christ we struggle with sin. And we're convicted over our sin and we weep over our sin and we come to God and there's a restoration of fellowship. Or it could be the challenges that we face that cause us and press us close to God so that we can grow into spiritual maturity and into Christ's likeness. Whatever of those four, if not all, that is really the sense of what Jesus is emphasizing. God uses the humbling of us to cause us to be in a position where we weep over our sin and we weep over our our our our our condition before God and then we find comfort in the cross of Christ. And we're encouraged and blessed by what Christ has done for us. And we enjoy the fellowship that's restored. And that joy can be overflowing because of what Jesus has done for us. The third fact that I'd like us to see this morning is that God really does use hardship in our lives to accomplish good. A couple of weeks ago I preached out of Psalm 12. And in Psalm 12, we talked about how God uses the difficulties of life to shape us and to mature us. It's a part of the process. Just like a person who wants to build strength or wants to build stamina has to push their body to a greater degree than it than he did before so that he can build muscle, that they can build endurance In the same way, God has to stretch us in the Christian life so that we'll continue to mature and grow as a Christian. God uses the struggles that we encounter in this fallen world to shape us into the image of Christ. Let me give you a couple of examples that have jotted down. God allows hardship into our lives, first of all, to convince us that sin is terrible. The fact is that we sin because we enjoy sin. But sin is devastating to our walk with God. Sin is devastating to our human relationships. Sin is devastating to the health of our soul. And so what God does sometimes is he allows us to experience hardship and to experience the hard realities of what our sin has actually done in us and to others. And he allows us to experience that so that we'll see how serious and how awful sin actually is. Sometimes God allows us to see the hardships that other people are going through because it reminds us how difficult a fallen world actually is. God allows us to experience hardships because it drives us into his presence. How often do we pray simply because God has brought us to our knees in circumstances? And that is what has brought us to that point where we recognize our need to acknowledge God. and to plead to him that he will work in our lives. Now most certainly we should develop spiritual disciplines of prayer in all seasons. That's what God wants. But sometimes God has to bring difficulty to get us on our knees. He allows hardships to reveal what's inside of us. And that is done so that it can actually be dealt with. How many times do we experience situations in life and we feel like we're in a good place and then all of a sudden something very small, something very insignificant It affects us and it draws out of us something that's in our heart that we didn't think was there. Maybe it could be a bitterness or an anger, maybe it could be pride. Whatever that issue is, God uses circumstances sometimes to humble us and to put us in a place where what is inside of us will be drawn to the surface and we can actually deal with that issue the way that God wants us to deal with it. God uses hardship to allow us to understand that he's compassionate, he's merciful, that he loves us, that it's his grace that sustains us. And so the same hardships that may drive us to God and drive us to our knees are going to be the same hardships that help us to understand God's comfort and God's mercy and God's compassion and God's love. God uses hardship to build and strengthen us into spiritual maturity. He uses the hardships of life to demonstrate that he is sovereign and he rules and we're not. In fact, it is because of the cross, and it's because of redemption that we can glory in the fact that when we suffer, God has a purpose in it that is for our good. and for his glory. That's really what Romans chapter 8 is all about. We know that all things work together for good. To them we love God. To them are the called according to his purpose. Hom he for knew he predestined to be conformed to the image of his son. God uses all circumstances, even the hardest of circumstances, to shape us and mold us into the image of Christ. You say, well, how does that connect us back to what Jesus said in Luke chapter 6? Blessed are those who mourn, for they will one day rejoice. What's the catch? What's the significance of that statement, the connection of that statement? Well, the fact is that God would use circumstances to bring us to a humble place, to bring us to a grieving place Because he wants us to be in a place where we can understand the purpose of the cross, the blessing of redemption. the importance of God's sovereign hand, the evil of sin. God uses these circumstances to draw us to the place where we can actually mature and grow and know God, not just in our heads. but know him by experience, by practice. We go through the difficulties of life and we know God not just as theological concepts and statements. but we know him personally through his personal work in our lives. And we take the scriptures and what we know to be theologically true about God, and we see them demonstrated in practical ways. That's really the sense of what Jesus is trying to communicate in these verses. It takes weeping and mourning sometimes to bring us to the point where we can rejoice. and be comforted. I don't know what you might be going through this morning, but the fact is a lot of us are carrying burdens that might not be known to others, but they're very heavy burdens. And we may struggle with why God allows us to go through those things. I want you to realize that according to this text of Scripture and the other passages that we've looked at, God can and He does use those difficulties. to humble us, ultimately to bring us face to face with the real way to deal with our own frailties and the challenges of life. We look at God and we look at the gospel and that is where we find comfort and joy and satisfaction. I hope this has been a challenge to you this morning. It was as I was reading it this morning and thinking about it. And I hope that as we continue our study, you'll be blessed by it. If this has been an encouragement to you, please consider sharing that blessing that it's been. And if it can be a blessing to somebody else, please share that with them as well. Lord willing will continue our study tomorrow. Have a blessed day by now