Tonight we are back in First Corinthians as we've been working our way through this very practical and important book. And we are in chapter three, so if you have your Bible, I'd like to invite you to turn there with me. And we're going to read verses 9 through 15. And if you remember, we've actually spent a couple of weeks in this kind of section of 1 Corinthians 3 because There's really one major theme, and then he's laying out all these different subtopics that are a part of that theme. 1 Corinthians chapter 3, here's what he says in verse number 9. We are laborers together with God. You're God's husbandry. You're God's building. According to the grace of God which is given unto me as a wise master builder, I have laid the foundation. Another buildeth thereon. But let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon. For other foundation can no man lay than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Now, if any man build on this foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, and stubble, every man's work shall be made manifest. For the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire. And the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. If any man's work abide, which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive a reward. If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss. but he himself shall be saved yet so as by fire. Now, as we look at this passage of scripture, It's important that we understand what it is not talking about and what it is talking about. So when we talk about 1 Corinthians chapter 3, Paul is writing to people that he believes are Christians. Now, though he believes they're Christians, he doesn't believe that they're healthy Christians. They're not thinking the way that they should. They're not responding to one another in a right way. And a big issue that is a major area of trouble for this church is how they think about leadership and how they think about ministry, how they think about those who handle the Word of God. And so Paul spends a lot of time talking about that issue. Now, when we get into this passage of Scripture, he's going to be alluding to something that we call the judgment seat of Christ. And the Bible talks about judgment day in different terms when it's talking about the believer versus the unbeliever. When he talks about the unbeliever, we go to Revelation where it talks about the great white throne judgment. And the great white throne judgment is very clear. We're going to be judged according to our works. And whoever is not found written in the book of life will be cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the final judgment. The bhima seat or the judgment seat is not talking about where a person spends eternity But this is talking about how God evaluates the labors and the service and the ministry of his children. And you'll notice at the end of this passage, he says If a man's work abide, which he hath built on, he shall receive reward. If a man's work shall be burned, he will suffer loss. But he himself shall be saved, yet so as by fire. That's very different language than what we read in the book of Revelation, where he simply says, You're going to be judged according to your works, whoever is not written in the book of life. is cast into the lake of fire, this is the second death. This is talking about a very different kind of situation. An evaluation of the quality of a person's labors. We as God's people, if we have placed our faith in Christ, we are secured in Christ because of his death, his resurrection, his righteousness. But we are going to stand before Christ and we are going to give an accounting for how we've lived our lives. Not to determine heaven and hell, but to determine whether or not our labors actually had true value. And so what Paul is hammering out in these verses, and we're going to actually spend a good bit more time, Lord willing, next week talking about the concept of the Bamasse. But what Paul is really hammering out is that the way that we build in ministry is extremely important. The quality of our labor really matters. It's not just what we accomplish. But it's how we get there. Because the how is a massive part of how Christ evaluates the quality of our labors. So if I was to summarize this whole section here, I would say it like this. God wants our lives to have a genuine, lasting value. We're building whether we realize it or not. The question is, what is the quality of what we are building as it relates to our lives and what we're leaving behind? So, in the context, if we were to go back at the verses we were looking at specifically last week, these are the concepts that were dealt with The first concept that was dealt with was how Paul directly confronted these individuals' wrong attitude towards ministry. Verse 5, he says, who is Paul? Who is Apollos? We are ministers by whom you have believed. So the idea is that we are servants. We serve Christ. We're not the ones that should be elevated or puffed up. It's about Christ. We're like conduit. And that conduit is what has connected you to the gospel and to the truths of Scripture, but it's really us being just instruments that God is using. He can use anybody, and he used us in lots of different ways. So don't lift us up. Go to the Lord Jesus Christ and magnify him. Second concept that was laid out in these verses is how he highlights the grace of God. Verse 5 even as the Lord gave to every man. And I'm going to say more about this a little bit more tonight because he says it again and he's going to emphasize it in this passage. But the idea is that our salvation is all of God's grace. It is by grace that we are saved through faith. It is not by faith through grace, it's by grace In other words, the emphasis of the basis of our salvation is the work of Christ, not our work, not even how strong our faith is or how mature our faith is. It's on the work of Christ. It is our trust in Christ that connects us to the benefits of the gospel, but the basis of our salvation is God's grace in the work of Christ. So we have that side of it, but he's also emphasizing the fact that it is the grace of God that that draws us to himself. It's the grace of God that sustains people in ministry. It's the grace of God that picks us up when we're down. It's the grace of God that Maybe slaps us upside the head when we're getting off track. It's the grace of God that guides us and directs us and works in our lives. And so he emphasizes that secondly. Third thing he emphasized. Was that he highlighted the interdependent nature of ministry? I love this. Verse 6 he says, I have planted Apollos watered. God gave the increase. So there are some people that God uses to initiate the work. There are some that God uses to cultivate the work. And ultimately it's God who accomplishes the work. When we talk about a person's salvation testimony, there's some people that might say, hey, somebody came and they knocked on my door and they led me to Christ. First time I ever heard the gospel, that's when I trusted Christ. I don't know if there's anybody in our room right now that that would be your testimony, but there might be. I know people that that's the case. But I would say with a lot of people, if you were to ask them, how did you become a Christian The vast majority of the people that maybe are younger in our church would say, well, I heard the gospel in truth trackers and tiny trackers and Sunday school and church. And mom and dad teaching the word, and I I heard the gospel over and over and over and over and over again. And eventually I understood it. And then I responded to it. I placed my faith in Christ. Or you may have a person that says, hey, I was uh I was a skeptic for many, many years. And then this event happened in my life. I had this conversation with this person. Start making me think. I I observed this situation. There's a co-worker that I watched for years. And then God started working on my heart a little at a time. I was not yet a Christian, but I was starting to get interested in learning more about Christianity. And then God brought this person into my life in this situation. And there's all these little pieces. And so you ask the question, so who gets the credit for your salvation? Uh God does. Exactly. Those people were tools, but the point of this is that all of these little pieces work together and God's the one who accomplishes the work. Really, really important. Even when we talk about a church, for instance, I mean if you think about over the course of someone's life They're going to have lots of different pastors that invest in their lives. Because unless your pastor lives like uh ministers for fifty years and uh and and and you started in that church when you were twenty and then at seventy you die or something like that. You're not gonna have one pastor your whole life, even if you have a tremendous longevity in a in a particular ministry. And so God uses lots and lots and lots of different people in our lives. And he highlights that. Fourthly, he applied these truths in a very practical way. Verse 7, he says, Neither is he that planteth anything, neither is he that watereth anything, but God that giveth the increase. We should never seek to praise, to get the praise of other people. That's not why we go into ministry. Verse 8. Now he that planteth and he that watereth are one. We should never puff ourselves up through the work that we do. Verse 8, every man shall receive his own reward according to his own labor. We should be comforted that God will appropriately recognize the true value of our work. And that's where we're going to go tonight a little bit. And then verse 9, we are laborers together with God. He actually chooses to include us. in the work that he's doing in the world. And that is a really fascinating thing. God didn't have to make it that way. That's the way he wanted it to be. God wanted us to actually participate in the work that he's doing in the world. You know what's amazing? Even when you go back to the Garden of Eden , When God creates Adam and God creates Eve and he puts them in the garden, he says, be fruitful, multiply, fill the earth. Subdue it, exercise dominion over it. And so God literally wanted Adam and his wife to take care of his creation for him. That's the way he did it. He didn't want them to just be spectators in what he'd made. He wanted them to be working in it. He wanted them to be cultivating in it. He wanted them to be actively involved in the work that he was doing. And this goes into this issue of ministry. But there's a little detail that I don't want you to miss. As we transition from what we talked about last week to what we're going to talk about this week, we see this little statement. We are God 's building. Look down in verse 9. Labors together with God. Ye are God's husbandry, talking about farmhands working on a farm, taking care of the produ the production on a farm. You are God's building. We are a construction project. That's what he's saying. We're a construction project. So let me lean into this a little bit with an illustration that I hope kind of gives you a little bit of a sense of help on this. I want to give you four different kinds of structures that someone could uh Could I don't know if I'd use the word live in some of them, I don't think you'd want to live in them, but you could uh you could get out of the elements of it. The first one is a is a is a kid's treehouse or a fort. In fact, if you're to go out into the back here, uh you'll see there's this thing that's like Got all these sticks put together and um it I hope it doesn't fall down. Uh but um it's some uh really intense engineering by some uh of our young people. And it reminds me of a fort that kids make when they're little. And they just think this is the greatest thing in the world. So they go and they get stuck. sticks and they find some boards that are cut off and maybe a half a piece of plywood and they get this and if they're you know if they're really gonna get ambitious They might go into the garage and find some of Dad's nails and hammer, and they might try to put some stuff together with hammers and nails. And they go and they play in that fort, and they are so proud of that fort There's a lot of life skills that are learned when you're six or seven years old doing that. But it has no plan. It meets an immediate need, but it's not going to last very long. I can think of some really cool forts that I made when I was a kid. Ah, they're not around anymore. You know, some people, they actually they actually live their lives like kids build forts. I hate to say that, but it's true. It's all seat of the pants. Alright? There's no planning, there's no thinking through things. They just do whatever's in front of them. And they leave nothing of true lasting value. Hopefully that's not us, but that's how a lot of people live their lives. The second is a tent. And uh we we got a ha our father-son uh camping trip. Uh I was looking at that on the calendar coming up in the spring and I always love that time, but I will tell you, I uh I do not want to live in a tent. And I do not like sleeping on a on one of those mattresses for more than one night. I'm like the next morning I'm like, ah, I feel terrible. Well, a tent is okay if you're going camping. It meets an immediate need, but guess what? You don't want to live in one of those things. Then think about a log cabin. That's pretty cool. I I mean some log cabins are actually pretty. I got some people going, yeah, I like log cabins I'm thinking more like, you know, the Abraham Lincoln log cabin. Maybe not. Maybe not one that you saw in West Virginia that someone was building that was like their retirement home, okay? But a log cabin is something. It might last a generation, but the fact is a lot of those log cabins that were built in Kentucky, West Virginia, Appalachia, I don't think you're going to find them today. Because they're really not built to last hundreds and hundreds of years. They're really meant to last for a period of time. And then I think of Josh going to Ireland, and I remember being in Ireland and seeing castles. Now the Irish castles aren't like the German castles and You know, some of the stuff that you see like there on the mainland of Europe. But those things are pretty pretty impressive. Or then you think about some of the stuff that is maybe in Egypt. We're not talking about hundreds of years. We're talking about thousands of years. There are some things that when they're built, they're built to stand hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of years. Now what's the difference between those those things? Some of it's the way that they went about building it, some of it's the stuff they used to build it. And the truth is that those illustrations We ought to ask the question, are we building our lives like it's a treehouse? Like it's a tent, a log cabin, or a stone castle that really has lasting value? That's the question I want to ask tonight to think about. So, how do we live lives that have genuine, lasting value? And obviously in the text we're talking about eternal significance. Well, he gives us a very simple answer in these verses. The first thing I want you to notice is that he tells us that if we're going to build a lasting Elijah has lasting value. We've got to remember it's his work, not our work. You say, well, hold on a second. If I'm building it, then is it my work or his work? Well, let's let the text answer the question. We are labors together with God. We are God's husbandry. Ye are God's building. Now, who is emphasized as doing the work in these verses? Some of you will go, well, it it kind of seems like maybe you can make an argument that we're doing the work because what we're doing is we're laboring, and you could say that we're part of a husbandry and we're part of a building project. That's true, we're laboring, but who is really laboring? Who is primarily laboring? Who is the one that's in charge of the project? Well, that would be God. Because it says we're laborers with him. It doesn't say he's a laborer with us. Okay? In other words, like we have the foresight We have the plan. We have the agenda. And we just got to get God on our side so that we can do what we want to do. A lot of people live their lives that way. What do I want to do? What do I want to accomplish? If I can get God behind me, I can use him. That's not what the text says. We're labors with him. He's in charge. He's the one doing the work. We're getting on board. We're shouldering a load with him. It's like that passage where he says, take my my yoke on you and learn of me. That's kind of interesting how he says it. We are laboring together with God. It is his agenda. It is his work. It is his strength. But we get to participate in it. He gives us a couple of examples. I'll give you some examples. Other passages of scripture. Matthew 16, 18. Jesus says, I will build my church. Well, how does he do that? Well, he does it through the preaching of the gospel. Who preaches the gospel? We preach the gospel. Who makes disciples? We make disciples. But we preach the gospel and we make disciples in obedience to him, but he's the one who's really accomplishing the work. Clearly what it says in the text It's the grace of God doing this. And so we're participants, we're to be active, we're to be engaged, but it's his work. Ephesians 4, 7, he says, Unto every one of us is grace given according to the measure of the gift of Christ. Wherefore he saith, When he ascended on high, he led captivity captive and gave gifts unto man. He's giving gifts. We're not giving gifts. He is. He's in charge. 1 Corinthians 12, 4. There are diversity of gifts, but the same spirit. There are differences of administrations, the same Lord. Diversity of operations, but it is the same God which worketh all in all. For to one is given by the Spirit a word of wisdom, another the word of knowledge. All worketh that one and selfsame spirit, dividing to every man severally as he wills. That's really important. A lot of times in life, we get in trouble when we start thinking it's our agenda, not his. It's true. I mean we get in trouble because we be it becomes our personal agenda. Or sometimes we're overwhelmed because we recognize correctly our limits, because all of us have limits. He's in charge. Got to keep this in mind. If we're going to build something of lasting value, true value, we've got to remember it's his work, not ours. Secondly, It's got to be done by his grace. Verse 10. He says, according to the grace of God, which is given unto me as a wise master builder, I have laid. And he's going to say more, but I want to kind of focus in on these words. He says that I've laid the foundation as a wise master builder because of the grace of God. Okay? So the reason that he's able to do the work that he does with wisdom is because God in his grace has given it to him. When we talk about God's grace in ministry and in his service, a lot of times we think in terms of strength. And I think that that is correct. A lot of times we're talking about grace in terms of strength. But another part of God's grace is wisdom. It's wisdom. It's not just having the strength to do a thing, but it's having the strength and the wisdom to put that energy into the right direction. I remember when I was coaching wrestling uh uh years and years ago when I was a grad student, I had this kid, he came out on the wrestling team, and the kid was he was so strong. I mean he was really, really a tough kid. But he just didn't listen. And I mean I'd get him out there and I would and I mean I would try to teach him stuff. And not that I was an an outstanding teacher by any means But I try to teach him basic moves and talk about, you know, when you're in this situation, this is how you respond. And it was like the kid was just, it was like it was all brute and he'd do the opposite of what I tell him to do He just like reached his hand back and poo you know right back on his back. You know, you guys know what I'm talking about. You know, like that. I'm gonna reach back, grab that kid's hand, I'm gonna pull it over. No, well you're going straight to your back. That's what's gonna happen And so he had all this strength, but he didn't have the sense to channel it in the right direction. It's like young guys, you know, young men. They're all Ready to get something done, but there's like all that energy is getting pushed in the wrong direction sometimes. You've got to channel it in the right direction. And so we talk about this grace. We're talking about strength, but we're talking about wisdom. And we're talking about instruction from God. So two phrases, according to the grace of God, as a wise master builder, divine and abling to do the work is a thing that is just all over Scripture. I want to give you a couple of examples. And I want to say, I use the word inexhaustible because you just find it over and over and over again, but I'm going to pick some of my favorites for illustrations. And then if I was to sit down and think about it, I'd come up with some more. But one of my absolute favorites is coming this sight. All right, first one I want to mention is Romans 12. 3. It says this. I say, through the grace given unto me, to every man that is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think soberly. And I love this statement. According as God hath dealt to every man the measure of faith, we are many members in one body. All members have the same, have not the same office. So we being many are one body in Christ. Everyone members one of another, having gifts differing according to the grace that is given to us. That's an amazing statement. So when we have limitations, that's by design. It's by design. It's sort of like if you have a team, you can have two mentalities. You could have somebody that's like, you know, I know where we're strong, I'm gonna staff all the strength so that we're really strong here. Or you have somebody that goes, you know what, we're strong here, but we're weak here. And we're weak here. And we're weak here. And so I'm going to staff strength here. Not me, somebody else. I'm going to strength staff here. Why? Not me, somebody else. I'm willing to give those people the opportunity to do that so that we are a full team. That's how God actually designs the body of Christ. He doesn't give all the gifts and all the strengths and all the enablings to one individual. He he spreads it all out throughout the church so that as a collective body we are forced. To get over ourselves, to humble ourselves, to work together, and to see Him do the work. But I love that statement. Having differing gifts according to the grace that is given to us. God's grace Grace. The second passage, Romans 15, verse 15, he says, I have written the more boldly unto you, and some sort as putting you in mind because of the grace. That is given to me of God, that I should be the minister of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles, ministering the gospel of God, that the offering up of the Gentiles might be acceptable being sanctified by the Holy Ghost. It's the grace of God that allowed Paul to do this. Ephesians 3, 7 and 8. I was made a minister according to the gift of the grace of God given unto me by the effectual working of his power. Unto me, who am less than the least of the saints, is this grace given that I should preach among the Gentiles the insearchable riches of Christ I think you could probably make an argument that Paul's talking about the wisdom, he's talking about the strength, he's most certainly talking about the opportunity. All of that is a part of what he's saying. God's grace, undeserved favor is what gave me the opportunity to do those things. But here's this example I love. And that's in Zechariah chapter 4. And one of the reasons I well, there's lots of reasons I love this one, but I really love it because most recently I've been reading in Ezra and Nehemiah, because I'm doing that through the Bible thing. And in the books of Ezra and Nehemiah, you see how this statement is made over and over and over again. The hand of my God was upon me. It says God put in my heart to do this thing, and God stirred up the heart of so and so. And you see this over and over and over again. And what it tells you And that every time this issue was backed into a corner and it was on the line, God did what needed to be done to kind of get it back on track. He did it over and over and over again. But listen to what the prophet Zechariah says. This is the word of the Lord unto Zerubbabel Now Zerubbabl is someone who is is building something. And in the process of building something He has gotten beat down a lot. And when we read Ezra and Nehemiah, and we read Haggai and Zechariah, it talks about all these different problems that are going on. But some of the problems are you know Nehemiah is rebuilding the walls of Jerusalem because they're gone. These guys are building the temple back. And this is what he says. It is not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord of hosts. Now, please understand something. Nehemiah worked. Ezer worked. Serebable worked. The people work. You see all kinds of their plans being laid out. In fact, it's a very dramatic period of history. A lot of intensity. If you get into the text and you read it, you really think about what's going on, it's really something to read. But what does it say? It's not by power, it's by my spirit. So all of the enabling to do the things that these people did, it came by God's operating work in their lives. He says, Who art thou, O great mountain before Zerubbabel? Thou shalt become a plane, and he shall bring forth the headstone thereof, with shouting, crying, Grace, grace unto it. Moreover, the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, The hand of Zerubul has laid the foundation of this house, his hands shall also finish it. And thou shalt know that the Lord of hosts has set me until This is an incredible statement. He says you're gonna lay the foundation and you're gonna have all kinds of hindrances and all kinds of things that when they come up, you're gonna say, Oh, this is too much, I can't do that. This is insurmountable. I can't follow through with this. This resistance, I can't handle it. These individuals that are that are our enemies, we can't do it. And he said all those mounds are just gonna get knocked down. And he says, you're gonna, your hands that laid the foundation are gonna lay the capsule. That's the finishing of the project. And and this way he says, Grace, grace. In other words, when you're done, the confirmation that it was all of God's hand will be that you finished the project. It's like it's like the story of Moses. God tells him, Go back and tell the Pharaoh, let my people go. And he's going to say, Well, how am I going to know that you're with me? He said, You're going to come back to this mountain with the people. That's how you'll know. I'm like, oh, okay. So I gotta go through the process first, and then I'm gonna get the confirmation. He's like, yeah, exactly When you look back at what I did, you'll know I did it. Alright, alright, all right. So what does that mean? That means he has to he has to exercise faith He has to trust God. And so as we obey him and as we do what we're told to do, we'll look back and we'll see God's providence. God's strength. And this is how he does it in every year of our life. This is how we raise our kids. This is how he builds the church. This is how we do the work that God puts in front of us. Greats. Truth three. It must be done. Oh, this is a good one. It must be done with a multi-generational mindset. Now notice what he says in verse 10. Don't miss this. He says, I've laid the foundation and another buildeth thereon. You know what's crazy about so many things in life? What you start, you don't get to see it get finished. It's just True. Some of the greatest people in history, they are known to be great after they're dead. When they were living, people did not appreciate the greatness of what they did. In fact, it's a tremendous gift from God when we have the opportunity to see the blessed, the full blessings of the fruit of our labors. And I say the full blessings, actually we don't. You know, when you raise your kids and you're dead and gone and there's a couple of generations of people behind you that are living for the Lord and God's using them, you don't see that. But your your investment just keeps going. And that's the way that God works. And so when we do the work of God, we shouldn't just be thinking about right now. You know, that's what's going on when somebody builds a treehouse. They're not thinking, oh, I'm gonna leave this for my grandchildren and my great grandchildren, my great great grandchildren. No, they're not hopefully a five year old or a ten-year-old's not thinking that right. No, they're just thinking, I just wanna have fun right now. I wanna I wanna have a tree for it. I wanna I wanna play in this house. You know? Or when somebody's camping, they're like, oh, I'm gonna leave this for for generations to follow me. No, they're not thinking that. But when somebody built a castle They were leaving that castle for a lot of different people that were going to conquer it over hundreds of years. They really were, as crazy as that would sound. But they were leaving something that was permanent. It stayed. And so we see these two phrases. I have laid, but another builds their own. You know, we have to think in terms of doing what we do today, not just for today, but how is this going to affect long-term? And you say, well, do you believe in a pre-trib rapture? Actually, I do. But how do I know that that's coming today or tomorrow? I really don't. I mean, I mean, Peter believed the Lord was going to come in his lifetime. And so did Paul And he didn't. Well, I mean, there might be another thousand years of church history beyond this. I don't know that And the fact is, we should be living with this anticipation that I'm preparing someone else, another generation, to follow me. And you know, the most specific example of this is how we raise our families. How we raise our families really, really matters. Deuteronomy 6. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy might. These words that I command thee this day shall be in thine heart. And you know a lot of people stop right there. But listen to what it says next. And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children. And thou shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and then when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up. You know, that's only half the text. Obey God, love him with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. That's only half the text. The other half is, and teach your kids. Show them. Teach them. Talk about these things. A lot of times we as Christians are very concerned correctly about our own lives, but we don't think enough about the generation coming behind us. And when we think about it, it's kind of late in the process. We've got to think early about this. This is a deep example because it is a father preparing a son, but he's also preparing a son who's going to do a work that he didn't get to do. And that's the example of David and Solomon. 1 Chronicles 22, verse 5, it says, And David said to Solomon, Solomon, my son, is young and tender. Now he wasn't a 10-year-old. I think he was like 20. He's young and tender, and the house that is to be built for the Lord must be exceeding magnificent. and fame and of glory throughout all the countries. I will therefore make now preparation for it. So David prepared abundantly before his death Then he called for Solomon his son and charged him to build a house for the Lord God of Israel. That's a really neat story, isn't it? Why do we have the book of Proverbs written by Solomon? David was a horrible dad with pretty much all of his kids. But we do know He did a much better job with Solomon. Why? Because Solomon talks about it. He talks about how his father taught him the word of God. And sadly, David did it with all of his children, but he did it with Solomon, and we have the book of Proverbs because of that. And Solomon was able to build the temple the way that he did because of his father's preparation. And so we see the example of a father training his son or Really, parents training their children, but then in this one we see not just the training of children, but our children are getting to do things we did not get to do because w we fell short, just to put it very simply. They're getting to move beyond us because they're they're moving off of our shoulders. And then we think about the ministry and those who are serving alongside of others. This is a obviously a big part of this of the this story here. First Timothy six, O Timothy, keep that which is committed to thy trust. Paul with Timothy. Second Timothy 2, 1. Thou therefore my son be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. The things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men, who shall be able to teach others also. You know what's interesting? Timothy was not Paul's son, biologically. But Paul treated him with the same kind of care that he would have treated his own children had he been obeying Deuteronomy chapter 6. He invested in him like he was his child. I mean, there are a lot of young people growing up today that do not have parents who are investing in them. They do not have good families. And sometimes God allows us to invest in the lives of these young people. And we should really take that opportunity to heart. 2 Timothy 4. 1, I charge thee before God and the Lord Jesus, who shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing. Preach the word. Be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort. 2 Timothy 4, 5. Watch, endure all things. Endure affliction. Do the work of an evangelist. I'm now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. The point I'm trying to make is you see this progression. Parents to children, parents to children who are gonna do things they did not do because their lives are built on the shoulders of their of their ch of their parents. And then those who are in ministry. That's how the baton gets passed from one generation to the next generation effectively. The final truth I want to mention tonight is the manner in which we build is so critically important. And I'm looking at my time and I'm not going to do that one tonight. But I want you to think about some of the things we talked about. These are very important truths for us to keep in our hearts. We will stumble if the work becomes our work instead of his work. We're going to stumble in pride and we're going to stumble in fear. If we try to do the work in our own strength, Rather than relying on the grace that God has given us, we will be miserable, we will be angry, we will be frustrated, we'll be ineffective, we will not do the work the way it ought to be done. And as we live our lives, if we want to build something of true value, one of the most impactful things that we do is shape the life of another person who's going to spend eternity with God. Who's going to get to live on this planet for many, many years and have their own family, Lord willing, and invest in the lives of other people? Our labor is exponentially expanded as we invest in the lives of other people. And so we've got to do it. We need to do it faithfully. We need to do it lovingly. We need to do it without hypocrisy. We need to do this if we want our lives to really leave an eternal mark on what God is doing in the world. And so I'm going to stop there. Lord willing, next time we'll pick up in truth four. If you want to see where I'm going with that, you can look at the notes online. But truth number four, the manner in which we build is critically important. important. Let's bow, have a word of prayer, and ask the Lord to help us to really take to heart what we've seen from His Word tonight. Our Father, I thank you for your word. It is so powerful. These truths are so important. They're simple, but they're important. And so I pray that we would take them to heart. We would take action upon your word. Father, we don't want to waste our lives. We want to invest our lives wisely in eternally significant things. We want to see your hand of blessing upon it. And so we commit ourselves to you and the things that we've heard. May we do this in a way that honors you, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen.