And as we read about it, let's ask the Lord Jesus to be magnified as the Spirit of God takes the word and really gives us a clearer, more profound understanding. of what it means to be a sinner saved by grace. So Ephesians chapter 2, we're going to pick up in verse 1 and read down to verse 7. It says, In you hath he quickened, who were dead in trespasses and sins. Wherein in times past you walked according to the course of this world. According to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience, among whom also we all had our conversation in times past. Fulfilling the lusts of the flesh and the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath, even as others But God who is rich in mercy. For his great lover with he loved us, even when we were dead in sins. Has he quickened us together with Christ? By grace ye are saved. And hath raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. Everything that we just sang about this morning, it is right here in front of us. So let's ask the Lord to help us to really appreciate it this morning. Father, as we read your word and as we think about it, I pray that you would open our eyes to understand the significance of these truths. Help us to be just absolutely amazed at your grace. Help our hearts to be warmed. And help us to be richly fed as we reflect on what you've done for us and why. May we never forget who we were before we became a Christian. But help us not to linger there too long. Help us to remember who we are in Christ and to just praise you for what you did for us. Help me this morning to communicate this text in a way that really gets out of the way and allows the word to speak very clearly for itself. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Passage in front of us could be summarized in the following way. We should never forget who we were before we were born again, and what God has done for us to give us this salvation. As we dig into this truth, I think there's a very simple fact that we will see, and that is that God's desire for us is simply to rejoice in the greatness of our salvation. And when we say that God has done a great work when he has saved us, we should never say that tritly. The fact is that salvation is a miracle. When we think about the work that God does in us and the work that God did for us and the work that He has for us in eternity to enjoy. It's all a result of his grace. It's a really awesome thing to think about. So how can we really appreciate this the way that we should I hope that as we dig into each of these truths one by one, you will have a deeper appreciation for what God has done for you. And if you're not a Christian, if you've never placed your faith in Christ, I hope that by the end of this message, you will know exactly. What God has done for you, you will understand exactly how you are to respond to it, and that the Spirit of God will draw you and show you, and you will be moved in your heart to place your faith in Christ. That's what I'm praying for. will happen today. So the first thing I want us to note is from the Word of God, truth number one, there are only two potential positions, and that is true about everybody in this world. Only two potential positions. And we see this in verse number one. It says, you hath he quickened, and that word means to be made alive. who were dead in trespasses and sins. What we see in these verses is there's really two options. You're alive or you're dead. It's that simple. It's not like a middle ground. We couldn't say you're kind of dead, but you're kind of alive. You're either alive or dead. It's that simple. And so we see it stated that way in verse number one. We were dead in trespasses and sins. We have been made alive in Christ because he has quickened us. together with him. And this is not only stated in Ephesians chapter 2, but this really is something that we see over and over and over again in the scripture. This concept that there are two positions in this world, either you're alive in Christ or you're dead in trespasses and sins. It's stated over and over in the Bible. Let me give you some examples of what I mean. 1 Corinthians 15, 21, probably one of the clearest. It says, by man, this would be the first man, Adam, came death. So also by man came also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, so in Christ shall all be made alive. So when we were born into this world, we were born dead in Adam. You say alive and dead at the same time? Yes, we're talking about a spiritual reality. Our relationship to God, we don't have a relationship to him as a son or as a daughter, but rather we are condemned. and alienated from him. But in Christ, united to him , we are alive in him. John 5. 24 He that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life and shall not come into condemnation. Here's the statement. He has passed from death To life. Same concept. Romans 8. 1. He says, there is therefore now no condemnation to them who are in Christ Jesus. Second Corinthians 5 17, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. All things have passed away. Behold, all things are become new. So we see the same concept. I'm dead in Adam or I'm alive in Christ. I am dead in trespasses and sins, or I've passed from death to life. I am condemned in Adam, or I am not condemned in Christ. As a natural man, I am estranged from God, or as a new creation, I'm united to Him. You are this morning in one of those two places. And here's the question. Which one is it? Are you alive in Christ? Are you dead in trespasses and sins? Second thing I want you to notice in this text is that all of us, every person in this room. Who is a believer today? You were, I was, we all were dead in trespasses and sins at one point in time. Notice what it says in verses 2 to 3, wherein in times past you walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh, and the children of disobedience. Among whom also we all had our conversation in times past, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and we were by nature the children of wrath, even as others. Now, this is a very important concept for us to understand. I think a lot of times when the world outside of these walls looks at the church, in the mind of the average person who's not a Christian, Doesn't know anything about biblical Christianity. The mindset is the church is for good people or people who believe they're good people. Okay? That is the mindset I think of lots of people outside these walls. And maybe there's a reason for that because maybe there's a lot of people professing faith in Christ that think they are good people and they act as if they're the only good people in the world. But that could not be further from a clear understanding of what the Bible says about all of us. Nobody in this room is good. Nobody in this room is righteous. Nobody in this room deserves to stand in the presence of a holy and righteous God and be accepted. There are no exceptions. We don't come to church to proclaim our goodness. We don't come to church because we are good. We come to church because we are sinners. who have been reconciled to God through his work. By grace alone, we are sinners saved by grace. Nobody in this room has the right to stand before the world and say, I'm a good person. I deserve this position. No one outside these walls is beyond potentially being saved. Anybody can be born again. And so when we look at these verses, we see that the natural position of every person when they are born into this world is dead in trespasses and sins. Notice how he states it. First of all, the positional reality. Verse number one, these people, you, me, we all were dead in trespasses and sins. We were estranged from God. We were his enemies. We were at enmity with him. And you say, how do you know that? Two reasons. One would be because the Bible tells us that. And two, our lives prove it. Our lives demonstrate what we are by nature. Our lives bear all the marks of spiritual deadness. And he states it in verses two and three. He says, In times past, you walked according to the course of this world You walked according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience. In times past you had your conversation in the lusts of the flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh. and of the mind. Now, let's break this down and let's kind of reflect a little bit on what he's saying here. There is a consistent pattern of life that is characteristic of those who are spiritually dead. There's an illustration that Spurgeon used, and he said it like this. He said, dead fish always swim with the strings. Living fish swim against it. Why is that? Well because one has to go with the flow because it's powerless to go where it should. But a living fish can swim against the stream. And the truth is that there is a course, a way of life, that is consistent with humanity that is contrary to their creator and his design. And the fact is that we all fell into that particular way of life. Notice the phrase, course of this world. Notice the word our conversation, and that's not just like the words we use, but it's our manner of life. You could say it this way. When a person doesn't know God and a person is spiritually dead, Their life follows a pattern of spiritual deadness. And you know what? Either you are, or you were in such a position. Either you are or you were. And some people say, well, I don't know how I could ever be clean enough to be right with God. That's a good thought because you can't. Salvation isn't about us cleaning up ourselves and then coming to God. It's about God rescuing us from being spiritually dead and broken. It's about God in his grace rescuing us, not us cleaning ourselves up and saying, hey, take me. And so this course is very, very distinct. Second thing we see is that this pattern can be traced back to the influence of Satan in this world system There are a lot of people today that think that the devil is just some mythological figure. Somebody talked about in cartoons. Or we talk about the realm of the demonic. That system is something that somebody made up in the Middle Ages and they say, oh well, you know, there's the devil and there's demons and there's all the spiritual darkness. But It's all just this mysterious stuff that's not real. That's not true. The fact is, there is a real Satan. He's an angel who's rejected God. He is powerful. He's well practiced. He hates God. He hates you and he hates me. And his influence is what moves And guides the course of this world. Verse number two, it says, it's according to the prince of the power of the air. The spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience. Do you remember when Jesus was talking to the Pharisees and he said, You are of your father the devil, and the works of your father you do? Why'd he say that? Because it's true. That's exactly the way these people lived. Their lives were bearing the marks of their father, not a biological relationship. But their head, the one who influenced them. And the truth is everybody in this room, either you were or you are in such a position. Third thing we see, I think this one really should grip us. If there was no devil and there were no demons, you and I'd still do evil. We don't do evil because of the devil and demons. We do evil because it's in us. It's a part of who we are. Because the next thing he says in verse number three, it says, In the lust of our flesh, that's not on the devil, that's on me. That's on you, in the lust of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of our flesh and of the mind. And those statements actually encompass several things. You know, a lot of times people go, well, you know, Christians, they're against all these horrible sexual sins, but then there's these other things. It's like, yeah, they're kind of like, they're acceptable things. What's very interesting about that statement, the lusts of our flesh, the desires of the flesh and the mind, it encompasses a lot of different things. For instance, it most definitely talks about our fleshly passions. If a person's not a Christian and they're walking according to the course of this world, they're going to find these marks in their life, being guided by the appetites, greed. A lust for power, a lust for influence, a lust for prestige. And you know what's really interesting? When we talk about some of these qualities, these are things that sometimes people don't really think much about. When somebody talks about a person being highly ambitious, we don't necessarily think of that being a horrible thing. We just say, well, they're motivated. They're doing a very good job. They're industrious. Then the question is, what's the motive of that industry? What's the motive of that passion? What's the motive of that drive? What he's basically saying is this. When people are estranged from God, they are spiritually dead to God. They follow a course of action influenced by Satan in this world system, and they are slaves to their passions, and they're slaves to their appetites, and they're slaves to their fallen thinking. The last thing I'll say about it is this. This is the universal natural human condition. Verse number three, we were by nature the children of wrath, even as others. You say there's nothing encouraging about anything that you've said yet this morning. Good. Because then you're getting it. Because if this is where the text stopped, there'd be nothing encouraging for anybody in this room. But there's good news. This is not where it stops. This is presenting the reality of our broken condition before a holy and righteous God, but it's not where it stops. Because the third thing that we see in this text is that we who are in Christ are alive to him. Verse number five, it says, even when we were dead in sins, he hath quickened us together with Christ. What an amazing statement. In verse 1, he talks about a new positional reality. And by the way, this, as much as the first thing we talked about is true about everybody here or was true about everybody here. What's also true is this second position is true about every person in this room who is truly born again. No exceptions. It doesn't matter where you've been in life. It doesn't matter what you've done. It doesn't matter how you've stumbled. If you're in Christ, this is true about you. You, He has quickened, made alive. Verse number one. Second thing, our lives are now united to him. Verse number six, he hath raised us up together, and he has made us sit together in heavenly places. We're not just alive, but we're alive and united to Him. We have a real, living, vibrant relationship with God. We can know him. We can enjoy him. Our lives can reflect his purposes for our lives. And it's all because of his work on our behalf. Thirdly, we're living with an anticipation of a rich inheritance. And I love this statement. Verse number 70 says, so that in the ages to come He might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. I want to pause for a moment and I want you to think with me Have you ever said something like, I don't understand this today, but when I get to heaven, I'm going to understand that. You ever said that before? I have. How do you know you're going to understand that in heaven? There are certain things for all of eternity we'll never fully grasp. Did you know that? For instance, we have a God who is infinite. Do you understand that? I don't, but it's true. We are finite. That means we are limited people. And even in eternity, we're not going to stop being finite creatures We're going to be glorified. We're going to know God far better than we do today. But for the rest of eternity, we with limited capacity are going to grow. For all of eternity in our knowledge of Him, our delight in Him, our joy in Him, our worship in Him, we are for all of eternity going to keep growing to know the greatness of our God. And let me give you an illustration like this. You ever looked up into the sky and looked at the stars and been like, wow, there's a lot of stars out there? In fact, just the other day, one of my kids. That was it was last night actually. Owen, hey daddy, can we set up the telescope and go outside and look at the stars? And I'm like, Owen, it's really cold tonight. And it's really windy. And I think we're going to do that on a different night. We don't call that a rain check. We call that an ice check. Like, whoa. I was like, but we can do that another day. But here's what's really interesting. You look up into the sky as a little kid and you see all these stars, and you're like, man, there are stars everywhere. But here's what's really amazing If your father or one of the neighbors in the cul-de-sac where we live pulls out a telescope and they put it up into the sky and you look into that telescope, you're going to find something else. Some of those stars aren't stars. They're planets. Some of them are actually galaxies. And so you're not just looking at one little star. You're looking at a galaxy that's so far away, and if you could see it a little more, you'd realize there's stars upon stars upon stars in that one little speck that you saw standing in your cul-de-sac. And then we have places like out at Johns Hopkins where they have observatories and their satellites that are way out there and they're just going further and further out into space being able to see things. That you and I cannot see with an unaided eye. And here's what's amazing. As the technology grows, the ability to see what's out there gets more and more More and more. And you know what it you know what it tells people? We aren't scratching the surface. You become an expert in something, guess what? You'll realize your knowledge is way higher than those around you. But your knowledge falls far short of a full understanding of those concepts. And for all of eternity, what is God going to do? He is going to show us the exceeding riches of his grace and his concepts. Kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. You and I will never come to a place where we understand everything there is to know about God. We're never going to come to a place that we have figured out His love and His grace and His mercy to its fullest. Because we are finite and he is infinite. Truth number four. What made all the difference? One word, it's called grace. God's grace made all the difference. I skipped over verse 4 because I really wanted to hit it here at the end to think about. What's the difference between dead and trespasses and sins? And alive unto God, two words, but God. It's not that you and I are good people, and it's not that we're smart people, it's that God has been gracious to us. You know, interestingly we went to that passage in Deuteronomy chapter seven and the nation of Israel was the the recipient of these covenant promises. They went all the way back to Abraham and to Isaac and to Jacob, all the way up to the Mount Sinai. And this is what God says to those people. Moses writes, The Lord did not set his love on you or choose you because you were more in number than any of those who were before you. You were the fewest of all people, because the Lord loved you, and because he would keep his oath which he swore unto his fathers, has the Lord brought you out with a mighty hand and redeemed you. Know therefore that the Lord thy God, he is God and a faithful God, which keepeth covenants and mercy with them that love him and keep it his covenants to a thousand generations. You know what God said to those people? I didn't choose you because you're smart and good and strong. I chose you because I'm good. And the truth is, if God had left us to ourselves, there'd be no Christians. If He didn't provide a way of salvation, there would be no gospel, there would be no salvation. But God didn't do that. Because He's a good God. He's a merciful God. He is a compassionate God. But God who is rich in mercy for His great love wherewith he loved us. Even when we were dead, hath quickened us together with Christ by grace we're saved. The first thing I see here is that God did not leave us to our own devices, but God, He interrupted our lives. And I've said this before, especially if when you if you became a Christian later on in life, you appreciate this. You remember what you were before you became a Christian, and you know what God did in your life that drew you to Himself. But even for those who grew up in Christian homes, we got a lot of kids in our church. Did you pick your family? When you were an infant, did you tell your parents to take you to church? Did you pick a mom and dad who opened their Bible and taught you the Word of God? No. But God did that. He put those people in your life. What's amazing is we push and we fight and we mock God year after year after year after year. And he extends his hand of mercy to us. And Paul says, I was the chief of sinners. I persecuted the church. But by the grace of God I am what I am. God didn't leave us to our own devices, but God, second thing, He had compassion on us in our spiritual deadness, who is rich in mercy. And that word mercy, it means compassion. A lot of us are very callous toward other people. It's the truth. I don't mean that to like put anybody on a guilt trip, but the truth is we have we have access to so much information because of the internet. And we hear these horrible stories and it's like, eh, I'm glad it's not me. They probably had it coming. I mean, couldn't God have done that to us? That guy's he's a real scumbag. I'm just gonna let him die in trespasses and sins and be condemned forever. And while we shake our fist in the face of a holy and righteous God, he extends his hand in mercy. It's incredible. He loved us, so we were unlovely. Verse number four, for his great love wherewith he loved us. That really is the sense of Deuteronomy 7. God did not love you because you were lovely. Why do people choose to marry the person they marry? Most people, it's because they look good They get along and they think they're going to have a pretty good experience because of the person they marry. And then later on they realize they're human, I'm human, and you know, things have to get worked out But we leave we love people because we think we're going to get a good deal. It's true. You can't convince a person who's engaged and getting ready to get married and they're all excited that you know this person actually is a sinner and they've got problems and there's gonna be times that you're gonna be really upset with them and they're gonna be really upset with you and you're gonna have to work through some stuff. stuff. It's like not on their mind. And that's why they get married. And that's good that they got married, okay? But they're gonna have to work through some things. But when God chooses to love us, He loves us knowing everything about us. Every wrinkle, every crease, every sin, every word, every thought, those things that we can hide so well from others, but God knows them all. And God says, Rich in mercy, I love you, I'm going to draw you. This salvation is all of his grace. Verse number five: By grace ye are saved. So what's the point? This change of position is all a result of God's mercy, his love, his grace. You and I are saved because God is good. This change of place takes one this change of position takes place one way. You have to be born again. By the way, that's what the word quicken means. When he says he's quickened you who are dead, you are born again. John 3, verse 3, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Jesus said that to Nicodemus, and Nicodemus was a really good guy. He was selected by his peers to go and talk to Jesus. And as Nicodemus goes to Jesus, he's expecting to get into this great theological conversation. And Jesus says, Hey, unless you're born again, you'll never see the kingdom of God. And he's like, What? That's not what I was expecting to hear. Nicodemus, don't marvel that you need to be born again. This comes by the work of God through the Word of God. You've got to hear the gospel The Spirit of God works through the gospel. Romans 10, 14. How can they call on him whom they've not believed? How shall they believe on him whom they've not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? How shall they preach except they be sent? Do you see the logical progression? Faith comes by hearing, and hearing comes through a preacher, and preachers come when they're sent. And guess what? It says, as it is written, how beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace and bring glad tidings of good things. What's the point? God sends preachers. Sometimes as a parent, Sunday school teacher, a neighbor, someone that we meet at a gas station. God sends his preachers all over the place. And I don't mean preachers like Pastor Joel preachers. I'm talking about every person in here that has the gospel message and they know it. God uses all of us to reach into the lives of people. Sometimes it's by what they see in the distinctiveness of our lives. Sometimes it's a gospel tract that's handed, sometimes it's answering questions, but God brings the word through people. And as the word comes, he convicts us. And he shows us who we are and who Christ is, and he calls us to himself As you sit here in the service this morning, God is calling to you through a preacher who's given the word. If your heart is convicted, God is calling you through a preacher who's given his word. If you're resisting him as he speaks to you through his word, doesn't change the fact God is calling you through a preacher and through his word. Word. James 1 18, of his own will he begat us by the word of truth. Second Corinthians 4 6, God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, has shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God and the faith of God. of Jesus Christ. 1 Peter 1. 23, we are born again not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible by the word of God. So as you're sitting here this morning, there's one of two possibilities here. Either one, you know exactly what I'm talking about because you're a Christian Okay? You can think back in your life to a time, or we could say a season, where the Spirit of God was working in your heart. You felt the conviction of your sin. You recognized the holiness and the righteousness of God. You saw that there was nothing you could give to God that could give you a standing before Him. And there was this struggle in your soul, and the Spirit of God kept pressing on you through his word. He was persistent, and there came a point where you would turn to him and you place your faith in Christ. If you're a Christian, you know that's happened. And if you're not a Christian, he's doing that right now. Where do you see Two positions. Dead in trespasses and sins, alive unto God. Those who receive him by faith alone are born John five twenty-four. He that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life, shall not come into condemnation, but is passed from death unto life. You say Joel, how can I go from death to life? Receive the gospel. Place your faith in Christ. That's what he says. Whoever hears my word believes on him that sent me. He has everlasting life. John 1 12, as many as received him, to them gave ye the power, the right to become the Son of God Born again. Receive. Believe. Trust. Rely. Lots of different words we could use. What's the point? The point is this if you are dead in trespasses and sins, the Spirit of God through the Word of God, through the preaching of His Word, is Bringing you to himself. Will you reject or embrace? It's very simple. So I want to take everything that we've heard this morning. I want to kind of boil it down to one of two simple applications. One is to the Christian and one is to those who are not. If you're an unbeliever, I ask this question. Alright, make this statement. Do not accept the lie that you don't need salvation. There are a lot of people in this world, they believe that their system of rules and rituals and whatever their religion is, they believe that that gives them a standing with God. They don't need the cross. They don't need Christ, they don't need the resurrection. Now they may talk about the cross, they may talk about the resurrection, but they're not depending on those things. They're just a part of their system. Do not accept the lie that you don't need salvation by grace alone through faith alone and Christ alone. But there's a second encouragement. Don't accept the lie that you're beyond God's salvation. Because there are some people that when they hear the gospel, they say, I don't need it, I'm good. And there are other people that say, I need it, but it's not for me. And the reason I know it's not for me is because I'm too bad. I sold my soul to the devil. I've said some horrific things to God. I have scorned him and mocked him and I've just I've lived an absolutely miserable life, and there's no no way in the world that God would love me, that Christ has died for my sins, and that I can be saved. Not true. It's a lie The Apostle Paul was going to take Christians and throw them in prison when he met Jesus. And Jesus says, do not kick against the pricks. You are fighting me, and it's time to stop. It's that simple. And he did. His life was completely transformed. But when Paul is preaching this gospel, he says, I am I'm the lowest of sinners. I persecuted the church. I took people who were innocent and loved Christ and I dragged them into prison. I had no right to do it. I was guilty of innocent blood. And we're going to see him in heaven. Because of the grace of God. Do you feel the weight of your sin and an ability to come to God? That's a good thing. Are you gripped by the fact that God's justice is serious and there's nothing you can do to escape it? That's a good thing. Can you see that there's mercy and grace from God extended to you in the gospel? That's a good thing. That's a direct result of God's gracious work calling you. With a heart, one believes unto righteousness. The Spirit of God convicts us of sin, righteousness, and judgment. That's God working in you. So respond to it. Humble yourself. Place your faith in Christ. Turn to Him with a humble heart and look to Christ and faith alone. Ask Him to save you. It's a simple thing. But we are very proud by nature and we are very resistant to what God's Word says. And we buck it and we fight it as He draws us. Rest in the promise. With the heart man believeth unto righteousness. With the mouth, confession is made unto salvation. All that the Father giveth me will come to me. Him that cometh to me, I'll in no wise confess You call on the Lord. He's not going to say, oh, I'm not talking about you. He's talking about you. Anybody. Anybody can be saved. What will you do with the gospel? Second application is to the believer. Don't ever forget who you were. But don't stay there too long. This is really important, okay? We can fall on either side in error. We can forget what we were before we were Christians and live as if we were never that person. We can also live as if we're still that person. And they're both wrong. What do what what is what is the encouragement here? The courage encouragement is don't be proud. Don't think you're something that you're not. Don't forget who you are. Remember the grace of God and then thank God for it and live in the light of it. Second, realize who you are in Christ and reckon it to be true. Remind yourself every day who you are in Christ. Preach the gospel to yourself. When you are down and discouraged, you doubt God's love. When you have sinned miserably and you confess your sin and you don't believe in your heart that God has really forgiven and cleansed you. Remind yourself what Christ has done for you. It is true and calculate it to be true in your heart. Marvel at the grace of God. Marvel at his love. Thank him for what he has saved you from. Thank him for what he has saved you to. Live like the person that you are this week. May God help us take the word of God and apply it to our hearts to see this morning. Let's bow for prayer. But every head bowed and every eye closed before we close in prayer, I'm going to ask a simple question. Is there anyone here this morning that would say Joel, as I listened to that message, I realized I'm not a Christian. I've never been born again. You laid it out like Very definitively, and I know I need to trust Christ. I'm not going to ask you to come forward. I'm not going to come and talk to you. But I'd like you to acknowledge that you know you need to be saved, and I will pray in my heart for you Maybe you're following the live stream. There's a little QR code there. Click on it. Reach out this week. Love to be an encouragement any way that can answer any question that you So before we close in prayer, is there anyone here this morning that would say, Joel, I've never trusted Christ as my Savior, and I know I need to do that. Remember Me in prayer. Anybody like that? Just put your hand up quietly and you can bring it down. Thank you. When I go to the Lord in prayer, there in your seat, ask the Lord to say Tell him that what you've heard from the Word of God say you know it's true. And you want God to give you a new heart, and you want Him to forgive your sins and wash you clean. And make you his child, and you want eternal life. Tell him right there in your seat while I close in prayer. Right there in your home as I close in prayer. Father, Father, I thank you for your word. It is an awesome, awesome responsibility to proclaim it. It's one of the most Amazing things to do in all the world. And I pray that you would take these truths and plant them deeply in our hearts. Hearts. Those who don't know you as Savior, I pray in the quietness of this moment, they would be calling out to you and asking you for salvation, trusting in what Jesus did for them. And those who are Christians, that we would all be reminded freshly of who we were and what we have been rescued from And what moved the heart of God to do it. What we have and what we will enjoy and delight in for all of eternity. I pray that these truths would strengthen us This week, and that we would rest in them. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen.