It's good to have you all here. Let's stand and sing our first few songs. If you can turn in your red book to 577. Be strong in the Lord. We'll sing all three verses. See if I can get there. Be strong in the Lord, and be of your mind. Always the same out of wings and the eagle understanding victory. For when you call on his name, be strong, be strong, be strong in the Lord, and be of good courage, Lord. For he is your God. Be strong, be strong, be strong in the Lord, and rejoice for the victory is your So put on the altar Lord has no thy bed and place your defense in his unveiling care. Trust him for he will be with you in battle lighting your path to avoid everything Strong, be strong, be strong in the Lord, and be of good courage, for he is your God. Be strong. Be strong, be strong in the Lord and rejoice for the victory is yours. Be strong in the Lord and be of good comrades, your mighty commander vanquish the foe. Fear not the battle the victory is always yes He will protect you wherever you go Be strong Come be strong, be strong in the Lord, and be of goodness, for he is your God. He strongly Be strong, be strong in our Lord, and rejoice for the victory is yours Great singing. Turn a few pages over to 587. 587. Victory in Jesus. We'll sing all three verses. I heard an old old story, how my Savior came from glory. How he gave his life on Calvary to save me. I heard about his glory, of his precious blood touching. Then I repented of my sins and won the victory. Oh victory in Jesus, my Fabi. He sought me and bought me with his renaming blood He loved me and I knew him and all my love I heard about his healing of his fancy howry feeling, How he made the lane to walk again and cause the life to see. And then I cry, dear Jesus, come and heal my broken spirit. And somehow Jesus came and brought to me the victory. Oh victory and Jesus my savior forever. He touched me and bought me with his remaining blood He loved me ere I knew him and all my love Him To him, he plants me to victory. We need Darkland. I heard about a mansion here in glory, and I heard about a streets of gold beyond the crystal sea. About the angel singing and the old reception story And some sweet day I'll sing up there a song of victory Oh victory in Jesus, my Savior, forever. He stops me and finds me with his redeem. He loved me air I knew him and all my love is due He plants me to victory me Amen. You may be seated. Even fewer pages over to 592. Soldiers of Christ arise. 592. All three verses. Catch your breath. Here we go. Soldiers of Christ arise and put your armor on Trump in the strength which God supplied to his eternal Strong in the Lord of hosts and in his mighty power in the strength of Jesus. More than conqueror Standing His grace mind with all his strength into and take to Arm you born the fight, the panel of God That have eat all things done and all your complex We may or come through Christ alone and stand in tire as last Leave no garden place, no weakness on the soul. Take every virtue, every grace, and fortify the whole From strength to strength, go on wrestle and fight and break , thread all the powers of darkness down and win. In the wealth of day. Powerful songs. Thank you for your singing. On verse two So open my ears, that's the first words that'll come out with. Open my eyes that I may hear Voices of truth out and disclear And while the scriptures fall on my ear Everything else Silently now I wait for thee Pity for God I will to sleep Open my eyes and look What a great key signature, 6'8. Alright, let's move to 495. Ninety-five. Alright. And let's do let's do the third verse for this one. So amid the conflicts, whether great or small, do not be discouraged, God is over. Count your many blessings, angels, will at hand Help and comfort get into your journey. Count your blessings named them one by one. Count your blessings be what God has done. Count your blessings. Make them one by one Count your many blessings be what God has done. There are many ways to do that one, so thank you for bearing with me. Let's uh move to 105 in the blue book. one oh five in the blue book. For me to live is Christ. Do the first verse. So, I'm not sure. In thy forehead, thy holding him the more we shed to live and Christ to die. I seek to magnify them for me to live his God for me to live is God. First do we give my highest price for me to make his rise. Alright, number two back in our red book. A little flippy-floppy here. Two in the red book. Come Christians join to sing. First verse. Oh sorry Come Christians join to see Amen. Praise to Christ our king. A Yahweh. Praise his precious joy. And eighty-nine in the blue book. Switch back. This will be verse three. So eighty-nine in the blue book verse three God 's Word alone So I need to get this one. God's Word alone 's every single It's probably a little bit slower. So one and two and three, try it again. God's word illumines every step I tell me, Security. Thus for my God I wake her shortly For faith my scarcity for the wind what I get Not as familiar with that one. That is good. The words are great. Tunes we'll work on. Alright, and then the last one, 304 in the red book. 304. For this one, we'll do oh we do the second verse. Second verse. Only two of them, so we'll do number two. I'm adopted. My father chose me, I think loves me, I know. He will be with me wherever I go, I'll never worry I will. I am a member of the things wherever being dust is not a new stone. Doctor, I'll maybe memory with a child of mine. Awesome great singing, yes. All right, it's good to be here this evening. The tropical storm, I think, is behind us. That is good. The wedding is behind us. Praise the Lord. I like going to weddings. I I really do. It's a good encouragement to me and to remember over 19 years ago what I said to my wife. It's I I like weddings. They're fun and exciting. Just the excitement of them and a new couple, especially two Christians joining together to serve God. I I really enjoy it. But tonight we're going to be looking at Caleb's courage and how it continues. Caleb's courage in Joshua chapter 14. We're going to pick it up in Joshua 14, starting with verse 6. I'll read a couple verses, and then we will make our way through the end of chapter, but I'll only read the first couple. Joshua 14, starting with verse 6. Then the children of Judah came unto Joshua in Gilgal And Caleb, the son of Jephunah, the Kesite, said unto him, Thou knowest the thing that the Lord said unto Moses the man of God concerning me and thee and Kadesh Barnea. Forty years old was I when Moses The servant of the Lord sent me from Kadesh Barnea to spy out the land, and I brought him word again, as it was in mine heart. Nevertheless, my brethren that went up with me made the heart of the people to melt. But I wholly followed the Lord my God. Father, we just thank you and praise you. For who you are and your word is sure and steadfast. Would we in this day Stand boldly, courageously on your word. As we look this evening at the example of Caleb, would that encourage us by looking at what he had done and continued to do consistently throughout his life. Would you just use your word to work in the hearts and lives of your people this evening for the praise, for the glory, for the boldness to stand, that we too could be courageous like Caleb was consistently. and continuously through his life. We come to you through Christ's precious name. Amen. So in Joshua 14 Verse 6, we're going to begin looking at this, and I'm just going to look at a phrase here. It says, The children of Judah came to Joshua unto Gilgal, and Caleb the son of Jephuna, the Kaziteh said unto him, Thou knowest the thing. That the Lord said unto Moses, the first thing we're looking at is thou knowest the thing that the Lord said. I wanted to pull this out because when we read Old Testament text, sometimes we read a verse or a passage. And there's a lot that goes on before this. And I want to go back to, we're going to get back to numbers to look at these things. But first, we're going to see what Caleb did. We're going to see him being very courageous in this passage. I just want to say, what is courage? As I pondered, what is courage? What is it? And it really is just being bold, taking a stand during difficult times, through challenges when things don't be seeming to go your way, when the obstacles seem You can't understand them. Do you they seem outnumbered? Caleb stood firm. But here we're going to see Caleb first came to Joshua, but he didn't come by himself. He came with other leaders from Judah. Why do I mention this? I think it's just important because Caleb is going to make a bold request here by the end as he's talking with Joshua. And he is doing it in a righteous, I believe, in a proper motive of how he does this. So he's not going by himself. Eventually we're going to say, you know, give me this mountain. He's coming with leaders. He's coming with those that would agree. Probably that yeah, Caleb, if anyone gets this portion, it should be you. So I think that's just a little important to mention that he's coming with leaders, others from the tribe of which he was from, and he appeals to Moses, the man of God. He reminds Joshua, Moses is a man of God. You remember, and how would Joshua forget who Moses is? No one would forget who Moses is. So he's going with a group of leadership. He's coming, reminding Joshua about Moses, the man of God, whom we served under, who led us for all those years out of Egypt through the wilderness. And so that would be encouraging. He's coming with authority. He's coming remembering Moses and some things that he had said. And then I want to look at another verse or a phrase in this verse. Verse 6 says, Thou knowest the thing that the Lord said unto Moses, the man of God. Concerning me and thee. Now you might remember maybe in junior church or Sunday school. I missed those privileged times of youth growing up in church. So I appreciated a testimony uh from Brother Casey down there when you have a good church in a school just trying to supplement uh what you're doing in the home. That is wonderful. I did not grow up uh in a Christian environment. It was a good home, but just not with the Bible being much involved. And so it is encouraging to me to know that kids have an upbringing and things To encourage them with them. But why do I say that? We're familiar with Joshua and Caleb. You know, ten were bad and two were good. Or however you do that. Ten were bad and two were good. I think that's how it goes. I didn't learn that as a kid. But all that to say he is referring Joshua and Caleb, okay, were the two that stood out and did what were was right. And so when Caleb here, he's going to Joshua with a group of leaders from Judah, reminding Joshua of Moses and who he is, he's the man of God, and he comes before them and he says here at the end of verse 6, he says, Concerning me and thee. This is going to be clearly coming to Joshua's memory. He's pulling back things from the past and he's saying, Joshua, don't you remember what we did? What you and I did Way back all those years ago. And so that is what I want to remind us of just briefly So he's going to Joshua. He's reminding him of the past, some things that have happened. But I want to quickly turn back to Numbers 13. If you turn with me to Numbers 13, we're going to spend some time just kind of cruising through a couple verses in Numbers 13 and 14 just to give us the background to what he's referring to, just to make it fresh. I don't want to assume that everyone remembers all the details, and we're just going to hit some highlights But while you're turning there, I want to read Numbers 3212. And it says, save Caleb the son of Japhunah the Keshite, and Joshua the son of Nun. For they have wholly followed the Lord. So they're later in numbers, he's reminding them, hey, we followed God. And now we're going to look at that just briefly, go through some verses here. We're going to start with Numbers 13. Look at verse 2 with me. Well, we'll read verse 1. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Send thou men, that they may search the land of Canaan, which I give unto the children of Israel, every tribe of their fathers, shall ye send a man, every one a ruler from among them. And as we look down the list, you will see both Caleb and Joshua being mentioned. Verse 6, of the tribe of Judah, Caleb. You skip down to verse 8 and the tribe of Ephraim, that's Joshua, the son of Nun. So there when Caleb is saying before Joshua , They're about to distribute the land and possess it. He's saying, Joshua, remember between me and thee, do you remember something that happened? These men, these two men were already leaders, as were the other ten. They were leaders representing their tribe. To go spy out the land. Then you skip down with me to verse 25. So they go spy out the land, they get this report. And here is a portion to remind us of what took place between Joshua, Caleb, and the ten other spies. And they returned from searching of the land after 40 days, verse 26. And they went and came to Moses and to Aaron and to all the congregation of the children of Israel unto the wilderness of Pharaon and Kadesh, and brought back word unto them And unto all the congregation, and showed them the fruit of the land. This is a great land. Look at all this fruit. It truly is a land flowing with milk and honey. And they told him and said, verse 27, and we came unto the land where thou sendest us, and surely it floweth milk and honey, and this is the fruit of it. They are excited about the land, they like what's before them. But there's the but. Actually, in this case, nevertheless. In verse 28, it says, nevertheless, the people be strong. that dwell in the land, and the cities are walled, and very great, and moreover we saw the children of Anak there And he goes on and says some other things. Hey, they dwell in the land in the south, and you have the Hettites and Jebusites and the Amorites and the Mosquito Bites, and they all dwell in the mountains. Did you catch that? Okay, if you didn't, that's okay. And the Canaanites dwell by the sea and the coast of the Jordan. Look at verse 30. So here's what's happening just before I get to verse 30. Verse 30, I like. So the twelve go spy out the land. And they're saying, yes, the land is good. All twelve agreed. No question, no doubt. They're all there. This is just as God said. But here's where it starts changing God told them the land was like that. He also told them that you're going to get the land. He says it's yours to possess it. But here's what's happened. Here's where we're going to start seeing the courage of Caleb and Joshua start coming into play. They are looking at the circumstances, and the circumstances are seeming too big and they're too great. And yet, they're allowing those to overcome the promises of God in their life. They see the circumstances. They see the challenges. They see the blessing, but it seems too far away. Now look with me in verse 30. And Caleb stilled the people before Moses and said, Let us go up at once and possess it. For we are well able to overcome it. Why are they well able to overcome it? Because God said they could. Yeah, but did you see the size of those guys? And for anything like me, instead of like, oh yeah, he's pretty big, it's like, yeah, he's big. Okay? I can imagine I mean I don't know how tall Caleb was He's probably taller than me. It's probably a safe assumption. But still, these guys were huge. And they have walls around their city. Did you guys see the wall? Yeah, I saw the wall. Joshua's like, yeah, I saw it. But I agree with Caleb. They're like, ah, no way. No way But Caleb stills the people, so there's commotion going on. There's a little bit of a discussion going on, a disagreement. God said to possess it, we can do it. Caleb is like the optimistic here. He's going for, hey, I believe in God, let's do it. Even though others were turning against him, even though the majority was turning against him and they were wrong. Let's continue on verse 31. But the men that went up with him said, We be not able to go up against the people, for they are stronger than we. Can I take a timeout really quick? That may be true. And they probably were stronger and bigger and walled cities. But they're not looking at it the right way. They are stronger than we, but who has been fighting these battles? Who destroyed the Egyptians? Who sent the plagues? Who parted the Red Sea? Who sent them wandering for 40 years because of unbelief? And now if they look at the people and say, we can't do it, they're stronger than us? Take a timeout, wait, wait a minute This is the Lord doing this. Our strength is not in of ourselves. And if it is, we surely will lose. We will lose the battle if we rely on our own strength and what we could accomplish and our own stature and our own nobility. But that's not what Joshua and Caleb are doing. Despite the opposition from their own spies. And now the other people are getting, oh, you know what happens when you mention one thing? People like, oh, wow. That COVID-19, that is like something crazy. I'm like COVID-19, this is way back, you know, roughly March of 2020, and we didn't know what was going on, and people are mentioning this, and then the months afterwards, it's like COVID-19 and like fear was supposed to come upon everyone. And I get it that there were some challenging times. But then I start learning of wait a minute, that's the 19th strand. This isn't like the first time we've ever dealt with COVID. And so just thoughts like that. And even today, people, and there's all the people that stand in all different parts. But what I'm saying is people hear things and it starts stirring emotion, fear. Circumstances. And we take the promises in God and say, but but no, because I'm afraid. But I've seen these men. That's what's taking place. There's controversy within. So in verse 31, hey, we can't do this. They are stronger than we. Verse 32. It says, and they brought up an evil report. Of the land which they had searched unto the children of Israel, saying, The land, though we have gone and searched it, it is a land that eateth up the inhabitants thereof, and all the people that we saw in it are men of great stature. So it wasn't a bunch of Pastor Josh's, that's for sure. And there we saw the giants, the son of Anak, which come of the giants. And we were in our own sight, not in God's promises, not in holding to what God can accomplish, setting aside what God said he would give in our own eyes. As grasshoppers. So we were in their sight. So this is what's taking place when Caleb says, Hey, do you remember between me and thee Do you remember the stand that we took all those years ago? This is what he's appealing to. This is what we remember. So I want to look at a couple other verses in chapter 14. These are the things that thou knowest, the thing that the Lord said concerning me and thee, from Joshua 14. But look, let's look at Numbers 14 very briefly here. And all the congregation lifted up their voice and cried, and the people wept that night. So they're believing the ten spies. It is not going well. And there's many other things that take place here in the verse to follow. Let's skip to verse 24 of chapter 14. But my servant Caleb Because he had other spirit with him, I'm sorry, had he another spirit with him, and hath followed me fully. He saw the same things that the other spies did. The same giants, the same walled cities, but he looked at it with God's promise. He looked at it through God's strength. He saw the challenges and difficulties in life and said, yes. It's not going to be easy, but all we have to do is obey God, and it's ours. You know, if following the Lord was easy, if there was no challenges , If there were no difficulties and trials, everyone could do it. But what is the reward? It's kind of like if everything were good in life, we wouldn't know what bad or evil was. A better example. You ever see that kid in Walmart? I want it. Give it. And the mom's like, okay, Johnny, if you behave, I'll give it to you. He throws a fit because he wants it now. I said I want it. Shh, be quiet, be quiet And then they give the kid what he wants. So the kid is properly trained the parent. If I throw a fit, I get what I want. They become spoiled. They get used to getting what they want, despite what their parents say, despite what a challenge may be. Despite a difficulty, when things come in life that are challenging, we need to look at it from God's perspective. We need to see God through the situation and his word that he's given to us, not just when things are good. But the courage and the boldness comes when it's difficult. And you look out through history, we know men of the past because of the great decisions or the stands that they took during their time. You can think of many different presidents and different generals and different things. Men are defined by taking a stand when things are difficult. Though it may not be popular, though they not be liked by most. But that's where Joshua and Caleb were. These are the things that he says. Remember between thee and me? These are the things he's reminding of them. So at the end of verse 24 of chapter 14, he says, I will, they followed me fully. Him will I bring into the land wherein he went, and his seed shall possess it. Look down with me to verse thirty. Doubtless ye shall not come into the land concerning that which I swear to make you dwell therein Save Caleb, the son of Jephunah, and Joshua, the son of Nun. So everyone now that is twenty years and older is going to die, except for these two men. Joshua and Caleb. They took a stand and they were rewarded. They were outnumbered, but yet they were right. They tried to encourage the people, but they cried and were sad. They did not believe. There's a couple more verses here that I'd like to go, but we're going to skip over them for right now. So we've seen First, that thou knowest the thing that the Lord said. Number two, we're going to see Caleb's heart compared. Turn back with me to Joshua 14. We're going to look at verses 7 through 9. Caleb's heart. Compared. Look in verse seven. As it was in mine heart, in verse seven. Forty years old was I when Moses the servant of the Lord sent me from Cashborn to spy out the land. And I brought him word again as it was in mine heart. So Caleb is giving some background. I was forty years old when I went to spout the land. And he says, you know what I did? I did what was in mine heart. Now think about this. What was in his heart? What was in the other ten men's hearts? I think what was in Caleb's heart was I want to obey God. I want to follow through. I want to follow him I'm going to stand by his word. So his heart was encouraged. I know it's going to be difficult. It's not easy to live a Christian life, and sometimes you have to take a stand. But I want to do what God has said for us to do. I think he had God's word and God's promises in his heart. I think he's willing to face the difficulties and challenges because he knows the Lord's going to be with him. Caleb here is making a great stand and you see what is in his heart. And we see in Numbers 13, 30, and Caleb stilled the people. We refer to this, but I'm just reminding us again. Caleb stilled the people before Moses and said, Let us go up at once and possess it. For we are able to overcome it. That's what's in his heart. I can obey God. We can do it because God has given it to us So Caleb's heart compared, look us look at the people's heart as it melted in verse 8. In verse 8 of Numbers 14, nevertheless, my brethren went up with me, made the heart of the people melt. They're seeing the same thing. Caleb's heart was encouraged. Caleb's heart was to follow God. We can possess it. God said it. Let's go get it. But the other people saw the same thing, and their heart melted. This concept first became very familiar with me actually through Ministry of Answers in Genesis and Ken Ham. You know, we're looking at the same earth, we're looking at the same facts, we're looking at the same thing. But one looks at it and says, oh, that's gotta be millions of years. And the other one says, no, that's not not a million years. God created things to be that way. We're looking at the same earth. And they try and use different methods from carbon-14 dating and all these things. And it's get guesswork. It's a theory. But if you take God's word, we know, hey, in six days. Exodus 20 verse 11, in six days God made the heaven and the earth. And it was good. Do you believe that? Or do you believe it took some millions of years? You follow those boring genealogies that make you want to yawn and go to sleep at night. You follow those through. There is no way there's millions of years. I've yet to see anything, some transitional form between God and ape. If it took millions of years, there'd be millions of these things everywhere. And we're struggling to find one. What? We're looking at the same things. I grew up near Mount St. Helens. We know the exact moment in May. And early 1980s. I forget. 80, 81, something. But we know, well, you can look it up yourself. We know the exact date. We know the exact time. And yet they run their samples and they're thousands of years off What in the world? Let's just believe what God says. Let's take them at his word. Others will disagree. Others will mock us. People are gonna cry and be like, oh, they're gonna they're gonna kill us, we're all gonna die. And you're thinking, Drake, then I'm with God. Okay. We can look at it here Many different ways, but the people's heart melted. They saw the same thing. And they're biting their fingernails and they're running the other way. And Joshua said, and Caleb were like, but God Said we can do it. So Caleb is heart compared to the others And then we see that Caleb wholly followed the Lord. I just want to look at a couple of verses here, some of them we have touched on already. But Caleb, what else was in Caleb's heart? He wholly followed the Lord. We get this out of verse. A nine in Numbers 14. And Moses swear on that day, saying, Surely the land whereon the feet have trodden shall be thy inheritance and thy children's forever, because thou hast wholly Followed the Lord my God. In Numbers 14, later in this chapter, verse 24 But my servant Caleb, because he Oh, uh Numbers 14, not Joshua 14, Numbers 14, verse 24, but my servant Caleb, because he had another spirit with him, that he followed me fully. Numbers 32, 12. For they have wholly followed the Lord, talking about Joshua and Caleb. Deuteronomy 1. 36. So Caleb, the son of Jephuna. He shall see it, and to him will I give the land that he troddened upon, and to his children. Why? Because he hath wholly followed the Lord. What is in his heart? He wants to follow God Despite the challenges, despite the difficulties, the trials come, the people question what God is going to do. Ten were complaining. Joshua was with them. They're outnumbered two to ten. But Caleb in his heart decided I'm going to wholly follow the Lord when it's not popular. When it's challenging. And yes, I agree with the challenges and difficulties. Yes, they're big. Yes, the cities are walled, but I want to follow God. What could challenge us to waver in following God? What challenges can come across your way? What circumstances can stop you from following the Lord. We can all be tempted. And statistically even here, most of us Will make a mistake. Most of us will follow our own understanding and our own circumstances in life, and it will be overwhelming. Would we be like Caleb? So first we've seen that thou knowest the thing that the Lord had said in verse 6. Verses 7 through 9, we saw Caleb's heart compared. Next, we're going to see Caleb kept alive in verses 10 through 11. And now, behold, the Lord hath kept me alive, as he said, these forty and five years. Even since the Lord spake his word unto Moses, while the children of Israel wandered in the wilderness, and now, lo, I am this day Four score and five years old. So his statement here, Table is kept alive. Do you understand the statement? What he's saying here? Let's think about it for a minute. He stayed alive when almost everyone else he knew died. Forty years of wandering in the wilderness was for the purpose of killing off everyone. So think about this for a minute. Caleb is now 85 years old. Other than Joshua He is 20 years older than the next oldest person in the entire nation. Did you catch that? A minimum of 20 years older than the next guy, other than Joshua. He is like the patriarch. He is like the Methuselah of the day. This is an old man. And you think about it, he is likely, possibly, one of the only ones that even has grandchildren. This is an old guy. But he said, but I was kept alive when people died day after day in the wilderness, year after year, decade after decade. I'm still here. I'm still alive. Why? He wholly followed the Lord and God kept his promise. Why are the other ones dead? Those other ten spies, where are they? They are no longer there. They had an evil report. What made the report evil? They didn't believe, they didn't wholly follow the Lord. But he was kept alive. He saw the goodness and the grace, the mercy had sustained Caleb. And I think he has realized even more the wisdom of age. And I've realized the older I get, the younger everyone else becomes. I really have understanding that. But here he was a a wise man and really seeing the grace of God. He has seen the goodness of God. In Lamentations 3. 22, it is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed, because his compassions fail not. So I got ahead of myself. We see that Caleb is now 85 years old, 40 years old as was how as how old he was when he spied the land. They spent 40 years wandering the wilderness and apparently about five years conquering Canaan. But what he says in verse 11. This is incredible. I would love to say this in about 45 years from now. I mean, this when I'm studying this text, I am almost exactly right here with Caleb. I got him beat by a ear. And so I really I was like I never really realized as I'm sitting through this I'm like he is my age when he was spying out the land. He was a leader at 40 according to his tribe and going out And now, 45 years later, 85! You understand the claim he's making? I'm still ready for war. Look at it very quickly in verse 11. And yet. I am as strong this day as I was in the day that Moses sent me. And my strength was then, even so is my strength now, for war. Both to go out. Survive and have the strength to come in. Some guys can go to war, but then trying to get back to camp, I'd rather just stay here by the stuff. He is saying, I am physically just in good of shape. I am strong enough, I can handle it. But here's what's interesting. That's not where his courage comes from. So thou, number one, is seeing thou knowest the thing that the Lord had said. Number two, we saw Caleb's heart compared to the people 's. Number three, we see Caleb is kept alive. Number four, Caleb's courageous command. Look at this in verse 12. Now therefore, give me this mountain. Joshua, remember those things that we reminisced about? It was just the two of us making a stand, and we're the only two alive at this time that survived the wilderness to talk about it. That are of any age. All the other ones, if they were under twenty, they were good. But he says, now give me this mountain whereof the Lord spake in that day, that day, forty-five years ago. For thou heardest in that day how the Anicha, remember those guys, the tall ones, the giants, and the monster beasts of men? They were there, and that the cities were great and fenced. So be the Lord will be with me. So be the Lord will be with me. Then Shall I be able to drive them out you as the Lord said? What is taking place here is I know he said, I'm just as strong now as I was 45 years ago But that's not where his courage is. That's not where his confidence is in. Did you catch that in the verse 12? Because the Lord is with him. The Lord is with him, despite the giants that we mentioned in Numbers 13, 33. But the Lord is with me. Psalm 23:4. Yea, though I walk in the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. Why? Why can we fear no evil? When it seems death is all around me. Caleb walked around for 40 years. Death was surrounding him. Yet, in the popular Psalm 23, verse 4, for thou art with me. One of the greatest encouraging things that could help us to be bold and take a stand, even in the minority, even when others are not following God, it's the fact that God is with me. God's presence is real, and I can stand alone by myself boldly and courageously. Why? Because I follow him and he is with me. So forty-five years later, you know what uh Caleb's courage is coming from? God's presence is with me. I have seen it. He's been with me all this time. Why would I turn my back on him now? In fact, I'm one of the only ones that can be here to discuss this is because They did not wholly follow the Lord. They didn't believe that they couldn't do it. And God has been present with me this whole time. And that's not changing. I can go take that mountain. I don't care who is there because God is with me. That's an incredible stand that he's taking. Absolutely amazing. In Numbers 14, 9. Only rebel ye not against the Lord, neither fear ye the people of the land, for they are bread for us. Their defense is parted from them, and the Lord is with us. Fear them not. He saw the circumstances and he said, I don't care how big they are, how tough they are. God is stronger. He is present with me. I can follow him. He said, I should be able to drive them out, as the Lord said. Not because of his own strength, but because the Lord was present with him. And then look at how Joshua responds in verses 13 and 14. Joshua blessed Caleb. How can you not? He was there through the fire with Caleb. How could Joshua refuse such a request? And this is taking place before their taxing loss and everything. Caleb says, hey, wait, before you start distributing the land, that mountain is mine. I'm coming. Other people agree. I'm one of the oldest men here. I have seen the faithfulness and the goodness of the Lord. I've been wholly following him. I know he's still with me. I want that mountain. How could Joshua refuse a request like that? They went through that together. So in verses thirteen and fourteen, and Joshua blessed him and gave unto Caleb the son of Jephuna, Hebron, for an inheritance. Hebron therefore became the inheritance of Caleb, the son of Jefuna the Kenzite, unto this day, why Look at the end of verse 14. Why? Because he wholly followed the Lord God of Israel. His courage continued all these years because he wholly followed God. He got the inheritance from Joshua because he obeyed the Lord and wholly followed him. What is it going to take for us not to be so courageous? What circumstances and challenges can God allow in our life? Because Caleb courageously continued to wholly follow the Lord God of Israel, he got that mountain. What is stopping you and I from having that same courage from a man of character through all those years like Caleb? Father, we thank you and praise you for your goodness, for your grace. Caleb had seen this firsthand. Thousands died around him for forty years. He saw the great men, the walled cities. But he followed you. He believed in your word. Father, would you work in us to follow him? To follow you and your word. We will have difficulties, we will have challenges. Others will choose to view the circumstances above your word. But would you be with your people? As we can make a decision, just as Caleb, over all those years, to wholly follow you and know that you are present with us. Would you encourage your people? Would we choose to follow you for the honor and for the glory of our Savior Jesus Christ we pray? Amen. We're going to close with hymn number 391. So we can go ahead and stand and sing number 391. I am resolved. Number 391. One starting with verse one. I am resolved no longer to linger top by those people, sing the higher things that are over. These have a bird my prime time I will face hand for me. So bad and free. Jesus fit. I will come to thee. I am resolved to go to the fable We take my sin as long He is the true one He is the just one He has The word of God are waiting to take into God and bring to I will not do me on the wast. I am we being the battle. Friends may not things like me , still I enter in. I will come to me. Charlie, you want to come close us in the prayer, please? Helly Power do thank you for this evening. Thank you for uh your word and uh presented here this evening. Just help us to be courageous in our lives so that we can uh follow the example of Caleb and uh hold on, um claim your promises and uh and be be bold in our service. for you. Just pray you bless us through the coming week. Just help us honor and glorify you. In Jesus' name. Amen.