Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our morning worship service, and we're so glad that you could be with us today. This is the first Sunday of the month, and I want to remind you that we'll be partaking of the Lord's table. at the end of this service. So I hope that if you're planning to partake of the elements, that you'll pick up an element uh during the first hymn that we'll be singing. And if you're visiting with us today for the first time or the first time in a long time, we are very, very happy that you're with us today. And our prayer is that this service will really direct your attention to the Lord and that you will be really encouraged in the Word of God today. We have a couple of announcements, and then Pastor Josh will come with our opening scripture reading to open our service. All right, good morning. Welcome this beautiful fall day outside. The cool weather I saw as you drive in all of the leaves that are falling on here So just what a wonderful day. Um this Thursday we have a the ladies meeting in the evening back in the fellowship halls are working through uh entertaining in the home. As well as this Saturday, we have our big opportunity of the Lit conference. There are sign-up sheets still available. If you're interested at all having to either bring something, donate, or volunteer your time this upcoming Saturday at the Lit Conference Uh please see Pastor Josh, he has all the questions if you have any of those, but there's also a sign up of on the All Church Bolton board of things we're just asking that people be bringing or just opportunities to sign up and just serve some time there. So there's a lot going on in lit conference. It's leadership and training. So also we want to encourage you to be praying for next Saturday. as all of there's we have a is it right around a hundred or so teens? Right around a hundred teens are going to be here having to just be challenged from God's word uh and having to find purpose in a purposeless world. So just something to be thinking about and we encourage you to pray for next Tues for next Saturday. The following Tuesday we have our Baltimore Rescue Mission as well as College and Care Men's Breakfast. If you have not signed up yet, there is a sign-up there for men's breakfast as well. as well as the all-church visitation. So a lot going on, but this Saturday especially just want to encourage you to either pray or help out in any way that you can. Pastor Josh. Our opening scripture reading is found in Psalm 42. We will start in verse 1 of Psalm 42. As the heart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? My tears have been my meat day and night, while they continually say unto me, Where is thy God? When I remembered these things, I poured out my soul in me, for I had gone with the multitude. I went with them to the house of God, with the voice of joy and praise. With the multitude that kept the holy day. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And why art thou disquieted in me? Hope thou in God, for I yet praise him for the help of his countenance. Our theme for today's worship is for us to rest in God, who is our everlasting help and joy. Before we go to the Lord in prayer, I just want to draw your attention to the first couple of hymns that we're going to sing The first hymn is all Hail the Power of Jesus' name. And I love this hymn. It is a majestic hymn. It's going to really remind us about the greatness and the power of our unchanging God. The second hymn we're going to sing is Praise the Lord Who Reigns Above. And this is a hymn that you might not be as familiar with as the first, but in fact It is a really rich, it's a simple hymn, and it's a great hymn that is going to remind us that God reigns, that he rules, that he is over all things. And then the third hymn we're going to sing is worthy of a praise. And because he is a God who is all-powerful, because he is a God who reigns over all. He is worthy of our praise. And so I want to encourage you as we sing these hymns of praise to God. Let's really think about them. Let's think about the rich doctrinal truths that are being expressed in Psalm. Let's Sing together as one choir, and let's be encouraged in the Lord as we do that. Let's bow for prayer and just ask the Lord to bless this time and to strengthen us as we are gathered together to worship. Father, we are so grateful that as we bring our request into your presence, we are worshiping a God who is all powerful. A God who is glorious, a God who is majestic, a God who rules and reigns over all, a God who gives and takes, a God who lifts up and he puts down. A God who, the scriptures say, the heart of the king is in your hands. And as the rivers of water, you turn it whithersoever you will. And so I pray that this morning, as we sing praise to you, we would remind ourselves of your greatness and your power and your majesty, the fact that you're an unchanging God. The fact that you are good and you are kind and you are gracious and you look down on us with compassion and love. And as your people, we are forgiven and we are cleansed, we are righteous in Christ, we are saints. Not because of anything good we've done, but entirely because of what you've done for us. We thank you for the cross, we thank you for the empty tomb. We thank you for the new life that we have in Jesus. And so as we turn our attention to these truths from your word, I pray that you would uplift our souls. Father, as we focus our attention on the death and the resurrection of Christ, his body broken, his blood shed at the end of the service. I pray that all of the things that are said All the things that we express in song, all the things that we read, all the things that we reflect on, all the things that we hear preached, would drive home the point that we are a forgiven people. who are beloved in the Lord, we are saints because of the redemptive work of Christ. May you lift up those who are downcast. May we be strengthened today, and I pray for your rich blessing on this time today. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning, Acre Baptist Church, and esteemed guests. Thank you for joining us in person and also those online We uh had a nice morning this brisk. So welcome to fall, but don't get too used to it because we're going to go back up to little elevated temperatures later in the week. So pray for some rain though. We need some water. So stand with me as we start our song service. We're going to go to page 12. As Pastor said, all hail the power of Jesus' name. All four verses. Sing out. Amen. Now we'll turn to page 25. Page 25. Praise the Lord who reigns Rangabit Martin Moh. Amen. Please be seated while you turn to page 14. Page 14, worthy of praise. See if we can use this. My heart overclosed. With praise to the Lord. Amen. That's good singing. Amen. Now for scripture reading, we'll go back to Psalm 42. Pastor Josh started This off. We go back to Psalm 42 and pick up in verse 6 through the end of the chapter. Verses 6 through 11. And the scriptures say, Oh my God, my soul is Cast down within me. Therefore will I remember thee from the land of Jordan and of the Hermonites from the hill of Misa. Deep called thee Under deep at the noise of thy waterspells. All thy ways and thy billows are not over me. Yet the Lord will command his loving kindness In the daytime, and in the night his song shall be with me, and my prayers unto the God of my life. I will stand to God my rock. Why hast thou forgotten me? Why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? As with a sword in my bones, mine enemies reproach me. While they I say daily unto me, Where is thy God? Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God God, for I shall yet praise him, who is the help of my countenance and my God. May the Lord add his reading blessing to the read. Uh , So then it's okay. So rather than the first time. A man, count your many blessings. Okay For a continuation of our music here. We're going to turn to page eight. Page eight. Glorious is thy name, O Lord. Need to stand, please, at the in betwe at the end of the third verse, third chorus Please do our meet and greet. Say hi to somebody you don't know or you haven't met before. Sing out there. Yeah, but so anyway, the uh What is the age of the people that you just make software and return to math in the middle of the code? Again if they're ready to work in one second. Amen. Now we're gonna need our blue books. Remain standing for me for our blue book. Page one hundred and fifty one. Page one hundred and fifty-one. We're gonna sing that second verse, a cappella. So I'd ask the uh instruments to bow out on the second verse and come back in on the third. I run to Christ which makes my bear and final. Our children who are junior church aged can be dismissed to the back with some help from parents. The rest of you would like to ask you to open up your Bibles and let's turn to the book of Psalms. We are in Psalm 42 this morning. And uh we have been in missions month the last uh four or five weeks, and so we have taken a pause from what is our typical uh Sunday practice of working through the book of Luke during most of the weeks and then on the first Sunday of the month we pause and we look at one of the Psalms. And so we have been in the Psalms for quite a while. We're in Psalm 42. And I think that we've looked at about 54, 55 total sermons as we are working our way through the book of the Psalms. And the passage that we're reading this morning, I think, is going to be an extremely encouraging and helpful passage of Scripture. And it is incredibly helpful as we think about preparing our hearts. to partake together as a body in remembering the blood of Christ that was shed for our sins and his body that was broken as he was nailed to that cross. I'm going to read the psalm and then I'd like us to pause, take some time to pray and ask the Lord to really help our thoughts to be focused on Him. I also wanted to mention that Today is a special day. It's a day that we as a church should consider remembering those around the world who are in parts of the world that are persecuted. And so today is a day that I'd like us as a congregation to remember those churches that are meeting all over the world today, some in secret, some in places doubt. uh are very dangerous places that if we were to send a missionary they would uh they would be deported immediately, they would be potentially killed, um they could endanger those who they are trying to work with, parts of the world that are very unsettled. And then I also want to just say a word of prayer for our nation, as obviously Tuesday is going to be a day that people are going to the polls. I believe Half of those who are going to vote have already done that. I'm one of them. But I want us to just pause and ask the Lord to really have mercy on our land And I want to encourage you, if you are in the congregation saying you've not yet voted, I want to encourage you to do that. especially when you think about some of the amendments that are on the ballot here in Maryland. It's important that you know what is being pushed in our state. I know we have a very liberal and progressive state, uh but we as Christians need to uh stand on the side of life and I could say nature if you want to uh be that blunt about it. So really want to encourage you um to do that. And then tonight I'm actually going to be preaching a topical message which I don't typically do. But it's going to be on our civic duty as Christians. And I want to talk about what our objective duties are as Christians living in a country like ours. And I want to talk about how we go about doing that biblically. And then I'd like to exhort you to do that. So let's go ahead and bow together for prayer. Ask the Lord to bless this time in his word. Be with those churches all around the world today that are in difficult places. and to pray for our nation. Father, I pray that you'd help us as we open up your word this morning to have hearts that are attentive to truth. Help me as I work my way through this passage to do it in a way that is very simple and helpful to every person here. I pray that you would be with those who are downcast and discouraged. That this passage of Scripture would give them a nourishment for their soul, and that it would strengthen them, and that it would encourage them, and that the Holy Spirit would come alongside the Word of God and press it upon their hearts in a way that will feed and strengthen and uplift their souls. And Father, I pray that those who are in a good place, their heart is calm and at rest. I pray that the Word of God would minister to them compassion toward those who may be very unsettled today. As they're here in this place or gathering on the live stream, I pray that you would use the word to instruct us, and may we truly worship you during this portion of our service, and may it prepare our hearts for the Lord's table. And then Father, we think about churches all over the world today. Some have already assembled, some are assembling right now, and some will assemble later today. As they gather together, especially those who are in places that are very difficult, places where there is religious persecution. Places where pastors are endangered, believers who are trying to raise their families according to the dictates of Scripture and conscience are suffering, people who have lost jobs. People who have been beaten and imprisoned, people who have had family members or brothers and sisters in Christ who have lost their lives. Father, help us not to forget that all over the world today people have assembled. And some have not assembled like we have. They do not have the liberties. They have assembled in secret And you have met with them and you have worked in them and through them and they have worshipped you, but they have very difficult circumstances that they live in day after day after day. We pray that you will strengthen especially those who lead those kinds of congregations, protect them, strengthen them, encourage them. And Father, we want to commit to you our nation. Father, we believe, as the scriptures say, that righteousness exalteth a nation and sin is a reproach to any people. And we're reminded that when the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice, and when the wicked rule, the people more. And Father, we recognize that our nation has a critical election going on this week. And I pray that Christians all over this nation Will think biblically about their duties, that they will be informed by biblical wisdom, that they will engage in this process responsibly. And that no one would sit on the sidelines, but in fact they would step in and do their civic duty of voting for the very best candidates that are available to them wherever they live in this nation. And that they would be well informed about the ballot measures in every state and every local election, and that they would, with a clear understanding of what is right and wrong, and a clear understanding of what is actually in front of them, they would do their civic duty very soberly. And Father, we commit into your hands the outcome of this election. We pray that you would have mercy on our land, and I pray that you would help us as Christians to recognize that no matter the outcome, we can live for you, and we will indeed need to do it. And Father, help us to recognize the importance of the gospel and the importance of healthy churches. For a nation is simply made up of individuals, and the culture is a reflection of the homes that are raising children. And it's a reflection of the worldviews of the people who vote and are in the government. And so help us to realize we are where we are, because as your people, we have not been as faithful as we ought to be. And so help us to think biblically about this and help us to trust you with the outcomes and help us to be faithful and help us to rejoice in how you will bring good out of all that we go through in the coming weeks. And we ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Psalm 42. Here's what the scriptures say. As the heart, that's a deer, panteth after the water brook, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? My tears have been my meat day and night. While they continually say unto me, Where is thy God? When I remember these things, I pour out my soul in me. For I had gone with the multitude. I went with them to the house of God with the voice of joy and praise with a multitude that kept holy day. Why art thou cast down on my soul? Why art thou disquieted in me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him for the help of his countenance O my God, my soul is cast down within me. Therefore I remember thee from the land of Jordan and of the Hermonites from the hill Mizar Deep calleth unto deep at the noise of thy water spouse. All thy waves and thy billows are gone over me. Yet the Lord will command his loving kindness in the daytime. In the night his song shall be with me, and my prayer unto the God of my life. I will say unto God, my rock, Why hast thou forgotten me? Why do I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? As with a sword in my bones, my enemies reproach me. While they say daily unto me, Where is thy God? Why art thou cast down on my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him who is the health of my countenance and my God. Psalm 42 is a fascinating psalm. In fact, I'm going to say a little bit more about the background, but I want to kind of give you a summary just so you can kind of understand the big picture of what we're talking about. And really where this is driving, which ultimately will prepare our hearts to partake together of the Lord's table. As we remember the body of Christ broken and the blood of Christ shed, so that we could be redeemed to God. Forgiven, cleansed, declared righteous in Him. I'd summarize the Psalm the following way: wherever, whenever we are distressed, We must seek strength in our Christian community, investigate the root of our distress, speak stabilizing truths to ourselves And purpose to praise him. That is what the psalm is all about. When distress comes, we seek strength. In the Christian community. We could say the church, this is Old Testament saints, so they weren't assembling in a church, but we are today. We're to investigate the root, what is the ultimate cause, not the symptoms, but what's at the source of what's going on in our souls. Speak truth to ourselves. Purpose to praise him. As we read this text, we're going to see that God's desire for us is that we would hope in Him when we're downcast. And the fact is, everybody in this room, if you are not in this place now , There will be a day that you find yourself in such a place. There'll be days, there'll be weeks, there'll be seasons where we find ourselves in a place where our soul is cast down and we are discouraged and disquieted. Cast down means that I feel I'm so worn down I can't even lift my head up and I can't even function the way that I know that I need to function. I am weary mentally, I am weary emotionally, I am weary physically, I can barely lift myself up. Cast down Disquieted means that there's all this internal turmoil in my heart. My mind is racing this way and it's racing that way, and I can't seem to focus and I can't seem to To be in a space where there's stability in my soul. I'm troubled inside. You might say that's me right now. Nobody knows it, but I do. I have good news for you. The Word of God has help for you. And I want to say this in introduction. We are living through what many are calling a mental health crisis. And I think that a lot of Christians living in the 21st century think that like this is an unusual thing. Like there's never been a generation that was concerned about what's going on between people's two ears, what's going on in their innermost soul. They are they they think this is a new idea. But in fact it is not. Every generation of people From the fall to the time that we're living today has struggled internally with noise and discouragement and deep weariness of soul because it's a part of the human condition. In fact, it's interesting, according to a recent survey that I was looking at, over 50% of people that are working in the United States believe that they're burned out. You're like, oh, I guess I could have said that myself. You might say, I don't think I would say that, but well, I kind of wonder if I'm getting close to that You realize it's over 80 million Americans? That's a lot of people. That's uh 160 Baltimore cities To put it into perspective. That's 160 Anterundal counties. Every single person in the entire county would say, I'm burned out. Amongst those who are in management-oriented roles, the numbers are even higher. Not a new phenomenon, not a new concern for the Church of God. In fact, it's kind of interesting. I went through my library and I was looking at a couple of books that I have that address this particular topic. For instance, there's a book that was written by a man named Richard Sibbs in 1630 called The Bruised Reed. Very interesting book. It talks about how God ministers to the downcast, to the weary, to the broken, to the hurting, to the lonely, to those who are anxious, those who are disquieted in their hearts. In 1649, a man named William Bridge preached 13 sermons on Psalm 42, 11. Imagine that. 13 sermons on just one of the verses in the text in front of us. And he wrote a book called A Lifting Up of the Downcast. In 1674 and 1682, John Flavell wrote Facing Grief and Preparing for Suffering. In 1721, John Owen wrote several practical cases of conscience resolved. In 1879, Charles Hatton Spurgeon preached encouragement for the depressed. And then there was a series of sermons that were preached in 1954 by Martin Lloyd Jones, who was not just a pastor, but he was also a medical doctor. About spiritual depression, its causes and its cures. He preached 24 sermons in his church after World War II, and then in 1965 it became a book, a very popular book, one of the most popular books that he wrote. As a reason that I did that, to tell you that here are people living in the 1600s, the 1700s, the 1800s, After World War II. These are people who wrote and who preached and spent extensive periods of time addressing the topic that's right in front of us. And here, David, or whoever wrote this, we actually don't know, it's for the sons of Korah. Whoever wrote this psalm was addressing the exact same topic thousands of years ago. Why is this topic so important? It's because it's so personal. It's because it's very painful. It's because it's very common. Psalm 42 is a psalm we need this morning. So the first thing I want to do this morning is I want to talk to you about the structure of the Psalm, which It it almost seems like it doesn't matter, but it actually really does. There's some really interesting things I want to talk about before we dig into some of the details of this psalm. Psalm 42 is the first Psalm and the second of five books of the Psalms. So uh in my Bible I have Book 2, Psalm 42 through Psalm 72. And by the way, that is correct. There are five books of Psalms within the Psalms. And what's interesting about it is that each of those books in the traditional rabbinical viewpoint was oriented towards one of the books of the Pentateuch. So the first several books were are a Psalms Psalm 1 through Psalm 41 was a reflection of Genesis, and this one would have been a reflection of Exodus. I think it's kind of interesting to think about. The reason that they believed that is because of how the book opens and how it closes. In Psalm 42, 1 and 2, here's what it says. As the heart panteth after the water brook, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God, when shall I come and appear before God? Now, does that sound like a person who's in a great position or a difficult position? Very difficult position. I am thirsty, I'm longing, I feel as if God is distant. But then as we move to the last of this section of this book of Psalms, in Psalm 72, he closes the book this way. Blessed be the Lord God, the God of Israel who only doeth wondrous things, and blessed be this glorious name. Forever and ever, let the whole earth be filled with his glory. Amen and amen. The prayer of David, the son of Jesse, was ended, is ended. Now what do you see between those two pieces? You see discouragement and weariness and brokenness, and then you see triumph, and that's exactly what you see in the book of Exodus. You see this group of people who for hundreds of years have been in bondage in Egypt, and God with a mighty hand, He draws them out of the land of Egypt and he makes them his people and he's going to work through them and bless them. And what's interesting about that is that this is where the story starts. Another interesting detail is that Psalm 42 and Psalm 43 actually traditionally were read together. In fact, some even think that they're one psalm. And the reason for that is because we see a statement that is made three times in Psalm 42 and in Psalm 43. Here's what it says. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? Hope in God. I shall yet praise him who is the health of my countenance and my God. Now that statement is what we're going to focus pretty much the rest of our time on. Because that is the heart and the soul of Psalm 42 and Psalm 43. This statement is something that we need to understand. And so the second thing I want us to do this morning is I want us to take a moment to look at the content of the psalm in front of us. There are several causes for this downcast, discouraged, depressed troubled state within the heart. And there's also a way to care for our souls when we find ourselves in such a place. If you find yourself in such a place, this is how you need to respond in the circumstances that you are dealing with. If you have a friend, if you have a neighbor, if you have a child, if you have a parent, if you have a spouse, if you have someone that you have the opportunity to actually encourage and help them when they are in such a state This is how we are to deal with such a state. So, the first thing I want you to notice Is that there are several causes that are mentioned in the passage. Now, these are not the only causes. If we were to sit down and pull out a chalkboard And say, okay, give me some reasons that people find themselves in this place. I think if we sat here long enough, we could just have list after list after list of types of things that cause people to be disquieted in their hearts. But if we were to step aside and we were to look at all of those individual things, we could probably categorize them into several areas that would help us to make sense of, well, here's about ten different ways to look at one basic problem. But let me hit a couple of them that we find in the text. The first one is found in verse number two. He says, My soul thirsteth For God. For the living God, when shall I come and appear before God? You say, what is the psalmist expressing when he says, My soul thirsts for God when I come to appear before Him? Another way to put this is that the psalmist is saying, I feel in my heart that God is distant. He's not near, he's not close. Has anybody here ever felt like that? You open up your Bible and you read the words and you close the book and you don't remember one thing you read. You get on your knees to pray, and your mind is blank, or it's not blank, it goes into places you don't want it to go. You pray, you make a list, and you cry out to God, and then you walk away, and you say, I feel like he didn't hear any of that If a person is experiencing this, the first thing I would say is your feelings are not reality. Just because you feel this doesn't mean that this is actually the way that God relates to you. I may feel like God is far off, but if I'm a Christian, the Holy Spirit indwells me. When I come to this place and I hear the preaching and teaching of God's word, I may have really struggled to come to this location But I'm here, and what does God do? He's working in our midst, even if maybe I don't feel like it at the time. You can't trust your feelings, folks. You can't ignore them. They're there. They're real. But they do not determine the reality of how God is dealing with you or how God views you or how you should view him. The second thing that he mentions is kind of interesting in verses 3 and 10, and it's a little bit hard to know exactly what he's referring to. You'll see this in just a minute. He says in verse 3, he says, My tears have been my meat day and night. Well they continually say unto me, where is thy God? The question is, who is they? The answer is I don't know. We don't know if this is individuals who are Throwing accusations at him and saying, God isn't listening to you, God doesn't care about you. Look at your circumstances. God has abandoned you. Maybe that's what he's talking about, but maybe that's not what he's talking about. Maybe he's talking about intrusive thoughts in our own head. Nobody put that thought in our head, but it's there. And we say, I cry day and night. Where is God? Or he says later in verse 10, he says, out with a sword in my bones mine enemies reproach me while they say daily unto me, Where is thy God? So these are intrusive thoughts that cause us to think that God is aloof , that God is an enemy, that God is against us. Or that God doesn't care about us. And these thoughts could come from something a person says, from circumstances, but those thoughts stick down in our soul and they begin to become very dominant in our thinking. Anybody ever been there? I have. I've had times where I wondered if God cared about me, if God loves me, if God was really being good. If there was something going on in my life that there was some secret sin, I was totally unaware of it. And God's like, He's pounding that thing at me, and I don't even know it's there. And I have this stuff going on in my head You say, well, that's a little debilitating. Tell me about it. Yeah, it is. But we can find ourselves there. A third example, verse 4. He says, when I remember these things, I tore out my soul in me, for I had, notice that word, had Gone with a multitude, I went with them to the house of God and the voice of joy and praise with a multitude that kept holy days. Notice the word had. It's in the past tense. This is not what he's doing, it's what he did. And so he's beginning to feel this loneliness inside because of the changing seasons that he was experiencing. Anybody ever uh sent your kid off to college? And you got in the car after you left the airport or you got back in the car after your son or daughter walked off to their dorm room and you just go I feel like I'm being choked inside. Or maybe you go and you see somebody that you know they're probably gonna die very soon. And you're sitting down with them and you're realizing I I don't have too many more opportunities. And then it happens And then you're at their funeral and then you're laying flowers on a casket and you go, I don't even know how to make sense of life right now because I've I can't even remember what life was out without this. person. And so that change of season just torments us. That's the kind of stuff he's talking about. Or verse number 7, he says, Deep calleth unto deep, at the noise of thy water spouse, all the waves, and thy billows are gone over me. Now this is kind of an interesting statement. And to appreciate what he's saying, you actually need to know where the psalmist is when he writes this. Now, if you dig down into the psalm, he talks about a group of people, the Hermonites Not the hermits, but the Hermonites. You say, well, who are those people? We don't really know, but we know where Mount Hermon is. And he talks about a hill. And he talks about a region. And what's interesting is more than likely what the psalmist is talking about is a location that would have been at the northern part of Israel, what we would say is, this is the source of the Jordan River. And you say, well, what's the source of the Jordan River like? Probably a very lush and beautiful place. Why? Because as snow is melting in the mountains and in the high countries, It's starting to soak down into the ground and it's flowing into streams and rivers. And so here is the psalmist. He's sitting in an area and he's watching these these water spouts flowing around him. It's like he's sitting there in this beautiful location. And instead of him being rested and calm and he's looking and go, I just love nature. It's so pretty. You know where his mind goes? I feel so lonely. I feel so by myself. That water that's just flowing through this stream, I feel like it's flowing over me. And it's like a picture of my wife. I'm overwhelmed. I'm tormented by the things that come over and over and over and over at me. And I can't handle it. I can't handle it. It's like his mind is just not able to focus on what is true and right and good. You say, what a dark psalm. That's life sometimes. Terrible circumstances that constantly bombard and overwhelm us. Next, in verse number 9, he makes the following statement. Why hast thou forgotten me? Why do I mourning because of the oppression of my enemies? What's he saying there? Well, he sees the reluctance of God to act, and in his mind he wonders, is God caring about me? God, I would have thought you would have taken action quicker. I would have thought you would have intervened in the situation differently than you did, and you didn't, and I don't know how to make sense of this. And then in Psalm 43, verse 1, he says, Plead my cause against an ungodly nation. Whew, that's a good one today, huh? Deliver me from the deceitful and unjust man. That might be a good prayer for you on Tuesday. Plead my cause against an ungodly nation. Deliver me from the deceitful and unjust man. Or woman. We'll put them both in there, why not? What's the point? The point is that we can find ourselves in places like this. And there's lots of reasons that we end up here. So the question is, well, how do you respond in such a situation? Well, there's a difference between how you respond and how you said respond. The truth is that usually what we do is we just kind of we fall into this state of sadness And this state where we feel like there's no out, there's no hope, there's no way to find strength and to move forward. And we we get deeper into such a state. But this passage of scripture tells us how to respond in such a situation. So, first thing I want you to notice. Is that we are, and we're gonna we're gonna look at Psalm 42, 11 here, but we could have looked at verse 5, we could have looked at verse 11, and we could have gone to Psalm 43, verse 5. We could have looked at any of these three passages. Statements they're saying the exact same thing, with one exception, which I'll draw your attention to in a minute. A significant difference. The first thing I want you to notice is this: we must draw on the strength of other believers. Now I know that the most natural thing for us to do when we find ourselves in such a place is I don't want to see anybody. I don't want to talk to anybody. I want to be by myself. I want to be all alone. I want to just commiserate in my own misery. But that is the absolute wrong thing to do. That is not the way that we as God's people should respond. And you're going to see this when you look at verses 5, 11, and 43, verse 5. Notice what he says at the end of these statements. He says in 42. 5 , I shall yet praise him for the help of whose countenance? Did you hear that? Let's try it again. I shall yet praise him for the help of whose countenance? His countenance. Who's that? It's not the psalmist. Now I want you to look down at 42. 11. I shall yet praise him for the help of whose countenance? My countenance. Then I want you to go to Psalm 43 verse 4. I shall yet praise him for the help of his countenance. Oh, that was weak. I see you have praise him for the help of his countenance. My countenance. Now, everything in those three verses is the same, save one word. His countenance versus my countenance. You say, who cares? Actually, it's a really important detail Because the very first time that the psalmist talks about his condition and he says the things that he says, I will yet praise him who is the help of his countenance. He can't even personalize it. That's significant. In other words, the reason he can say it is not because it's in his heart, it's because he is around other people who can say it themselves. That's why Christian community is so important. That's why you need Christian friends. That's why you need a healthy church that preaches the Word of God week in and week out. That's why you need the fellowship of other Christians. That is why we need each other. We need each other because the bottom line is there are times that all of us come to the place where we can't say my countenance, we can only say his countenance, but if we're not with him. We won't say it. One of the first things we do is we withdraw from the right people. I think sometimes we go to the wrong people too. But we withdraw from the wrong people. The second thing I want to draw your attention to in 4211 is we've got to ask questions that get to the root of the problem. And this is the way that we often, and I'm going to put myself, I'm going to personalize this. This is how I tend to deal with these things. If I am discouraged and I am weary and I am downcast, I want to feel better. Does that make sense? I want to feel better. I don't want to feel bad. I don't want to feel miserable. I don't want to be negative. So it's like, what can you give me to make me feel better? Tell me a joke, let me go and interact with some people so I can take my mind off of what's going on, find something that I can do to veg so I go fishing, right? You know? The funny thing is, you know how I got into gardening? Believe it or not, it was dealing with stress. It's true. That's why I started gardening when I was a missionary. Because it gave me this outlet. It gave me this place where I could just kind of like Step away from everything going on and just kind of focus on plants growing or dying, you know, one of those things, right? Kind of a diversion. But the fact is that rather than dealing with symptoms, we've got to get to the source We've got to ask why? Why am I struggling? And you know, there might be a lot of different things that could come out. I mean, one could be I don't take care of my body, I don't get enough sleep. I don't rest from my labors. I have disobeyed God by not having a pattern of six days of work and a day of rest. Six days of work and a day of rest. Six days of work and a day of rest. So that I step away from the labors and the burdens of life and I just focus on God. It could be that simple. Might not be, but it could be that simple. It could be something about certain things that I've begun to embrace that are just not true. It could be that I'm getting my eyes on a circumstance. It's a complicated question. The fact is that I'm not going to sit here and tell you, oh, here's the reason right here. No, you've got to sit down and ask the question, not how do I get rid of all the feelings that I have and all the hurts that I have and the negative behaviors that I have, but what is the cause of those things? What is that the source? And so what does he say? He says, Why art thou cast down on my soul? He didn't say, How can I feel better? He said, Why? Why? Why? A lot of people don't want to ask why. And you know why they don't want to ask why? Because they don't want an answer that will cause them to have to change the behavior. They don't want an answer that's going to force them to have to actually do some real foundational work into how they live their lives and how they approach the life that God has given them. It's fear. It's distrust. Not saying that's the only reason, but it's it's a reason. Why art thou disquieted? Why art thou cast down? He wants to get the answer in the source. And so we move to a third thing. Speak stabilizing God-centered truths to yourself. The third thing that he says is he says, hope thou in God. Now, the word hope in the Bible is not like Boy, I'm just gonna roll a dice and see what happens. I really hope it lands well. That's not what we're talking about. We're not talking about random chance. The word hope in the Bible is God said something And I believe that it's true, and my level of confidence is rooted in how closely I am to believing that it's true. That word hope is a confidence, an assurance that is rooted in something about God. In fact, interestingly, if you go back into this passage of scripture. He he makes a lot of statements about the Lord there. Why is that? Because he focuses his attention on who God is and what God does and what God has done and how God is working So all of these thoughts are are are pointed back to God. Who is he? What did he say? What has he done? What is he doing? What has he promised? Hope in God takes eyes off of circumstances and all of the unstabling things that are going on in our lives, which they will be there. And it's turning our eyes off of that stuff and turning our eyes onto the rock, the unchanging one, the one who is the same yesterday, today, and forever. The one who has promised and it is done. The one who is good and righteous and just. The one who has saved us. Speak stabilizing God-centered truths to yourselves. Interestingly, he says, hope in God. He's talking to himself. Anybody ever talk to themselves? All the time, right? Taking a shower and somebody can be standing outside that door going, who is dad talking to? He's talking to himself. Why is he doing that? Because he's in his own little world. Alright? We find ourselves there. There's nothing wrong with talking to yourself. The question is, what are you saying? In fact, the smartest thing you could do, the wisest thing, the most godly thing you could do is talk to yourself. Control the conversation. How do you do that? You've got to be in the Word of God, you've got to be in the scriptures. You've got to speak stabilizing God-centered truths yourselves. The last thing I'm going to mention is this. He says, I shall yet praise him, purpose to praise God. Interestingly, he says that he is the help of my countenance. Here's what God does when life is so uncertain, and it is And our emotions are overwhelmed, and they will be. And our thoughts are racing here and there. And let's just be frank, they're irrational, okay? They're not consistent with reality. They're all over the place. It's out of control. What does he say? He says, go and get around stable, godly people. And let them encourage you. Come to church. Sing the hymns. Listen to the word of God. Interact with godly people who are going to bring strength and encouragement and help to you. Number two, ask the question. What's at the root? Get down to not, I want to deal with all the symptoms, deal with the source. You deal with something at the root. It's funny how it takes care of itself. Next, speak the truth to yourself. Talk to yourself. Control the conversation with truth. Purpose to praise him. As you direct your your your your gaze to God and you thank him for what he's done, he uplifts the downcast. Hippolys, it's not a formula, folks. It's how we are to work through the issues of life. And I want to add this as well. You will notice. Three times he does this. Why is that? Because it's not like you take a pill and it's done. You're ending up in this place over and over and over again. You say, I don't want it to be that way. I I I don't want it to be that way for anybody either. But that's the way it is. We live in a fallen world. We are fallen people. We've got to learn to work through these issues when they come. Final question is: how do you actually apply this set of truths? How do you put to practice what we've learned? Let me give you some final thoughts that I hope will help you as we prepare our hearts for the Lord's table. First truth is this: don't be surprised when these seasons come. The fact is that, especially depending on our temperaments, our circumstances, the seasons of life that we're in, we're going to encounter these things. If you're getting into that season of life where you're about to go through a transition of change, your kids are getting ready to leave the house, they're getting ready to go to school. Now you have children you didn't. You're going through changes in life because of your age. Guess what? Prepare yourself. Those seasonal changes will affect you. You shouldn't be surprised. You need to be prepared. Second, realize there's not a cure for these seasons. It's kind of like this. Anybody ever gotten a cold in here? Okay. Hopefully not right now. Anybody ever had a cold right here? Of course. Do you always have a cold? No. When you get a cold and it's gone, does it stay gone for a while? If you don't have children, yes. After not little, yes, right? So you just get a new strand of that, as we learn sometimes in our households, right? But you know what? You get through it. You get strong again, you get healthy again, and guess what A couple months later, it's gonna happen again. And guess what? Gotta take care of yourself when you get there. And this is the way life is. There's not a cure for the cold. You care for the cold, and then you get healthy and you get strong, and then It's going to happen again. You know, every October, November, December, January. I mean, this place gets a little bit crazy because people get sick. That's the way it goes. But that's the way life is. And so you want to care well when you find yourself in such a place. Three, learn to work through seasons of darkness, depression, discouragement, disquietitude in a healthy way. Be circumspect and know your temperament. If you are naturally inclined to introspective thinking, you need to be around people that help stabilize you You say, well, does that mean I'm weak? No, that's your personality. There's nothing wrong with that. Some people are wired that way and some people aren't. That's just the way God made us. But that means that we have an inclination sometimes to find ourselves in these places. Get around people that can help lift you up and strengthen you when you need that. Choose your influences very carefully. Don't get around people that don't have a biblical worldview and get their opinion about these things. They 'll help you. Do not withdraw from godly people when you're in these places. Get to the root of your downcast state. Ask the question, what is the cause? Maybe you need to ask somebody who has wisdom, who loves you, who's going to tell you the truth, and work through it with them. Work through it carefully. Speak stabilizing truths to yourselves, determine to praise God for what you have reminded yourself about Him. Remember that He is the health of your countenance. I'd also say arm yourself with the whole armor of God. If you want to get an explanation of all this, I would encourage you to look at our AVI class that we did this last week and the week before. We talked about the spiritual armor. Having our loins gird about with truth, putting on the breastplate of righteousness, having our feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace, the shield of faith. That's a really interesting one. That shield wasn't like something you hold in your hand like this. It was like the size of a door, like one of those doors. And they would link those shields together and they would move as a unit. And so one of the reasons that the shields were effective is because they weren't by themselves carrying this door. They were holding it together as a unit, moving in unison. Great picture of the importance of other Christians around us. Shield of faith. Helmet of salvation, focusing on our future inheritance and God's promises. Such a great thing to remember, the sword of the Spirit. Arm yourself with the Christian armor. Go back and listen to what we said. I think I spent like an hour and a half talking about it, so I'm not going to get into it today, but I'd encourage you, go through it, and you will see how helpful it is. And how there's so much similarity between what is stated in Psalm 42, hope in God, Ephesians 6, 14 to 17, put on the whole armor of God, and they're all rooted back in the promises of God. Hope in God, He alone is your help when you're a downcast. I'm sure that somebody today needed this. I I take that back. I knew all of us needed this. All of us needed this. Let's ask God to help us to really digest His word. And as we prepare to take the Lord's table and remember what He's done for us, May this text help us to remember with great joy. Let's pray. Father, as we prepare our hearts to partake of the table Reminding ourselves of the body broken and the bloodshed, so that we could be redeemed. May this remembrance of the death of Christ and what we have as your people, may this remembrance be us hoping in God. Who we will praise, who is the help of our countenance. And may we leave this morning from this place. With hearts that have been uplifted because we are reminded of what Jesus has done for us, who we are in Him, and what we have because of Him. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.