You please take your Bibles and turn with me to the book of the Psalms. And we are looking at the 55th Psalm this morning together. And um, if you are joining us for the first time today, As a visitor, you may not know this, but on the fur are on the first Sunday of every month, what we do is we work our way through the Psalms. And so you can see that we've been doing this for several years, being in Psalm 55 We actually started this, I think, in 2019, if I remember right. But one of the things I love about going through the Psalms And also one of the things that really stretches me as one who asks to lay in front of you a text of scripture like this one this morning is that the Psalms are filled with some of the most rich. Yet also some of the darkest themes you can ever encounter in life. This psalm is both. In fact, when we look at this psalm, this psalm is called a lament psalm. I'm going to talk uh in just a few minutes about what that means, but Before we do that, I'd like you to look down in your Bible at verse number nine, and we're going to work our way through to verse 23 and see what the text says. And you will notice Some heavy themes, but also some rich themes. Here's what it says. Destroy O Lord and divide their tongues. That sounds pretty dark. I have seen violence and strife in the city. Day and night they go about it, upon the walls thereof. Mischief also and sorrow are in the midst of it. Wickedness is in the midst thereof, deceit and guile depart not from her streets. It's very dark For it was not an enemy that reproached me, then I could have borne it. Neither was it he that hated me, that did magnify himself against me, then I would not have hidden myself from him. But it was thou, a man, my equal My guide, mine acquaintance. We took sweet counsel together and walked into the house of God in company. Let death seize upon them. Let them go down quick into hell, for darkness is in their dwellings and among them. As for me, I call upon God, and the Lord shall save me. Evening and morning and at noon will I pray and cry aloud, and he shall hear my voice. By the way. I think that passage right there is the one everybody would want to preach on if they were going through Psalm 55 and they're like, oh let me find a verse that I'm going to preach on. I'll cry out to God in the morning, in the evening, in the middle of the day We understand where that sits in a very, very important text. It says, he has delivered my soul in peace from the battle That was against me, for there were many with me. God shall hear and afflict them, even he that abideth of old. Selah. Because they have no changes, therefore they fear not God. He has put forth his hand against such as be at peace with him. He hath broken his covenants. The words of his mouth were smoother than butter, but a war was in his heart, his words were softer than oil, yet they were drawn swords. Cast thy burden upon the Lord. He shall sustain thee. He shall never suffer the righteous to be moved. But thou, O God, shalt bring them down into the pit of destruction. Bloody and deceitful men shall not live out half their days. But I will trust in thee. Let's ask God to speak to our hearts from this psalm this morning. Our Father, as we have just read, I pray that you would help us to understand. These words in front of us. Help us not to rip these verses out of context and ignore what is going on, but help us to understand the weight and the gravity. And how personally challenging these circumstances would have been for David as he crafted these words. And then I pray that as we look at this passage, you would open our understanding. to what there is for us to take out this morning and apply even as we sit here in our seats, even as folks are sitting at home and watching on a live stream. Or maybe someone will listen to this in a car tomorrow tomorrow as they drive to work. Whatever the setting, whatever's going on in lives, may you take the word and use it. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen. The challenge this morning is very simple. Cast your burden on your unchanging God. Cast your burden on your unchanging God. And I want to talk to you for just a minute before we look at the actual content of these verses, at what kind of a psalm is in front of us. Psalm Psalm 55 is one of what we would call the lament psalms in Scripture. In fact, if we look at Psalm 52, which we've already looked at earlier, uh several months ago, Psalm 54. All three of these are lament Psalms. And when we look at Lament Psalms, we'll see that there are some very distinct elements that are a part of these Psalms. The first element is that these are always directed to God, and that's important. We'll talk about why that matters in a few minutes. Also, these verses are always passionate And they are filled with deep emotion. And they aren't complaints. They are people pouring out their heart to God and they're saying, God, look at my circumstances. Look at what's going on in my life. Look at what is going on in my heart. And it is a very, very transparent and passionate complaint. There is always petition to God. That is rooted in the complaint. And there are reasons that are given for why God should move as the one who is lamenting is pleading with God to do it. But there's a very important element that I hope you never miss. By the end of the psalm, there is a resolution on the part of the person who is lamenting how they are to think about their circumstances. How they are to think about their God, there is always resolution. Now, it doesn't always work in a perfect flow, but Sometimes it does. Sometimes those exact elements are laid out piece by piece. Sometimes there is ebb and flow between those pieces. But I think it's important that we recognize that a lament is not an irrational venting session with God. It is someone who's overwhelmed. It's someone who's processing things and they're crying out to God, but there actually is an end, a resolution. There is a place where this person lands in their heart, but perhaps that won't be the end of this. There'll be another time where they find themselves in the same place. It's deliberate It's transparent. It's approaching God in a way that we all may find ourselves at some point in our lives needing to do. And what I think is interesting about these three Psalms, 52, 54, and 55, is that they're all laments, but there's a there's a there are varying levels to how personal these issues are. For instance, In Psalm 52, David is lamenting an enemy who had absolutely no fear of God in his heart. His name was Doak And Psalm fifty-four, it's a little more personal because he's talking about his countrymen who basically as David is running for his life and Saul wants to kill him, and David is hiding in a certain region, the people who are his own countrymen, they go to Saul and they say, David's hiding over there. You can get him and we'll help you. And so the betrayal is look, it's fairly personal there. But this one is way deeper. Psalm 55 is David pouring out his heart to God because somebody that he trusted, that he confided in. Someone that he saw as a peer, someone who he loved deeply, someone who he thought loved him, that person has betrayed him. And that person is inflicting deep pain on that individual's life. And not just David's. We're going to see this in a minute. It's a lot more than just David and those who were upset with him. But there are a lot of lives that are being very deeply wounded because of this person's injustice. The question is, how do we respond to such circumstances? This text will tell us. I'd summarize it like this. In our desperation, we must cast our burdens on the Lord and find stability in our eternal hope. By the end of our time together this morning, we're going to come to the Lord's table and we're going to remember the body of Christ which bore our sin. Christ who was punished in our place. His blood that was shed on the cross, and through the remission with the remission of sins, through the shedding of that blood. We're going to be reminded of that. And you know what? That's where our eternal hope is found in what we remember that Jesus has done for us. So when we land this song, we're going to land in a great place. We're going to land at the cross, what Jesus has done for us. So let's work our way through this text and hopefully find encouragement in a very difficult season of someone's life. So first of all, I want you to notice David's lament. And we find this in verses 1 through 8. First thing that I notice here is in verses 1 and 2, David is crying out to God. He says, Give ear, God. Hide not yourself from me. Attend unto me. Hear me. I mourn in my complaint and I make a noise. You know what I think is very interesting about this? I'm sure that David complained to other people, because we all do that in situations like this. But the scripture records him crying out to the only person who could actually do something about it. And that's God. David cried out to God. That's where the lament starts. Second thing we see is how deeply he felt what was going on. He talks about how overwhelmed he is. And in fact, the language that is used in these verses is extremely descriptive, as many of the Psalms are. So in verses 3 through 5 we see statements like this, because of the oppression of the wicked, David feels as if these circumstances and these injustices have taken him and they've just smothered him, and he feels like he can barely breathe. He says they cast iniquity upon me. He felt as if he had been trapped. When I was a teenager, I grew up on a bayou down in Florida. And I love to fish. And one of the things that I used to do in the summertime, getting into the end of the summer, is I would go out and I would catch shrimp. Because we would eat the shrimp, we would fish with the shrimp, and if you're going shrimping, you get this net and you take that net and you you You bite into it and you hold it like this and you sling a bunch over and you throw it and this net just opens wide up and whatever is under that net gets caught. You pull that thing in. In fact, I remember one time I caught a snapping turtle like one of these big boys right here. I was up on one of the rivers and uh had to destroy the net. The net actually was destroyed, so I lost it. But the idea is, David says, that's how I feel. I feel like somebody's taken this net and they've thrown it over me and I'm trapped. I can't get out He says, in wrath they hate me. He feels this deep boiling animosity, and he knows it's directed toward him. You ever had a person that you finally discovered they really they really had it out for you? And here you are, you're laying in bed and you can't sleep because you're like, they hate me so much. The things they've said to me, the things they've said about me, the things they've said behind my back, and that just burns on people I'm trapped. I'm smothered. They hate me. That's David. In fact, David expresses in this psalm that he feels like he can't escape. the emotional burden of this situation. Verses 4 to 6, he says, my heart is sore, pained within me. He's describing a crippling pain. Have you ever had a surgery and they gave you these meds and you're like, I'm not taking that med. And they're like, hey, when it when it's your time to take the med, you take it because by the time you realize you need to be too late. And you're like, I'm gonna be a tough guy here and I'm not gonna take the meds. And then all of a sudden you're in huge pain. And you take those meds and you're just like pleading with God for them to kick in as soon as possible. And that is the way that David feels. He's crippled by emotion. He's terrified of death and the way he might die. He says, the terrors of death are falling upon me. Fearfulness and trembling are come upon me. Can you imagine David? David was a warrior. This guy was strong This guy went out and he killed Goliath when he was a teenager. He knew what it was like to fight in battle. But David isn't a young man anymore. David is a man who is now quite a bit older than he was when he went out and fought Goliath. He's now probably in his late 50s, getting into his 60s. He's almost in the last decade of his life. He may be in the last decade of his life. David's worn out. He's not the same person, though he's the same person. And he's feeling the weight of these things. And he says, I feel like there's absolutely no hope for me. Horror has overwhelmed me. Have you ever felt this way? If you have, so did David. And what that tells us is that God put text like this in the Bible for you right now, or you right then. This was how he felt. All he wanted to do was run away and hide. Verses 6 through 8. I said, oh, that I had wings like a dove. For then would I fly away and be at rest, lo, then would I wander far off and remain in the wilderness. He's like I'm running away from a storm. But here's the thing that David's saying there. I want to do this, but I don't know that I can. You say, why is that? Well, he's the king. His job is to defend people. His job is to make sure that the defenseless are not wounded by someone who has an agenda to destroy. And so while David wants to run and he wants to hide, he has to function as a king. And that's a tough place to be in. It's shocking to see this man in such a pitiful state. The same man, when he was young, said this, 1 Samuel 17, 45, Thou comest to me with a sword. And with a spear and with a shield, but I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied. This day will the Lord deliver you into my hand, and I will smite thee That all the earth may know there is a God in Israel. Same guy. But a lot of years have passed. He's gone through a lot of wounds. And this is a different kind of battle because of how personal it is. You know, our emotions are a very powerful motivator. And by the way, emotion sometimes is a is a great motivator to get us to do things we need to do. Sometimes we see a situation and if we're just totally complacent about it and we're the ones that need to step in and actually do what is right, that emotion that says that's wrong and you start getting pushed by that, that's a good use. of that emotion. Emotions can also cripple us. We can be afraid of things that we frankly shouldn't be afraid of. We can allow emotion to drive our thinking in this direction and that direction, and all of a sudden the way that we think is completely disconnected from reality. From logic and how to appropriately address an issue. In that situation, emotion can be very detrimental And so emotion is transitory, it can be twisted, it can be misguided. David is driven by emotion in these verses. But I do want to make this note. His emotions were not based on nothing. They weren't baseless. What was going on was actually a big deal. And what David was experiencing was very heavy. And so David needed to respond to these things the right way. Second thing I want you to notice from these verses is the lamentable context that David found himself in. And we find this in verses 9 through 15. David is listing off the reasons that God should intervene on his behalf. And so if we look at these verses, we've got to ask the question: when exactly was David experiencing this? And you know, different commentators have uh presented potential scenarios, but there is one that seems to be the most likely of all of them. And that is what we read about in 2 Samuel verses 15 through 19. By the way. Out of all the events that are described in the life of David, this one is almost five solid chapters I mean, out of all the things that we could have talked about in David's life, five chapters dedicated to this issue. And the question is why? Because it was such an impactful moment in his life. And that was the rebellion of Absalom against David, where he steals the throne. He gets all the people turned against David, who had been a faithful king for many, by the way, not a sinless man. And there were reasons that David was hated by his son. And there were reasons that David was hated by Ahithophel. But it didn't change the fact that the way that these men were responding to David was evil. It was disruptive not just to them as individuals, but to an entire nation. People were going to die because of the decisions that were being made by Absalom. And Ahithophel is guiding Absalom with a vindictive desire to destroy David's life in the most humiliating way possible. And there's lots of plotting, lots of scheming, and people are going to shed their blood for who is going to keep control of the nation. This is not just a personal issue between two people. And by the way, when there are contentions between people, it is rarely just between two people. It's true. When there's a contention between a husband and wife, guess what? It's not just between them. They got kids. Their kids are being impacted. Or when you have people at work And you have two individuals, they're struggling with one another. Guess what? Everybody in the office and everybody that they're tiptoeing around the situation because it's affecting them. But this takes it to a whole nother level because you have a king and you have rulers and you have militaries and you have the right to be in charge, being in the balances in this particular situation And so that means that people are going to fight and people are going to die. David was the rightful king because God put him in that role. Absalom and Ahizaphel were not just fighting against David. They wanted to seize a throne that had not been given to them. It is God's nation, not their nation, not David's nation. God could remove David if he so chose. And by the way, when David's time was up, he had to pass it on to someone who God had appointed to be in that role as well. And so it's not just two people that are having an issue with David. There is a big-time issue between them and God. Their ambition The manipulation, their lust for revenge, all of these things were going to divide families in a nation. And by the way, they were gonna have to put it all back together at some point too. The question is, how did that work out Well, you went with David and you went with Absalom, and now we live in the same house, and now David's in charge. What are we going to do with these guys? And they have to somehow mend a nation. So this is a big time issue. A lot of people are going to die. This war is going to be vicious And it's all because Absalom and Ahithophel and the men who put in their lot with Absalom, they were consumed with greed and a lust for power. So David's request, in fact, is not just about himself. It's about the nation and how it's going to affect all the people that are there. Notice what he says. Two requests. Confuse their coordination like you confounded the rebellion at Babel. He says, destroy and divide their tongues. You know what happened at the Tower of Babel? Very simple. God tells the people you need to go and spread out throughout the whole world. And they said, forget it. We're going to build a city. We're going to establish a civilization. We're going to make ourselves strong like God. We don't care what you have to say. And so what does God do? He goes down and he confounds the languages so that they can't coordinate anymore and they spread out because that's what God told them to do. That is what David is saying. Do this, God. Take the plotting and the coordination between these individuals and confound it and confuse it. so that they're not able to stay in a strong position and disrupt the nation and justice and peace can be properly restored. That's really what he's saying. He says, let thest seize upon them and let them go down quick into hell. Whew, that one's strong. This is what he's saying. Make an example of these rebels just like you did of Korah. Who led a rebellion against Moses. By the way, let me say something about this. There are people in authority who will misuse passages like this. And somebody will say, well, I'm untouchable. God put me in this place, and I can say anything I want, I can do anything I want, nobody can cross me. That would be a gross misrepresentation of what's going on here. Moses in that time was clearly a person that God put into that role. Moses was not abusing his authority in any way. Moses was doing what's right The reason that these individuals were so angry against Moses was not about Moses, it was about God. And really in this particular situation here with Ahithophel and Absalom, It's really about their right versus God's right to put in charge who's supposed to be there. So we have to be careful about texts like this. But what is David saying? Confound them and end the rebellion as quickly as possible. And he gives the reasons. The city was filled with violence, verse number nine. I've seen violence and strife in the city Verse number 10, there was no rest from this violence. He says, it's day and night. They go about on the walls, mischief and sorrow in the midst of it. Verse 11, wickedness is in the midst thereof, deceit and guile depart not from their streets. You know why cities are filled with violence. One reason. Because those who are responsible to maintain order will not do it the way they're supposed to. It's true. It's because there are people in that city who are disrupting that order, and those who are supposed to hold injustices accountable aren't doing it. In fact, the Book of Ecclesiastes talks about this. So when David talks about wickedness running rampant in the streets and deceit and guile, It's not just that he's sad that he sees all of the evil going on, but he recognizes that's going on because there is no control of the government. It's being disrupted by this this conflict between these two warring groups. But then here is the personal part. Verses 12 through 14. It was not an enemy that reproached me. It was not a man, my equal, my guide, my acquaintance. This is what David's saying here. You know, when you have a traditional battle context, everybody's uh dressed in their armor, and this group's dressed in their armor. They know who's on that side and they know who's on this side, and it's real clear-cut. You go out into battle, you take care of business, somebody wins, and then peace is restored. That's what he's saying. If I knew this was my enemy and I knew his armies were out there, I'd go and I'd take care of business. But I didn't know this. This is a guy who's right beside me. He was my friend. He was my acquaintance. He was my counselor. He said, this is very different. We took sweet counsel We walk to the house of God in company. This treachery came from David's closest companions, his son, and from his trusted advisor. Now that really puts things into perspective. Say, well, how do you interpret this? Well, there are three possible ways to look at this request. First of all, it's not someone just overwhelmed with anger and they're like, I'm tired of this and I want God to just crush this person. It's more than that. It's revealing how people grieve and process very traumatic experiences. How they move through these different chains of thought, different roads that they take, and eventually they get to where they need to be. That's what we're looking at here. It's also an example of a leader, David, who has a just cause. David did not incite this response. It was brought to him. He feels the weight of defending the innocent. When he looks at the city, he realizes unless there is order restored, more people are going to suffer than are right now. He's determined to do what his job is, and that is to re-establish peace and order through the use of lethal force. That's what's going on in these verses. There is a struggle between those who are aligned with God's purposes and those who are not. There are many different things going on in these verses And so that moves us to a third part. And that is David's trust. And I think that you will really see in this part of the psalm. That this isn't just about David who has an issue with Absalom or has an issue with Ahithophel, and he's like, I personally am aggrieved, and so I want you to get done. This is when you're really going to see that this isn't really about David and Ahithophel and Absalom. This is about what God says is right and wrong. This is about who rules the nation rightfully or wrongfully This is about people who are under that jurisdiction and how they will suffer or how they will prosper. Notice the contrast of two different worldviews and two different attitudes toward God. This is not about their attitude towards David. It's about their attitude towards God. You'll see this. First of all, notice how David describes himself. In verse 16, he says, I will call on God. The Lord will save me. He has purposed to cry out to God, believes that God will answer his prayer. Verse 17, he says, evening and morning and at noon I will pray and cry aloud. He will hear my voice. He says, I know that no matter what time it is. God hears. God answers. He's going to move. Verses 18 and 19. He hath delivered my soul in peace. From the battle that was against me. There were many with me. God shall hear and afflict them. David is reminding himself of past times where his he was he was put to the test And his life was on the line, and God intervenes. By the way, when you're watching a story and you're reading through that story, if it is crafted well, You will see that as you are reading this story, as the plot is developed, there will be tensions that develop in the plot of those stories. You know what I'm talking about? That's why we like reading stories. And as we're reading through this story, we can see that things are getting tenser and tenser and tenser. I don't know if that's the right way to say that. More tense. And as we are getting pressed and as we're reading this and getting drawn in, we're like, how is this going to be resolved? And at the height of the tension in the story, guess what happens? It's resolved. It's amazing how that works. But the resolution, though it happens quickly at a point of tension, is something that was actually working out behind the details all along but you didn't see it. Sometimes you go back and you read the story again. You're like, oh, I I I didn't see that little piece right there and this little piece right here. All along this stuff was working out behind the scenes. All I could see was the drama side, but there was the working out and it comes to a head at a moment. Did you know that's how God's providence works? We're going through circumstances and we are pressed beyond belief We feel like we can't get up. But what we don't know is that there's a God in heaven who's working behind the scenes, doing things that we don't see, and at the right time, he's going to step in and do what needs to be done And David is saying, God, you have done this in my life over and over and over and over again, and I have no idea how it happens here. But I believe you can do it again. That's what he's doing. And that's what we need to do in our lives. David realizes that in fact God has demonstrated his faithfulness and he has seen it and he will trust again. But I want you to see how we contrast that with the other side. Their attitude towards God. He says they have no changes. The idea is that their plans continue as as if they're unarrup they're they're they're not being disrupted at all. Everything seems to go smoothly and so there is no repentance in their heart. There's no Second guessing of themselves, everything seems to move forward very smoothly. Sounds very similar to what Aethaf says about the wicked He says, I see how the wicked they prosper, and everything seems to work out for them, and here I am, I'm serving God for naught. That's how Esau felt This is a group of people that don't repent. They have no reverence of God. It says they fear not God. They return evil for good. He's put forth his hand against such as be at peace with him. Amazing statement. They used deception to set up their victims. The words of his mouth were smoother than butter, but war was in his heart, his words were softer than oil, yet they were drawn swords. Now here's what's interesting. The way he describes these people is how they will act with an absolute impunity because they have no fear of God. And you know what? There's people in this world that are like that. And it's scary to deal with them. And it's scary to think of what they might do to us or someone we love. And David is feeling as if he is at the whims and impulses of people like that. Do you see the contrast? One that says, I fear God, and the other that says, I don't care what God thinks. I'm going to do what I want. So then we come finally to David's strength. In fact, this is the sermon. You say, uh, oh, we're in trouble then. No, it's actually a very simple little way to conclude. This is the sermon. Everything that we've just talked about is David setting up for how he's supposed to respond. It's helping us to understand what's going on in his heart. He is talking through this issue. Now he's going to come to a point of resolution. How do I respond to all of this? Verses 22 and 23. This is the heart of the psalm. And let me put it to you like this. The first thing that David did is he knew how to talk to himself. Anybody talk to yourself? So I uh I like to go out in my garden in the mornings this time of the year. So it's been a little cold lately. And I'm out there and I'm I'm talking to myself. About all kinds of different things. And um I don't it's like I don't even realize I'm doing it sometimes. And you know if you got earphones in, then you talk to yourself loud because you don't realize how loud you are Everybody talks to themselves. You know where that is? We talk to ourselves because what's going on inside is just boiling and it's got to come out. Now we may not want to talk to somebody else about it, so we talk to ourselves about it. That's what we do It's as if it's our internal processing that starts to become a little bit external. When we who have tendency to talk to ourselves are thinking properly, we actually speak the truth to ourselves. And then we ponder what we're saying. What did he do? The first thing he did is he told himself, You need to cry out to God and pour out your burden to him. Cast thy burden on the Lord. Who's David talking to? Is he talking to somebody next to him? He's talking to himself. Why? Because he needed to hear it. He told himself, David, cast your burden on the Lord. Second thing he did is he reminded himself that God is with him and God is for him. Now, why did he have to do that? Because in his circumstances it did not appear that way at all. And as far as David was emotionally processed in this situation, he didn't feel it at all. But it was true. He reminded himself that God is his comforter in this life. He will sustain you, David. He reminded himself that God is his comfort, not just in this life, but in eternity. He will never suffer or permit the righteous to be moved. Now what's that talking about? Is he saying something's not going to bump you and push you over? No, that's not what he's saying. He's saying the righteous are going to stand with God forever. He's talking about our eternal hope. He reminds himself that God is just and he is against the wicked God will judge the wicked eternally, God shall bring them down into the pit of destruction. And I think he means that very literally The wicked who have fought against you, those who have disrupted this world, those who have committed injustices, they will stand before a holy God, and he will hold them accountable. And you say, well, that's great, but I still am suffering now. And what does David say? Oh, and by the way, he also deals with them in this life, too. Bloody and deceitful men will not live out half their days. Basically what he's saying is this: when God says your time comes, he cuts them off early. How did a fifth how did Ahithophel, how did his life come to an end? Very simply, he killed himself. Why did he do that? Because when he gave the advice to Absalom, that was his moment to crush David, his enemy, Absalom didn't listen. And he wilted. And when he wilted, he knew that David's going to prevail. He said, I'm not going to face this. Took his own life. What happened to Absalom? David pleaded with his soldiers. He said, be gentle with Absalom. Don't kill him. Does that sound like a man who has this vindictive and angry streak? He really loved his son, even though his son was an absolutely treacherous person. And here is Absalom, he's riding along, and this long flowing hair that was his weight of glory Becomes entangled in a tree and he's hanging there. And Joab comes along and he says, You will die in misery, sir. That's exactly what he did. He cut him off. The point is this, against David's wishes nonetheless, God brought them down. Their time came early. And the Bible is filled with examples of people. By the way, history is filled with examples of people who God brought down early. And by the way, to preserve a lot of innocent people's lives. David knew he needed to walk by faith. He says, I will trust in thee. What does this mean? Well, this is what he did in 1 Samuel chapter 30, verse 6. It says, David greatly was distressed, but he encouraged himself, and the Lord is God. It's exactly what he did in Psalm 42, 5, 11, and 43, 5. He says, Why art thou cast down on my soul? Why art thou disquiet within me? Hope thou in God. Walk by faith. It's exactly what he's talking about in Psalm 23, 1 and 6. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. David walked by faith. This is what we must do when we find ourselves in similar circumstances. And by the way, I hope for your sake and mine That these situations are few and far between, if not ever. But we live in a fallen world. And this is the world we live in. And we will face such situations if we have not before. So how do we apply a text like this? First of all, I want to speak to those who maybe don't know the Lord is your Savior You never place your faith in Christ. I know that the purpose of this message wasn't really a gospel appeal, but it brings to light something very important. This is a fallen world and the best you're ever going to get is temporary. A person can live in this world and make a lot of money. Have a happy marriage, raise kids that care about them, be respected by society, and live to be very old. And experience very few sorrows in life compared to others. But if they have rejected the gospel, that is the best they get. It's the best they get. And what is coming is eternal destruction. Why? Because of one very simple purpose. All of us have sinned and come short of the glory of God. It's appointed into man once to die. After this, the judgment. You do not evaluate a person's life simply by what they get on this side. One day we will all face the misery of this broken world. The truth is that a person may live for many years a very smooth and a very prosperous life, but there comes a day When we get that cancer diagnosis, or we run into financial trouble, or something happens that we have zero control over, and all of a sudden the peace and the harmony of our lives is disrupted. By a fallen world. And you say, why does God allow that? It could be the most gracious thing he ever does in that person's life. Because he's bringing back to reality the fact this is a fallen world. You need to prepare to meet God. When this happens, what is the person's confidence? They have nothing. And at those moments, it's a time to remember Christ is your only hope, both now and forever. Turn to Him. He went to the cross for your sins, for my sins. He died. He rose from the grave. You can be saved from your sins and have eternity with him. Don't turn away from him. Then I think of the believer, the vast majority, maybe almost everybody here. I don't know. This is a fallen world, and the best we ever encounter in this life. Might not be very good sometimes. One day we're going to face the same miseries as the rest of those in this world. And when it happens, what's our hope? It's God. You say, well, he's the one that allowed this to happen. It's true he permits suffering, but it's also true that he has a reason And it's also true that he doesn't abandon us, and it's also true that he provides grace, and it's also true that we never fully understand the whole thing. We need to pour out our burdens to Him when these times come. Literally roll them on His shoulders, and we need to speak the truth to ourselves. Listen to these verses. Psalm 5522. He will sustain us. He will never allow the righteous to be moved. That's true. Psalm 55, 22 to 23. He will bring down the wicked into the pit of destruction, and the bloody and deceitful men will not live out half their days. That's true. 1 Corinthians 10, 13, he's faithful and will not allow us to be tempted above we're able, but will with the temptation also make a way of escape so that we may be able to bear it. That's true. Hebrews 12, 1. We need to lay aside every weight in the sin which so easily besets us and run with patience the race set before us, looking to Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. That's true. Hebrews 13, 5, he will never leave us. He will never forsake us. That's true. 1 Peter 1:5, he will exalt us in due time because he cares for us. That's true. We have to speak the truth to ourselves when we are troubled in soul. We need to walk by faith because He is worthy as the object of our faith.