Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Angered in the Word, Morning Reflection. And we have been in the 30th Psalm all week and I hope that you've enjoyed this study. I've really enjoyed digging into it and sharing it with you. And uh Lord willing, today we will finish out our study on this particular passage. And then tomorrow I plan to do a sermon preview. So I hope that you also join us for that. If you have your Bible, I want to invite you to take it. Let's turn to Psalm 30, and I'm going to read through the Psalm again, and then we're going to focus in on the last portion of this Psalm, verses 11 and 12. Here's what the scripture says It's a song, a psalm and a song at the dedication of the house of David. I will extol thee, O Lord, for thou hast lifted me up, and hast not made my foes to rejoice over me O Lord my God, I cried unto thee, and thou hast healed me. O Lord, thou hast brought up my soul from the grave, and hast kept me alive, that I should not go down to the pit Sing unto the Lord, O ye saints of his, and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness. For his anger endureth but a moment, and his favor is life Weeping me endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning. In my prosperity has said, I shall never be moved. Lord, by thy favor thou hast made my mountain to stand strong. Thou didst hide thy face, and I was troubled, I cried to thee, O Lord. Unto the Lord I made supplication. What profit is there in my blood when I go down to the pit? Shall the dust praise thee? Shall it declare thy truth Hear, O Lord, and have mercy upon me. Lord, be thou my helper. Thou hast turned for me my morning into dancing. Thou hast put off my sackcloth and girded me with gladness, to the end that my glory may sing praise to thee and not be silent. O Lord my God, I will give thanks unto thee forever Now what I love about the way that this Psalm closes is the last statement. He says, I will give thanks unto thee. That is not an incidental statement. And that statement, I will give thanks unto thee forever, is something that could only be said and only be true if the gospel is there. And so the last part of this I'd like to focus in on is the importance of having a gospel focus. As we remember how God has blessed us and how he has sustained us, how he has worked in our lives. I really do believe this strongly, and I think that the text would show us this, and many, many other scriptures would show us this, that it always points us back to what we have in Christ. It always points us back to the gospel. The gospel is the heart of all Christian living and the heart of all Christian thinking and the heart of all Christian practice. The gospel has to be the center of it. Notice what he says. Thou hast turned for me my morning into dancing. Thou hast put off my sackcloth and girded me with gladness to the end that my glory may sing and praise thee and not be silent. O Lord my God, I will give thanks unto thee for ever. I love those three statements. You have turned my mourning into dancing. You have put off my sackcloth and girded me with gladness. To the end that I will give thanks unto thee forever. You know what this sounds a lot like? This sounds a lot like what Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount. Now obviously, Jesus could have very easily been going to a text like this one when he says things like Blessed are the poor in spirit. Theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn. They shall be comforted. Now, clearly when Christ is using the making these statements in the Sermon on the Mount, he's talking about the distinguishing marks of someone who is a genuine disciple. For instance, being poor in spirit is someone who recognizes I am spiritually bankrupt. I have absolutely nothing to give to God. My righteousness is filthy rags. My sin separates me from God. And so that person recognizes that they have absolutely nothing to give to God if it's not for the righteousness of Christ and the sacrifice of Christ in the gospel this person has absolutely nothing Well, if a person's going to become a disciple of Christ, if a person's going to become a child of God, be forgiven and cleansed then they have to come face to face with their sin and their inability to come into God's presence apart from the work of Christ. And that is what Jesus means when he says poor in spirit. It's a person who's poor in spirit They are the ones who the kingdom belongs to. But then we see a second statement. Blessed are those who mourn because they're going to be comforted. I think what this is ultimately talking about is how a person responds when they recognize they are spiritually bankrupt, they have nothing that they can give God. There's nothing they can do for God to earn his favor. And then they come face to face with the gospel that says it's paid in full. Christ's righteousness is available to you, and you can be clothed in that righteousness, and you can be justified in the presence of a holy God, though you are a sinner because of the imputed righteousness of Christ. And your sin debt can be completely removed because Christ has paid in full your sin debt. The person who mourns over their sin mourns over their spiritual bankruptcy, mourns over their inability to come into God's presence, is comforted by the finished work of Christ Now I want you to think of that in terms of what he's saying when you've turned my mourning into dancing or rejoicing, and you have put off my sackcloth, what we wear when we mourn. And you've girded me with gladness. But the statement that really stands out to me is to the end that I may glory and sing praise to you and give thanks to you forever. So the reason that the psalmist has had his his weeping turned to gladness and his sackcloth is replaced with The gladness, uh uh clothing is is for the purpose that he'll be able to forever praise God. This is a gospel connected concept. That's really what it is. And so let's not miss the closing of this statement. The key is the gospel. This is all available and this is all true because of his future hope that is rooted in Christ. Now, remember, David is someone who is looking at the gospel from a future perspective. He believes that God is going to send a redeemer and he's trusting in that future redeemer. And that redeemer is going to pay his sin debt. And and and David would have seen the the picture of this in the sacrificial system over and over and over again. He looked f forward with faith to the coming Redeemer. We look back at the fulfillment of those promises and we see what Christ has done for us. And our faith is rooted in the finished work of Christ. David's faith was rooted in the coming soon to be finished work of Christ. But the point is the gospel is the center of it. And by the way, when he uses this statement forever, this is not hyperbole This is not a misstatement. This is a consistent reiteration throughout the Psalms that David. He reiterates this concept of eternal blessing, eternal joy, being in God's presence forever. Let me give you some examples of what we're saying. Psalm 168. He says, I have set the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand. I shall not be be moved. Therefore my heart is glad, my glory rejoiceth, my flesh shall also rest in Hope. Thou wilt show me the path of life. In thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore. Now, when David wrote those words, he focuses in on the resurrection of the coming Messiah. You will not allow your Holy One to see corruption. You'll not leave my soul in hell. That's what David says. And when Peter is preaching at Pentecost, he goes back to Psalm 16 and he basically says, the psalmist David understood the resurrection, and he closes out the psalm with, at your right hand are pleasures forevermore. What does that show you? Gospel surety. Psalm 23, 1, 4, and 6. It says, The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. For thou art with me. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Again, we see this concept. So we see the forever terminology of the Psalm 30 passage, and we see the forever terminology of the 16th Psalm. We see the forever terminology of the 23rd Psalm, it's because David believed that he was not going to see the end of days when he died. He believed that death was the entrance into his eternal state where he would praise God forever, he would enjoy the blessings of God forever, he was going to enjoy pleasures forevermore at his right hand. because of the gospel. That's what it's all about. Our lives should be centered on this truth. And so if you remember back this past Sunday We celebrated the Lord's table. What is the Lord's table? It is remembering the death and the resurrection and the righteousness of Christ. His death that removes our sin debt, his righteousness that gives us a justified position. And his resurrection that secures eternal life in triumphing over sin and death. When we eat the bread, we remember his body broken when we drink the juice we remember his blood shed why because our lives need to be rooted in the gospel founded on the gospel and our minds need to be continually drawn back to the gospel so that we'll live in the light of the position that we have. That's what it's all about. And so I think in the words prophet, Psalm thirty was such a great psalm for us to look at this past week and on on Sunday and then throughout this week. Remembering God's faithfulness in our church. Remembering God's faithfulness in the sacrifice that He gave us when we remember the Lord's table. And ultimately remembering that this is the way we need to live our lives, continually remembering what we have in Christ because of the gospel. So I'm going to remind you of those statements again. Thou hast turned to me my mourning into dancing, put off my sackcloth, girded me with gladness. to the end that my glory may sing praise unto thee, O Lord my God, I will give thanks unto thee forever. Thou wilt show me the path of life, and thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore. Though I walk to the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. I asked this question. Do you have such confidence? Do you have this hope? Is your life built on the gospel? Are you living in the light of the position that you have in Christ? This morning, I want to exhort you and encourage you to remember the grace of God that is demonstrated in a gospel-focused life. I hope that you have really enjoyed this psalm this week. I hope that it's been a challenge to you, an encouragement to you. And I really look forward to tomorrow, Lord willing. talking about uh our preview for this next Sunday which just happens to be Mother's Day. So I'm looking forward to talking about that Lord willing tomorrow. If this has been a challenge to you, I hope that you will share it with someone else that perhaps you'll share how it's been a blessing to you. And Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.