And let's all turn together to the book of Ephesians, and we're in Ephesians chapter 1 this morning. Typically on Sunday mornings that are the first Sunday of the month, we uh look at a psalm and I was looking at the psalm that we were going to have this week and I was looking at uh the text that we were going to deal with last week and of course we did not have services because of uh this winter storm that we dealt with and I thought you know what I'd like to take that Ephesians text and I'd like to really um take this and and this is a great text for the Lord's table and so I think that as we dig into the content of these verses You'll say, you know what, that really is a great passage of Scripture to focus our attention on as we think about what we are celebrating and remembering when we partake of the Lord's table together. as a body of believers. So Ephesians chapter 1, we're going to read verses 18 down to verse 23. Here's what it says. The eyes of your understanding being enlightened. that ye may know what is the hope of his calling, and what the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints. And what is the exceeding greatness of his power to usward who believe, according to the working of his mighty power. Which he wrought in Christ when he raised him from the dead, and set him at his own right hand in the heavenly places Far above all principality and power and might and dominion and every name that is named, not only in this world, but also in that which is to come. And hath put all things under his feet, and gave him to be the head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him that filleth all and all. Let's bow together for prayer and ask the Lord to really help us this morning to learn and to be warmed in our souls by these very, very important truths. Lord and Heavenly Father, I thank you for this passage of Scripture that is so rich and so full that points us to celebrate and glory in the Lord Jesus Christ. As we think about the various truths that are laid out in this text, this prayer, as we think about them in the light of other scriptures, I pray that our hearts Would dwell on these things, that these things would be rooted in our souls, that they would shape us, that they would move us, that they would warm us, that they would encourage us. That they would remind us who we are in Christ and what we have and remind us how we got that position and who has done it all for us. I pray that this text of Scripture would be one that causes us to worship you in spirit and in truth in a very special way this morning. As we leave this place, I pray that our hearts would be filled and overflowing, and that we would be strengthened for the things we may encounter this week. Give us a very special measure of your Spirit's work this morning, and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Text in front of us is a wonderful text, and I think it's important for us to kind of go back and sort of see this end of the prayer in the light of everything that Paul has prayed for the church at Ephesus. So What we are going to do is kind of review a little bit of the main flow of what Paul says, and we looked at this two weeks ago. First thing I want to say about it is that Paul is praying with a deep and earnest love for the church. And his desire is that they would understand several key truths about Christ and key truths about themselves and key truths about their position. as believers. He wants them to not just understand it in some like casual way, but he wants it to grip us. And he he wants it to go from just ahead knowledge to something that really warms and fills and moves the heart. And so he talks about the security that they have as believers. He talks about their hope in Christ. He talks about the exceeding riches of their inheritance. in Christ. He talks about the greatness of his power which was displayed in their conversion. And let me say this, every soul that is saved is a miraculous work of God. It is the is the mercy and the grace of God that draws us and opens our eyes. and causes us to see the truth and to actually respond to it. You know, so many times people hear the gospel and it just bounces off of them. They can parrot it off, but it doesn't hit their heart in any substantive manner. And so he says, the power of God is what has saved you. And it's the power of God that was demonstrated when Christ rose from the dead. It's a power that we need to understand more fully. So he talks about that. And then he talks about the greatness of Jesus. And that's what we're really going to camp on this morning. That's what we're going to focus in on. And I say, what a wonderful thing to focus in on as we partake of the Lord's table. We remember the body of Christ that bore our sin and was punished in our place. And we think about the blood of Christ that was shed for the remission of our sins. We need to think about that sacrifice in the like in the face of the greatness of Christ. And so he's praying fervently that these people would understand this. In fact, this issue of our love for God and this issue of our knowledge of Him is something that we don't just get and then that's the end of it. It's something we grow in. It's something we're supposed to mature in. Let's say that you have a friend and you get to know this person a little bit and you say, I know that person. Is that true? The answer is kind of. You kind of know them. I mean you know their name. You might know their birthday. You might know some of the things that they enjoy. You might know a couple of details about their life, but you don't really know them unless you spend a tremendous amount of time with them And not just a tremendous amount of time with them, but you have to see them in a lot of different contexts. And you see them when they're under pressure, you see them when they're angry, when things don't go their way. You see them when things are going extremely well. You see them in all these different settings. And each time you interact with that person in those settings, you go, I know them a little more. I know them a little more. We were at a friend's house the other night, one of our neighbors, and they were talking about their kids, and they were saying, you know, as our kids get older they start telling us a little bit more and more about things that happened, you know, back in the day. And they're like And the lady was like, I told my son, I just don't want to know. Don't tell me anything about this or that. And the idea is that, you know, you you get to know this person a little bit differently. When you get married, you do not know your spouse the way that you will decades later. Well, here is the fact about God. You and I do not know him fully. You and I will never know him fully. The knowledge that we have of God, the understanding that we have of him, it's just a little bit more each time. But the fact is it always falls short of a full picture of an understanding of who he is. And so what Paul is saying is this. He's saying, God, grant this church to know Jesus a little better each day than they did before. Grant them to have a fuller picture of his greatness. And two texts come to mind that really stand out here. One is Romans 11. Paul writes, Oh, the depths of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God. How unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out. He says, if I were to know the wisdom of God and I were to know the greatness of God, never know the power of God, That knowledge would just pale in comparison to what it really is. But we'll know a little bit more Ephesians chapter 3 verse 18, he says, I prayed that they would be rooted and grounded in love, that you might be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the breath. And the length and the depth and the height, and to know the love of Christ, which passeth knowledge, that ye might be filled with all the fullness of God. Here's my question. Do you want to know God more today than you did yesterday? Do you want to understand his love more today than you did yesterday? Do you want your life to bear the marks and the evidences of the power of God and to actually reflect the Savior that you have and the position that you enjoy in him? Do you want it to To reflect that a little bit more today than it did yesterday? If you don't, there's a huge problem. And if you don't have that desire, may God grant that desire to you in this service. But that's what Paul is praying about. He's praying that they will know God more fully. And I remind you of what he has talked about here. It really comes into two different positions. One is what Jesus did. And what he has done in you that continues to be a part of who you are as a person. In fact, it's interesting, you can even see it in the tense when he talks about the death of Christ, verse 20, which he wrought in Christ. Verse 20, he raised him from the dead. When he makes intercession for us, verse 20, he set him on his own right hand in the heavenly places. Verse 22 He's put all things under his feet. Verse 22, he gave him to be the head over all things to the church. What's interesting is the verb in every single one of those examples, or the verbal that's used in every single one of those examples, it's the same tense. It's the tense of something that's in the past that's completed. In other words, he died, he rose, he intercedes for us. He's put everything under his feet. He's the head over all things. But there are two things he states that are in a different tense. And that's the statement he makes in verse 18, the eyes of your understanding being enlightened. That you know what is the hope of his calling. And this is what he's saying. He's saying all those things were done for you, and there's two things that were done in you, and they're continuing to manifest themselves. in your life because God hasn't stopped the work in you He's doing. Your eyes were open when you became a Christian, enlightened, and they still are open. And not only are they still open, but they're starting to see a little bit more clearly and a little bit more clearly and a little bit more clearly who Jesus is. It's kind of funny in life we see clearly when we're young and then we lose the ability as we get older. In the spiritual life We see less clearly when we're young. And the longer we live and the more we walk with the Lord and the more we're in the Word of God and the more the Spirit of God works in our hearts, the more we see. And it gets clearer and clearer and clear. There's a proverb that talks about that the way of the righteous is like the shining light that shines more and more under the perfect day. And you know what he's saying? The more you walk with Jesus, the more you understand him. And the more you understand them, the more you realize how little you do. And that's what he's saying. He's saying, I want you to have a fuller picture of all those things that were done for you and what is being done in you. So how would I summarize the text we're going to look at today? Paul prays that God would give his children a deeper and richer understanding of the unsearchable greatness of God. of Christ. And so let's look at what he says here. First thing I want you to know is this his greatness was demonstrated in his humiliation. And there's several different things that are stated here in these verses. For instance, in verses 19 and 20, he talks about the exceeding greatness of his power to usward who believe. And then he says According to the working of his mighty power which he wrought in Christ when he raised him from the dead. Now there are a couple of things that have to be true if Jesus was raised from the dead. You know what the first thing is? He had to come in the flesh. And not only did he have to come in the flesh, but he had to die in the flesh. And not only did he have to die in the flesh, but he had to conquer death. But I want you before we look at the humiliation side to think about who this person is. Because he came in the flesh, but he is the eternal God. He is the creator. He's the sustainer. Everything that you and I have in this world that is good, it comes from his hands. And verse and it says it this way in 1 John chapter 1 verse 1. It says, in the beginning was the word, the word was with God, the word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. And I love the sixth statement. All things were made by him. And without him was not anything made that was made. Could you say more clearly that Jesus made everything? Yeah, I should say it's a two different ways. Everything is that that is made is made, and there's nothing that isn't here that he didn't make. I mean that's just his way of saying he's the creator. Or Colossians 1:16, by him were all things created in heaven and earth The visible, the invisible, whether thrones, dominions, principalities or powers, all things were created by him and for him. He's sustainer. Hebrews 1 3. This is the text that we read at the opening of our service. He is the brightness of his glory, the express image of his person. He upholds all things by the word of his power. Could you say more clearly than that that Jesus is God and he is the ultimate sovereign and ruler over everything? He sustains it all. Colossians 1. 17. He is before all things. By him all things consist. And that little statement, all things consist, literally means this. He is actively working in the creation that he has made to uphold it and to preserve it and to protect it and to guide it. He didn't just wind it up and walk away. If he did that, we'd have absolute chaos. We have enough chaos as it is. And if it wasn't for the merciful intervention of God in our lives, our lives would self-destruct very quickly. But God works in his creation. Acts 17, 28. In him we live. And moves, and we have our being. Now, this is the person that he is saying was raised from the dead. And you say, how does that happen? Only one way. He takes on flesh. John 1. 14, the word was made flesh and he dwelt among us. Romans 5. 15. If do the offense of one many be made dead, much more by the grace of God and the gift of grace which is by one man, Jesus Christ, hath abounded to many. Philippians 2, 7, he made himself of no reputation. He took upon himself the form of a servant and was made in the likeness of man Here is the creator, here is the sustainer, here is the ruler over everything. He is humbling himself, entering into the creation. Taking on human flesh, taking on all the limitations of humanity, and he's doing it because he's going to go to the cross. And you have to do that. There's no other way that you can I can be saved. It's only through what Christ did. And in his love and in his mercy and in his grace and his desire to display the greatness of his kindness toward us. He did that. The one who made everything, the one who upholds everything, he made himself of no reputation. And then he dies for us on the cross. Hebrews 2. 9. We see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels for the suffering of death. crowned with glory and honor, that he, by the grace of God, should taste death for every man. The eternal Son, at a point in time, takes on human flesh for the purpose of suffering and tasting death so that you and I can be reconciled to God. That's awesome. When we partake of the table this morning and we think about the blood that was shed and we think about his body that was but broken for us, crushed, we are reminded It's because he took on flesh. Philippians 2. 8. Being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself. And he became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. How many people can't even swallow their pride enough to admit they're wrong when it's so clear? You ever had an argument with somebody and you you knew you were wrong and you just kept arguing because you didn't want to let go of the issue? And it was so clear that you were wrong, but you aren't going to admit it for anything. And that's in all of our hearts. We have such a hard time saying, I was wrong. Forgive me. Whatever I deserve, whatever I'm going to accept it. We have such a hard time doing that. Here is the creator and the sustainer of everything saying, I'm going to humble myself. I'm going to enter into my creation that I made and I uphold. I'm going to take on the limitations and the brokenness of humanity and I'm going to go to the cross and I'm going to have the sins of the world placed on my shoulders. I'm going to be punished in the place of all of those people who mock me and scorn me and could care less about me. I'm going to do it so they can be reconciled to God. And that's what he did. Hebrews 9. 12, by his own blood, he entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. Man, that's what he did for us. Hebrews 9, 26, now once in the end of the world he has appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. So I go back to that little statement here in Ephesians when he talks about his power being displayed in his resurrection. Guess what? You have no resurrection without all of that information. And then he conquers death in the flesh. First Corinthians 15, 19. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable. If all we had was this world, that would be an absolute miserable existence. By the way, when people believe all they have is this world, guess what? They're not very happy people. Why is that? Because this world's a messed up world. We sin, people sin against us, a lot of bad stuff happens, there's a lot of stuff that's outside of our control. We can kick and we can scream and we can shout about things we don't like, but sometimes we can't change anything. That's the world we live in. And if this is all you have, I could understand why that would be a miserable existence. But this isn't all there is. There's a world to come. There's an eternity. And so he says, but now is Christ risen from the dead. And he's become the first fruits of them that slept. Since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection from the dead. Do you see why he had to come in the flesh? Because death comes through the disobedience of Adam. The second Adam obeys and he brings in life. And Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. So why should we glory in Christ? Because he's a risen Savior. Second thing is this. His greatness is demonstrated in the fact that he was exalted. Verse 20 says this. and set him at his own right hand in the heavenly places. Now if you sit down and you ponder and you ask, well, what is the significance of that statement? I can think of at least three things. I'd say there's probably more, but at least three things to me are being communicated by that statement he has set down at the right hand in the heavenly places. The first thing is this, his work is done. And that's really important. When you have a job to do, you stand up, you roll up your sleeves, and you get to work. And when the job's complete, you sit down and you take a break. That's what we do. And I don't mean he's taking a break. That's not what I'm saying. But what I am saying is this He's done everything necessary for you and I to be redeemed to God. No more work to be done. The cross finished the job. The resurrection finished the job. You and I have had everything done for us so that we can be redeemed to God. And so there's no more work in that sense for him to do. It's finished. And so this is being illustrated by the fact that he's seated at the right hand of God. Hebrews 1. 3, when he had himself purged our sins. He sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high. Hebrews 12, 2. We look into Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is Sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Why does he emphasize he sat down? Because he's done. He did what he was sent to do. There's a second thing. His presence there at the right hand of the Father is a continual reminder of the completion of that work. Now you think about this. Every time you and I sin, we are reminded that we are fallen creatures. And you know what we're also reminded of? Our Savior paid for those sins. When I think of 1 John 1. 9, confess our sins, faithful and just to forgive, and cleanse us of all unrighteousness. You know what that passage is really about? It's about you and I when we have sinned. And our fellowship with God has been broken because of our sin. And we know it in our heart. As we confess our sin and we remind ourselves of the cross, we're reminded of a very simple truth. That blood that was shed on that cross washed away my sin, and I have access to God because of what he did And every time I sin, and every time I confess that, and every time I think of that, and every time I come and I remember the Lord's table, what am I doing? I am reminded freshly of what it costs for me to have access to God. Guess what? Christ's presence at the right hand of the Father is a continual reminder that the work is done. A continual reminder that the work is done. And this is an intriguing statement. Romans 8. 33. Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? It is God that justifieth. Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, yea, rather is risen again, who is even seated at the right hand of God who also maketh intercession for us. Every time we think of the Lord Jesus, see it at the right hand of the Father. Remind yourself, I have access to God because of His presence. I have access to God because of his sacrifice. I can come boldly before the throne of grace, and I can obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need because he has done it all. And him being seated at the right hand is a continual reminder that there is no charge that can be brought against the child of God. There is nobody that can condemn because Christ took our sin on himself, and as far as the East is from the West, so far as he removed our transgressions from us. It's been paid in full. Third thing. He has established the right to a redeemed inheritance. Now this is kind of interesting. This is something I guess probably a lot of us maybe haven't processed or thought much about. But the the fact is this you and I have an eternity. We have a heavenly inheritance because it was purchased. by the sacrifice of Christ. We get to participate in all the benefits of the gospel because Jesus laid down his life for us. And there's a passage of Scripture that I think very vividly illustrates his right to what he has redeemed, and that is Revelation 5. 2. Listen to what it says. It says, I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, who is worthy to open the book and to list the seals of them. I'm going to pause, I'm going to explain interpretively what he's talking about here. You're like a book and seals, what's this all about? Basically, this is the title deed to the creation And here is the scroll. And it's basically this. He's looking around. He's saying, there's nobody who has the right to open this scroll. Nobody owns this. And here's the response. No man in heaven nor on earth, neither under the earth was able to open the book, neither to look thereon. And I wept much because no man was found. Here's the key. worthy to open and read the book and even to look on it. But there's a change in this text. And one of the elders saith unto me, Weep not. Behold, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, he has prevailed to open the book. What is that? He dies. And he rose from the dead. And because of what he's done, he can take that scroll, he can open it up, and he can take what belongs to him. And you know what he's talking about? He's talking about you. He's talking about me. He's talking about a redeemed creation. And the rest of the book of Revelation is him opening the seals and taking what belongs to him. That's really what it comes down to. He has the right because he went to the cross. Philippians 2. 9 also states this, wherefore God also has highly exalted him and given him a name above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow. Of things in heaven and things in earth and things under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Why should we glory in Christ? We should glory in Christ because of what he has purchased for us. Thirdly, his greatness is demonstrated in his sovereign rule. Verses 21 and 22 say this. He says this is far above all principalities and powers and might and dominion. Some of you are going, that sounds very redundant. Principality, power, might, dominion. They all sound like the same thing. By the way, if you're really trying to emphasize something, sometimes you say it a couple of times. Like, get in here, son. Let me say it again and then you use their middle name if you can remember it, right? That's that's that's the problem when you have a bunch of kids You emphasize things by stating it again and again and again. But what's interesting about it is he's actually emphasizing different aspects. Of the rule of Christ over this creation. He's not just redundantly saying the same thing four times. He's emphasizing different things. And I want to bring that out. He says it's far above all principalities and powers and might and dominion, every name that is named, not only in this world, but also in that which is to come. And he has put all things under his feet. Now what is Paul writing as he prays for this church? He says, I'm praying that they'll understand that there is no system of rule. That exists now, that exists in the past, or will exist in the present, that is beyond the scope of his sovereign rule? None. No human rule No spiritual realm, none is greater than him. Far above all principalities, far above all dominions, a principality is the chief, ruler, or magistrate over a realm. Or dominion is a realm that is ruled by a powerful leader. You know, one of the things that really I love about the Old Testament is some of the stories about some of the most powerful people that ever existed in human history. Who were humbled by God. Nebuchadnezzar? Hey, you don't give me glory for what I've done. You're going to eat grass and live like an animal for a while. And everybody's gonna look at you and be like, what's going on with that guy? Oh, he was the most powerful man in the world until God said no more. And then he's put back in power. What does he do? Some of the greatest passages in all of the Bible that talk about the greatness of God's power over the nations are stated by Nebuchadnezzar. He's just one example. I challenge you, when you read your Bible, just take a note of how many times very powerful world leaders are humbled and brought to their knees because God says, it's time for you to realize I'm in charge, not you. By the way, the rulers of the nations today are going to have the same experience. Even our own nation. And the nations of the world. People who lift themselves up in pride, they better recognize they have a position of authority only by the mercy and grace of God. And God has his ways of getting people's attention. There is no might or authority that is stronger than his might. Power has the idea of a sense of the authority over the realm. Might has the idea of the inherent strength of the ruler. And so he says, you talk about all dominions, you talk about all power and all authority. Christ is above all of it. This sovereignty extends from eternity past through time and into the future. Every name that is named, not only in this world, but also in that which is to come. You pick a name from history And that person's going to answer to God. Every single one of them, including you. Including me. There is no person who has ever existed who is somehow immune to the rule of God God gives people time, he gives people opportunity, he allows them to work according to the wills that they have, but God holds them accountable and by the way, even works through them, despite them, he limits them. He lifts them up. He brings them down. The way that God works is a wondrous thing to behold. Every creature that has ever existed, every creature that will ever exist, it is under the rule of God. I'll even make this comment. Satan's God's enemy, but he's not God's peer. You know how many people in their minds are like there's God and there's Satan, they're kind of like they're equals. And you know, you tip the scale. I'm giving in to the devil, I'm giving in to God, and I'm gonna tip the scale. That's not how it works, folks. God rules If God says no, Satan can't do. If God limits, do you know the story of Job Have you considered my servant Job? There's none like him in the world, does good and assumes evil? And Satan says, Well, if you took everything away from him, he'd curse you and die. He says, All right, you can with this limitation. And he does it multiple times. And you know what this does? This gives us a picture into the realm where even Satan himself, the most evil and the most powerful being, beyond God Himself. We talk of power and might, he answers to God. He answers to him. The vilest tyrant is going to accomplish the purposes that God has for them. As people push and as they manipulate, they do not realize that there is a God in heaven who is limiting and guiding and working and by the way forbearing and one day will judge. It's all there. And as the rivers of water, he turns it whithersoever he will. And And that's true. The fourth thing I want you to notice is his greatness is revealed in his relationship to the church. This is very interesting for me to think about. Verses 22 and 23. It says, and he gave him to be the head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him that filleth all and in all. Now when we talk about Christ, we're talking about God in flesh, Creator, Sustainer, Lord, Judge, King. You name those things, that's true of Christ. And guess what? He takes a personal interest in your life and in mine. Personal interest. I remember when I was in high school, I had the opportunity to go to a couple of baseball classics. I love baseball as a high schooler. And at these baseball classics, they would have professional baseball players. These are people that I was following back in the 90s. Okay, I could name some names, and if you're a baseball fan, you'd know some of these people. And I remember going to this baseball classic and they would divide you up by the different places that you, you know, are you a pitcher, are you an outfielder, are you an infielder, are you a catcher, and you would go to the position and then you would have a major league baseball player I got to pitch with a guy from the Pittsburgh Pirates, and he and he watched my mechanics. He walked me through what I was doing wrong. And I was in awe. I was like, this is the greatest thing ever. But it's kind of funny. That guy is just a normal guy. Just a normal guy. And if I walked up to a professional athlete who is very well known on the street, and I said, Hey, I'm so-and-so. I follow you, the average athlete would look at you and go Hey, I'm busy, buddy. Keep on going. I'm busy. I don't have time. Keep on going. And why is that? Because they are busy, because lots of people know them and they don't have time to sit down and have a lengthy conversation with everybody. Their life is complicated. They have work to do. But here is the creator of all things. And he doesn't say, I'm too busy, buddy. Talk to you later. He lowers his ear and he listens. And we pour out our hearts to this great God and sometimes say some pretty ridiculous things as we pour out our hearts, to be totally frank about it. He listens with compassion. And he moves. He takes a personal interest in you and in me. We talk about the transcendence of God, his greatness, but we also talk about his eminence. He cares about us on a personal level. The fact that you and I are believers, that we are saved, that God works in our lives, that is a demonstration of his personal care in our lives. And so he emphasizes three things here. One, he's the head of the church. This powerful ruler over this past creation who's personally involved in everything going on. He has taken a personal interest The church. It's his body. It's not simply a kingdom or a realm. It's a living organism that is united to Christ. You know, when we gather together and we worship, the Spirit of God works in our midst. You know that verse where it says, where two or three are gathered together, there I'm in the midst? The idea is this, when when the church gathers, when a body of believers gather, and there are serious, heavy decisions that need to be made God is there working and moving in them and through them. He is working in our midst right now. He's working in our hearts right now because he takes a personal interest. And he's revealed himself through the relationship he has with the church. When the church is what it's supposed to be, it displays the beauty of Christ. If somebody walks into this congregation and we are really functioning the way that we should they're gonna walk in here and they're gonna say I see something in this place that I don't see anywhere else in society I see genuine warmth between people I see that these people are here for the same cause, and it's not about themselves, it's not about self-promotion, it's about the gospel. It's about Christ. It's about eternity and what really matters. And as they see people serve one another, and they see people listen to one another, and they see people bear one another's burdens, And they see how attentive people are to the word of God and how they respond to the word of God and how this shapes their life and how it influences them as they go into society. You know what it does? It proclaims the greatness of Christ. And we're all flawed. But he works through us. And so here is this great Savior who takes a personal interest in people. So the question I want us to leave with is how do you take all of this and how do you apply it in a practical way? I want to break it into two groups. One would be the person who does not know the Lord as their savior. It could be that you're here this morning and you hear all the stuff about Christ, and you're like, that's really interesting for you, but maybe not for me. I'm not a Christian. I'm not going to pretend to be a Christian. I don't know anything about the gospel, or I've heard about it, I'm not convinced of it. And so, what does this have to say to me? Here's what it has to say. That sacrifice is available for you. He gave himself for you. Will you respond? By repenting and believing. By turning to Christ and placing your faith in what he's done. If you don't meet him as your savior now, you will meet him as your judge one day. You might say, well, I got time. You don't know that. You do not know that. Where will your heart be when you think is the time? Repent and trust Christ. Glory in him as the one who has mercifully saved you from your sin and has reconciled you to himself. That's the only application for the unbeliever. Trust him as your Savior today. What about to the believer, especially as we think about the Lord's table? Every one of these blessings that are talked about in Ephesians 1, and there are many. And they are rich. They are powerful. We have barely scratched the surface in each of these sermons on these truths. These blessings are secured for you through his work, not yours. We know this, but we don't appreciate it and live in the light of it as we should. And that's true of all of us. We don't think about the gospel enough. We don't think deeply of the as deeply of the gospel as we should. We don't let it shape our lives to the extent that we should. That needs to change So let's come to the Lord's table with a grateful and humble heart. If you're with us on Wednesday a few weeks ago. We talked about the Lord's table. As we talked about the Lord's table, the focus was on the fact that it's a time of warm remembrance, delighting in Christ. Celebrating what He's done for us. Worship, praise. Come to the table with such a heart. Let's ask God to give us a deeper sense of the richness of these truths. Let's rejoice in him and praise him as we remember the greatness of this sacrifice. Let's bow for prayer. Father, I thank you so much for your word. This passage is very rich. There's so much more that could be said. But we don't have the ability to comprehend it all. We are so limited. I pray that you would take the things that we have heard and press them into our souls and may they shape our hearts as we partake of the table together as a church body. As we reflect on the sacrifice of Christ, I pray that this would be a time of wonderful remembrance, of great joy and great encouragement. If there's someone here that has never placed their faith in Christ, I pray that today would be the day that they humble themselves before you and they call on the Lord, confessing their sin, their desire to be reconciled to you. And they ask you to have mercy on them and to save their soul. And they place their faith in what Christ has done. And they celebrate your grace that has brought them to such a place. I pray that this would be a time of great remembrance. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen.