Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our final Angry The Word morning reflection this week. And as I mentioned yesterday, our plan was to do a sermon preview for our Sunday morning message And so if you go to our church, this will be the text that we're looking at on Sunday morning. And I also want to remind you that this Sunday morning we have the Lord's table. And so this is an excellent psalm for us to reflect on. as we prepare our hearts to partake of the Lord's table. And so I hope that this will give you some things to think about over the weekend. It will get you excited about the text that we're going to look at. And ultimately it will also prepare your heart As we remember as a body what Christ has done for us, his body broken, his blood shed, so that we could have uh remission of sins and we could be justified and stand righteous before God in Christ. I'm going to go ahead and read Psalm 30 for you this morning, and then we are going to reflect on a couple of questions that I've been asking myself as I think about the text that's in front of us for Sunday. And also just a couple of preliminary takeaways that will be reflected in the Sunday morning message. So here's what the text says. This is a psalm and a song at the dedication of the house of David. I will extol thee, O Lord, for thou hast lifted me up, and hast not made my foes to rejoice over me. O Lord my God, I cried unto thee, and thou hast healed me. O Lord, thou hast brought up my soul from the grave. Thou hast kept me alive, that I should not go down to the pit. Sing unto the Lord, O ye saints of his, and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness. For his anger endureth but a moment, in his favor is life. Weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning. And in my prosperity I said, I shall never be moved. Lord, by thy favor thou hast made my mountain to stand strong. Thou didst hide thy face, and I was troubled, I cried unto thee, O Lord, and unto the Lord I made supplication. What profit is there in my blood when I go down to the pit? Shall the dust praise thee? Shall I declare thy fear, or thy truth? Hear, O Lord, and have mercy upon me. Lord, be thou my helper. Thou hast turned for me my morning into dancing. Thou hast put off my sackcloth and girded me with gladness, to the end that my glory may sing praise to thee and not be silent. O Lord my God, I will give thanks unto thee forever. This is a great psalm, and I want to just share with you some of the questions that I think are important questions to ask. if we're going to understand this psalm and then ultimately interpret it properly and apply it correctly. So the first question What was going on when David wrote the Psalm? Well the answer is actually at the beginning, it was a dedication for his house. And we'll kind of break this down on Sunday morning, but that's an important question for us to consider and why that was significant. Why, leads me to my second question, was this such a significant event in David's life? Well, a couple of preliminary thoughts. First of all, It was symbolic of the fact that God chose to establish David and He gave him peace. And so David was established as the king over not a divided Israel, but a united Israel. It was also a moment in David's life when he desired to build the temple, and we're not going to get as much into that concept, but when David looks at the house that he has completed. He goes, God, you've given me peace, you've given me rest. And it's wrong for me to have this beautiful home that really is a symbol of the peace and the rest that you've given me in establishing me. And then you meet with us in a tent in the tabernacle. And so that's really at the base of this. Third question. What were some of the hardships that David encountered that he's probably alluding to in these verses that God ultimately delivered him through? Well, David spent a lot of time running from Saul, his father-in-law, and that would probably be some of what David is thinking about when he writes this. He was involved in a lot of conflicts with the Philistines, obviously we know about Goliath, but that wasn't the only time that he was in conflict with the Philistines The Philistines were constantly at war with David during the time of Saul, Jonathan, and then David's reign. And he may even also be thinking about the civil war that took place in Israel. between those who were allegiant to Saul's household after Saul uh died and Jonathan died in battle, and those who were were loyal to David's leadership. And it was a very tumultuous time in Israel. And um we're not going to get into those details a lot, but what we do see is that when David makes statements about how God delivers him from death and those kinds of things, He's thinking about some very specific situations that he encountered, some intense seasons of life. A fourth question: What does David tell others to do During this monumental moment in his life. I think this is a fascinating question to dig into. We see the statement sing to him and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness. And it's it's interesting. He's not just saying I'm going to do this. He's saying we need to do this. All ye saints. And we're going to talk a little bit about The fact that corporate worship is something that is very, very important for the Christian. We weren't designed to just grow in isolation or to only worship in solitude, but the fact is that we're a part of the people of God. When we trusted Christ as our Savior, He placed us into a body. and we're to grow together as a body. Yes, we have an individual walk, but also we are to sharpen one another and to learn from one another and encourage one another. and worship as a body. And we'll talk about that, Lord willing, this uh Sunday. And then the last question that I that I that I jotted down thinking about this Is how are we to pattern our thinking and lives after what the psalmist is communicating in these verses? Well, I think we need to recognize the importance of pausing of reflecting at moments in our life when when God has clearly brought us to that place, it's important for us to recognize that we are at that moment and we are experiencing those blessings because of God's continued hand of support and preservation and protection and all those things. So what are some preliminary takeaways that we can take from this passage? that will give you a little bit of insight into where we're going on Sunday morning. And hopefully as you reflect on these verses in preparation for the Lord's Day, give you some things to think about. Let me jot down, let me share with you a few I jotted down. First, we need to stop and reflect on the journey when we reach critical milestones in our life. We need to stop and think. We need to ask the question, how did I get here? What went into this? Who do I need to express appreciation to? Ultimately to God. Second We need to stop and think about how God has sustained us and delivered us and richly blessed us. Third, we need to openly speak of God's ways. for the benefits that we've enjoyed and how it has benefited other people. We need to express praise to God openly, publicly. And by the way In these verses, he says, sing to God, not just sing about God, literally sing to God. Express your thanksgiving. to him, not just about him. And I think that's an important part of what we can take away from this passage. And then lastly, we need to see the importance of corporate worship And that'll be uh something that we really talk a lot about, especially since we're going to be partaking of the Lord's table together. Um we don't partake of the Lord's table. uh as an individual by ourselves in our house we partake as a body we are gathered together to remember that mutual uh connection that we have as a body of believers to the work of Christ, how that is central to what unites us, gives us a standing with God, and ultimately gives us union, fellowship, communion with one another. That's where we're going this next Sunday. I hope that you'll be able to join us either on the live stream or in person. And my prayer is that God will help you. to have a heart that is well prepared for the text of scripture that we will be digging into and reflecting on this week. Have a blessed weekend and Lord willing we'll see many of you on Sunday. Bye now