Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church and hope that you're having a great weekend. Really looking forward to our service this morning. If you are visiting with us today for the first time or the first time in a long time, we'd like to warmly welcome you and hope that you received a welcome packet. And in that welcome packet is a connection card. And if you would like us to try to connect with you during the week, please take a moment to fill that out and just put that in the little box in the back. uh beside the door and what we'll do is we'll reach out to you during the week. And if you prefer email, maybe make a note of that, or if you prefer prefer a phone call, make a note of that and we'll reach out to you that way Also this morning we are having the Lord's table, and so if you're planning to partake with us, please make sure during the first hymn that you pick up elements from the back and we'll look forward to that. Pastor Chris has a couple of announcements and we'll open our service. All right, good morning. I hope you had a chance to grab a bulletin as we have quite a few things going on the next two weeks. We got the rescue mission on Tuesday. And if you plan on joining us for that, please let us know so we know how many bands we're gonna need. And we also got community canvassing on Saturday, which now the weather is just perfect. So, no excuse. If you wanna come out, please do. And it's a it's a great time to to to invite folks to church uh right there in their neighborhoods. And we got Mother's Day, Sunday. So now it's your one week morning. And uh hope that you uh are looking forward to having a wonderful day on Mother's Day. I also uh uh also want to point out that we got our senior luncheon on the 18th with a sign-up sheet in the back as well as college of career the Friday right after that, May 19th. And that will be here at the church. So College of Career folks, that will be here and then teensing has been moved from Mother's Day to the 21st. So uh for teens we'll be going on the 21st over to uh the Swatzer's home for that evening. And then we got uh something different coming up on May twenty fifth, the ladies' books and bites So for that, if you have any questions or would like for more information, please reach out to Ms. Mary Fetter. She will be your point of contact for that. Pastor? Okay, well if you have your Bibles, I want to invite you to turn with me to Hebrews chapter two, and this is where we'll have our opening scripture. And obviously since we're partaking of the Lord's table this morning, we're going to focus all of our attention. on Christ's redemptive work. Hebrews chapter 2, verse 14 says the following. For as much then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, He also himself likewise took part of the same, that through death he might destroy him that had the power of death, that is the devil. And delivered them who, through fear of death, were in all their lifetime subject to bondage. For verily he took not of him the nature of angels, but he took on him the seed of Abraham Wherefore in all things it behooved him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make reconciliation for the sins of the people. For in that he himself hath suffered being tempted, he is able to succor them that are tempted. Let's take a few moments this morning, bear our hearts together in prayer, and uh just ask the Lord to bless our service. I also want to mention We had a memorial service here yesterday. Um, so please remember uh those who are very dear friends to Ginny Mullinex uh as they are remembering her. And uh we're thankful that she's with the Lord, uh, but please pray for those who are Really feeling the weight of her passing. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, we are so grateful that this morning we can gather together as a redeemed people. We are saints by position in Christ, declared righteous, forgiven. We have eternal life, and we are so very grateful that because of Christ's gracious work on our behalf, we stand complete in Him. Father, I pray that this morning as we focus our attention on the way that you work very graciously in our lives, the way that you sustain us, and the way that you strengthen us, and the way that you comfort us, and the way that you humble us. in all the various ways that you work personally in our lives to grow us into Christ's likeness. I pray that we would remember your personal work in our lives and we would rejoice in that and express that to you as a congregation. As we remember the Lord's death, his body broken, his blood shed, I pray that we would remember this with a great sweetness in our heart, a gratitude in this humble anticipation of your imminent return. Father, I pray for those who are at this moment grieving the passing of Ms. Janine. I thank you for her endurance and her faithfulness. I thank you for her willingness to invest in the lives of others when She was very long with a chronic illness. I pray that you would uh bless those and come alongside and strengthen and comfort them. Father, I pray that all that is done today in the service would point to the Lord Jesus, would exalt him. And would truly, truly encourage your people. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Well, good morning, Anchor Baptist Church and esteemed guests, both joining us on live stream and those of you here in person. So it's good to see you out on a Wonderful spring morning. Hope you're all enjoying that weather. It's supposed to get a little bit warmer this afternoon, so I think cool thoughts So in the meantime, though, join us in our music service. Stand with me as we turn to page 5. Page 5 in the hymnal, or follow along on the screen with us. We're going to sing. All five verses of O for a thousand tongues to sing. And now we're gonna turn to page one hundred and seventy-seven. Page a hundred and seventy And sing our great Savior I'm gonna go to the Продолжение следует. . Amen. Go ahead and have a seat as we turn to page three hundred and fifty-five. Three fifty-five. Three fifty five. All four verses now of Jesus paid it all. Amen. That's good singing this morning. And we'll come to our reading of Scripture now at this point. We're going to go to the book of Psalms. We're going to go to Psalm 30, and we'll read all 12 verses. Verses 1 through 12 of Psalm 30. And the scripture says, I will extol thee, O Lord, for thou hast lifted me up, and hast not made my foes to rejoice over me. O Lord my God, I cried unto thee, and thou hast healed me. O Lord, thou hast brought up my soul from the grave. Thou hast kept me alive, that I should not go down to the pit. Sing unto the Lord, O ye saints of his, and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness. For his anger endureth but a moment. In his favor is life Weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning. And in my prosperity I said, I shall never be moved. Lord, by thy favor thou hast made my mountain to stand strong. Thou didst hide thy face, and I was troubled I cried to thee, O Lord, and unto the Lord I made supplication. What profit is there in my blood when I go down to the pit? Shall the dust praise thee? Shall it declare thy truth? Hear, O Lord, and have mercy upon me, Lord, be thou my helper. Thou hast turned for me my morning into dancing. Thou hast put off my sackcloth and girded me with gladness. To the end that my glory may sing praise to thee and not be silent. O Lord my God, I will give thanks unto thee forever. And may the Lord add his reading to his word. All right. Okay, we'll continue the songs now with page three hundred and forty-three. In the hymnal, page 343, Springs of Living Water. All three verses. Keep singing y'all, make a joyful noise. Amen. Now that needs to put a smile on your face, folks. Happy now am I. Okay, now we're gonna take the blue book. And go to page 151, or of course, look up on the screen if you don't need the book. But I need to know what I'm waving my arms to, so I got the book open. And now listen, you uh you uh weekend warriors, how many of you have appreciated how heavy dirt can get I mean, it doesn't take a whole lot, does it? It can get heavy pretty quick. All right, I run to Christ. Please stand with me as we sing all three verses. Please be seated Oh, good Who gets a smoke from heaven? Also Get the world so these body places Stage me for his face, I 'll All the God is that I was being too many of our agents God who gave us free Memories of our fraternity , and failures, I saw broken I saw we Now we get often and can make us all my dad. Okay, well, I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to the 30th Psalm this morning. Psalm 30. And those who are in junior church can be dismissed to the back for your class. And I'm really looking forward to the passage that we're going to look at this morning. If you're joining us for the first time or you're not familiar with our practice on the first Sunday of each month, we are working our way through the Psalms And we also take time to celebrate the Lord's table together. And I think as we dig into this Psalm, the 30th Psalm, you're going to find that God in his providence knew exactly what he was doing. when he worked and I was not planning this uh to deal with this psalm today, at least not more than six months ago. And uh it's amazing how the Lord's put this all together and you'll see where we're going in just a second. a minute. Psalm 30, and we'll begin in verse number one, and I'll also read the prefix because that is part of the Hebrew text. It says that it is a psalm and a song at the dedication of the house of David. I will extol thee, O Lord. For thou hast lifted me up, and hast not made my foes to rejoice over me. O Lord my God, I cried unto thee, and thou hast healed me. O Lord, thou hast brought up my soul from the grave. Thou hast kept me alive, that I should not go down to the pit. Sing unto the Lord, O ye saints of his, give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness I'd like us to bow together for just a moment, ask the Lord to bless our time, and then we're going to look at this text this morning as we prepare our hearts to partake of the Lord's table. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, we are so grateful for this wonderful psalm in front of us this morning. As we take time to analyze it, as we consider the setting when David wrote these words, what was going on in his heart that he expresses. And this song of praise to you. I pray that our hearts would be drawn close to you, that we would recognize your power. And your holiness and your righteousness. We would recognize your incredible love for us as mere mortals who are sinners and broken and have absolutely no reason to be invited into your presence Save the righteousness of Christ and his sacrifice. I pray that as we reflect on this triumphant psalm, that our hearts would be pressed to very heartfelt worship. As we take time to remember the body of Christ broken and the blood of Christ that was shed, I pray that we would do it with a much deeper appreciation for the weight of that sacrifice and the intent for which it was given. I pray that in all things you would be exalted, we as your people would be challenged, we would be instructed, and our hearts would be truly engaged. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. The 30th Psalm is a very interesting song. It was a song written to dedicate David's house. And you may not realize this, but David is not the one who built his house. And that's a significant portion of why the Psalm is written the way that it is. But what it is, is it is a resounding testimony of praise to God for his power, his goodness, his faithfulness, and his tender care. And really at the core of all of those pieces of God's ways toward David is the fact that he is a holy God. It is the fact that he is a holy God that moves him and motivates him to do all the things that David is going to talk about in this psalm. And so as we look at this psalm, what I hope that we will see Is the goodness of God laid before us as we remember the way he's worked in the past, as we had focused our attention on his sacrifice in the Lord's table? We will remember this. And then as we remember the righteous position that we have as a body of believers, in order for us to appreciate what's going on, I want you to think with me for just a moment about the significance of this day. Now, you might be here this this morning and you never didn't realize that there's a significance to this day, but you might not realize this five years ago today was the very first Sunday that my family came back from Ghana And I preached for the first time at Anchor uh as not a missionary, but as an interim pastor. In fact, I remember that Sunday very well. I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand if you were here, but you might remember some of the details of that day For our family, it was a very emotional time because we knew for a fact that the Lord wanted us here, and we were very excited about that But we were leaving some people that we loved and still do love very, very much. In fact, this week I was able to communicate with some of those men as I talked to them about uh the the gift that our church has given them that's going to help them with a building project that they're doing. I was able to talk to them about their families and it was a great time of of fellowship and encouragement. And what you may not realize is that 24 hours before we got on a plane and we flew from Accra through Portugal over to JFK, Eric's uh second child was born. And they actually came from the hospital to our house. We're talking literally hours after she had given birth so that we could see that little baby. It was a very emotional time. But the thing that I really want to draw your attention to is not that, but what I preached on on that Sunday morning. It was the same text that I preached my last Sunday in Ghana, which was the week before. And it was what I think is the heart and soul of what the church needs to be reminded of on a regular basis. The text was Matthew 16, and there were four trees we looked at. It's going to be a sermon in a sermon. But it's very significant. Don't worry, it won't be an hour and a half long sermon, okay? But the first thing that we noticed from those verses was that Christ Is the foundation of the church. The church is not built on people's money, it's not built on people's personalities, it's not built on our clout, it's built on the foundation of Christ and Christ alone. Matthew 16, 18 says, Upon this rock I will build my church. And Christ is referring to himself and the work that he would accomplish so that we could be a redeemed people. The second truth that we saw in those verses was that he is the builder of the church. The church is not actually built by the hands of the people. that are assembled this morning. Now it's built through our hands and through our speaking up and through our service, but it is built by, not us But him. We are tools. We're like the shovel that's used to dig. We're like the fork that's used to eat your food. We're just tools. It's important, God works through us, but he is the one who does the work. And so in verse 17, he says, I will build my church. That's not I might. I hope to. If you don't mess it up for me, I'll build my church. He says I'm gonna do it. That's a promise We also saw that he owns the church. It belongs to him. Verse number 18, he didn't say it's your church. It's my church. And that dictates what we should and shouldn't say from this pulpit. It dictates how we should function and conduct ourselves. We are people who work from a position of owned by God. And this is a church that is owned by God. And the last part part was verse number 18, Christ will prevail. He says that the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. He's victorious. So here we are five years later. I have good news for you. Not only do we know this is true because God said it, but we have seen it. We have seen it. The church in Cape Coast is doing very well. If you were to go and sit down with them, you'd see families all over the place, little kids everywhere, family household. You would see family scene again. Some you don't see typically in their family. Culture. You'd see two very capable men handling the Word of God week in and week out. You would see a church that is strong because it's built on the gospel. And I do believe the same thing is true here. You may not realize this, but there's at least double the people in this congregation this morning that there were on that first Sunday. That's true. And that's not a testimony to any of us. That is a testimony to God's grace. It's a testimony to his kindness. Every time we see that there is spiritual growth, every time a person gets saved, every time we see a baptism, every time we experience those things. We're reminded that it is the work of God. He does it all. And we get to participate in it to a very small extent. He can use anybody And we have the joy of seeing that. It's true, but there are also very painful things that we see in a church in context. Yesterday we we had a memorial service, one of over 20. Memorial services that we have done in our church in the last five years. So we've seen a lot of wonderful things and we've seen a lot of hard things. That's the way that life is in a fallen world. We've watched our children grow up, and we've also seen people mentally and physically decline. But through all of this, we've learned something. Every blessing is a gift from God. All glory belongs to Him. Every hardship has been endured by His daily supply of grace. Every conversion, every mark of growth, it is the result of His good and loving hand. You say, Pastor, why do you start there? Because that is the spirit in which this psalm is written. This psalm was written as someone who is looking at a moment in his life, and by the way, five years is is kind of a lot and it's kind of not. Okay? It's kind of a small period of time over the course of our lifetime. But it's enough time to be able to see how God works over time. That's really what it is. And that's what David is doing. In fact, I want to draw your attention first of all to the importance of stopping and remembering at key moments in our life. We see this not just in the first couple of verses of this psalm, but we see it in the prefix. It says that it is a psalm and a song at the dedication of the house of David. Not a dedication of the house of the Lord. David did not see that because David did not have the opportunity to build the house of the Lord. He desired to do that, but it was his personal house. And he wrote, I will extol thee, O Lord, for thou hast lifted me up. I want us to pause for a moment and appreciate what David is saying in that little statement. What was the significance of the Psalm? Well, if you go to 2 Samuel chapter 5, you're going to see some of the historic background behind what is just stated very quickly in the prefix. And it says this, it says, and David went on, and he grew great, and the Lord of hosts was with him. And Hiram, king of Tyre, sent messengers to David and cedar trees and carpenters and masons, and they built David and house. And David perceived that the Lord had established him king over Israel, and that he had exalted his kingdom for his people, Israel's sake. And what an amazing statement. The Lord of hosts was with him. Tyre, uh the the king of Tyre, Hiram, decides to send people to build him a house. You know why they did that? It's because he respected David. He wanted to be in the good graces of God of David. Okay, that's what he was doing. He didn't want David to be an enemy. He wanted David to be a friend. And so out of honor, he does that. But when David is sitting there and he's looking at his houses and he's dedicating to the house to the Lord, he comes to this one very simple conclusion. God established him. He didn't say, Man, it's really good that I'm a strong warrior. He was a strong warrior. There's no question about it. Hey, it's really good to have the wisdom to navigate all those complicated situations. And David did do that well in some places, and other places he didn't. Those are not the places that David went. He says, God established me. It's not about David. David is almost like a spectator. He's a tool that God uses. But more than anything, his perspective is directed to God in that moment of excitement and encouragement, he says, I'm here because God did it and there's no other explanation. But we see that even more thoroughly in the next statement that he makes. He says that you lifted me up. Now, there's another passage in the Psalms It talks about David being lifted up. In fact, there's lots of other places that I could go to. But this one really has the sense, I think, that David is communicating. He says in Psalm 40, verse 2, he, God Brought me up out of an horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and he set my feet on a rock and established my goings. Now I want you to just get in your picture, or in your mind, a picture of what David is saying. He's saying, I'm laying in this quagmire. There's mud all around me. I'm covered in dirt. And I'm helpless. And God reaches down and he pulls me up out of that mud. And he cleans me off. And he says, Come into my presence. He says, that's what God did. In other words, David's not saying, you lifted me up from this place of strength and stability, and everything was good, and then I was exalted even higher. That's not what he's saying. He's saying, I was low. I was at the bottom. I was at a place where everyone kind of looked at me and scoffed and said, I'm glad I'm not in David's shoes. God picked him up. That's what he did. In fact, for us to appreciate, we ought to think about some of the high points and the low points of David's life. The lion and the bear high point. Killing Goliath high point. Saul has slain his thousands, David is ten thousand. High point that's about to become a low point. All of a sudden he's sitting in the king's palace, and Saul whips up that spear and he like slings it at David. And David David goes, I gotta get out of here. He did it more than once. And David is fleeing for his life. You think about the story where he lies to Abiathar the priest. And then Saul comes and he says, Why'd you help David? Bathroad had absolutely no clue. Because David lied. And this guy named Doag went and he killed all the prophets in that community. Unbelievable story. And David, actually, there's a song where David laments his own deceit and the consequences of it. That's a low point. Think about David acting like he's a wild man. Because he's afraid for his life. Think about all the lies that he told to these the kings as he's giving them the impression that he's fighting for them and he's in league. And literally they're going to take David to war with them. And and the counselors say, you can't take David. This is the guy that killed the Goliath Goliath the giant. He goes back to Ziklag and the city's burned with fire. Everybody's gone. And all of his men say, we need to kill this man. That's the kind of stuff we're talking about. David knew it was like to go through the ups and the downs. Think about when Uzzah died because he tried to stabilize the Ark of the Covenant on a cart. And David felt the weight. I sent the ark on that cart. And that man died because he didn't do things the way that God prescribed. That's what we mean when we say David was lifted up out of the Myri pit. And he actually describes in these verses for us. I'm just going to hit them quickly so that you can get the sense of it. In verse number two, he says, I cried and thou hast healed me. Now he's talking about the fact that he was in internal emotional anguish. And when we read the Psalms, we see We see so many examples of this. When we read the story of David's life, we see lots of examples of this. He's saying, I was in an absolutely desperate situation. state and you healed me. Verse number three says, Thou brought up my soul from the grave, thou hast kept me alive, but I should not go down into the pit. And let's remember that David was a mighty warrior. He knew what it was like to go into battle with sword, and he goes into battle, and he's on the brink of death. And by the way, who are the most valiant warriors? They're the ones that you send into the thick of the battle. They're the ones that lead the charge. They're the ones that don't back down. That was David. He really is speaking literally. I was on the brink of death. You preserved my life Verses 5 through 7, he talks about the ups and the downs of how you grow spiritually. He says, his anger endureth for a moment, and his favor is life. You know what David's talking about? He's talking about how he felt when he sinned. How all of a sudden he doesn't feel a closeness to God. His thinking is disturbed internally, and God draws him to himself, and he pulls him close to himself, and he's reminded again that he is God's child. And is reminded of God's grace and God's mercy and God's loving kindness. And he talks about the ups and the downs of those things. He talks about the fact that he would weep, but it comes it joy comes in the morning. He says, Thy favor hath made my mountain to stand strong. He talks about what it was like to be at those high points in life where you feel like you're unshakable. Now you're not unshakable, but you feel like you're unshakable for a little while. And then thou dost hide thy face and I was troubled. It seems like sometimes it's not a lot of time between I feel like I'm as strong as can be, and all of a sudden I feel like God's nowhere near me. Now, what is David describing? He's describing the normal Christian life. It's true. I mean, can you not identify with these things? I can identify with them. I can identify with all of them. He's talking about the normal variations of life. And by the way, the variation is not on God's part. It's not like God is playing cat and mouse with you and with I. God is consistent. We are variable. How we view God changes. Our emotions get the best of us. The fact is our sin, it affects us internally. And so David is talking about the consistency of God and the variation of his own spirit in the midst of those moments. So why does this milestone matter so much? It's because it acknowledged that though David's experience was variable And he was close to quitting, and he had moments of absolute despair and desperation, it testifies that God is consistent. And God is faithful. And God brought David through all of those things. And at this key moment in David's life, he says, I'm sitting here today. Looking at a house that was built for me by another king, established as the king, in the midst of all those things that I experienced in life, I'm here because of God. No other explanation. His faithfulness, his goodness, his strength, his kindness. And you're here today in the same way. Now, we don't always pause and think about it this way. We do need to do that from time to time. But that's really what this text does. It calls us to remember God. While our experience is circumstantially different, essentially the root is the same. So it moves us to a second truth. These moments need to involve others. Now, if you'll notice carefully the way that David writes this, he doesn't just sing to God and then he kind of keeps it to himself. And by the way, there were times where David had a very personal and intimate interaction with God. He's reflecting on the Lord in solitude. But this is not an example of that. And I want you to notice the details. In verse number four, he says, Sing unto the Lord, O ye saints. of his, give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness. Now there are a couple of noteworthy statements that I want to draw your attention to as we think about what David is saying The first is the phrase, sing unto the Lord. And there are two parts that I think are important for us to recognize. The first is that he is singing, all right? And you can think about all the different ways that we communicate with people. Probably the most impersonal ways we communicate are we text people. Okay? Texting is the most impersonal. And that's, you know, I if I don't have a long conversation, I just send a text message. If I'm texting back and forth with somebody, I'm like, okay, hold on, hold on. We need to talk about this because the back and forth is getting too much here. And so you just you get on the phone and you have a conversation Or then you say, you know what, this situation's a little bit more personal. Let's have a video call. So I can see your face and you can see my face. Another level of personal. We could sit down and write a letter. That's very personal. A lot of people don't do that anymore. Takes time. People have to see our handwriting. When you misspell, either you gotta start over again or you gotta cross it out or white it out or whatever. That's a pretty personal way to communicate. Face to face, one-on-one. I don't think it gets any more personal than that. Actually, it does. Singing. Because singing isn't just talking to somebody, it is expressing to someone with more than just words. It is something that expresses from the entirety of our person our hearts. You know why some people are very comfortable speaking publicly, but not singing publicly? It's because seeing is a lot more personal. I have absolutely no problem getting up and preaching. It doesn't it I don't get nervous at all. That's not always been true. And it might not be true in every context. But you'll never hear me sing a solo in this church, I promise you. There might be a couple reasons for that. But it's because of how personal sing is. It's one of the most personal ways that we can communicate. And so what does David say? He says, Sink. But there's a second part to the Lord. Now, there are passages that talk about a singing about God, but he says saying to God. There's actually a difference between those things. In fact, you may not even think about it, but within our church context, there are times we sing about God, and there's times that we sing to God David says, sing to God. And there are lots of examples of this in Scripture. Psalm 95, 1. Oh, come, let us sing unto the Lord. Let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation. Two things. He says, let us, not let me, let us sing unto Let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation. Psalm 96, 2. He says, sing unto the Lord. Bless his name. Show forth his salvation from day to day. Declare his glory amongst the heathen, his wonders amongst all people. Psalm one oh four thirty three. I will sing unto the Lord as long as I live. I will sing praise to my God while I have my being. Psalm 147. 1, praise ye the Lord. It is good for us to sing praise unto our God. Do you notice the corporate aspect of that? Do you notice the focus of that? He's not saying, why don't you all listen to me sing? He says, sing with me. That's what congregational singing is. What's great about congregational singing is those who have great voices are just a part of the sound, and those who don't. They're also part of the sound too. And what you hear, a couple people laughing over here, what you hear is this mighty voice. It's almost like as individuals we get lost in the big picture. And that's really what David is talking about. He's talking about the glory of a congregation of people singing praise to But then there's a second phrase, give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness. Now I think this is an important detail for us not to miss. His praise was not focused as much on what God does, but on who God is. Did you notice that? Now, is it wrong to sing about what God says? Of course it's not wrong to sing about what God does. Is it wrong for us to sing as individuals as opposed as a congregation? No, it's not wrong. We have examples of all those things in Scripture, but there's a very distinctiveness to this particular song. He's saying, I'm singing about God 's character, and his character is what moves him to do what he does. So it's not just not so much about all of the benefits that I've enjoyed and how I've seen God work, but how what I've seen has directed me to who He is. And as I see him as he is, all of a sudden I appreciate him far more. In fact, the Bible really isn't so much focused on what we do as much as who we are. It always speaks in terms of do this because of who you are. You are this. So live like this is true about you because it is true about you. God does these things because of who he is. The scripture is full of these kinds of examples. His life experience moved him to reflect on the nature of God. That there is none like him, he is holy. There is none that has right to approach him because he is holy. There is none that can indict him or say, you did wrong, God, because he is holy. What he does is connected, is rooted to, it flowed out of who he is. How do I know that my salvation is secure? Because God can't lie. You say he can't lie, no. His character does not permit such a thing. He has a perfect and holy nature. In fact, Peter even makes that very point. And hope of eternal life, which God who cannot lie has promised What an amazing statement. There's a third thing I want to note you to notice, and that is the phrase, ye saints of his Now, there are two points that I think are very important here. The first is who was Sigging? The people that were singing were called saints. Now, saints are not a collection of the great Christians of the past. Well, saints are you and me. We are all saints. Even the church at Corinth, when Paul writes them, he says to the saints which are at Corinth. Now they weren't living like they were saints, but that didn't change the fact that they were saints. But that's who they were. That was their identity. This is a positional reality. And the word saint has the ideas that these are people that are separated unto God From the world, and they're in a position that is safe, it is secure, it is permanent. That's what he means when he says saints He's not talking about the best of the best Christians. He's talking about the best of the best in the middle of the rotors and the worst of the worst, those who are in Christ No matter what level of maturity, no matter how long, no matter whether or not we've read their their stories or we'll never want to read their stories. The fact is he's talking about believers, people who are in this position by the grace of God. God, set apart to God, belonging to Him. There'd be no reason for you and I to sing if this wasn't true about us. Absolutely none Even the word church means we are a called out people. The concept of saints is really bound up in that. We are a called people. We are put into a body. We are set apart from the world. We are set apart to God. And so David doesn't just call out to everybody. He says, I'm calling out to the saints. I'm calling out to God's people. The people that can understand, the people that can appreciate, the people whose praise is actually going to be heard because they belong to God. That's what he said. saying. But then there's a second part to this. He didn't say to my favorite saints. He said to the saints. This is indiscriminate. I mean, it's discriminate in the sense that he's reaching out to those who are believers, but it's indiscriminate in the sense that it's all believers that have the opportunity to hear what he's saying. He's talking about the communal aspect of this, the congregational aspect of this. The fact is that God never designed for us to grow as Christians in isolation. He designed for us to grow together in community. He has called us to be a people, not just a person. Now, both realities are true, but the emphasis of the New Testament is almost entirely on the congregational, the communal aspect of this. This is an active community of worshipers, not just being entertained and listening to what David has to say, but saying, we want to worship with you. We have heard what you say, and we want to lift up our voices with you. That's the sense of what's going on. So, what are the implications of that? We need to learn to stop and reflect on the goodness of God. We need to allow the variability of our lives to remind us that He is the rock. We need to ponder the implication of why he does what he does because we have seen him as he is. God 's ways are predictable because they're consistent with his nature. Your ways is my ways. Well, that's a totally different matter. So long as we live consistent with our position, they're predictable. But we don't always do that We need to embrace the corporate nature of the Christian experience. Think of it this way. We're individuals in worship. Being guided and led by spiritual leadership, rejoicing together as a body, exhorting one another to cultivate growth together into Christ's likeness. That's what we're doing. Listen to what some of these texts in the New Testament say about this. Hebrews chapter 3, verse 13. We are to exhort one another daily while it is called today, lest you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sins. That's corporate. Not corporate like corporation, but corporate like community. Ephesians chapter 4, verse 11. He gave some apostles and prophets and evangelists and pastors and teachers. for the perfecting of the saints. Not the saint, the saints. For the work of the ministry For the edifying of the body of Christ, that we be henceforth no more children tossed to and fro, carried about by every wind of doctrine, that ye may grow up into him in all things which is the head, even Christ. Hebrews 10, 24. Let us consider one another and provoke unto love and good works, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another. And so much the more as you see the day approaching, do you not see the community aspect of these texts? And this is just a small portion of New Testament script I could go for example after example after example of how we see this concept laid out in the New Testament. But there's a third truth I'd like you to notice this morning. Every remembrance needs to be pointed back to the gospel truth. And you know what's amazing? You're going to see that in this text. Listen carefully to how he closes it. He says, Thou hast turned for me my morning into dancing. Thou hast put off my sackcloth and girded me with gladness. To the end. Don't miss that. It is continuing the thought. You have done this to the end that my glory may sing praise to thee and not be silent. My God, I will give thanks unto thee forever. Did you catch that? You put off my sackcloth and put off my mourning and turned it into dancing and girded me with gladness. So that I will give thanks and praise you forever. That is a gospel-oriented concept, folks. You cannot sing praise to God forever if it's not for the redemptive work of Christ. In fact, this sounds so familiar to me to what we read in the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew chapter 5. Jesus says, Blessed are the poor in spirit. Theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that do mourn, they shall be comforted. As Jesus teaches the Sermon on the Mount, he begins by talking about the character of the disciple, the character of the believer. And as he talks about the character of the believer, he says, the blessed man, the person who's belonging to the kingdom, and the kingdom belongs to them, is the person who's poor in spirit and who has mourned and has been comforted. You know what he's describing? What the gospel does to people. When I hear the gospel, it makes sense because the law says you're guilty. The lost is condemned, the loss is no hope. The lost is separated from God, guilty, under wrath. And as I feel the weight of my sin and I understand God's holiness and his righteousness and his justice, I go, do I have help? Do I have hope? And God says, There's no help, but there's gospel. Jesus paid it all. He did it all. And all of a sudden this person who says, I got nothing to give God. Receives the kingdom by faith alone. The person who is mourning because they realize their desperation in sin and having no hope realizes God did it for me. That's what a true Christian is. It's a person who understands I have nothing to bring to God. I have nothing to give to God I have nothing to purchase my redemption, nothing to pay for my sin. And Jesus did it all. The cost of redemption is entirely in God's book. Jesus paid it in full. You and I just receive it as a gift. We trust in what he did for us. Us. We rely upon the redemptive work of Christ, like a simple child who says, I believe, we trust. And that is at the heart of what is in these verses. David is talking about how you took me from this position and you turned my position because you have an eternal purpose for me. That's what he's saying. The key is the gospel. It is to the end that my glory may sing praise to thee. I will give thanks unto thee forever. The details are not hyperbole or misstatement. They are consistently reiterated in the Psalms. I read these two Psalms yesterday at Janine's Memorial Service I probably picked them because they were in my head as I was thinking about this text. I can't remember which came first, to be totally honest with you. Listen to what it says in Psalm 16. I've set the Lord always before me, because He's at my right hand I shall not be moved. Therefore, my heart is glad, my glory rejoiceth, my flesh shall also rest in hope. When Peter was preaching at Pentecost, he goes to this passage and he says, You will not suffer your holy one to see corruption. You will not leave my soul in hell. That's what he said. Why? Because he knew that Jesus would die for. Did he know his name now? Obviously, Not. But he knew that the Redeemer was coming. And then he says, Thou wilt show me the path of life, in thy presence is fullness of joy, and at thy right hand are pleasures forevermore. That's not hyperbole. He means forever. Psalm 23:1. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I'll fear no evil, for thou art with me. The Christian shouldn't fear death. We shouldn't be terrified of it. We should recognize it is God calling us to be home. We recognize that the grave has no power over us because Christ has canceled its power when he rose from the dead. He says, I'll fear no evil, for thou art with me. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. I will dwell in the house of the Lord. There's that word again, forever. Do you see the consistency of what David is saying? Oh, there's so many more examples we could go to, but the point is this: David's praise wasn't just about, you brought me to see my house. His praise was, you brought me to this moment, and you'll keep me forever. That was his point. With these thoughts in our minds, let's prepare our hearts for the Lord's table. Let's remember as one body the death and resurrection of Christ, his righteousness. His body broke and his blood shed, so that we could say with David, You've turned my morning into dancing, put off my sackcloth and girded me with gladness. To the end I may sing and praise thy name forever You will show me the path of life, and thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand are pleasures forevermore. Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I'll fear no evil. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I'll dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Can you say that? Can you take these elements and say, I understand what they represent? I understand that the body of Christ was broken and the blood of Christ was shed, so that I could be forgiven and cleansed and declared righteous and stand holy in his presence forever. Do you understand that not? Because if you don't, you should just pause and consider why not. And if you don't, please don't leave this place without saying, Pastor, I didn't talk to you. I don't understand the significance of this gospel. I'd be glad to sit down with you. If it's two hours, that's okay, it doesn't matter. It's Sunday. Pastors only work on Sundays, right? My wife just looked at me. If you don't understand the gospel, please don't leave her without a clear Understanding from Scripture. Let's bear our hearts together and prepare to partake as a body. Our Father in heaven. We recognize how blessed we are because we can call you Father and come into your presence. Because Jesus bore the wrath against our sin And in fact, that just wrath is satisfied. There's nothing more to give. There's nothing more to do. It's all done. I pray that as we eat this bread and as we drink this juice that represents the body and blood of Christ, that we will remember freshly and new. How great the sacrifice is, and we will rejoice in it. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen