Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And uh we're halfway through our week and we've been working our way through this passage of Scripture. So if you're joining us for the first time, we're in Psalm 30 And uh the rest of you, I want to invite you, let's all turn together to the 30th Psalm, and we'll read it in its entirety, and then we're going to dig into the next little piece that I'd like us to focus in on. And that is the fact that this uh moment of praise was not just a private thing, but this is something that David did in front of others and he called them to participate in it. So Psalm 30, verse number one says this. And remember it is a psalm and a song at the dedication of the house of David. I will extol thee, O Lord, for thou hast lifted me up, and hast not made my foe to rejoice over me. O Lord my God, I cried unto thee, and thou hast healed me. O Lord that hast brought up my soul from the grave, that has kept me alive, that I should not go down to the pit. Sing unto the Lord, O ye saints of his, and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness. For his anger endureth for a moment, but his favor is life. Weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning. And in my prosperity I said, I shall never be moved Lord, by thy favor thou hast made my mountain to stand strong, that it's hide thy face, and I was troubled. I cried unto thee, O Lord, and unto the Lord I made supplication. What profit is there in my blood when I go down to the pit? Shall the dust praise thee? Shall I declare thy truth Shall it declare thy truth? Hear, O Lord, and have mercy upon me, Lord. Be thou my helper. Thou hast turned for me my morning into dancing Thou hast put off my sackcloth and girded me with gladness, to the end that my glory may sing praise to thee and not be silent. O Lord my God, I will give thanks unto thee for ever If you can remember yesterday, as we were digging into this passage of Scripture, we saw the variability of David's life, and how at that key moment the dedication of his house He's pausing to remember what God has carried him through and how God has sustained him and how God has ultimately guided him. This morning what we're going to do is focus in on how David chose to not just celebrate by himself a private gathering, but he invites a congregation to worship and to praise with him. And so I want to focus in on three simple statements that are made in verse number four. Let me read it to you, and then we'll focus in on those three pieces and then see the implications that are connected to them. He says, Sing unto the Lord, O ye his saints. Give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness. The first piece that I want us to focus in on is the statement, Sing unto the Lord. Now that word sing is such an important word. There are so many different ways that we can communicate. We we communicate on our cell phones by sending text messages. We can communicate by jotting out an email and sending that. We could dictate a letter to someone and they could write it for us. We could type a letter. We could handwrite a letter, we could have a video conference call, we could have a face-to-face meeting, we could have a conversation on the telephone. All of those different ways of communication have their pros and their cons. And they're not all equally, we could say, personal. But singing is one of the absolute most personal ways that you could express yourself to someone. One of the reasons that singing is so uh personal is because it involves the entirety of who we are. It's not just speaking something. It is poetically in a very emotional way expressing something in music. And so David says, I want you to sing to the Lord. Scripture is filled with commands and examples of people either singing about the Lord and testifying about who he is and what he has done or singing to the Lord And by the way, when we use the word hymn, a hymn is a song of praise about God. That's what a hymn is. And so in scriptures when it says, speak to yourselves in psalms, those are Inspired songs that many of them would actually be classified as either a spiritual song or as a hymn Speaking to yourselves in songs and in hymns, a an anthem about God, and then spiritual songs. This would kind of be that category of singing to God about what he has done for you, expressing thanksgiving. That's really what we're looking at here. And scripture is full of examples of commands of this. For instance, Psalm 95, 1, O come let us sing unto the Lord. Let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation. Notice the words to and unto and us and our. This is a corporate context, and this is a singing to God, not about God, but to God. Another example, Psalm 96, 2-3. Sing unto the Lord, bless his name, show forth his salvation from day to day, declare amongst the heathen Were the nations, the Gentiles, his wonders amongst all people. So I'm singing to the Lord and I'm inviting other people to come and to sing with me. That's really the heart of missions, you could say. Psalm 104, 33. I will sing unto the Lord as long as I live. I will sing Praise to my God while I have my being. Now this seems to be more of a private song where the other two are corporate in nature. And then the last one is Psalm 147. 1. It says, Praise ye the Lord. It is good to sing praise unto our God for pre for it is pleasant and praise is comely. Notice the corporate nature unto our God. Notice that he's singing to the Lord. The scripture is full of these examples, and that is what this is all about. The second little detail I want us to notice is the statement, give thanks at the remembrance. of his holiness. Now this is a praise that is exclusively focused on what God is, not just what he does. And I think this is an important detail for us to notice. A lot of times people say, God has done this for me. I'm thankful for him, doing this for me. And it's good to express it in such a way. But to go beyond, here's what he did to hear who he is and therefore that's why he did what he did. That is the focus of the psalm in front of us. And really the depth of worship that we want in our church context is not just here's what God did for me, this is who God is, therefore because of who he is, here's what he has done. That's the depth of real heartfelt worship. I think that that's an important feature that we want to notice here. And so he's looking at his life experience and he's saying What I've experienced in life has pointed me to God so that I will reflect on who he is, his nature, and therefore I will express to God appreciation for not just what he's done but who he is. This is getting to the foundational level on this issue of singing. And notice what he focuses in on. It's at the remembrance of his what His holiness, not just his goodness or his righteousness or his grace or his mercy, but it is his holiness. And by the way, we cannot appreciate God's grace and his mercy and his goodness and his righteousness and his justice apart from or outside of his holiness What makes us appreciate his mercy and his grace is the fact that he is holy. What what what makes us appreciate his goodness and his righteousness is connected back to his holiness. And so what David is saying, you know what God is holy. There is none like him. There is nothing that is truly comparable with our God. He is holy. He's in a category that is completely unique. to himself. There is none that is as right as he is, and none of us has a right to approach him in our impurities and in our sinfulness. Because he is holy. None of us can say I have the right to come into God's presence because of something that is in me or something about who I am or something that I've given to God. He's holy. He can accept that There's none of us who can uh who can rightly go into God's presence apart from the gospel. And so what we're going to see is that this issue of God's holiness and why David can actually praise God is because He recognizes his holiness and the fact that he can come into God's presence through the gospel. And that's what we're going to focus by the end of our study. Not necessarily as much this morning. But definitely tomorrow we'll get into that. And then the third statement that I want you to notice is the statement, O ye his saints Now, two details that I want you to notice about this. The word saint means that these are a people who are singing from a position that is holy. What I mean by holy, what the Bible means by that, is that when God looks at these people, he has set them apart unto himself. And he has declared that they are holy. Now, there's no person living that based upon the way that we live should properly be called holy. This is a positional reality. And by the way, lots and lots of the epistles, they start, grace be to you, peace to God from our Lord Jesus Christ. to the saints of God who are at Corinth or Ephesus or Colosse or Thessalonica. Why does he use the word saints when he talks about all these sinful things that they're doing or that they've done Well, it's because they're a gospel people. They are saints because of Christ's work on their behalf. Because they are righteous in Christ. They are forgiven in Christ. They are set apart to God through Christ. This issue of being a saint is something that is only true because of Christ's work on their behalf, not because of their work on his behalf his work on their behalf. And then I want you to notice the plural nature of it. He says, you saints, that's a plural. In other words, there's a congregational aspect to it. There's a corporate aspect to it. So he's speaking to an active community of worshipers, not just I'm worshiping God by myself in private. I'm reading my Bible. I'm praying alone. I'm singing praise to God by myself. He's saying I'm in a group of people, a community who is actively engaged in worshiping God, not being entertained while I listen passively to somebody sing about God or somebody sing to God. I'm actually singing with them to God. We are singing actively as a congregation as a body. And so we see the the the elements of singing, the elements of focus on the holiness of God, and then from a position of being declared saints who are a part of a community of active worshipers of people who are saved. That's the focus of these of this section. It's corporate praise, not private individualistic praise, corporate praise. And so you may say, well, Joe, what are the implications of this? Well, the implication is that we need to learn to stop and reflect on the goodness of God and we need to allow all the things that are going in our life, the ups and the downs, to drive us to him as our rock of salvation, so that we will ponder not just what he's done. But the nature of this person who has done this for us, we need to ponder the implications of who God is. We need to embrace within the corporate context How this Christian experience drives us to not just be individuals worshiping by ourselves, but individuals who are united to a body, who are being guided by spiritual leadership, to rejoice together in the position we Enjoy as a body the position we have in Christ as a body of believers. That's what it's all about. We need to be exhorted one another as a group to actually grow together into Christ's likeness, worship together, and express together what Christ has done for us because of who He is. And that's really what Sunday morning worship is all about. When we come together, we don't come together to express our individualistic worship. We come together to express corporate worship as a body. We lose our identity as individuals and we are absorbed in our identity as Christians, people who are in Christ and a part of his body. That's really what Sunday morning is all about. It's about us gathering to worship together. And by the way, Scripture is full of examples of this emphasis. For instance, Hebrews 3. 13. We need to exhort one another daily while it is called today, lest we be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. So what do we need? We need other Christians to Call our attention to our sins so that we can walk in holiness and not become hardened and complacent and callous. That's corporate. Ephesians 4. 11. He gave some apostles and prophets and evangelists and teachers for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying. of the body of Christ, that we henceforth be no more children tossed to and fro, carried about by every wind of doctrine, that we may grow up into him in all things, which is the head even Christ. nature of that. We are a body who is growing together. Or Hebrews chapter 10 verse 24. Let us consider one another to provoke unto love and good works. not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another and so much the more as ye see the day approaching. What is the focus or the emphasis of these verses? It's sing to God, focused on his character as a body of saints. That's what it's all about. You say, well, Joel, what can I take away from this this morning? What you can take away from it is the importance of focusing in on who God is. And focusing in on expressing it in song. You say, well, I don't like to sing. I don't sing very well. You know what's great about congregational singing? The fact that we don't sing well or that we do sing well, it doesn't actually matter very much because our voice is just one amongst hundreds or thousands or dozens. And our voice is part of a group, not an individual. We need to recognize that we have a position that is all based on his work, not ours. and that we are members of a body. I hope that you don't neglect the body, the local church, the body of believers that God has planted you in. We need each other desperately. We need the encouragement. We need the focus. We need the resharpening. We need the the excitement and the joy of worshiping as a body. And so I pray that this past Sunday, when we gathered together, that's what we did. And this next Sunday, when we gather together, that's exactly what we'll do And even if you're not able to join us physically, that when you get on that live stream, that you will sing as a part of the body, and you will read as a part of the body, and you will focus in on the unity that we enjoy as believers. That's the focus. Hope this has been a challenge to you this morning and an encouragement. If it has, please share that. Hope you have a blessed day and Lord willing tomorrow we will close out our section on the 30th Psalm and then we'll look at a sermon preview on Friday morning. Bye now