Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection and hope that you enjoyed our introduction yesterday and really looking forward to digging into the content of this psalm. So if you have your Bible, let's turn together to the 30th Psalm. And we're going to be reading the entirety of the Psalm, but we're going to focus in primarily on verse number one and a couple of other details that kind of flow alongside of that. So Let's go ahead and turn together to Psalm 30. And I'll remind you again, it is a psalm and song at the dedication of the house of David. That little significant detail is important for us to not miss. He says, I will extol thee, O Lord, for thou hast lifted me up and hast not made my foes to rejoice over me. O Lord, my God, I cried unto thee, and thou hast healed me. O Lord, thou hast brought up my soul from the grave, thou hast kept me alive, that I should not go to the pit. Sing unto the Lord, O ye saints of his, and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness. For his anger endureth for a moment, in his favor is life. Weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning. In my prosperity I said, I shall never be moved. Lord, by thy favor thou hast made my mountain to stand strong, but thou didst hide thy face, and I was troubled I cried to thee, O Lord, and unto the Lord I made supplication. What profit is there in my blood when I go down to the pit? Shall the dust praise thee? Shall it declare thy truth? Hear, O Lord, and have mercy upon my s upon me. Lord, be thou my helper. Thou hast turned for me my mourning into dancing, thou hast put off my sackcloth and girded me with gladness, to the end that my glory may sing praise to thee. and not be silent. O Lord my God, I will give thanks unto thee forever. Love this psalm. Such a great psalm. And what I would like us to do this morning is focus in on the thrust of this psalm, and that is that we need to stop and we need to remember how God has worked in our life when we are going through very significant moments in our life. Think about a graduation from high school, graduation from college, uh when a person gets married, when a person uh finishes uh some form of education when they get a significant um promotion in the military uh at an ordination council There are lots and lots of different periods in our life, seasons, times, where we pause and we remember how God has worked in our life. And that's what's going on in this text of Scripture. David is in a significant moment in his life. And for you to appreciate that, you gotta look down at the opening. It says that it is a psalm and a song at the dedication of the house of David. Some people may not realize this, but when we look at the Hebrew text, I know in our Bibles we start verse number one. I will extol thee. But if you were to look at a Hebrew Old Testament, you would see that that little prefix that starts it out, a psalm and song at the dedication of the house of David, is actually a part of the Hebrew Scripture. And so that little detail is to help us to know what was going on when the psalm was written, what was the significance of it, why did David do this? Who wrote it? Now not every single Psalm has those little Prefixes at the be at the beginning that tell you a little bit of detail, but this particular one does. It was written when David was dedicating his house. Now for us to understand more detail about what's going on, we have to turn to 2 Samuel 5, because in that passage of Scripture it gives us some details. Let me read to you what it says. It says, David went on and he grew great. And the Lord God of hosts was with him. And Hiram, king of Tyre, sent messages messengers to David, and cedar trees and carpenters and masons, and they built David an house. And David perceived that the Lord had established him king over Israel, and that he exalted his kingdom for his people Israel's sake Now don't miss some of those details. It says that he grew great. The Lord of hosts was with him. Hiram, king of Tyre, built David a house. David perceived that the Lord had established him. His people, Israel's sake, was the reason God did this. All of these details drive to a point that David recognizes that the reason that he has a house that has been built by another king, the king of Tyre, is because God is the one who's established him. God is the one who has brought him to this moment. But not everything that went from the point that David left the sheepfold to the moment that he is sitting in his own house that's been built by uh the king of Tyre. Not everything that's gone through that season of David's life has been easy. It's not necessarily been a positive or good thing. Because in the next statement, David says, I will extol thee. For thou hast lifted me up. Now when he uses the statement lifted me up, that is a statement that this that is describing someone who has been down in the dirt, in the mire, wearied, discouraged. basically beat down to nothing and God lifts that person up out of the dirt. That is the picture that David is using when he says, I'm going to praise you at this moment. Because you lifted me up. There's another passage of scripture that uses this kind of language. Psalm 40, verse 2 says, He brought me up also out of a horrible pit. out of the miry clay and he set my feet upon a rock and established my goings. There are all kinds of different word pictures that come to mind. You know, for instance, if you've read Pilgrim's Progress and he talks about the slew of dis And how Christian was lifted up out of the slough to spawn. This is kind of the picture that John Bunyan is is thinking in his mind probably when he writes those details. Or I I love to garden and I think about after you know a violent rain and violent wind and and and maybe your grape vines get thrown down into the dirt or your your corn gets thrown down in the dirt and and you lift those things up and you try to get them supported and you try to clean them off so that they don't get some kind of disease from the soil. This is the idea. David says throughout my my lifetime, from the time that I left the sheepfold to the time that I've been dis that I've been established I've gone through some really hard things. You say, Oh, come on, David, what kind of things are you talking about? Well, you think about the lion and the bear that David s uh slew, or think about Goliath and how he is a hero or The the statement Saul has slain is thousands and David is ten thousand. These were high points, but what about after Saul heard that song and he decides he wants to kill? David and David's running for his life. His own father-in-law wants to kill him or you know the story of Abiathar and Doag and how Doag goes and he kills all these priests, and it all really goes back to the fact that David lied to Abiathar, and Abiathar didn't know that David was running from Saul at the moment. And David feels the weight of these these things, and David feels the guilt of these things. And he even writes about it in one of the Psalms. Or think about when David was at one of the lowest points in his life at Zebra. Where David is uh he's there and he's discouraged, and all of his men are are saying, Let's kill David, and it says that David encouraged himself and the Lord his God. Or think about the death of Uzzah. where David is bringing the Ark of the Ark of the Covenant back into Israel and he puts it on a cart. And as it's coming in on a cart, one of the one of the um The cart begins to shake and this man Uzzah doesn't want the Ark of the Covenant to fall on the ground. And so he reaches out and he touches the ark to steady the cart, and immediately he dies. And David feels the weight of that because he didn't bring the Ark of the Covenant into Jerusalem the way that he was supposed to. What's the point? David knew what it was like to experience tremendous hardship, tremendous pain, tremendous suffering He knew what it was like to run for his life. And he knew what it was like to be at low points in his life. And through all of that variability, God sustained him. And in fact, he talks about it in the Psalm in verse number two. He says, I cried and you healed me. He talks about the emotional anguish of these moments. Or in verse 30 he says, Thou hast Thou hast brought up my soul from the grave, and hast kept me alive, that I go not down to the pit. He says I was right on the brink of death. and you sustain my life. He could be talking about when David was running from Saul, he could be talking about when he was in battle and he was in a very close pay place. I don't think that David is necessarily speaking figuratively here He's speaking literally. His life was on the brink of death. Verses 5 and 7, he says that his anger endureth for a moment. His favor is life. Weeping endures for a night. Joy cometh in the morning. By thy favor thou hast made my mountains to stand strong. Thou hast hidden thy face and I was troubled. What's David talking about? Well, he's talking about the ups and the downs of our spiritual growth. The fact is in the Christian life, not only do we face moments where we may be physically in danger. Emotionally we are stretched. But he's talking about the fact that sometimes when we sin against God Our conscience condemns us, and we feel as if God is far away, and God would never allow us into his presence. And we feel the weight and the burden of our sin. Sometimes there are times that Through the ups and downs of our growth in the Christ-likeness, we experience the same kinds of things that He's describing He's talking about how people grow. He's talking about the real-life Christian experience. Yes, we're redeemed. Yes, we're forgiven. Yes, we're righteous in Christ. Yes, we have an eternal inheritance that awaits us. Yes, we're secured in Christ, and yes, sometimes we do not live as if those things are true. We don't feel as if those things are true. We don't think as if those things are true. We get distracted and weird, and David expresses those things. He talks about strength and confidence in verse 6. He says, In my prosperity I said, I will never be moved. And in verse 8 he says, I cried to thee, O Lord. Unto the Lord I made my supplication. He talks about the fact that there were times that he felt tremendous desperation, tremendous weakness, and he cries out to God. And God hears his prayer, he answers his prayer, he delivers him. What's the point of all this? The point is very simple. David is saying, today I remember All of that stuff that went all the ups and the downs, you were consistent when I was weak. You were consistent when I stumbled. You were consistent when I wasn't thinking right. You were consistent when I was on the brink of death. You were consistent while my life went up and down He's saying I need to remember and stop and think and testify to your faithfulness. That's what it's all about He's acknowledging that life is full of variability. He's acknowledging how close he was to quitting in his moments of despair and desperation. He's testifying that in those moments God was consistent. His hands upheld him and strengthened him and guided him through those seasons. It demonstrates that God is good, he is faithful, he is strong, he is kind. And let me tell you, what David is expressing is something that you and I experience as well. We're not David. Our circumstances are different But there is an essential consistency between the kinds of challenges that David experienced and he talks about here that you and I experience as well. The level may be different, the severity may be different, how long those things lasted may be different, but when it comes down to the fundamental nature of the Christian experience, there's a consistency here. And you say, well, Joel, what's the takeaway? The takeaway is this. Today you need to stop and remember that you have gotten to the place that you are And you've experienced the blessings that you have, and you've experienced the strength that you've been given all by his consistent fatherly care I think we need to pause to think about that this morning. That's what I want to challenge you to do. If this has been an encouragement to you, please share that. I hope that you have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, tomorrow we will continue our study on Psalm 30. Have a blessed day. Bye now.