Okay, well good evening. Good to see each of you. Let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer. And uh see people running through the back door there. Let's get started with the word of prayer and then uh we'll get into our song service. Tonight. Let's pray. Father, we pray that you'd help us tonight to have clear hearts and attentive minds as we sit under the ministry of Scripture, be with Pastor Chris as he preaches. And I pray that Your hand of blessing would be on this time. I pray that as we have opportunity to share testimonies, that you would be glorified and our hearts would be encouraged. We ask it in Christ's name, amen. Alright, let's get started with some singing hymn number 524, Saved by the Blood. We'll sing all three verses. of Hymn number five hundred twenty-four. Please stand with me. Say my goodness and my man. I care of the colour I pray for my mind. Save the blood of the fine one All hell to the Father, all hell to the Son, all hell to the I pray everyone, spare my life to find one. My friends are blowing, I can 't think of God Swiss I am swept by the Please be seated as we turn over to hymn number five hundred twelve. Redeemed how I love to proclaim it. 512, we'll sing verses one through four Preaching how I love to proclaim it preaching by the blood of the life preaching to this infinite mercy Retain, regain, breathe by the blood of the Lamb, Retain. Free team, it's why that forever I am Free Team that 's so happy and Jesus, no language my rapture can have I know that the light of his paths When we not continue on Breathing, breathing, breathing by the blood of the Breathing, breathing this time more ever I think of my blessed redeemer, I think of him all the day long I speak for I cannot rest his love is the theme of my song Breathing breathing, breathing by the blood of the land, breathing Redeem this power that forever I am I know I shall see and his beauty The king and his voice Who lovingly guarded my butt stuff and gave it results in the night Redeem, redeem , redeemed by the blood of the Lamb. Rejec and back to hymn number five hundred three Singing I go along last road. 503 will sing verses 1, 3, and 4. The trusting power to Jesus thing or any other cause, but at the cause of God. Singing I go among my word Praising the Lord Praising my Lord Singing I all among my Lord Jesus helpless with my laws He tells me of my father 's love and that I summer my everlasting king of love with all my Need the fly, Singing I don't want my boy, praising the Lord Praising the Lord, singing I know my mom must be for Jesus traveling in my heart. Went to the fall of praise, I please, I find the promise through the mighty arms of Holding me will bear my burden to Singing I go on my sword, praying the Lord , bringing my voice, singing like all upon my For Jesus my God. Amen. Great singing. Okay, well, on Sunday nights, we'd like to take a couple of minutes to give you opportunities to share testimonies of how the Lord is working We will follow. Can we play through it once? Here we go on that first. Christ invites thy undeserving. Leave going out and follow me. Watching, hearing, loving, serving Say the Christ are truly free We will rise up and say We will follow Alright, one sixty seven. Six in the blue book. Do not know this one. Let's play it through. See if I can pick it up. Here we go. He left his gone to wear a cloud of sand, or sink and song when he began. The blackest spice in place is not alone, the bike is very kind of so the gone. Because I say that 's got each my summer in this place. One twenty two First two. I know this one. You're my friend and you are my brother even though you are at me. I love you. More than any other, so much more than anything. You all I must make my skill to you Alone my spirit, you alone are my heart , desire and I long to work. One oh eight. We have one eight Uh, let's play through it once. Singing verse two Only Bible burning bright on my pathway side over my Have me follow you alone, take my hand and move me in all We can 't fall I need a Bible That must have been I need the war, I need the Bible to be all the way. All right, four seventy-eight. Red book. We'll probably have time for a few more, so start thinking about Verse three, four seventy-eight, verse three. I stand on the place of best glory as far, my stand on parts, but It 's death through thy cross and thy burner blow more Play thou My snow, it is with my snow Alright, we've got time for a few more. Any others? Page. Three verse four. All right. Turnian. Yes, Adelaide. Thirty-eight. Yes, ma'am. Twenty-four in the blue book. All right. All right, one thirty-three in the blue book. First four. High King of Heaven. Ar King of heaven, my victory one May I return I am hardware before. Still me by the 152 verse 3. It was for me. Why climb that dreadful mountain? Why climb that triadfall mountain? Why suffer agony Why give his blood a fountain Spilled and broken flee Will he walked over to Calvary Give it to I so willingly broken and surrender suffered there for me it was for me. For me, Saddam is brought up on a train. It was for me, it came, for me his same, for me a present name and Was born thirty-eight in the blue book. Great is the Lord Actually, let's hold that. Let's do number twenty-four in the blue book. Twenty four. That's a good one too. All right. Twenty four, verse one For I came back, I can see your fingerprints upon my light, always seeking my best. There were times when your way would make no sense But as you said you have never left You are always God your only good You are always known to me, though my eyes can see , up my heart believe, you are always only good. And let's stand for number 38. We'll sing the first and the last. Number 38 in the blue book. Grace is the Lord. Sing out this evening. And that 's what we don't have all embrace. Love an empty no longer by weapon. Then he came the car drinking, gave it all to bonding everything. Praise the Lord sovereign king. Lift up your voice and gladly now proclaim. And pray the golden Devenir Lord Christ will cast before the sovereign king with all the saints Will worship right the Lord Braze the Lord, the request. Lift up your voice and gladly now Praise the Lord coming by And praise his holiness. Great singing, please be seated. Good evening. Turn your Bibles please to Hebrews chapter five. Hebrews chapter five. Last week we looked both at Genesis 14 and started looking at this passage here in Hebrews as we were looking at being characterized by faith. As we studied the person of Melchizedek and his type as being a type of Jesus Christ. And when we looked at those two passages, we recognized how Genesis, the purpose of that passage was to show how Abram met with Melchizedek and the king of Sodom. And he demonstrated uh his faith through several ways. And when we looked at Hebrews, started started to look at Hebrews. and saw how the writer there was demonstrating the superiority of Christ over the Levitical system by explaining God's intention to utilize Melchizedek as a picture of Christ's non-Livitical priestly ministry. And so we came to the conclusion by looking at these two passages together. That God wants us to be characterized by our faith in our great high priest, Jesus Christ. Now, by way of review, I'm just going to Remind you of what we covered there in Genesis 14. Uh, we're not going to look at the passage, but when we did look at that uh passage, we saw Abram showing us how to trust Christ how or should show trust God with our day-to-day, our daily life. And he did that through his initiative, through his tithing, and through his discretion as you interacted both with Melchizedek and the king of Sodom. Now that we're in Hebrews, we're looking at a very, very deep doctrinal section. And in fact, some of this that we're going to cover tonight is uh very, very difficult to work through. And so we're gonna have to look very closely at what is uh what is being written in these passages or what has been written in these passages. But primarily we're going to move on from trusting in our great high priest in our daily life to trusting him with our sanctification. That's a second aspect to being characterized by that faith. And I remind you again from last week, we we saw how sanctification, of course, works with uh or is is a part of our initial justification upon trusting Christ. How sanctification is a progressive working of the Holy Spirit in our day-to-day life until the day that we are glorified in Jesus Christ. upon death and ultimately completely separated from sin. The ultimate sanctification, if you will. But when we're looking at the passage here in Hebrews, particularly chapters 5 to 7, you see sanctification in light of being progressive. It's our daily sanctification, it's our lifelong sanctification. And I want to note with with that that progressive civic sanctification, it can only come with time. It's a it's like I said, progressive. Um it can't happen overnight. It's like I I don't know how many of you have ever dealt with like a Bonsai tree or anything like that. I don't know. Uh I I've had a few bonsai trees, they've all died um miserably. But I did learn that a bonsai tree, I I've never bought one from a seed. In fact, for you to grow one from a seed takes a very, very long time. And as you work with a bonsai tree, as you watch it grow and then eventually you start shaping it and developing it, trying to get it to go one way uh or another way, you're trying to create basically what you have in mind for that. that tree, you're really working with something that's potentially decades long. And during those decades, you're you're watching it grow, you're nurturing it, you're you're probably putting in some stents, you're probably tying up some strings to make it go a certain direction, a certain way to be exactly what you want. And that's how sanctification works in our lives. As God works in us, as God works through our obedience, through our trust, through our faith. God is shaping us, molding us, putting things in our lives to make us more like Christ. And that's not a instantaneous thing. That's a progressive, day-to-day, lifelong endeavor. And then we we covered last week a little bit looking at chapter five, but I want to cover that part again, leading into chapter six. because the context of Hebrews is so important. Hebrews, you really have to start from the beginning and move your way forward to get the flow of the text. But obviously we don't have time to do that. We're going to start looking here in chapter five and cover again those first ten verses where we see how our sanctification has to be, must be centered on Christ. So look with me there, please. We're going to start reading in verses 1 through 10. It says, For every high priest taken from among men is ordained for men in things pertaining to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sin. I don't know. No, it just started. Pause there. The author is leading from that passage we recognize where we are allowed to be bold, come boldly before the throne of grace. We have access to God. We have access to the Father. And in chapter 5 he says, for this reason, like this is why we're able to have access to God. And he gives the example of the high priest. And he connects it to Jesus Christ. So we read there in verse 1, the high priest taken from among men is ordained for men and things for Pertaining to God. Verse 2, he says, who can have compassion on the ignorant and on them that are out of the way, for that he himself also is compass with infirmity. And by reason hereof he ought as for the people, so also for himself to offer for sins. And no man taketh this honor unto himself, but he that is called of God, as was Aaron So also Christ glorified not himself to be maiden high priest, but he that said unto him, Thou art my son, today have I begotten thee. As he saith also in another place, thou art a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek, who in the days of his flesh When he had offered up prayers and supplications with strong crying and tears unto him, that was able to save him from death, and was heard in that he feared, though he were a son. So talking about Christ there. And being made perfect me he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that believe him, called of God and high priest after the order of Melchizedek. of the world. Now obviously a lot to that passage that we could dig into a message on its own, most certainly. But the gist of this is in the within the context that we're looking at is that seeing that our sanctification has to be centered on Christ. It's important for us to recognize that when we uh are looking at sanctification, if we're doing it in and of ourselves, we're focused on ourselves. And maybe we we may look at ourselves as being uh The only one who can do what's right. You know, I I'm trying to be a good person, so I need to do this, this, this, and this. Or maybe we we see it as um An endeavor where, yeah, Christ saved me, but it all depends on me to do what's right. Well, sanctification doesn't really work like that. Sanctification is a work of the Holy Spirit. It's a work of Jesus Christ in and through us. It's very much like when when we looked at the passage in Philippians, when Paul talked about himself as when he was a Pharisee. He said, well, if I'm going to be sanctified, obviously I need to follow the Jewish laws. Obviously I need to be right with God by uh punishing these Christians who are obviously Defiling the name of God, who are obviously going against the teachings of the Old Testament. And in his mind, he was thinking, yeah, I'm obeying Scripture by defying, destroying these Christians. And when he looked back upon that th that that those works, when he looked at what he was focused on, he realized, you know what, I was not focused Focused on Christ. Those things that were before I count as dumb, as refuse, as garbage. And now I have the excellency, excellency of the knowledge of Jesus. Christ. His focus and sanctification of his justification of his salvation, everything was in the person of Jesus Christ. So we need to recognize, first and foremost, as we seek to be characterized by our faith and our great high priest, if our sanctification is a part of it, it needs to be focused on Christ. But now we move on to this next section, and we're going to spend some time here because it can be a very challenging passage. And we'll see in this next section that our sanctification must mature in doctrine. And we're going to re-reading here a little bit of a lengthier portion, but we're going to work through this carefully because I do not want to be misunderstood. Here. It's a very challenging passage, as I've said, starting in verse 11 of chapter 5. Of whom we have many things to say. And heard to be uttered, seeing you are dull of hearing. So now he kind of shifts his tone. He's kind of taking a break from this doctrinal section, and he's directly addressing his Hebrew Christian audience. Verse 12, he says, For when the time for when for the time ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that one teach you again, which be the first principles of the oracles of God. And are become such as have need of milk and not of strong meat. For everyone that useth milk is unskillful in the word of righteousness. But strong meat belongeth to them that are full age, even those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and and evil. Therefore, leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ, let us go on unto perfection or maturity, not laying again the foundation of repentance repentance from dead works and of faith toward God, of the doctrine of baptisms, of laying on of hands, and of resurrection of the dead, and of And this we will do if God permit, for it is impossible for those who were once enlightened, and have tasted of the heavenly gifts, and were partakers of the Holy Ghost, and have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the world to come. If they shall fall away to renew them again unto repentance, seeing they crucified to themselves the Son of God afresh, and put him to an open shame. For the earth which drinketh in the rain that cometh cometh off upon it, and bringeth forth herbs meet for them by whom it was dressed, receiveth the blessing from God. But that which beareth thorns and briars is rejected, and is nigh unto cursing, whose end is to be burned. But beloved, we are persuaded better things of you, and things that accompany salvation, though we thus Speak, for God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labor of love which ye have showed toward his name, and that ye have ministered to the saints and do minister. And we desire that every one of you do show the same diligence to the full assurance of hope unto the end, that ye be not slothful, but followers of them who through faith and patience inherit the promises Now, while Hebrews 5, 1 through 10 introduce the con introduces the concept of Melchizedek being an Old Testament type of Christ. The author pauses to warn the readers of what can hinder their progress their sanctification and their deeper understanding of who Christ is. And that hindrance comes through a lack of maturity. or growth of maturity. And that's what this Hebrews five eleven through six twelve talks about. It's a difficult passage to understand without taking the time how it fits into the into the entire epistle. We read that there, but notice it there at the end of chapter five, those Those last few verses, the author points out the immaturity of his audience. He's talking to believers. He's talking to Hebrew Christians. But he's pointing out that they are immature. He points out to them that they need to grow beyond the foundational doctrines that he shares in verses 1 to 2 through two, saying, therefore, leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ, that foundation, we need to leave that and move on to deeper things. Talk about deeper doctrines. And if you notice, actually in verse 2, he describes some of those doctrines that are foundational to these Hebrew Christians. He says the doctrine of baptisms, the laying on of hands, the resurrection of the dead, the eternal judgment. Now If you think, think of who this audience is. Think of where they have been, what they've grown up listening to. They've grown up listening to To the Old Testament. For them, the Scriptures was the Old Testament. And those doctrines that they knew were all a part of the Old Testament. These are Jewish doctrines. that they carried with them into Christianity. Baptisms, laying on of hands, the resurrection of the dead, eternal judgment. We we know when we talk about baptisms, it's not a unique thing to Christianity. The Jews were practicing baptisms long before even John the Baptist. for various reasons. Laying on of hands, a symbol of commission, saying we commit you to a service or a ministry. The resurrection of the dead, a great point of contention between the Pharisees and the Sadducees. The Sadducees saying there is no resurrection of the dead, there is no life beyond death. Whereas the Pharisees said, No, obviously God is the God of the living and not of the dead. And then that of eternal judgment. When we consider those those minor prophets there, the Zechariah and Mount Malachi, when they talk about the coming of Christ at the end of the uh tribulation. The judgment that will go on forever and ever for those that reject him. Those are the foundational doctrines. Those are the basics. He says we need to move past that, go on to deep And then he says, this will we will do if God permit. Now notice, notice, if God permit. If God sees that we are hung up on basics or trying to to to to just stay where we're at, well he's not gonna allow us to go on. He's not gonna allow us to And what will happen there? We'll stagnate. Or we'll do what these Hebrew Christians seem to have tried to do or consider doing. Notice in verse 4: It is impossible for those who were once enlightened, and have tasted of the heavenly gift, and were partakers of the Holy Ghost, and have tasted the work good word of God and the powers of the world to come. If they shall fall away to renew them again unto repentance, seeing they crucify to themselves the Son of God afresh and put him to an open Now these verses, these are probably one of the most controversial verses in the New Testament for a lot of people. And they are challenging. They are difficult to process. But again, consider who the audience is. Consider who the author is speaking to. We have in view some Jewish doctrines brought into Christianity. We have a Hebrew, a Jewish audience. And we have really a book that was written at a time where particularly Jewish believers were under a lot of persecution, under a lot of pressure, under a lot of violence. And for some, even the Apostle Peter, it became a temptation to say, well, if I'm facing all this persecution If I'm facing all this hardship, maybe I need to go back to some of those Jewish traditions. Maybe I need to go back to the Jewish faith. Because obviously I must be doing something wrong, or maybe God is punishing me for having left those things. But listen. He says, you can't go back to that. You're not going to grow that way. You're not going to mature that way. You're not going to be growing in your sanctification that way. And that's further elaborated in this parable in verses seven and following. It says, For the earth which drinketh in the rain that cometh off upon it, and bringeth forth herbs, meat for them by whom it is dressed, receives Receiveth blessing from God, but that which beareth thorns and briars is rejected, and is nigh an accursing whose end is to be burned. Now, for some, this is also a challenging couple of verses, but notice what's being burned here. It's not the ground, it's the fruit of the ground. It's the the the product the the produce of what has been planted. And if we recall in 2 Corinthians 5, all must appear before the judgment seat of Christ. That every one may receive the things that have done in his body according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. The reality is as Christians, we are bearing either good fruit or bad fruit. And God, Christ, will judge that fruit. He will judge our works. He's not going to judge us. He's not going to condemn us. He's not going to put us to the fire. Why? Because our works are not what determine our salvation. It's what Christ did. But when Christ looks at our life and says, Did you grow in me? Did you live for me? Well, here are the fruits that bear witness to the work of the Holy Spirit in my life. Did you have good fruit or did you have bad fruit? Did you grow? Did you mature? Did you move on past those foundations and be flourish as a believer? And I don't want this to discourage you because that's not what the author does at all. Notice in verse 9 through 12 he says, beloved, we are persuaded better than persuaded better things of you. Even though he recognizes you are immature, you should be further along where you are. Listen, I'm persuaded of better things for you. I know you can do better. Why Those things which accompany salvation, though we thus speak, for God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labor of love. Which ye have showed toward his name, and that ye have ministered to the saints and do minister. And we desire that every one of you do show the same diligence to the full assurance of hope unto the the end, that ye be not slothful, not be lazy, but followers of them who through faith and patience inherit the promises. Listen, God is doing a work in you as you obey, as you labor, as you serve Christ, as you live for him. Listen, God is faithful To do his part. And what is his part? He said he's going to allow us to grow. Because he has not forgotten our work in our labor of love. He will allow us to get to the end. This is an encouraging, not a detrimental passage. This should allow you to recognize, listen, as a believer. Yes, we are warned not to be stagnant. We are warned not to try and go back to whatever we were before Christ to try and be a good person or try to uh do things the right way. He says, move on for those foundational doctrines, those things which you first learned. And mature and grow. Get deeper. Love the word. Dig into the word. Get to know your God. And allow him to work in and through you. It's an encouraging passage because it reminds us of people like Lot, who willingly vexed his own soul by living when he was living in wicked Sodom, and yet God Considered him a just man. It reminds us of King Saul, who after God confirmed him as king through his prophesying and the power of the Holy Spirit. He became twisted and pagan-like because of his bitter jealousy of David. It reminds us of Peter, who not only denied Christ three times But in later years, he had to be confronted, I mentioned before, for trying to force Gentiles to take on Jewish customs as if they were going to justify them through the law. I want to and I want to encourage you through this passage tonight. God alone knows the heart of every individual. Whether they are faithful to grow, whether they are faithful to mature, whether they're faithful to dig deeper and to know our God better. Or if they decide, you know what? Obviously there's something wrong here. Maybe I'm doing something wrong. I want to be a good person, so this is what I'm going to do. God knows the heart of that individual. But rather than mourning whether or not they're lost, maybe you see that perhaps they've just stagnated in their maturity to the point. Where they're seeking sanctification, maturity, and something other than faith in Jesus Christ. As the author of Hebrews says, God is not unrighteous to forget that individual whether or not they possess salvation. Their salvation is not based on their faithfulness. But on his. And that's what the author of Hebrew Hebrews even goes on to talk about. Because our sanctification is not, it's not based on us. It's based on his work. And then he goes on as we Seek to allow our sanctification to characterize our faith in the great high priest. We understand our sanctification must mature in doctrine, it must be centered on Christ. But ultimately it really needs to be confident in God. And that's where we get back into this lesson on the great high priest. on Melchizedek. Notice in verses 13 through 20. He says, for when God made a promise to Abraham. Because he could not swear by no greater, he swore by himself, saying, Surely, blessing I will bless thee, and multiplying I will multiply thee. And so after he had patiently endured, he obtained the promise. For men verily swear by the greater. And an oath for confirmation is to them an end of all strife, wherein God willing more abundantly to show them, show unto the heirs of promise the immutability of his counsel, confirmed it by Oath that by two immutable things in which it is impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong consultation who have fled for refuge to lay a hold upon the hope set before us. For us, for hope which hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and steadfast, and which entereth into that which that within the veil. Whether the forerunner is for us entered, even Jesus, maiden high priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek. Sanctification must be confident in God. That's what the author of Hebrews continues to reinforce. He says, listen, you look back at the Abrahamic covenant. You look back at how God kept his promises to Abraham, to Abram. In this covenant, God not only makes a promise, you know, that that that first thing that obviously we know God keeps his promises. But he takes it a step further, says he makes a vow. He says, I'll not only keep my promise, I'm going to swear by myself. I will Do this thing. I will uphold this covenant. That is the kind of God who has saved us. That is the kind of God who Who is sanctifying us, as God who is working in us? And as Christ, our great high priest, continually stands before the Father and testifies of his work. He said intercedes for us as if he were that Jewish high priest standing in the holiest of holies of the The temple. He intercedes for us. He says, listen, Father, my work. covers him. My work completes him. It saves him. Why? So that he can be sanctified So that he can be a new creature. We'll close by going over to 2 Thessalonians 2. 13. It was not intended for this to be a three-parter Second Thessalonians chapter two. We'll close here for the evening. It's one of the greatest things that we as believers can recognize. When we're considering the reality of our sanctification. Notice in 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, verse, verses uh Verse thirteen. But we are bound to give thank Alway for to God for you, brethren, beloved of the Lord, because God hath from the beginning chosen you to salvation through sanctification. of the Spirit and belief of the truth. Whereunto ye he hath called you by our gospel to the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. That salvation there is talking about one day when we are separated from sin, when we are removed from this mortal coil, and we are brought into the glory in the presence of Jesus Christ. We have been prepared for that day. How? By being sanctified by the work of the Holy Spirit. That is a guarantee. That is a promise. That is essentially what the author of Hebrews is communicating there. A summary, if you will. And that listen, our sanctification is as vital to characterizing our faith in our great high priest. Why? Not because it's dependent upon us. But because it is guaranteed by Christ. So tonight We'll close with that thought. Our sanctification. Where is your hope of sanctification lying in tonight? Obviously, for salvation, for justification, for us to be Removed from the penalty of sin. We have to trust in Christ. But are you trusting in Christ as He conforms you into His own image? As he prepares you for that day of glorification, as he makes you more and more of what he created you to be. Are you trusting him? Or does your faith in Jesus Christ lack? In that you trust yourself in the area of sanctification. I encourage you tonight, focus on Christ alone. alone as you seek to mature, as you seek to grow, as you seek to be more like him. And have confidence Confidence, know that God has guaranteed that you and I, who are in Christ, will be sanctified Let's bow our heads and go to the Lord in prayer. Father. These are difficult passages to go through. These are difficult chapters. And I pray where I've lacked and how I've fallen short, that your Holy Spirit would minister to the hearts and minds to everyone here. That we may ultimately understand what work you do in our lives. That we may be characterized by the faith we've placed in you. So that others around us may see not us, but the God in whom we've trusted. And as we grow, as we mature in the faith, as we understand Those deeper truths, the meat of the word. We would rely on you to continue that work day in, day out, year after year. Until which day we are brought into your glorious presence. We ask all this humbly in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. You know, when we think about uh our sanctification, um We're going through the Christian life. There are times that we need to be reminded that we are secured in Christ. There's nothing that can separate us from the love of God which is in Christ. Jesus our Lord. And there are also times that we need to be reminded that there's a judgment seat of Christ, and the way that we're living our life actually matters. And that when we stand before that judgment seat of Christ, it is true that we are safe in Christ. It's also true that we can suffer tremendous loss on that day. And the thing that really strikes me about the Hebrews passage is he's warning a group of Jewish believers that If they do not continue to mature like they should, when they stand at the judgment seat of Christ, the fruit of all their labors will be extinguished. And you think about what he says in 1 Corinthians, he talks about we're building on a foundation, and that foundation is Christ. And the quality of our work will be demonstrated when it passes through the fire at the judgment seat of Christ. And I think the question that we should sometimes ask ourselves Is is there eternal quality to what I'm doing as a Christian? That's really the sense of I think what the Hebrews passage is, and most certainly the First Corinthians passage. And so we have to keep this tension in our minds. Sometimes I need to be thoroughly encouraged by the fact I'm safe in Christ, and that is always true. I need to be challenged that the way I'm living is valueless in light of eternity. And I need to I need to grow in maturity and I need to serve more faithfully. So very, very important truths for us to uh to keep in the center of our minds. Let's go ahead and pull out our hymn books and turn to our closing hymn, which is hymn 495, count your blessings. And I want to remind you that after we close in prayer, we'll take a short break and then we'll come back for our business meeting tonight. Let's stand together and we'll sing verses 1 through 3, well, 1 and 3 of Count Your Blessings, Hymn 495. When upon life's village you are tempest toss When you are discouraged, thinking all is lost, count your many blessings, name them one by one And it will surprise you what the Lord has done. Count your blessings in them one by one Count your blessings, see what God has done. Count your blessings in them one by one. Counter many blessings, see what God has done on the last. Still amid the conflict, whether great or small. Do not be discouraged, God is over all Count your many blessings and you'll swell on Help and comfort give you to your journeys, and count your blessings in them one by one. Count your blessings, see what God has done. Count your blessings , name them one by one. Count your many blessings, see what God has done. Okay. Uh let's go ahead and close with a word of prayer and then uh we'll take a few moments between now and when we uh have our uh So, Brother Frank Dumbshot, can you come and close us in prayer, please? And then we'll take a short break. Our Father in heaven, we thank you for the wonderful day we've had today and being able to come together and Worship you, Lord, and focus our hearts on you and remember all the wonderful things that you have done for us, Lord. We thank you so much for sending Christ to be our Savior. And just the marvelous grace that you have and the love for us that caused that to happen, Lord. We thank you for it all in Christ's name. Amen.