We are grateful that you've chosen to worship with us this evening. Uh we are going to open in a word of prayer, and we'll have some singing and some testimonies and the preaching of the word. Please be in prayer for Pastor and the whole family as They are on a way, pray especially for Pastor and Mrs. Porchet in the car with those children, and that that's a nice safe trip. So let's all bow our heads and pray. Father, thank you for this day. Thank you so much for your Your kind grace, your kind mercy. I pray that you would bless the service this evening. I pray that you would bless the singing, bless the fellowship, bless the preaching of your word. We ask all these things in Jesus' name and for his sake. Amen. All right. Good evening. We'll take our hymnals and turn to page 81 to begin our song service. Page 81. A mighty fortress is our God. Please stand with me. We'll sing the first, the second, and the fourth. Ah my people trust is our God, all never fail Our helper he amid the blood of mortal ills prevail More still our ancient foe. Don't speak to workers woe. His craft in man They are great and armed with cruel hate. On earth is not easy If we in our own strength and fight, our striving would be learning We're not the right men on our side, the men of God 's universe Just ask you that maybe Christ Jesus is he, Lord Sabbath His name Promage to age the same, and he must win the battle On the last that word above all earthly powers, no thanks to them a bind The spirit and the gifts are ours through him who with us Let good and kindred go , his mortal life also the body they make ill. God's truth abidest. His kingdom is forever. Go ahead and have a seat and turn to page ninety-nine. Page nine nine. Uh shelter in the time of storm. Okay, versus one, two, and four The Lords are rocking Him we hide, a shelter in the time of storm, Secure whatever he 'll betide. A shelter in the time of storm. Oh Jesus is a rock in a weary land A weary land, a weary land. Oh, Jesus is a rock in a weary land, a shelter in the time of storm. I shade by day defense by night, I shelter in the time of storm, No fears of arm, no bugs of fright. A shelter in the time of storm. Oh, Jesus is a rock in a weary land A weary land, a weary land. Oh, Jesus is a rock in a weary land, a shelter in a time of storm. Now on the last Oh, Rock, divide a refuge here, a shelter in the time of storm. Thou are ever helped near a shelter in the time of storm Oh Jesus is a rock in a weary land, a weary land, a weary land, Oh Jesus is a rock in a weary land. A shelter in the time of storm. Okay, just turn over a few more pages to 108. Page 108. My father planned it all. First verse, second verse, and the fourth verse. Thought though the way be lonely and dark the shadows fall I know where it needed. My father planned it all. I sing through the shade and the sunshine. I'll trust him whatever be fall. I sing for I cannot be silent. My father planned it all. There may be sunshine Tomorrow Shadows may break and flee, 'twill be the way he chooses The fathers pled for me I sing to the shape in the sunshine, I'll trust him whatever befall I cannot be silent. My father planned it on the last A day of light and gladness, on which no shade will fall. Tempest at last awaits me, my father planned it all. I sing through the shade in the sunshine. I'll trust him whatever be bone. I think for I cannot be silent. My father planned it all. Amen. I hear a budding choir over here, I tell you. Sounds good. Those kids are singing out. All right. Page 143. Page 143. And I'm not going to commit the sin of the music director's folly. We've got to stand. I stand amazed in the presence. I stand placed in the presence of Jesus the Nazarene. I'd wonder how he could love me, a sinner condemned me How my well is how wonderful and my song shall ever be How marvelous, how wonderful is my Savior's love for me on the third. He took my sins and my sorrows, he made them his very own. He bore the burden to count free and suffered and died alone. How marvelous, how wonderful, and my tongue shall ever be How marvelous, how wonderful is my Savior's love for me on the last, with for rest. Something glory his face , I and thou shall see , Twilight, my joy through the end. To sing of his love for me. How marvelous, how wonderful, and my song shall ever be. How marvelous, how wonderful is my say here 's love for me. Amen. Please be seated Well we try to take time each Sunday evening to But um we're gonna go ahead and get started with the sermon this evening. If you would open your Bibles to the book of Second John. Second John chapter 2. If we were to title the sermon I was supposed to put. um PowerPoint slides together and I didn't. Apologies for those that like them, but I don't use I don't use slides a little lot anyway. bit So but anyway, um if we were going to pick a title for the sermon this evening, it would be Choose Love. Choose Love. And if you detect a little bit of tongue in cheek that is on purpose. Uh it's very interesting that we are in the month of June and there are a number of there's a big agenda out there. There's a big push and a big slogan out there, choose love. Love is love. It's a popular catchphrase and the world has really taken this phrase and repurposed it into a mindset that is ironically fairly rife with anger and frustration and re resentment, but the truth is that the world does not have a proper understanding of what love is, what it means, and how people that show love behave, our culture remains perpetually confused about the concept of love. When you think about how we try to characterize love and popular culture in our movies and in our books, they're very confused There are many people today that struggle and they say, well, you can't control who you love. You have no choice in who or what you love. And then in the same voice they may say, you have to Choose love. There's so much cognitive dissonance around us. The good news is, those of us that are believers, we have the scriptures. The scriptures give us a crystal clear understanding. Of true, selfless love that is motivated by agency and choice The scriptures give us a perfectly clear understanding of a selfless love that is motivated by age. Philosophers for many, many years have tried to define what love is. I'm sure that if I were to sit down with you after the service today and ask you to describe love, we would still have a hard time putting it into words. Why did you fall in love with me? Why do you love this child? What is it that makes it love? And we've we've we've had This debate for thousands of years, and we certainly haven't unlocked any keys, but at least when I think about love, one of the ways that I try to parse it out in my mind Mind would be defined as a deep desire to be close to someone or something, uh, to understand that someone or something intimately And to give of yourself to invest in them. That's how I put it together in my mind. 1 John chapter 2, verses 1 through 5 lays an interesting foundation. as we go into some of the more profound elements of Christian living. 1 John 2, verse 1. Says, and my little children, these things write I unto you that ye sin not. And if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous And he is the propitiation for our sins and not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. And hereby we do know that we know him if we keep his commandments. Commandments. He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him. But whoso keepeth his word, and In him verily is the love of God perfected. Hereby know we that we are in him What an amazing scripture. And today the challenge will be as we grow in grace And maturity, we must purpose in our hearts to choose to love the things that God commands us to love while resisting the urge to love the things Things that we should not. And that's an excellent way to summarize second uh 1 John chapter 2. We'll do our best to get through the entire chapter. In the next few moments. But before we do, let's bow for a word of prayer. Our Father, we thank you so much for the opportunity we have to gather in a comfortable building on a hot, early summer day. We Thank you for the many comforts that you bless us with. Thank you for the word that you've given to us. Thank you for the opportunity we have to fellowship. Thank you that we can gather here today with limited fear of the things that are going on on in the world and thank you for allowing us to be able to listen to the preaching of the word, to sing, to fellowship with one another around your desire. To conform us to the image of Jesus Christ. I pray that you would challenge our hearts in this very convicting and deeply personal matter today, in Jesus' name and for his sake. Amen. As we look at 1 John chapter 2, we think about the idea that Paul, oh sorry, the author John John, the beloved, starts off the passage, My little children, these things write I unto you that we sin not, and if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous And when you read on through the passage, the overall theme of the passage is where is our love? What do we love? It's an awfully strange place to lay angry Anchor and sin. If you're a sinner, be reminded that there's someone that's paid the price for your sin. But the reality is that when we think about love and a Christian and gospel Context. , John 3. 16 makes it clear in no uncertain terms that the gospel is intrinsically tied with the concept of love. For God so loved the world That he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. We know with certainty that That God's ultimate manifestation of love has been to liberate us from the vice grip of sin. What irony that as people grapple with this concept of love, that Satan has perverted the most Intimate and personal human relationship that can exist on this planet. That's not by accident. That is on purpose. We have the scriptures that give us a clear guidepost and how we are to respond. the concept of love and I would posit to you that through the second chapter of first John, we are given five basic choices. When it comes to love, we're not going to go into in-depth reading of every single passage, but we'll start with the very first point. We should choose to love. Jesus Christ. That's the first decision we need to make. We should love Jesus Christ. Scriptures tell us in verse 1 that we have an advocate with the Father. We are inevitably going to mess up. One of the most selfless manifestations of love in the human experience is a parent that continues to love us. One of the I would I would argue maybe from what a little more on personal experience, I have a little toddler. Well, is he technical He's not not not quite too yet. And he is on a constant mission to destroy himself, those around him, and the property within our house, right? It takes love, right, to to continue. to nurture that child. It takes love to continue to steer him on the path that he needs to be We would expect that as a child grows up, and as we get into our later years, there's an obligation to return that love. I'm now at this Stage where the Lord has blessed our parents with good health, but we are beginning to face the reality that time marches on as a Roman legion, right? And we have to start thinking about the obligations that we have to our parents, and part of that is a true understanding and a reflection of the love that they poured into us and invested into us and our obligation to The Scriptures remind us here in second and first John chapter two that we have an advocate. Christ paid the price for our sins. We have an obligation to love the Lord Jesus Christ. It's a it's it's it's a s it's out if if for no other reason basic moral decency says that someone that gave up their life and endured what they did for the purpose of forgiving our sins It only is appropriate that we love him, that we keep his commandments, that we revere the role that he plays in our life. The first several verses of 1 John chapter 2 challenge us to love the Lord Jesus Christ. When we inevitably mess up, Christ is there to advocate for us. Us. Whenever we find ourselves reflecting on the times that we have sinned once again, we lost our temper again, we neglected the gospel again. We did not choose to manifest the works of the spirit, but instead chose to indulge the works of the flesh. And when sin takes root in our hearts, we have an advocate With the Father, let's not be ungrateful children. Let's not be ungrateful for the Lord Jesus Christ and the saving power of the gospel And I say this especially to our young people as you begin to set out on your life, choose to love the Lord Jesus Christ. It's not hard to do. When you read the Gospels, when you look at the time type of person Christ was, when you look at how he treated those around him, if you really get to know Jesus Christ, it's really not hard to love him. It's not hard to try to want to be like him, to do things that Please him, choose to love the Lord Jesus Christ. The passage goes on in verse 3 and challenges us to make a choice to love the scriptures. How fascinating. Verse 3 says, and hereby do we know that we know him if we keep his commandments. The scriptures tell us everything that God wants us to know about Him. The Scriptures give us a clear understanding of what God expects from us, how God wants to use us, and the Tools he will use to bring us to where we need to be. Choose to love the scriptures. We cannot claim To desire intimacy with our Creator without caring about his instructions. Verse 4 says, He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments. Is a liar and the truth is not in him. One of the biggest political controversies in the sep last several years was when someone shouted from the Congressimal chambers, you lie! Everybody remember that? And that was super offensive. Like people lost their mind. How dare you say something like that? Being called a liar is a very serious charge. I always found it fascinating in this passage that the the John the Beloved is saying, look, if you say that you love God And you don't care about his commandments, you are a liar. That's strong language. It's interesting that he chose the word, he that saith I know him. When I was young, and we would talk, we would we would do Bible readings and memorizing passage, and they would uh the scriptures would say something like, And Adam knew his wife. Right, or Isaac knew his wife. And I remember, you know, obviously as adults we know what the implications are there, but it is interesting that the desire For intimacy is intrinsically connected with love. And when the scriptures say that we know God, if we say that we want to know God, we can say all day long. I want to know God. I want to love God the way that I should. Well, it's a very easy way to Tell how real that is. You cannot claim to desire intimacy with the Creator without caring about his instructions, but also we must be Causes, as warned in verse number five, this isn't about living a perfect life. Verse 5 says, But whoso keepeth his word, in him verily is the love of God perfected. And hereby know we that we are in Him. When I was young, I used to interpret that as if I if if I really Claim to love God if I really am someone that loves God the way that I should, that I will always do what He tells me to do. But that's not what the scriptures Saying in this passage, when we see the word he that keepeth his word, when you look into the language, we actually still use this term today, think of it in the context of a goalkeeper. Right? Or think about in the context of keeping watch. It's not a matter of perfectly obeying every single command that is given to us. The scriptures have made it clear just a few verses ago that God has never demanded that we always live perfectly. He has demanded that we care about his commandments. And that we keep those commandments in the context of our lives, that we familiarize ourselves with that. And there's no other way to do that than through the Scriptures. God has been kind to us and given us numerous ways to hear the scriptures. He's blessed us with a great Bible preaching pastor. He's blessed us with many people that are able to expound the words. He's blessed us with commentaries and many, many works on biblical teaching. God wants us to love his commandments. He wants us to love the scripture and revere the role that they play in our lives. make a choice to love the scripture. And by contrast, we can make a choice to push away the scripture. Interesting as the passage continues to build, we'll move on down to verse 10. We can make a choice to love people. This is fascinating. Verse 10 says, He that loveth his brother abideth in the light, and there is none occasion of stumbling in him, but he that hateth his brother. is in darkness, and walketh in darkness, and knoweth not whither he goeth, because that darkness hath blinded his eyes. We can make a choice to love people When we see the term brother, many scholars can parse it a number of ways, but I think it's safe to say that the command here is that we show a Proper love for people the way that Christ would love people. One of the fascinating aspects of this is verse 11. I'll draw your attention to verse eleven. He that hateth his brother is in darkness and walketh in darkness. Now, if you walked up to most people and said, Who do you hate? Most people, I don't know, it's maybe but most people would be like, I don't hate anybody. Most people would say I don't really hate anyone. Hate such a a strong word. One of the interesting truths that we get from this scripture is that the scriptures teach us that hatred is blinding. It says they walk in darkness. It says they knoweth not whither they are going. I find this most profoundly manifest in times of our our culture and those of us that kind of look on how different people respond to different aspects within the culture, the hatred and bias that people exhibit. You ever ask yourself, I wonder if they realize how hatred. If you go on social media and someone posts something and they're like, I'm just telling the truth, and they're completely unwilling to admit that that is Coming from a place of hatred. The warning we have here is that hatred can be blinding. The scriptures indicate that it It is possible to be so caught up and twisted in our own sinful way of thinking that we may not even realize what it is that we're doing. doing. We may not even realize how that hatred, how that contempt is manifesting itself and sometimes it takes external intervention. And then when you look back on, you're saying, wow, okay, yeah, that was really ugly. That was really bad. Hatred Is blinding. To me, this is a sobering reminder for us to ask the Lord to reveal any hatred in our hearts. It would be really hard for us to really actively confront the reality that we may be harboring hatred to someone or even something Uh it's actually pretty common in the political world, I can say that people really develop strong hatred and When you talk to them, when you see the things that they say when they think nobody's watching or they feel like they're anonymous, there's a lot of hatred in people's hearts. Don't be someone that cultivates hatred. In your heart. As a Christian, you have a challenge, you have an obligation to love your brother. The scriptures tell us that this command applies to everyone. Verse 12, he says, I write unto you little children. He says, I write unto you fathers. He says, I write unto you young men. He's covering the full spectrum of And there's some interesting concepts that we can dig into at another time, but the command to love is universal. Whether you are a child, God gives us different contexts to love. The child is expected to love their parent. They're expected to love their siblings. The parent is expected to love their spouse, their children, their own parents. Everyone has a responsibility to cultivate love. For their brethren within their heart. And it and it is within the context of the scripture, I should add. It is within the context of obedience to the commandments of the Lord Jesus Christ. Choose to love people. Things get really uncomfortable in verse 15. The water gets much much warmer as we are confronted with the truth. Love not the world Neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. The scriptures tell us that we should choose to love holiness. What is holiness? It is being willing to be counted as separate from It is a willingness to be counted as someone that is different, someone that thinks differently, someone that lives to a different standard, someone that has allegiance to a different God. Choose holiness. Verse 15 is easy if you start with the very first phrase there. Love not the world. That's easy. I can't stand how horrible things are out in the world. I can't stand these people that do these horrible things. Yeah, I don't I I have no love for those people. I want to be different. And there's a gotcha moment in there. Neither the things that are in the world. That's tough Desiring intimacy with a system that hates God is not natural for the believer. Can we just get that out of the way? The world hates God. There's no no hiding that. The more aware you are of current events, the more you are aware you are of What pop culture and the system out there is doing and how they feel about God and religion, it is very easy to see the contempt they have for God. Choosing to want to be aligned with those individuals is extremely Extremely unnatural for the believer and it is very uncomfortable, I might add. Many of us take refuge in the fact, well yeah, of course I'm different. I don't have friends That are in the world. But then they add this clause. It's not enough to just hate the world or not Love the world, we should say. We must also avoid the lure of the world. Verse 16 says, For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of light. Is not of the Father, but is of the world. It is fascinating as the scriptures begin to pierce Even to the bone and marrow, the word of God is quick and powerful, sharper than any two-edged sword. It gets right down to the heart of the matter. And it's It's almost kinda tongue in cheek. Yeah, okay. Don't love the world. Good. It reminds me of when Christ uh talked to the to the rich young ruler. And the rich young ruler said, I'm going to follow you. And Christ was like, okay, do all the commandments. Follow all the things that you've been taught. He's like, I'm great. Yes, I've been doing that since I was a kid. And then Christ says, Wonderful. Now go sell everything that you have and follow me. Woof. Let me let me think about it. I get I get very much the same feel from this passage. Neither the things that are in the world. And look, I'm it is not my place or anyone else's outside of The Holy Spirit and you to determine what the lure of the world is. But just know this: the lusts that are cultivated within all of our hearts, the world The world is intimately aware of them and it is actively engineering plans to draw you in to that system. They say, Ah, we don't we don't have to be one of us, but you know, if you're You know, we we know these are things that you really want. You may but you don't have to like you know be outward associated with us, but here are some other things. We know that you have these desires. gonna get that for you. They're motivated by money, by profit, by selfish motives, but just remember all of this is part of Satan's plan to draw people away from the gospel. Of Jesus Christ, we must avoid the lure of the world. And what does that mean? We must acknowledge that the world does have a lure and that it is aiming for us. Us. It is unwise, reckless, and completely foolish to try to pretend that we are immune to the effects of the world. I can tell you personally Personally, that people invest lots of money and trying to influence how you think. People invest lots of money into just getting you to, you know Do what they want you to do. If you really want an eye-opener, just take a look at social media and big tech and how they make hand over fist and Simply by manipulating how people think. If you don't believe that Satan is using that to try to draw you away from loving holiness. I would warn you to be cautious. I would warn you to be sober, to be vigilant. For your adversary, as a roaring devil, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. It's not enough to just hate the world. We must also avoid the Lord. of the world. It's fascinating, verse seventeen gives us a little bit of a of a of a of a bit of a helpful tip, right? You think You've give we've got this heavy command, and it's almost as if the apostle realizes this is a heavy lift. So I'm just going to give you a a quick tip here. Verse 17 says, And the world passeth away and the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God God abideth forever. And here's like here's the tip that's being offered. Everything that the world is offering you is temporary. It's gonna Burn up. It's pointless. There are permanent implications for what you do with the gospels. There are permanent implications for what you do with And how you have fruit of the Spirit. the It's just a reminder. Just remember the world is just temporary. The world is going to try to lure you with these. things, but those things only come with temporary pleasure and usually with lasting pain. You imagine what's going on on with our world, especially as the world grapples with this concept of love. If you do the research, you look at the data, there's a lot of pain, there's a lot of hurt that's behind What a lot of people are struggling with these days. That's what the world has to offer. And the scriptures remind us that's not a good route to go. Finally, first John chapter two challenges us to re to choose to love. Verse 18 is really the crux of this. Little children It is the last time, and as ye have heard that Antichrist shall come, even now there are many Antichrists, whereby we know that it is the last time. And he can goes on to describe the influence of spiritual deception. The scriptures remind us to choose to love the truth. Christ said in no uncertain terms, I am the way, the truth. And the light, no man cometh unto the Father but by me. Choose to love the truth because the power of spiritual deception only Continues to intensify. If you take the time to look at how the world is developing and how thought has developed specifically Specifically over the past couple of years, it is my firm belief that we are witnessing a great spiritual delusion. When I engage with people and I listen to them And I listen to them try to rationale what is otherwise completely illogical. And I sometimes will ask myself, how can you think the way that you're thinking? And I have to stop myself and remember Remind myself that the scriptures warn us, and it goes into great detail, that there are spiritual agents, there are people that are being used. with the with the specific goal of deceiving us on much more than just a rational, logical level. We often think of things in the context of rationale and logic. That's our American way of thinking. We love logic. We like to rationalize. And very rarely Rarely does it occur to us that someone can be spiritually deceived. That there are forces that have studied humanity for far longer than we can think about, forces that understand how we can in ways that we don't even understand, and they are weaponizing that to deceive us. Christ warned his own disciples about that. He says if it was possible, they would deceive the very elect. That's how powerful the spiritual deception is. Choose to love the truth. The power of spiritual deception intensifies verse five, verse 19. Goes on, it says that there were people that were like actually ministering with these individuals. It says, but they went out that they might be made manifest that they were not all of us. There were people that were in their own ranks. That were finally revealed to be deceivers on a spiritual level. Well, what do we do in the face of spiritual deception? How do you snap someone out of a Spiritual trance. But you can't. We have no power over forces like that. So verse 20 is fascinating. It says, But ye have an uncle From the Holy One, and ye know all things. I have written, I have not written unto you because you know not the truth, but because you know it, and that no lie Is of the truth. How interesting. The Holy Spirit. And Christ, you know, when Christ was telling his disciples this, remember when his disciples came? And they came to him and they're like, well, how in the world are we supposed to do? What are we gonna say? How are we gonna get ourselves out of these situations? Christ made it clear to the disciples that I'm not gonna let you handle this. By yourself. I'm going to send someone to help you. I'm going to send a comforter that's going to guide you through these things. He's going to give you the words to say at that time. The warning is not to rely on our own rational and logical prowess. Believe me, that is a strong Oh well, I if I just had the right argument, if I just had the right thing to say. No, the challenge is to rely on the Holy Spirit to give us the discernment that we need. Once again though we do get a clue. If you're really lost, if you really are unsure about where things are headed or the role of this spiritual leader, that's the one thing that we haven't really We haven't seen people claiming to be God or Jesus Christ coming up, but I do think that is going to be happening very soon. One of the interesting things is verse twenty-two says, Who is a liar but he that denieth that Jesus is the Christ? He is antichrist that denieth the Father And the son. If you ever wonder what someone's disposed uh disposition is on a specific issue or topic, find out where they stand on the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. That's the litmus test. And we see that over and over again, by the way. That's a pattern, not just here with John the Beloved, but with others At the end of the day, how we or whatever we're questioning feel about Christ, that is the measure. Maintaining vigilance in every aspect that we are commanded, it really is a difficult thing. This is one of the heaviest Lifts in scripture, in my opinion. Every time I read this passage, I am constantly reminded of how short I fall of the mark and what God actually asks The passage closes with the reminder that our ability to abide in Christ is what will give us the edge And what is ultimately the biggest battle within our own hearts? Where do our affections go? How do we choose to love Jesus Christ or choose to love to love the scripture or choose to love people, loving holiness, love the truth. How do I keep track of all of these things and not get lost? Well the scriptures Tell us in verse 24: Let that therefore abide in you which ye have heard from the beginning. If that ye have heard from the beginning shall remain in you, ye shall also continue in the Son And in the Father. And this is the promise that He promised us, even eternal life. May I call to remembrance the words of Jesus Christ to his Struggling disciples. He says, I will never leave you nor forsake you. May I call to remembrance the promise that Jesus Christ Himself prayed for us and his Prayer. Christ wants to help us with these things. The passage reminds us that we must abide in Christ to be successful. There are specific decisions that we can do. To help facilitate this. Prayer, regular scripture reading, fellowship with believers, it will help us keep our love properly focused. First John chapter 2, verse 28 says, And now, little children, abide in him, that when he shall appear. We may have confidence and not be ashamed before him at his coming. Christ is coming. Hopefully sooner than later, but he is coming. He will demand to account what we have done with him, and the command is hard but simple. Abide in Him. Abide in Christ. Do the things that God commands us to do. Love the scriptures. Love the Lord Jesus Christ. Love your neighbors. Love the truth. Love holes. Holiness. Abide in Christ. Let us pray. Father, thank you for this day. Thank you so much for your grace. And your mercy. Thank you for this passage of scripture. It is very challenging, very convicting, sometimes somewhat difficult for us as first world Christians to truly appreciate What you have asked of us. But Lord, our prayer is that as we continue to gather in your house, as we continue to do the things that you command us to do, I pray that you would have Help us to properly calibrate our affections. I pray that you would challenge us to embrace the scriptures that you've given us and to Embrace the tools that you've given us to grow, to be conformed to the image of the Lord Jesus Christ. Our prayer is that these words would not fall on hard hearts, Lord, but that soft hearts would possibly Us this information and that you would give them guidance on the next steps to grow as they should for the sake of the gospel. We ask these things in Jesus' name and for his sake. Amen. Let's all stand and let's see, do we have a hand? Three sixty six I need to get a hymn book. Hymn number three sixty-six. Have thine own way. Sing it to the Lord. Have thine own way , Lord, have thine own way Thou art the partner, I am the quick. Mold me and make me After thy whip while I am waiting, yield it and stir Have thine own way, Lord, have thine own way Hold our my beak, absolute friend, fill with thy spirits, till all south kill. Christ only always living in me. Amen. Thank you guys so much for coming and worshiping with us with us this evening. We will be having a fellowship to recognize our graduates. Who are our graduates? I know we have one over there in the corner, Chris Hutchison. Mr. Fhew, that's right, he's finally graduated. We're going to have a fellowship in the fellowship hall to recognize their achievements and just opportunity to connect. So I would encourage everyone to stop by that. Please be safe as you travel home this week. Be in prayer for Pastor and his wife and the children as they travel travel uh and pray that the Lord brings them back safely and then we will be traveling out early tomorrow morning so we won't be sticking around too long but pray for us and anyone else. We have a lot of people that are traveling so we'll pray for uh travel mercies. Let's see. Uh Brother Mortley, Darion, would you mind coming and closing us in prayer? Yes. Heavenly Father, thank you for such a wonderful message in in uh the book of John, Lord. That was a blessing, Lord. Help us to take that to heart and apply it to our lives, Lord. Keep us safe as we Travel to our destinations in Jesus' name we pray, Amen. Amen