Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I hope that this week, as we've been looking at the uh the story of Jerusal's daughter and how the Lord uh raised her back to life. I hope it's been an encouraging passage for you to deal with. The goal this morning is to take the passage and just kind of give you a synopsis. And ask the question, well, how should we respond to God when we are dealing with suffering based on the things we've talked about this week? So that's where we're going, and then Lord willing, uh, tomorrow morning We'll close out the week with an introduction to the passage we'll look at on Sunday. Again, we're in Luke chapter 8, so let's pick up in verse number 40. Here's what the scriptures say. And it came to pass that when Jesus was returned, the people gladly received him, for they were all waiting for him. Behold there came a man named Jarus, and he was a ruler of the synagogue, and he fell down at Jesus' feet and besought him that he would come to his house. He had only one daughter, about twelve years of age, and she lay dying. But as he went the people thronged him Then in verse number fifty it says, When Jesus heard it, he answered him, saying, Fear not, believe only. She shall be made whole. When they came to the house he suffered no man to go in save Peter and James and John, and the father and the mother of the maiden And all wept and bewailed her, but he said, Weep not, she is not dead, but sleepeth. They laughed at him, a score, knowing that she was dead. He put them all out, and took her by the hand, and called, saying, Maid, arise Her spirit came again, and she arose straightway, and he commanded her uh commanded them to give her meat. And her parents were astonished, but he charged them that they would tell no man what was done. Now we've dealt with this over three days, so this morning what I'd like to do is just kind of remind you of sort of the synopsis of what we learned from these verses. And then I'd like us to move to some practical implications. How should we respond to God in our suffering? So let me remind you of what we talked about yesterday in our closing, some of the things that we've learned from this passage. The first thing we learned is that God is deliberate and he is measured in the way that he deals with people. There were no accidents in this passage of Scripture. The timing of the event, the the the the the way that the passage worked its way out, where ultimately Jesus comes and he meets the man who's demon-possessed. Um he heals this man, he uh frees him from that demonic possession. He sends him back to his family. The whole town and the family hear about what Christ has done to this man. All of a sudden there's a stir and there's a conversation going on in the city. When Jesus comes back, the people are there and they want to meet him and people are coming from all over the area. wanting to see Jesus and wanting to be healed of Jesus. And one of those people who comes is this man named Jaris. And Jarus is the uh the director of the synagogue. He's the person that's in charge of it. And his daughter is sick and dying. And so in all of this passage, what we will see is that the way that Jesus dealt with every single person was careful, it was measured, it was deliberate, it was purposeful. We also see in the passage that there were no disruptions or setbacks that kept Christ from being able to accomplish what he purposed to accomplish. And I think sometimes when we go through life, we get in our mindset that, well, this this is a setback, this health issue that I have, and it's outside of God's control. Or the way that this person responded, the way that that job interview went, um, the situation, the way it's unfolding, it's something that's outside of God's control and it's It's messing up my life and I'm missing out on this perfect plan that God has for me. And sometimes we kind of develop that kind of a mindset. But what we see in these verses And so there was nothing that disrupted or set back Christ from being able to accomplish his purposes. He is in charge, and he demonstrates that. A third thing that we saw is that the primary motivation for Christ's miracle in this particular part of the story, where he heals this young girl, brings her back to life. It's purely his compassion. It's his mercy. It's not because he was trying to reach into the community and demonstrate that his uh authority uh went over those who had died uh or that he has the power to heal. That wasn't the purpose of that. He He made it a private miracle. He told them don't tell anyone. It was all about his mercy. We also see that this mercy was a direct answer to Jarius' humble, passionate, prayerful request. When he got on his knees before Jesus and he said, please come to my house and heal my daughter, what he's ultimately doing is he's praying. He's imploring the Lord to do for him what he cannot do for himself. And so those are the takeaways from the passage. But what I'd like to do is kind of like to transition away from those specifics and get into some broader applications that relate to this issue of suffering. When we suffer Based on what we've learned about the big picture and about the specific details of this passage, how should we respond to God when we suffer And how should we respond to our circumstances and the people around us? Let me share with you a couple of thoughts that I think will be very helpful that are direct applications from the scriptures we have looked at this week. The first is this. We need to have a firm conviction that indeed God is good. Everything about the text in front of us shows us the goodness. and the kindness and the mercy and the compassion of our God. We are reminded this week that in our suffering God is not cold and calloused and complacent. But in fact, he is merciful toward us. He has compassion toward us in those situations. We need to be cautious that we do not embrace the lie. that God is somehow disconnected from us in our suffering. A second matter, we need to have a firm conviction that He is guiding our circumstances according to His goodness and His wisdom. When God permits something, he permits it for a reason, for a purpose. The extent to which God guides circumstances And the way that he limits and the what he allows, all of those things, while we may not understand them as we are walking through them, we have to recognize that the scriptures clearly affirm and the scriptures are full of testimonies of the fact that God guides sovereignly according to his goodness and his wisdom. Thirdly, when we are in a desperate situation, we need to pour out our hearts to God There's absolutely nothing wrong with getting on our knees and weeping before God, pouring out our heart, telling him that we're in pain, telling him that we are suffering. Telling him that we are overwhelmed and we are weird. There is nothing wrong with a Christian doing that. In fact, that is the most natural And the most appropriate way for us to respond. As Jarius got on his knees before Christ and pleaded with him, come to my house and heal my daughter. And he didn't say, get up off the ground. What are you doing? Why are you disrespecting yourself? That's not the way that Christ responded. Christ was compassionate. He went with him. When this woman touches the hem of Jesus' garment, he wasn't condescending toward her. The fact is that in these people's weakness He reaches down to them and he is compassionate. And so we need to be willing to pour out our hearts before the Lord transparently. He already knows what's there, but we should express it in words, even if we are expressing deep internal pain and suffering and sorrow. Number four. We need to have confidence when we come into God's presence and we pour out our heart before Him in such a way that in fact He has heard our request. And he has had compassion toward us in that situation. And in fact, his heart is moved with compassion as he considers our weakness, our frailty, our inabilities, our pain. We have confidence that He hears our prayers and He cares. Fifthly, we need to draw upon the supply of grace that God gives us on a daily basis. We have absolutely no guarantee in Scripture that when we ask God to heal us in a moment, that He is obligated and absolutely in every circumstance will heal. We do not have Such a confidence. We don't have any kind of promise in Scripture that teaches us that. But what we do have in Scripture is the promise that God's grace is always available. And that supply is endless. And so we need to draw on that grace as we deal with circumstances that are difficult. Number six, we need to submit to what he is doing in our life. He has allowed this for a reason. There is a purpose behind it. He wants to humble us. He wants to press us close to himself. He wants to allow the situation to reorient our thinking and our perspective. He wants our life to be built on the gospel where that is our hope, not just the ease of our circumstances. He wants to mature us He wants to shape us into the image of Christ. Do not allow the circumstances that you're going through to be wasted in the sense that you do not learn the lessons that God has for you to learn. And you do not draw closer to God in circumstances when that's available. And you don't mature to the extent that He desires you to mature in those circumstances. Let patience have her perfect work. Number seven. Look for opportunities to minister to others through your sufferings. What I mean by that is allow the compassion that is developed in you as you have gone through a a period of of of humbling, let that compassion be the way that you deal with other people. The wisdom that you have gleaned. Allow that to be something that shapes the perspective of other people. When you're going through circumstances, allow those things to be tools that God uses to get into the lives of other people. And lastly, I'll mention this. When we are in the midst of these circumstances, we need to ask some serious and hard questions of ourselves. What is God doing? What are his purposes? And we need to let the Lord do what he's going to do in our lives. I challenge you this morning. Let's submit. to what God is trying to do in our lives. Let's be willing to properly respond to Him in the moments of great vulnerability. I hope that this has been a great study for you. It has been for me. It's humbling, it's convicting, it's strengthening, and ultimately it it reminds us again that God is good, he loves us, he is wise, and he has a purpose for everything he allows. Lord willing, tomorrow we're going to close out the week with a little bit of an introduction to the sermon we'll look at on Sunday morning. Have a blessed day. Bye now.