Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And if you've been joining us this week, we've been working through Luke chapter 8, verses 22 through 25. And uh this morning we're going to conclude this little section, and then tomorrow, Lord willing, we will have a bonus episode. So if you have your Bible, let's turn to verses 22 To 25 of Luke chapter 8, and let's read it together and then dig into this last little piece that I hope will be very encouraging and helpful. Here's what it says. Now it came to pass on a certain day. that he went into a ship with his disciples. And he said unto them, Let us go over unto the other side of the lake, and they launched forth. But as they sailed he fell asleep. And there came down a storm of wind on the lake, and they were filled with water and were in jeopardy. And they came to him and awoke him, saying, Master, master, we perish. Then he arose and rebuked the wind and the raging of the water And they ceased. And there was a calm. And he said unto them, Where is your faith? And they, being afraid, wondered, saying one to another, What manner of man is this? For he commandeth even the winds and the water, and they obey him. Now this is a great closing to this passage. If you remember, yesterday we talked about Christ's authority, and we talked about the concept of s of providence. And then before that we looked in two parts at the identity of Christ. We looked at his deity and we looked at his humanity. Well like what I'd like to look at this morning is how we're supposed to respond to this. And what's what's great about this passage of scripture is that it actually answers that question in verse 25. Notice what Jesus says after he calms the seas. He asks in verse 25, he says, Where is your faith? That's where we need to end this study. With asking ourselves the question, where is our faith? Now If you remember, the reason that Jesus is asking this question is because the disciples were terrified. They were afraid for their life. And so Jesus is basically saying Did you think that I was just going to die in this storm with you? Did you think that God's plan of redemption was essentially going to be wiped out because of a storm? Is that what you're saying? Where's your faith? Jesus is basically saying, you need to trust me. And so I want us to examine that statement, where is your faith, a little bit more. What does Jesus exactly mean by where is your faith? Well, I will put it like this. He means that they needed to live with an exclusive trust in him. That means an exclusive reliance or an exclusive dependence, a trust. I've given this illustration at other times, but when John Payton was trying to find the word for faith, he was really struggling with getting that word. And so He asked the translator that he was working with, um, you know, how do you express this concept or that concept? And he finally came up with an illustration that he thought would be the right illustration to give the word faith. And he said, he said, tell me what I'm doing. And he he leans back on his chair and the person says, Well, you're You're depending on, you're relying on the chair. And then he he lifts up his feet and he says, Now what am I doing? He says, Well, you're you're relying on the chair totally, exclusively, alone. That was the idea And John Payton said, that's what faith is. It is a total, exclusive reliance, dependence, trust in God. And when we're talking about the gospel, it's a reliance on the facts of the gospel, who Jesus is, what he came to do, how he accomplished that work, and what we need to do to be saved. It's by grace alone through faith alone in Christ alone. But when it comes to this issue of navigating the challenges of life and reliance on the providence of God, what exactly does he mean by trust, faith in Christ in these situations? Well, I want to break it down this way. First of all, it's about knowing who he is. Whenever God tells us to trust him, he tells us to trust him on the basis of evidence, on the basis of reasonable arguments that should point us to do such a thing. And so we begin with knowing God as He is. When we talk about God, we're talking about someone who is infinitely wise. There there are no limits to God's wisdom. They're not things that he's learning as he watches creation uh do its thing. That's not what's going on with God. He's not learning new things because he is all -wise and he's all-knowing. We talk about God's resources to accomplish what he desires to accomplish what he's purposed to accomplish. God has unlimited resources. It's not like he needs to take out a loan so that he can buy something that he needs to do what he wants to do. That's not the way that God operates. He is all powerful. God isn't elusive from people. He cares about them personally. And so when we talk about God's wisdom and we talk about God's resources, we also need to talk about his care. His love, his compassion, his personal interest in people. God's actively involved in the circumstances that are going on in our lives. Never caught off guard, doesn't turn back on his word. That's the God that we serve. So when the scripture says we need to trust God, Well, it begins with trusting him because of his character, his nature. But there's a second aspect to this when it comes to the issue of God's sovereign providence, and that is the jurisdiction. If there was an area in creation that was off limits to God, where he did not have jurisdiction, he didn't have authority, or he didn't have power, Then we could say, well, God, we can trust you in the areas where your jurisdiction covers, but we can't trust you in the areas that are outside of your jurisdiction. But here's the good news. There are no limits to God's jurisdiction. God literally governs all of his creation, every aspect of it. There isn't some little area in the creation that that is outside of God's jurisdiction and control. And his work. Someone might even say, well, what about Satan? Doesn't Satan kind of have his own little kingdom and he's able to do what he wants to do in his own little kingdom and and and the forces of evil? They have a jurisdiction and God has a jurisdiction and they're in collision. And it's a good thing that God's stronger than Satan. But those areas that belong to Satan, God can't touch those things. Is that the way that we should look at these things? And the answer is of course not Think about the story of Job. Satan comes to to God and he begins to talk about Job. And Job has to, or excuse me, Satan has to get permission from God to touch Job. And God limits the extent to which he is able to touch Job. And so what that shows us is that even Satan himself, the most evil and the most powerful being outside of God himself in all of creation Satan is under God's control. He's under God's authority. He can't do anything without God permitting him to do such a thing. That's a stunning thing to consider. And by the way, uh this next week when we talk about uh God's um his power over over the realm of darkness and we're gonna talk about Satan and demons and all those kinds of things, we're gonna see that that is in fact true. And so when we talk about God's jurisdiction, it is expansive, infinitely expansive. And then the third thing I'm going to mention is that we can trust God. And we can depend on him exclusively because he has spoken in his word many, many times. He has given promises. that should comfort us and be the things that we build our lives upon. Let me give you a few examples of what I mean. And this is by no means an exhaustive list of promises. There's so many in Scripture. He's promised to never leave us or forsake us. And we feel lonely. We feel abandoned. We feel like maybe God has forgotten us. The scripture says that he will never leave us or forsake us. He he promises to keep us by his power. Think about the Christian who struggles with some besetting sin and When they sin they feel as if God has thrown them to the side and they know more are his child. And that's how they feel in their heart But that feeling in their heart is not consistent with reality because the promise of God is that we are kept by the power of God. Not our own power, not our own strength, his power. He gives us the promise that there's nothing that can separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. And by the way, in that Romans 8 passage, it connects it back to our eternal security. But it's not just our security. It's the love of God. Okay? God loves us dearly. And so we do not earn God's love. We don't merit God's love. We don't Build credentials and then he chooses to love us. No, his love is something that is consistent and it is faithful because it is a grace love. It's a love that is unmerited entirely. And so there's nothing that can separate us from the love of God. That's a promise of Scripture. He's promised that He has secured a future inheritance for us. Read Ephesians chapter one. It says, even before the foundation of the world, we as his children were predestined to the adoption. We're going to receive the fullness of our inheritance. And there's nothing that can stop that from happening. No decision that we make, nothing that Satan says or uh about us or does toward us. No no stumbling in the Christian life is going to keep us from being able to experience the fullness of our eternal inheritance. And then the last one I'm going to mention, very, very important. Romans chapter 8, he says that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are called according to his purpose. That means that when I'm in the midst of circumstances that I cannot make sense of and I'm very discouraged and I'm very frustrated with, I can go back to this this promise in Scripture and I can rely on it I can draw strength from it that whatever I'm dealing with, God has the ability and he has purpose to use that to accomplish good in my life. and ultimately to bring glory to himself. And that's something that I can rest in. So when we talk about trusting in the Lord, we're talking about understanding his trust character. We're talking about understanding his jurisdiction. And we're talking about understanding his promises. And so the scriptures are full of examples of these things played out. They're the testimonies of Scripture. Psalm nineteen verse seven, the testimonies of the Lord are sure, and they make wise the simple. Romans fifteen four. Whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning, that we through comfort A patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. The reason that God gives us all these testimonies of how he has worked in people's lives is that so that we can see his character being displayed in a very practical way His jurisdiction being displayed in a very practical way. His promises being kept in a very practical way. And by seeing it in the scriptures, it strengthens our confidence. So that we rely exclusively upon him. I asked this question this morning, where is your faith? In the midst of the situations you face, right here and now, where's your faith? God wants us to understand who Christ is. He wants us to understand how he governs the creation, and he wants us to trust him every single day of our lives. Not just to give us eternal life. but also to sustain us and guide us in this life, on this side of our future eternal inheritance. My question to you is very simple this morning. Are you willing to allow your life, are you willing to actively build your life practically on what you know to be true in your head about God? He is in charge and he is fully trustworthy. My prayer is that the Lord will use this to be an encouragement to you today. If this has been an encouragement, please share that. And if you think it could be a help to somebody else, please pass it along to them so that they can be encouraged by it as well. Lord willing, tomorrow we're going to do a bonus episode, and so I'm looking forward to that. And then after that, I hope that you have a wonderful weekend. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow for that bonus episode by now