Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I hope that you've been enjoying the study this week. What I'd like to do is ask you to turn with me to Luke chapter 9, and we're reading verses 57 through 62 And we're continuing our focus on the fact that Christ's identity should shape how we relate to Him. Here's what it says And it came to pass that as they went in the way, a certain man said unto him, Lord, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest Jesus said unto him, Foxes have holes, and the birds of the year have nests, but the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head And he said unto another, Follow me. But he said, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father. Jesus said unto him, Let the dead bury their dead. But go thou and preach the kingdom of God Another also said, Lord, I will follow thee, but let me first go bid them farewell, which are at my home. Jesus said unto him, No man having put his hand to the plough, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God. Now the passage before us is full of several fascinating themes. And one of the themes is that there was a man who was willing to follow Christ. The reason that he was willing to follow Christ is because he understood on some level who Jesus is. The second thing that we looked at is that this man's desire to follow Christ was a good desire. But he needed to consider the full implications of that willingness to follow Christ. And so Jesus warns this man that in fact following him is going to come at a price. Well, the third theme that we're going to look at is the urgency whereby we need to follow Christ. And we find this in verses 59 to 60. Here's what it says. Jesus said to another, follow me. Now with the first person, he's a volunteer. He's saying to Jesus, I'll follow you wherever you're going. The second man is somebody who's standing along the side, and Jesus says I'm in calling you to follow me. Well, this is how the man responds. He says, Lord, let me first, or suffer me first, go and bury my father. Jesus said unto him, Let the dead bury their dead. But go thou and preach the kingdom of God Now, the statement that Jesus is making on the front side seems extremely harsh. Here is this poor man whose father has just died. And Jesus is telling him, you need to leave your father, let somebody else bury him, and come and follow me. The question is, is that really what's going on in these verses? Well, in my opinion, I don't think that that's what's actually going on. One of the reasons that that I say that is because he talks about the dead burying the dead. And what Jesus is doing is he's speaking proverbially here. When he uses the word dead, as in the dead, I don't think he's talking about someone who's physically dead. He's talking about people who are spiritually dead. He's talking about people who are consumed with not the eternal kingdom of God, but they're actually consumed with worldly pursuits because they've not considered the implications of Christ's person and work. And so when Jesus says, let the dead bury their dead, I don't think he's saying, your father has died and you need to shirk a responsibility. He's saying, let people who are consumed with the things of this world let them do what they're going to do. That's essentially the sense of it. And I think it's important for us to contrast what this man did with the disciples that Jesus called. For instance, if we go in our Bibles to Matthew 4. 18 We will see that Jesus calls several of his disciples. And here's what it says in Matthew 4. 18. Jesus walking by the Sea of Galilee saw two brothers, Simon called Peter and Andrew his brother. casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen. And they and and he said unto them, Follow me. I will make you fishers of men. They straightway left their nets and followed him, and going from thence he saw two brethren, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, in a ship with Zebedee their father making their net mending their nets, and he called them, and they immediately left their ship and their father and followed him. Now in those verses we see the word straight away And immediately, both of those words are actually the same Greek term. And the idea is that when Jesus called these four individuals. . They immediately, without any kind of hesitation recorded in the text, they immediately say, We will follow you. And they did it. And he also mentions in these verses. that they left their father and they left the ship where they were mending nets. The idea is that they were leaving family and they were leaving livelihood to follow Christ. Now, before we dig into this any further, let me say this first. When the man says, let me first go and bury my father, the text never states explicitly the age of the father. the kind of health the father was in. All it tells us is that the young man or the old man, we don't know, he wanted to delay this until some period in the time, in the future. Now, it's important for us to recognize that Jesus has addressed this issue of honoring father and mother in other parts of the Gospels. Jesus never encourages us to dishonor our parents or to disobey them in a lawful manner, an area that falls within their jurisdiction. In fact, the scripture teaches us the exact opposite. It teaches us that we're to honor our father and mother. We're supposed to show them the respect that is due to them. And so Jesus is not telling this man to short that responsibility. He has something else in mind. For instance, in Mark chapter 7 , Verses 9 through 13, Jesus actually addresses the issue of people taking their religious uh observance and using it as a veil to not have to show their parents the honor that is due them. In Mark chapter 7, verse 9, it says this. You reject the commandments of God. that you may keep your own traditions. For Moses said, honor thy father and thy mother. By the way, when he says Moses said, he's not just saying it's Moses. It's God saying it. The Holy Spirit speaking through Moses. He's writing it down in the scriptures. He's giving the law to them. It's restated again in the New Testament. Honor thy father and mother. And then he says, Whosoever curseth father or mother, let him die the death. But ye say, if a man shall say to his father or mother, it is corbin, that is to say, a gift, By whatsoever thou mightest be profited by me, he shall be free. And ye suffer him no more aught for his father or his mother, making the word of God an effect through your traditions. Now, let's not miss the example that I'm talking about in Mark chapter 7. What Jesus is saying is that the religious leaders had established certain traditions And they use those traditions to be able to ignore certain things in the law that made them uncomfortable or they didn't actually desire to do it. In fact, I'll I'll give you the example of someone who decides they don't want to be married to the person that they're married anymore. And so what do they do? They say, you know what? I'll find a legal way for me to get rid of my spouse. I'll just divorce them and then I'll marry the person I want. Jesus actually addresses that issue on in the Sermon on the Mount and at other portions. Or here's an example of someone who's supposed to honor their father and their mother. And all of a sudden mom and dad are getting older. and they can't financially uh that they're gonna become a financial uh burden to their children. At least that's the mindset of the child the child who needs to take care of their parents and all of a sudden they're saying, you know what? I don't want to have to deal with this financial burden. I know what I can do. I can take a certain amount of money that could have been used for mom and dad, and then what I'm going to do is I'm going to shield that money by saying, well, this is dedicated to God. I can't touch the money. I can't use it to serve and minister to you because it's dedicated to God. And what Jesus is saying is, well by that practice what you're actually doing is you're trying to ignore the law of God by establishing this arbitrary tradition that shields you from what you actually are obligated to do. What he's saying is that people are masters of of making exceptions so that they don't have to do what God tells them to do. So Jesus is in no way suggesting, oh, you can just ignore the obligation that you have as a son to your parent. So you say, well then what is Jesus really getting at then? This is what I believe Jesus is actually getting at. He's getting at this desire that people have to put off following Christ until some arbitrary, unspecified time in the future. In other words, his father is not dead His father does not need to be buried at the moment. He has no idea how long his father's going to live. He has no idea when this is going to happen. So what he's basically doing is he's saying this Once this period of my life is over, waiting for Dad to die and probably get his inheritance and all those kinds of things, then I will follow you. That's what he's saying. He's putting off following Christ till some time in the future. But it's even more than that. He's using his father as a convenient excuse to veil his true motives. His desire is that he doesn't want to follow Christ at the moment. He wants to delay it. But rather than just stating explicitly, hey, right now is not the time, he's saying, well, I need to wait until God dies Now, you might say, well, well, Joel, what do you take away from this? What is the practical implication? Well, the practical implication is very simple. Do not delay your commitment to Christ till sometime in the future. Someone might say, well, once I finish junior high, then I'll start reading my Bible, taking my walk with God seriously. Or once when I finish high school, when I finish college, or once I get into my career, or once I get married, or once I have children. And what ends up happening is we end up pushing down the road more and more this commitment to Christ. Well guess what? You have no idea how long you're going to live. You have no idea what the future holds. Yeah, I'm reminded of what it says in Ecclesiastes at the end of the book. He says, remember now thy creator in the days of thy youth. before the evil day draws nigh and you look back at these days and you say, I have no pleasure in them. What Solomon is saying is you need to deal with your Commitment to Christ, commitment to the Lord right now rather than delaying it because you don't know what's going to happen in the future You don't have a guarantee of a sound mind. You don't have a guarantee of the strength that you have right now. You don't have a guarantee of the opportunities that you're enjoying right now. And so if you choose to delay, you're choosing to delay ultimately to some arbitrary time in the future that may absolutely never happen. And so the challenge this morning is simple. Let's put our commitment to Christ first now. I want to ask you that question. Are you putting your commitment to Christ first now? It's a very simple question. And my prayer is that each of us would do that. That we will take our commitment to following Christ seriously. today. If this has been a challenge to you, I hope that you'll share that. Hope that you have a wonderful rest of your day and Lord willing we'll continue our series tomorrow. Bye now.