Okay, good evening. I want to welcome you tonight to our Bible study. Looking forward to our time in the Word and also looking forward to just praying together Let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer, and then we will turn to the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew chapter 5, verses 17 through 20. Let's pray. Father, we're so richly blessed, and we're so thankful that we can gather together with friends, brothers and sisters in Christ. And I pray that as we gather our time together would be encouraging. As we look into the Word of God, I pray that you will help us to understand these truths very thoroughly. And help me as I work my way through this text and really a topic that we will address for several weeks. I pray that you would open our understanding, help these truths to resonate in our hearts. to sink deeply within us. And I pray that we would understand the practical implications that are connected to these rich truths. And I pray that you'll bless the children in the back as they have their classes and be with those who are working through learning English in the back. And I just pray that your hand of blessing would be each in each of those places. And then as we spend time together in prayer and we bear one another's burdens and we lift up requests to you, I pray that you would knit our hearts together in that time. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Matthew chapter 5 is where we are tonight. We are working our way rather methodically through the Sermon on the Mount and I hate to say it, but we're going to get even more methodical here over the next couple of weeks because the section that we're looking at is a section that I think really requires a good bit of um expounding and dealing with exactly what is there. So Matthew 5, 17 through 20 is what we're reading tonight. And what we're looking at is Christ's relationship to the law. Matthew 5, 17, here's what it says. Think not that I am come to destroy the law. Or the prophets, I am not come to destroy, but to fulfill. For verily I say unto you, till heaven and earth pass , One jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law till all be fulfilled. Whosoever therefore shall break one of the least of these commandments and shall teach men so, he shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven. But whosoever shall do and teach them, the same shall be called great. in the kingdom of heaven. For I say unto you that except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven. Now, I think that the passage of scripture we're dealing with tonight is one that's going to involve a lot of questions, and there's a lot to discuss here. And so first of all, I want to give you a summary statement and then kind of explain a little bit of what we're going to be doing, Lord willing, over the next couple of weeks. The following portion of Christ's sermon establishes a transition. From his emphasis on the character of true disciples to his emphasis on a correct understanding of how to interpret and apply the law By doing this, he will provide divine commentary that contrasts and confronts the most common forms of false teaching in his days. Now, if you think back over the things that we've talked about, you can see that there's clearly a transition from verses 1 to 12 and then where we go in the rest of the sermon. For instance, We see in verse 3, Blessed are the poor in spirit, verse 4, Blessed are they that mourn. Verse 5, Blessed are the meek. Verse 6, Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness. Blessed are the merciful, blessed are the pure in heart. Blessed are peacemakers. All of the things that Jesus is talking about in those verses, we could say that there are dispositional changes that take place in the lives of true Christians. It's talking about the character of a disciple of Christ. And then in verses eleven and twelve, he talks about the fact that we are blessed and we should rejoice and be exceeding glad. Great is our reward in heaven if we are persecuted for righteousness' sake and for Christ's sake. Then he goes on verses 13 and 14 and 15. Well, the verses we've looked at the last couple of weeks, and he talks about the fact that we are salt and we are light, and he uses those two illustrations. Now the rest of the sermon, almost entirely, is going to be dealing with some very specific things that are being stated by the rabbis that all of the people would have been very familiar with, and Jesus is going to confront those things. And so the the question that's going to come up in people's minds as they hear what Jesus has to say about the teaching of the rabbis is they're going to say, hold on, are you saying that the law Is being replaced by you. Are you saying that the law is bad? Are you saying that the law has no value? Okay? These are some of the questions that are going on. If someone understands the gospel, they're going to sit down and go, are you saying that the law has no value? And so before Jesus goes into all these various, correcting you could say the wrong interpretation, the teaching of the Pharisees and the scribes of his day. He's gonna say, I'm just gonna clear the air right here. I didn't come to destroy the law. I came to fulfill the law And not part of the law, I came to fulfill all of the law. Every single piece of the law is going to be fulfilled by me And then he's going to kind of turn it to be very personal because he's going to address the scribes and the Pharisees. When he says, if you teach these commandments and you don't do them, who do you think he's talking about? Well, he's talking about the religious leaders of his day. And then he's going to go even further and he's going to say, if your righteousness is not higher than the scribes and the Pharisees, You won't go into the kingdom of heaven. Guess what he's saying by implication? The scribes and the Pharisees don't have a righteousness that's good enough to go to heaven. Do you see what he's saying? These are stunning statements. And when Jesus says them, I can only imagine how those people would have responded hearing the things that he's saying. So this is really, we could say, like a, it's a transitional moment in the sermon. He's laying a foundation, a clarification for the things that he's about to say. And so really we could summarize it this way. God wants us to understand the proper use of the law. And in order for us to do that, we're going to take this in three parts. Tonight, we're going to look at how Christ came to fulfill the law. What exactly does he mean when he says, I've not come to destroy the law, instead I've come to fulfill the law. We're going to talk about that tonight. Then Lord willing next week And hopefully not hopefully get through all this tonight, but I don't know if we will. There's no part of the law that will fail to be fulfilled. And he emphasizes that. Then part number three, a knowledge of the law should not be equated with obedience to the law. Just because I know what it says does not mean I do it. And just because I think I do it doesn't mean that I actually meet the standard that is there. And then part four, the Pharisees were not, the Pharisees were not righteous enough. to meet God's standard of righteousness. They were not righteous enough to meet God's standard of righteousness. So It kind of gives you an idea of where we're going. And we're just breaking apart those verses and looking at the basic components of what Jesus is saying. So, first of all, Christ came to fulfill the law. Let's dig into this concept tonight. Truth number one. The law in this context is referring to the Old Testament. Now, if you look back at the verse, he says this. He says, think not that I am come to destroy the law or the prophets. He says, I am come not to destroy, but to fulfill. Now, when he talks about the law, sometimes there's a lot of confusion about what Jesus or what maybe Paul means when they talk about law. And by the way, the context, in many situations, it actually kind of helps us to understand what he means. So in some situations the word law might be referring to the Ten Commandments, okay? Or in some contexts he may be talking about the royal law. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, and love your neighbor as yourself. In other contexts, it could be referring to simply the Pentateuch, a portion of what we call the Old Testament. And then in other places, it's actually used to refer to the entire Old Testament itself. And I'd like to show you some examples of what we mean by that. So first of all, how the law could be referring specifically to the Pentateuch. In Luke chapter 24, verse 44, this is at the end of Christ's ministry. He's having a conversation with some people after the resurrection, before the ascension, and this is what it says. And he, Jesus, said unto them, These are the words which I spoke unto you while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which are written in the law of Moses. and in the prophets, and in the Psalms concerning me. Notice he talks about the law of Moses. That's the Pentateuch. He talks about the prophets, and that's all of the prophets, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Daniel. We have all these different prophets. And then he refers to the Psalms, which would have been a part of the wisdom literature. So we're talking Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song of Solomon. We're talking about several books that would have been associated with that. He's really talking about the various aspects of the Old Testament. And so he refers to the law in that sense, the Pentateuch. But the law can also be referred to as the entire Old Testament. For instance, in John 15, 25, this is what it says. This cometh to pass that the word might be fulfilled, that is written in their law. They hated me without a cause. Now What is that quotation a reference to? What portion of the Old Testament? Was it from the Pentateuch? The answer is no. It was from the Psalms, in fact, Psalm 35, verse 19. So he uses the term law in that particular context to refer to the Old Testament itself. Or in 1 Corinthians chapter 14, this is a fascinating text that we get on a rabbit trail about tongues and why tongues have ceased, and we won't get into that, but in 1 Corinthians 14, 21 it says this. In the law it is written, With men of other tongues and other lips will I speak unto this people. Yet for all this they will not hear me, saith the Lord. Again. What is Paul quoting from? What portion of the Old Testament? Well, he's quoting from Isaiah 28, verses 11 and 12. And so again, he uses the term law not to refer to the Pentateuch, but as a generalization of the entire Old Testament. The second sense is what I think Jesus is referring to, though he does qualify law and the prophets. But I think he's referring to the entirety of the Old Testament here. So in Matthew 122 we see this statement, All this was done that it might be fulfilled, which is spoken of the Lord by the prophets, saying, Behold, a virgin shall be with child, shall bring forth a son, they shall call his name Emmanuel. Which is being interpreted God with us. A quote from Isaiah seven fourteen or Matthew two fifteen. And he was there until the death of Herod, that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken of the Lord by the prophets, saying, Out of Egypt. Have I called my son? He's referring to Hosea eleven, verse one, or Matthew two, seventeen They were fulfilled, which were spoken by Jeremiah the prophet, saying, In Ramah was there a voice heard, lamentation, weeping, great mourning, Rachel weeping for her children, and would not be comforted because They are not. A reference to Jeremiah 31, 15. I'll give you one more. But the book of Matthew is filled with examples of this because Matthew is written to a primarily Jewish audience. Who understood the Mosaic Law, they understood the Old Testament prophets, and they were very familiar with these prophecies. And so he's saying this happened as a direct fulfillment of this part of the Old Testament. Matthew 27, 35. It's at the end of Matthew. They crucified him and parted his garments, casting lots. That it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophet. They parted my garments among them, and upon my vesture did they cast lots. Where was that found? Psalm 28, 22, verse 18. So the idea is that when he uses the term law in this context, my view is that he's referring to the entirety of the Old Testament. Not just the books of Moses, but he's talking about Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel. He's talking about Hosea. He's talking about the Psalms. He's talking about many, many different places. So it moves us to our second truth, which is kind of built on the first. The law said this is righteousness, and Christ fulfilled it. In other words, when the law says, here's what righteousness looks like, Jesus fulfilled it perfectly. To state it another way, the law established a practical standard for us to observe the distinction between what is righteous and what is unrighteous. There's lots of different ways that we can understand this concept. We can read the Ten Commandments and we go through each of those commandments. We can read the various commands in the Old Testament. We can look at the life of Christ and we can see how he responded in situations. And so we see visibly what righteousness looks like in a perfect human being. To look at it negatively, we see it in Romans 7. This is what it says. I had not known sin, but by the law. Does that make sense? Unless God said thou shalt not, then I wouldn't have known I'm not supposed to do that. Or God said you're supposed to do this, I wouldn't have known that I'm supposed to do this. A lot of times in the Bible talks about the way that we thought and the way that we lived before we were Christians, he talks about us living according to ignorance. Walking in darkness. Why is that? Because we didn't really have our understanding. We have a conscience, but the conscience was not fully open to the truth. We didn't see it clearly. And so Paul writes, I had not known sin, but by the law. I had not known lust, except the law had said, Thou shalt not covet. But here's the fascinating thing that he says next. He says, but sin, taking occasion by the commandment, wrought in me all manner of concupiscence. That word concupiscence is All kinds of expressions of sinful, lustful passions. So he says, when the law says don't do it, all of a sudden I understand I shouldn't do this. And when I strive to obey the law, what I start finding out is in my heart I'm bent against it. And so not only do I have a greater sense of my guilt, but I have a greater sense of how far I fall short of it. He says, without the law, sin was dead. I was alive without the law once, but when the commandment came, sin revived, and I died, and the commandment which was ordained to life I found to be unto death. That's an absolutely stunning statement. When the Apostle Paul talks about the law in Romans chapter 7, he refers to it in terms of: the law awakened me to my sin. And it also awakened me to my rebellion against God. He even speaks in terms of the fact that it's almost like the law tempted me. I I remember this illustration being given when I was in seminary. The teacher, he says, you know, you have this door over here and everybody walks through the door and they don't think anything of it, but you put a little sign that says wet paint don't touch and what happens? Every single junior high boy in the class is going to look around and go, I want to see if that I want to see if that paint's wet. Why did they do that? Well, because it said not to do it. As soon as it says don't do it, the thought pops in their head, why can't I do that? Nobody's gonna catch me. It's not a big deal. And that's what happens. You say, well, why is that? It's because we're sinful people We have the sin nature. It's within us. We have this consciousness that leaves us without excuse. However, we can easily suppress and desensitize our conscience. So when the law says thou shalt not or thou shalt, God awakens us to our sinfulness through the law. It awakens our conscience and it says you need Christ. That's what it does. That's the negative side, but there's also a positive side. In Hebrews 4. 15 it says that Christ was in all points tempted like we are, yet what? Without sin. He didn't sin. Okay? So you and I were tempted, and what do we do? We give in. Jesus was tempted in all the same areas But he didn't give in. You know what that does? That shows us positively what righteousness looks like. We see it in the person of Christ. Now the rest of the passage is to encourage the believer who is struggling to find strength in temptation in Christ. But it also gives us an indication of Christ's presence in the world and what that accomplished. We also see a piece of this in John 16. Listen to what Jesus says. It is expedient for you that I go away. If I go not away, the comforter will not come unto you. If I depart, I will send him unto you. And when he has come, listen carefully what it says. He will reprove, that word has the idea of to convict us. He will reprove the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. And listen to what it says. Of sin because they believe not on me. So the sin that ultimately keeps a person from salvation is the sin of unbelief. It's a rejection of the truth. But then the next statement is fascinating. Of righteousness because I go to my Father and you see me no more. You say, well, what does him going to the Father have to do with us needing the Holy Spirit to convince us of righteousness? He's saying when you see me, you see what righteousness looks like. And when I'm gone, the Holy Spirit's got to convict you of righteousness through the scriptures alone. And so we see that sense there. The third thing we see is that the law says we need a savior and Christ fulfilled. everything necessary so that we could be saved. To state it another way, the law established a convincing case for why we need a savior. Romans 3. 19. Now we know that what things soever the law saith, it saith to them that are under the law, that every mouth may be what? Not emboldened, stopped. You say, what's the idea? Somebody says, hey, you see all these things that I've done, and then the law says, uh, cancelled. Doesn't work. Not accepted. And so as the law says thou shalt thou shalt not, all of a sudden I see, I I have no case. I have no case to plead, except I'm guilty and I know it. So it's that the law says that every mouth is stopped, that the world is guilty before God. By the deeds of the law, no flesh shall be justified in his sight. Why? By the law is the knowledge of sin. So what does the law do? It brings us to the point where we recognize we need the Savior. We have no hope outside of Him. Our only hope is rooted in who Jesus is. what he did for us and what he can give us by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. The purpose of the law was to silence people from boasting in their own righteousness. It declares our guilt. and our not innocence, and it awakens us to our lost condition. I'll give you another passage in Romans, and I love this one. Romans 8. 3. This is what it says. What the law could not do, and that it was meek through the flesh. God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin condemned sin in the flesh. Isn't that an amazing statement? The idea is that the law is powerless to make us godly because we are sinful by nature. He later on says that they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh, and those who are after the spirit the things of the spirit. The carnal mind is not subject to the law of God, neither can it be, so then those who are in the flesh cannot please God. And so these scriptures tell us that the law drives us to Christ, and it shows us that that's our only hope. Another great text is in Galatians 2. And I love what it says here. Listen to this text. He says, I through the law am dead to the law. Figure that one out for a minute. Through the law, I'm dead to the law. What in the world is Paul saying? And then to add to that, he says, not only through the law, I'm dead to the law, but That I might live into God. You go you go, this is this is confusing. I threw the law, died to the law, and now I can live to God. Actually, it's a beautiful explanation of how God uses the gospel to bring someone to faith in Christ. So the law does its work of saying you are guilty and you have no hope. Through the law, you are brought to the foot of the cross. And at the foot of the cross you go, Christ's death, his burial, his resurrection, it's finished. His righteousness is imputed to me. And guess what? Now I'm dead to the law. The law doesn't say guilty anymore. I am not guilty. I am not condemned. There's no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. But then I've been saved for what purpose? To walk in newness of life. That I might live unto God. It's like what it says in Ephesians 2. It says, it's by grace we're saved through faith, not of ourselves, the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast, for we are his workmanship. Created in Christ Jesus and the good works. You see the connection. The law brings us to a humbled position. Well we have no hope outside of Christ. We place our faith in Christ, and now the law says it has no we are no longer under under the condemnation of the law. And so the law demonstrates our spiritual bankruptcy. If we could be saved by the law, then Christ didn't need to die. That's what it says in the text. If righteousness comes by the law, And Christ has died in vain. The fourth truth. Well, we're really moving through this. Can you keep up with this right? Don't worry, we only have ten pieces to go through, so No, I'm kidding. It's not tens. It's a little less than tens. The fourth truth, the law said there is a coming savior, so trust in him. And Christ fulfilled it. To state it another way, the law provided promises for God's people before the cross to trust in. Somebody might say, well, hold on a second, Joel. I understand how we get saved after the cross because, hey, Jesus died and he rose from the dead, and the basis of our salvation has been established. We trust in the work of Christ. Well, what about the people before the cross? He hadn't died yet. Did they get saved the same way that we do? And the answer is, yeah, they really did. Well what was the basis of their salvation? It was what was going to happen. How were they actually to receive the benefits of the gospel? What was the instrument through which God saved them? It was their faith. And it was their faith alone. And we see this in Genesis 5, 6, 15, 6. It says that Abraham believed in the Lord, and he counted it to him for righteousness. But the question is, what did Abraham believe? The answer is, the object of his faith was the promise of Redeemer. You say, well, where did that come from? Well, God communicated it. He started communicating this fact that he was going to send a redeemer on the very day that Adam and Eve sinned against God. He says that the seed of the woman will crush the serpent's head. Obviously, when Cain and Abel were offering their sacrifices, there was some understanding that was associated with the concept of sacrifice. There's a reason that God accepted Abel's sacrifice and he rejected Cain's. He says that he rejected Cain and his sacrifice. The idea is that he had two problems. One is the way he came, it was without faith, and the other is the kind of sacrifice he offered. It wasn't an animal sacrifice that was keeping the picture of the coming Savior, but in fact it was something entirely different. But the point is that all throughout the Old Testament, we see this progressive revelation. Of the coming Savior. It's pointing us to a Savior. For instance, in Psalm 16:10, David writes, Thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither Wilt thou suffer thine holy one to see corruption? Now, when Peter is preaching at Pentecost, he refers to this text and he says: this is a statement about the resurrection in two ways. In one way, it's a statement about the resurrection of the Savior. And in two, your holy one will not see corruption. And then two, you're not going to leave my soul in hell. He's talking about the resurrection of the believer as well. Psalm 32, verse 1. Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven. whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity, and whose spirit is no guile. Do you see the concept of we could say the word imputation? What does that word mean? It means that my sin has been laid on Christ's shoulders And God the Father's wrath has been poured out on his son, the Lord Jesus. And as he bears the weight of my sin and my guilt, God now has a basis To forgive me. That's the one side of it. On the other side, there is the imputation of the righteousness of Christ There's no basis for God to call me righteous in the righteousness that I can present to him. My righteousness is filthy rags. It falls short Of God's perfect righteousness. But when Christ's righteousness is imputed to me, and I'm in Christ, what does God say? God says, justified. Not guilty. Forgiven, declared righteous, on the basis of the cross and the righteousness of Christ. And so we see the concept of imputation. You can't read Isaiah 53 without seeing that concept all over the entire section. That we have a Savior who took our place and he bore the wrath of God against our sin. So we could be forgiven. Isaiah 53, 1 to 5, who hath believed our report, to whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? He shall grow up before him as a tender plant, as a root out of a dry ground. He goes on to say he is despised and rejected of men. We esteemed him not. He has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. He was wounded for our transgressions and bruised for our iniquities. The word for means that our sin was placed on him and he was punished in our place. And that word for is used all over Isaiah 53. Why? Because it's telling us what Jesus did on the cross for us. When he said it's finished, he meant I've taken the full weight of your guilt, and there's nothing else to pay. So the reason that I bring this up is simply to say this. When Jesus says, I've not come to to destroy the law, but to fulfill it. He's saying all those promises about the Messiah, guess what? I did them. One after another, every single one of them, every single one is fulfilled. And those things were the basis of the faith Of those people in the Old Testament, they're looking for the Savior and they're trusting in that information that's been progressively revealed. In the same way that we go back to Ephesians 2. 8. 9, Romans 3, 4 and 5, John 3, 16, we go to Romans 10, we go to these passages of Scripture, Philippians chapter 3, and we read those passages in our faith. Is rooted in those promises of God. In the same way, their faith was rooted in the promise of the coming Savior. We look at the weight of what he did. Truth number five. The law said God is faithful, even though we're not. Christ's birth, life, death, and resurrection fulfilled it. The law provided promises to demonstrate God's faithfulness and grace. You know, when we read a story like the story of Noah building an ark. I think a lot of times in our minds we think Noah's the hero of the story. All right. You know, he's a great man. Here he is. For 120 years, he builds this boat, being told it's going to rain. He doesn't even know what rain is. Actually, the hero of the story is God. Because he was going to wipe out all of humanity and he said, I'm going to show grace. He says, no, build a boat because that is going to be what you have to rest in in order to survive. The truth is, if God had wiped out humanity at that point in time, guess what would have happened? All the promises would have fallen flat. You say, why is that? Well, because he made promises to Adam that could only be fulfilled if humanity survives to the point that Christ is born. Does this make sense? When we look at the promises that God makes to Abraham about giving you a child, but then his wife is barren. Guess what? That promise is on the line. And then Isaac is born. But then Isaac does not have a wife, and he's 40 years old. And Abraham's like, I better go send my servant to get him a wife because he's not getting one here And he gets a wife, and guess what? She's barren too. And he prays, Isaac prays for his wife. That she would have a child. And she does. But the point is that in every single one of these examples, we could say that God's promise is on the line. Interestingly, even when Abraham lies about his wife, he tell he tells her the second time, not the first time, the second time, he says, Tell them that you're my sister, and she's taken. Do you realize that that happened? between the promise and her actually being pregnant and having Isaac the child. So so even at that moment where Abraham is lying, Uh about his wife and she's taken captive or take taken captive, taken into the king's harem, you might say. His promise is on the line. And so the Old Testament is just, it's the story, it's the story over and over and over again that man fails God and God is faithful. And man fails and God is faithful. And man fails and God is faithful. All the way up to the point where God fulfills his promise. And so we read it this way in Galatians 4. When the fullness of the time was come, God sent forth his son. Made of a woman, made under the law, to redeem them who were under the law. What an awesome statement. In the fullness of time. In other words, God had a plan. He had a timetable. And he said, this timetable is unfolding. And now is the moment in history where what I have promised all these many thousands of years, it is going to come, it is going to happen. His plan of redemption was accomplished. You know the story of the Magi coming from Persia. In Matthew chapter 2, verse 1, it says this. When Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king. Behold, there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem saying, Where is he that is born king of the Jews? We've seen his star in the east and are come to worship him. I have this question for you. How in the world did these guys know there was a king going to be born in Israel? You ever think about that? Let me ask you another question. Why didn't they know he was going to be born in Bethlehem? I mean they knew he was going to be born, and they they even had a sense of the time, but they didn't know where he was going to be born. Have you ever thought about that? Well the answer is they didn't have Micah, because Micah wasn't written over there in the captivity. But you know what was written in the captivity? The book of Daniel. So by reading the book of Daniel, these people understood some things. There's going to be a Messiah. God has a timetable, and they did the mass from the time that they rebuilt the temple. Okay? From that time. Until where they stood, and they said, you know what? This is the time it's supposed to happen. And when they saw this sign in the sky, they said, that's telling us it's happened. It's kind of a crazy thing to think about. They were able to put all these details together, but they didn't know where he was going to be born because they didn't have access. To the prophet Micah, because of where it was written and when it was written. But there is a little point, there's a little nugget of wonderful truth that I think we find here And that is that it shows us that people who lived before the cross and before the fulfillment of these things, they had the ability to put all these pieces together and understand who the Messiah was, what he was going to do, when he was going to be born, what the circumstances surrounding his birth would be, where all these details. They could actually piece those things together. And I give you one final one to think about tonight. The law said, this is the one, believe on him. The law provided a standard by which people could identify the Savior. There are a couple of passages that I want to read to you, but I don't want you to miss. The key components that help us to understand how people knew Jesus is Messiah. John 6, 66 through 69 says the following. From that time many of his disciples went back and walked no more with him. Then said Jesus unto the twelve, Will ye also go away? Then said Simon Peter unto him, Lord, whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of life. We believe and are sure that thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. Now, what did Peter base that conviction on? Well, I think most people would say, well, his conviction was based on the fact that he heard what Jesus said. Of course, that was a key component to why he believed. And he saw the things that Jesus did. Again, it's a key component to why he believes in Jesus. But that's not the only reason. It was a combination of what he heard, what he saw, and what he had read. Those pieces all came together, and we see this in John 12, verse 16. Listen to what it says. These things understood not the disciples at the first. But when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they that these things were written of him, that they had done these things to him. Did you catch that? It wasn't just what they heard and what they saw. It's what they heard and what they saw in connection to what they read In other words, what they saw and what they heard was something that took them back to things they read in the Old Testament, and they said, I remember reading that the Messiah would do this, and I saw it happen. I remember that the Messiah would say this, and guess what? I heard him say it. It's even more explicit in John 12. Then answered the Jews and said unto him, What signs showest thou of thee unto us seeing that thou doest these things? Jesus answering said unto them, Destroy this temple, and in three days I'll raise it up. Then said the Jews, Forty-six years, put this temple in building. Wilt thou rear it up and tear it up in three days? He spake of the temple of his body. His disciples remembered that he had said this unto them, and they believed the scripture and the word which Jesus had sent. You see that? The word What he heard, what he saw, they all came together. And so the simple point is this. People who live contemporary to Christ, if they studied the Old Testament very carefully, you know what they would see? He fulfilled it. He fulfilled it in several different ways. He fulfilled the predictive side of it. He fulfilled the need that the Old Testament exposed for all of us. Jesus is the fulfillment of the whole Old Testament. And so my final thoughts are this. The law is good, but it's got to be used properly. It was not given to give us a ladder to God. It was given to remove all doubt that we're sinners who need a savior. It established a practical standard for us to observe the distinction between righteousness and unrighteousness. It established a convincing case for why we need a savior. It provided promises for God's people before the cross to trust in. It provided promises to demonstrate God is faithful and to show his grace. And it established a standard by which we can identify the Savior when we see Him. He did not come to destroy the law, but to fulfill it. And I want to encourage you, when you give the gospel to people, When you read the scriptures, use the law the way that God intended it to be used. Let's bow for prayer. Father, we thank you for the Word of God. And we looked at a lot of scriptures tonight. I pray that we would be able to process what we've heard. That these things will really settle into our hearts. Help us to be more skillful in how we present the gospel. Help us to understand the purpose of the Old Testament more thoroughly than we used to. I pray that as we think about all of these prophecies in the Old Testament and how they were fulfilled in Christ's life and ministry, that our faith would be strengthened. We would marvel in the fact that before the cross there were people looking for the Savior in the same way that we look back at what he did. They were convinced Of their need of salvation, and that God would be faithful to his promise, just as we are convinced that we need salvation, and in fact, Jesus has come, and what he did is sufficient. I pray that you would take these things and use them in our hearts in Christ's name. Amen.