So I'm not sure what I'm saying. Check, check, mic mic test. I think Castle's five No, I guess it was a game. I think one of the one stay alone. Okay. I think we have two staying one never Oh yeah, okay, right. Yeah, it'll be for Ann. So Would like to welcome each and every one of you this evening to A Church and our Christmas Eve service. And it's good to have some guests with us, many of our church family, maybe folks even from our own local community right here. And so we want to say a warm welcome to you. We hope that this time will be very encouraging to you, a time where we really focus on the Lord Jesus Christ, the purpose for the Christmas season, and the significance of those truths. Do now is bow our hearts together in prayer and ask the Lord to bless our time this evening. Let's pray. Father, what a great privilege it is to be gathered together Together about these wonderful truths connected to the birth of Christ and his salvation work. I pray that tonight you would be magnified. Would be stirred up. And if there's one that doesn't understand the significance of the gospel and has not yet properly responded to it, I pray that tonight your Spirit work in heart. And that understanding would come and people would turn to you in repentance and in faith. I pray that you be with those who'll be singing, who'll be playing. I pray that as we take part in this time of worship, that we would do it with a spirit of humility and awe as we think of the Lord Jesus. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Good evening, and at this time I'd like to invite you to take your hymnal Turn to page 194. Please stand with me as we begin the services with joy to the world. Sing out on the first and The last joy to the word of the Lord, let her be claim for peace. And in the room, but glory God, if I go with God. That's good singing. Turn over to page two hundred and one. Page two hundred. One hundred and one, oh come all ye faithful. All this Oh come, oh come, oh come For as much as many have taken in hand to set forth in order a declaration of those understanding of all things from the very first, to write unto thee in order, most excellent Theophilus, that thou mightest know the certainty of those things wherein thou hast been instructed. Luke 1, 26 through 35. And in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God unto a city of Galilee named Nazareth. To a virgin, espoused to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David, and the virgin 's name was Mary. And the angel came in unto her, and And said, Hail, thou art highly favored. The Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among women. And when she saw him She was troubled at this saying, and cast in her mind what manner of salutation this should be. And the angel said unto her, Fear Not Mary, for thou hast found favor with God. And behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and bring forth a son, and thou God shall call his name Jesus. He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Highest, and the Lord God shall give unto him The throne of his father David. And he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever. And his kingdom there shall be no end. And Then said Mary unto the angel, How shall this be, seeing I know not a man? And the angel answered And said unto her, The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the highest shall overshadow thee. Therefore also So that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God All right, let's take our hymnals and turn to page two hundred and nine. Page two hundred nine. At this time we'll sing the first and the last verses of O Little Town of Bethlehem. Sing out Oh, little Oh God , like if and ringless button Line and stars go high, get the torch each other. Everlasting life, the hopes and fears of all life are met in me tonight Oh, holy child of Bethlehem is sent to us for me Pray, cast out our son and glory , thy born in us today. We hear the Christmas Angel , I think that I didn't know. Oh, come to us of life with us our new. Good thing turn to page one hundred and ninety-seven. One ninety-seven It came upon a midnight clear, the first and the last. It came up there. Angel bending near the earth To touch their heart of all peace on their goodwill to win from heaven's array. The London falls like to hear the For no disorder My time work for the Shall come And the world 's hand back was And it is Don't discuss it. Reading from Luke chapter two, verses one through seven. And it came to pass in those days that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus That all the world should be taxed. And this taxing was first made when Cyrenius was the governor of Syria, and all went to be taxed, everyone to his own city. And Joseph also Went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth into Judea unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was the house of the house and lineage of David to be taxed. With Mary, his espoused wife, being great with child. And so it was that when they were there, the days were accomplished that she should be delivered. And she brought forth her firstborn son and wrapped him in swaddling clothes and laid him in a manger for there was no room for them in the inn of the All right, now take your hymnals out once again. Unless you haven't put them away, then turn to page one hundred and ninety-nine. Page one hundred ninety-nine. If you'll keep your finger in there, all the Christmas songs are right around that area, so you'll have fewer pages to turn. Page 199, hark, the Herald Angel Sing, the first and the last. Sing it! All right. Herald and shall see glory to the newborn king. He 's not mercy, my old god, and Joyful login nations cry, join the joy above the skies, with angelic us proclaim. Christ is born in the Hell Park, the Herald Angel thing for me to the Lord King on the land Shall not have portrins of me a robot all of righteousness Yes, glory die, for that man who born to die, born to raise the throne of earth, born to give us Second birth, Arthur Herald Angel sing, glory to forever Amen. Turn to page one hundred and ninety-three. Page one hundred and ninety-three. First and last of angels. From the realms of glory. Angels from the realms of glory wing your pride for all the heart. Sangre has and story now proclaim Messiah 's word. Come and worship, come and worship, worship Christ. A newborn king takes me for the altar bending, watching on it open All I could say if it all shall love you Come and worship, come and worship, worship right the newborn king I'll be reading from Luke chapter two, verses eight through twenty twenty And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping over their flock by night. And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them And the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy Which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign unto you And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosting. And it came to pass, as the angels were gone away from them in To heavens. The shepherds said to one another, Let us now go even unto Bethlehem and see this thing which is come to pass, which the Lord hath made known unto us. And they came with haste and found in the manger. And all they that heard it was a very good thing. And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen, as It was told unto them well. Well but Oh well. Well , Once again, take your head And turn to page one hundred and ninety-six. Page one hundred and ninety-six. Angels we have heard on high. Lift the rack. With your voices. Make a joyful noise. First and the last Angels we have burned on high, sweeping ignorance. And the mountain reply and crow back their joy is rain. And like just yesterday, see him in a major lane, Jesus Lord of Hell and Earth. Very true , they pray with the Amen. Now let's turn to page two hundred and twenty-six. Page two hundred and twenty-six While shepherds watching fair flocks. I have to be a beautiful week in every Under mercy, taken Luke 2, 25 through 35. And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. And the same man was Judah. Just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Ghost was upon him. And it was revealed unto him by the Holy Ghost that he should not see death before he had seen And he came by the Spirit into the temple. Then took he him up in his arms, and blessed God, and said, Lord, now letest thou thy servant depart in peace according to thy word. For my Mine eyes have seen thy salvation, which thou hast prepared before the face of all people, a light to lighten the Gentiles and the glory of thy people Israel. And Joseph And his mother marveled at those things which were spoken of him. And Simeon blessed them and said unto Mary, his mother, Behold, this child is set for the fall and rising again of many in Jerusalem. And for a sign which shall be spoken against. Yea, a sword shall pierce through thy own soul also, that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed. To take a son from heaven to turn the Lord up And small to give to our creator of This is Christmas Christ That watches wander on streets of purest gold. Now On the moon and stars in space This is Christ, my friend Brace to share our frailty , understand our vital laws Jesus wave his power to be host trained and told to What allowed himself to be born for us In our single time and place This is Christmas pra This is Christmas thread Yeah, I mean it's probably totally better all the time. I don't know that I could think of A more beautiful and I think better description of what Christmas is all about than what was just sung in that song. That is a powerful, rich song because what it does is it brings into perspective the fact Christmas is not just about Jesus, but it's about why Jesus came. It's not just a nostalgic event where we have beautiful decorations and by the way I love the Christmas decorations. I I mean I walk into this building and I see the candles and I see the The beautiful poinsettas, and it's a wonderful time of year. It's a beautiful time of year, but it's not just about the fact that Jesus was born. It's why he was born. It's what he came to do. It was the whole purpose. And that song really tells us why Jesus came. What I want to do, and it's This is not a sermon that's going to be long and and wi extended. It's simply going to be a reflection on that one thought. Why did Jesus come? And there was one man in the Christmas story A man named Zechariah, who we talked about last night here in our church service. And this man, Zechariah, was someone who had been waiting for what the Bible Says is the consolation of Israel. That means that he had read all those Old Testament promises. And as he read those promises, he was convinced that God was going to send a Savior. The Messiah. He didn't know his name, but he knew God was going to do that. And so he was trusting in the fact that God had made those promises. A long series of promises. He was believing At a point in his older years, God sends an angel to this man and says, Your wife's never been able to have a child. She's well beyond years of having a child, you're beyond years of being able to father a child, but I'm gonna give you a child. ordinary child, but that child is going to be the forerunner of the Messiah. He is going to prepare the nation of Israel to receive Receive the one who has been promised all throughout the Old Testament. Well, you know, when Zechariah heard that, he doubted what God told him through that angel. He didn't say it's impossible, you can't do it. But in his heart he said, That's not possible. He said, What's the sign of this? And the angel said, Well, you won't It was a quiet series of months to think about the fact that he doubted that God was going to do what he said he'd do. But what a w Want to draw our attention to for a few moments tonight is what Zechariah said when God gave him the ability to talk again. Because when this man Zechariah had the ability to talk again , He says some of the most profound and most overwhelmingly important statements about this child, the baby Jesus, that we have in all of our Bibles. In Luke chapter one, verse sixty-seven, it says this. His father Zecharias was filled with the Holy Ghost and prophesied, saying, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel For he hath visited his people. You know, for many, many years the nation of Israel had lived under the rule of Dominion Forces in the Middle East. Babylon conquered the nation. The Assyrians conquered the nation. The Greeks conquered the nation. The Romans conquered the nation. The nation of Israel was a beaten down group of people at that point in its history. And Zechariah says God has visited his people. When he says God has visited his people, he means it very literally. In other words, that child is God in flesh. That's why we started with the Song Emmanuel, God with us. God has visited his people. He then says this: He's come for a purpose. It's to redeem His people. The reason that Christ came was for redemption. That means that you and I need a purchased possession w there's something that needs to be paid so that we can have a right relationship. And this child, the baby Jesus, was gonna pay that price of redemption for God's people. He talks about prophecies that are going back to the prophet Isaiah, the prophet Jeremiah, the prophet Ezekiel, the prophet Malach. He says this, that he would grant unto us that we being delivered out of the hand of our enemies might serve him. And listen to the way he describes it. One, without fear. Two, in holiness, three, in righteousness all the days of our life. You might say, well, why is that significant? I'll tell you why it's significant. Most people live Live their lives in fear, dominated by sin, living out their own fleshly desires and feeling guilty about it all the days of their life. That's what people do. It's because all of us are sinners. Deep down inside of us we all have the same problem. We're sinful creatures. We're fallen. We're broken. And as sinners, we For him to say that God's people will be able to serve him without fear, in holiness and in righteousness Is a very profound statement. , The only reason that people can do that is because of what Christ would do when He came into this earth. He lived a holy and righteous life. Life and he would go to the cross and die on the cross for our sins. The only way that any person in this room, that's for me, every person, can stand before God without fear In holiness and in righteousness is because of the work of the Lord Jesus Christ. He says in verse seven seventy-seven, He came to give knowledge of salvation unto his people by the remission of their sins. You know, it is impossible for a sinner to have fellowship with a holy and righteous God. But this passage Tells us that Zechariah believed and understood that by the work of this child, the Lord Jesus Christ, our sins could be removed so that we could be It's all because of the work of this child. And then he says this, and I love this statement. Verse 79 : to give light to them that sit in darkness, and in the shadow of death. To guide our feet and to the way of peace. You know, we're sitting in a room. I'm in the most lighted area of this place. As I look at you, I can't see Very much. That's how people live in this world. They can't make sense of everything around them. They can't make sense of their struggles. They can't make sense of Why they don't get along with people, they can't make sense of why people treat each other terribly in this world and why people hold grudges and during the happiest time of the year people are so miserable sometimes. Why there's death and why there's suffering and why there's pain and all those things. The fact is that's the way people live in this world, in darkness. And through the Lord Jesus Christ And what he did for us on that cross, we can understand the world we live in from the perspective of its creator. We can walk in the presence of of God having our sins removed, where we serve him without fear, where we serve him as holy before him because of his work and not our own. And we can serve him as righteous in Christ. You say, Pastor, how in the world is all that possible? It comes down to two things. One, God God did something for you that made that possible. That's what Christmas is all about. Jesus came to die for your sins. The Lord laid on him the iniquity. And because God punished his son, he can forgive you. He can forgive me. There is a just basis for God's forgiveness because Christ has paid the penalty for our sins. When Christ died, he conquered death by rising from the dead. At Christmas, we don't tend to talk too much about that, right? That's Easter. We don't talk about the resurrection at Christmas. Well, it's part of the story. The fact is, when Christ rose triumphant from the grave, he demonstrated his power. Over sin and all of its effects. But here's the fact, folks: while God has done that for us, we have to receive That sacrifice on our behalf. Tomorrow, probably everybody in this room is going to give gifts and receive gifts. Some of you are When you look at your credit card statement in January. Some of you'll say, Man, the grandkids didn't appreciate that one. That was a winner right there. wasn't so good. When you give a gift, you pay for it. When you give a gift, the person who receives it doesn't pay a thing for it. When you give a gift, you give it because you want to show love. When you receive the gift, you receive it because the person Showed you love, you recognized it and you accepted that. Folks, that's how God made salvation. The Bible says in Ephesians that salvation is a gift. Gift It's not of works. It says by grace you're saved through faith, and this is not of yourselves. It's the gift of God, not of works listening There might be someone here today that says, You know what? I never understood that salvation was a gift. My whole life? I've been working hard for it. You know? I haven't tried at all. I've never even come face to face with these facts. Hey folks, this is a great time of the year to think about why Christ came Don't just enjoy the poinsettas, all the beautiful things that we enjoy at this season. Remember why Christ came. He came to die for your sins. Every person in this room who has not yet placed their trust in what Christ has done can do that today. That in your seat, you can do that when you go home. But the fact is salvation comes through trusting in what Christ did, not through giving him something that you will do. All these songs Had a common theme. And the theme was Christ came to save his people from their sins. I hope you don't miss that very important theme. Let's bow together in prayer as we come near to the end of our Kendallite service tonight. Father, we thank you. So much for your plan of redemption that you chose to send your son to this earth to be born in Bethlehem. To live amongst his people, and though he was despised and rejected, and a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, you laid the iniquity of us all upon him, and he bore our sins so that we could be forgiven and we could be made right with you. I pray that any person Here tonight, who doesn't understand the simplicity and the beauty of the gospel message, would come to understand it tonight because of the time I pray anyone who's resisting your work in their heart would not continue, but would receive the gift of salvation by trusting in your thoughts And Father, I pray that every person here tonight who knows the Lord as their Savior, their heart would be warmed, and their heart would be overflowing with praise. And glory and Christ and what He's done on their behalf. Father, we praise you, for we are unworthy of you sending your Son And we are so thankful that you did, and we're so thankful that we can stand before you, as Zechariah said, without fear, holy and righteous. Living in this world because of what Christ did for us. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. When Silent Night was written by two humble church leaders for their own mountain village parishioners, little did they realize how universal its influence was Joseph Moore Assistant priest in the Church of St. Nicholas in the region of Tyrol, high in the beautiful Alps, and Franz Gruber, the village schoolmaster and church organist. So Father Moore had this goal in mind when he received words that the church organisms Would not function because it was destroyed by mice. are in the middle of the early thing. He decided that he must write his own Christmas hymn immediately in order to have the music for this special Christmas. Christmas Eve service. He did not want to disappoint his faithful flock. When he saw them, friend more, you have found it! The right song, God be praised. Soon Gruber completed his task of composing an appropriate The carol was completed in time. for the Christmas Eve service, and Father Moore and Franz Gruber sang the new hymn to the accompaniment of Gruber's guitar. The hymn made a deep Impact upon the parishioners, even as it has on succeeding generations. by a copy of the Christmas Caroline decided to spread it all around the region of Tyrol. Today it is sung in all major languages of the world and is a favorite wherever song You may not have realized that this was the two hundredth anniversary of The song Silent Night. But we wanted to give you a little bit of information about it before we sing it in our closing tonight. So what I'd like you to do is take your hymn books and turn to page two. one nine silent night. We're gonna sing three verses. We're gonna sing the first and the second verses with the accompaniment, and then on the fourth, we're not gonna have Any instruments playing. We're just going to sing it a cappella as we close out our Christmas Eve candlelight service together. So let's stand and let's sing Silent Night versus One, two, and four. Salence not holy night All its form is pride round yonder Church and mother and child holy infant so tender and Sleep in heaven leaps, sleep Leap in heaven leap peace on the second silent night Holy night shepherds quick a sight. Morestreams from heaven up for heavy Sing Hallelujah, Christoris for Christ the Savior is born on the last Wonder lend thy light with The angels let us sing Your truck Christ Christ the save your And we thank God that on that night, two thousand years ago, Christ the Savior was born. We want to say a big thank you to everyone that came out tonight. We hope that you have a very Merry Christmas. And uh I know that we have some children. Children in our midst, and in the back, the ushers have some oranges and some candy canes that uh will be getting passed out. So if you You're a kid or a kid at heart. We might have a few for some kid at heart. Kids at heart. Uh we have some oranges and some candy canes for the little guys and so uh if you have some children with you make sure that they uh get that and that they enjoy that also I know that several folks in our church uh purchase point set And they purchased them really in remembrance of an individual or some individuals. So if you did that, please make sure that you get your point set tonight so you can Can take that home with you. And uh we just are thankful that you could come. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer and ask the Lord to dismiss us in blessing, and then, Lord willing, we'll see You all at this time again next well, we'll hope we see you before then, but we hope to see you again next year for Christmas Eve candlelight service. Let's pray. Father to glory I pray that you'd help everyone here to understand the tremendous weight of what Christ did for them. responded. May they do that during this Christmas season. I pray that you give us safety as we head to our homes. May you bless our day tomorrow as we're with family and friends. Would you bring Comfort and encouragement where that is necessary, will you bring tremendous joy and sweet uh fellowship one with another? We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen Discussed