Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And we have been working our way through Luke chapter 9, verses 57 through 62. So if you have a Bible I'd like to encourage you to take it. We're going to read this together. And then we're going to look at part number four of our study dealing with the topic, Christ's identity, and how it should shape how we relate to him. Here's what it says in Luke chapter 9, verse 57. And it came to pass that as they went in the way, a certain man said unto him, Lord, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest Jesus said unto him, Foxes have holes, and the birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head. And he said unto another, Follow me. But he said, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father. Jesus said unto him, Let the dead bury their dead. Go thou and preach the kingdom of God. And another also said, Lord, I will follow thee, but let me first go and bid them farewell, which are at my home, at my house. Jesus said unto him, No man having put his hand to the plough and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. Now we have seen three different people that Jesus has a conversation with. The first one comes to him. And his commitment is that he's willing to follow Christ wherever Christ is going. Jesus warns this man, he says, you need to consider the cost. You need to consider the full uh perspective of of what you're about to do. You need to understand this is a serious commitment. And so it's not that he's trying to discourage him from following him, it's that he wants him to go with his eyes open. He wants him to be all in. The second person Jesus turns to and he says, Follow me. This person says, Well, let me first go and bury my father. And what we talked about yesterday is that the point was not that the man was in the midst of burying his father and he needed to finish the job uh of um taking care of all the arrangements and those kinds of things. But he's basically pushing off till some point in the future this commitment to follow Christ. And so we emphasized the fact that we need to follow Christ immediately. This isn't something that we can delay and put off till some arbitrary time in the future. Well, this morning what we're going to see in the third person is that this is a person who again says, I would like to follow you, but before I do this, I want to go to my family and I want to say goodbye. Now, this is kind of similar to the person that we talked about yesterday, in the sense that family is a potential entanglement here. But I think that there's two different ways that this could potentially be going. My guess is that more than likely Jesus is telling him not to do this because the family might discourage him. But there's another possibility as well, and I'd like to mention that in our study this morning. But let's kind of focus in on the verses, verses 61 to 62, and break down this topic a little bit as we think about it today. In verse 61 it says, Another said, Lord, I will follow thee, but let me first go and bid farewell to them which are at my home. Jesus said, No man having put his hand to the plough and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. Now, this sounds a little bit like a story that we read about in the Old Testament, and that is that when Elijah was calling Elisha to be the person who would follow him as the prophet in Israel. He goes to this man, he's out plowing in the field, and he he throws his mantle on him, and he basically says, follow me. Well, what Elisha does is he goes back to his family. and he destroys his plough and he kills the oxen and basically says farewell and then he goes and he follows Elijah So someone might say, well, what's the big deal with him going back and telling his family goodbye? Is Jesus telling him that his family isn't important? Well, we know that from our study yesterday that our families are important and we are supposed to prioritize our families. But the way that we're supposed to prioritize our families is something that we have to consider biblically. For instance, we are commanded by God to honor our parents. So we we don't have uh we could say a wild card out and say, well I don't have to honor mom and dad. Okay? But honoring mom and dad is not an absolute obedience, especially as we get older. when we're no longer under their roof, under their authority. And the fact is that there is no such thing as an absolute human authority So while we are to honor our parents, children are to obey their parents, a husband is to love his wife, a wife is to submit to her husband. Children are supposed to be brought up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Those commands have certain limitations on them, you might say, and they're supposed to be motivated by an obedience to God. In other words, I'm not prioritizing my family simply because it's good for me. I'm prioritizing my family in a biblical way, in a way that's consistent with God's command for that jurisdiction and that responsibility. I would say that in in an individualistic society which we do have one, we are more than likely uh going to be tempted to neglect our families more than to overly prioritize them and put God between uh or put our families between us and God. Many times we have to say things to people like, don't put your career before your family, or or um don't you know neglect your wife, don't neglect your children during those formative years, don't Don't get distracted and pursue other things. We tend to have to have those kinds of conversations. But what Christ is addressing here is a pitfall on the other side. The other side is that we start being more concerned with what our family thinks about an issue than what God thinks about an issue. And if we were to grow up in a family that was not a Christian home, or we were to grow up in a culture where everybody was of a certain religious faith, And we become a Christian, and now we're walking away from that faith. And there are lots of different places. There are places within the United States, uh, other regions of the world where The pressure of family would be to not follow Christ, to not embrace the gospel, to not be willing to associate with the church, to not be willing to be baptized. And so the family's pressure would be don't follow Christ because it's a dishonor to your to our family. Don't follow Christ because this is not the way of our culture. And so what he's ultimately potentially dealing with is the pitfall of allowing our family and a fear of man to be what motivates us. Our family is supposed to be prioritized according to Scripture. They're supposed to be prioritized as a gift from God, according to his instructions. We're supposed to desire his glory in our families. And so what that tells us is that our family is not supposed to be our ultimate allegiance. Christ is supposed to be our ultimate allegiance. And I would add that what our family thinks, either positively or negatively should not be the final push for us to reject or to embrace. You say, well what do you mean by that? What I mean by that is that we should not be distracted by what family thinks. Think about the political analogy for a minute. A lot of people, rather than basing decisions on principle, they kind of test the air to see which way the wind is blowing. And they decide to govern based upon the way that the the electorate is pushing them, what they think is going to keep them in office. So rather than principle being what drives a person , It's public opinion. A person can do this with their family as well. A person can do this positively where they say, I would like my family's approval, and my family wants me to serve the Lord. My family wants me to go to Christian college. My family wants me to go into ministry of some some type. And so because of the pressure of family to do a good thing, don't get me wrong. We could rather than going based on principle, we could be out of fear and a desire to go along to get along, we could get in the position where we're not following Christ out of commitment out of a sense of duty and obligation to the Lord, but we're actually doing it out of a fear that we're going to lose the approval of family. That would be one potential outcome of this. On the other side, we could hold back from an absolute allegiance to Christ because we're trying to maintain the approval of family as well. The point is that no matter how you take it, our family should not be what causes us to decide to go one direction or the other. It should be a matter of conviction. It should be a matter of principle. And a person will not be sustained in a commitment to Christ if they are not following Christ by, we could say, conviction. You might say, well, well, Joel, what is the ultimate takeaway from this little discussion this morning? Well, the ultimate takeaway is very simple. We need to follow and serve Christ out of conviction. where he is our highest priority. And no matter what our family thinks positively or no matter what our family thinks negatively We keep a steady and focused course because we are convinced in principle that following Christ and serving him and making him our highest priority is absolutely what we must do. And so in the analogy that Jesus gives, he says if a person is plowing a field and he's looking back, he's not fit for the kingdom of God. In other words, he cannot be distracted by what's around him, by what's behind him. He's got to keep his focus on what's before him. And that is ultimately what's going to keep a person. Faithful over the long run, their commitment to Christ is rooted in principle and conviction I hope that this morning that this has been a challenge to you. If it has, take a moment to share that, please. Perhaps share some feedback. And Lord willing, tomorrow what we will do is we will wrap up our study. On Luke chapter 9, verses 57 through 62 with some final thoughts. And not only that, we're going to be wrapping up the chapter, Luke chapter 9. And so I hope that you've enjoyed this study. Have a blessed day. Bye now.