Good morning. Like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. We've been in Luke chapter 9 this week, and so if you have your Bible, I'd like to encourage you to turn with me. to this passage of scripture and we're going to dig into it one more time this week and uh hope that it's been a good challenging study for you. I've enjoyed working through this passage. I think there are a lot of foundational truths that are important for us to reflect on Let's go ahead and read it together, please. It says, Then he called his twelve disciples together and gave them power and authority over all diseases and to cure over all devils and to cure diseases And he sent them to preach the kingdom of God, and to heal the sick. And he said unto them, Take nothing for your journey, neither staves, nor script, neither bread, neither money, neither have two coats apiece. Whatsoever house you shall enter into, there abide, and thence depart. Whosoever will not receive you when you go into the city, shake off the very dust from your feet for a testimony against them. And they departed and went into the town and preached the gospel, healing everywhere. Now we we've had three words that we have zeroed in on this week as we've been talking about This passage of scripture dealing with the apostle. The first word, and we dealt with this in in actually three episodes, is the word authority. The apostles had a delegated authority from Christ. that ultimately was going to culminate in giving us the scriptures and today we still are are building our lives on the ministry that Christ had through the apostles with that delegated authority. The second word that we looked at is the word verification. And we see that Christ verified that indeed he had given such authority to these apostles, that he was working through them in an authoritative manner. Well, this morning I'd like us to look at the word focus and ask the question: what exactly was the focus of the apostles' ministry? What did Jesus ultimately send them to do? And the answer can be summarized in this statement. Christ commanded them to focus on the preaching of the gospel. It says in verse 6, it says, He sent them to preach the kingdom of God. And in verses 2 and 3, he elaborates on the nature of how they were supposed to keep this focus. He says, Take nothing for your journey, neither stave nor script, neither bread nor money, neither two coats apiece. Whatsoever whenever you enter into a house um their deb their abide and preach the gospel. That's basically what he said. And and so he focuses in on the fact that they need to be indiscriminate in their preaching of the gospel. He says they departed and they went through the towns preaching. the gospel of Christ. And so we see that their ministry was one of preaching. Now you might say, well, well Joel, I thought it says that they were also healing the sick and casting out demons. The answer is yes, they were doing that. But that was under, or we could say, directed toward the ministry. of preaching the gospel. Those were signs that were supposed to validate their authority that were supposed to demonstrate that in fact the message that they were proclaiming was really Christ's message. And so that that was not necessarily the focus, but it was actually pointing to the focus. And and so We think about this, we need to recognize that his focus for these apostles wasn't to say, hey, you should go and and try to get the government to do things different or push for changes in society or preach morality or something like that. The focus was on something that goes under the surface. It gets to the heart A lot of times when we talk about human behavior, we focus in on all of the things that we see, but what we see is not really where the ultimate problem lies. Now, what we see obviously is a problem But what really matters is ultimately what's below the surface, at the root, at the heart. And so the gospel, unlike anything else that we could be doing in our lives, it deals with the issue of the heart. Think about 2 Corinthians 5. 17. Here's what it says. It says, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. Why does a Christian's behavior change? Why does a Christian's demeanor change? Why does a Christian's responses change? Well, it's because They are a new creature in Christ. He's dealing with something that is at the heart level, not just the behavioral side, but the heart level. Another example of this, Ephesians chapter 2, 1. He says, You hath he quickened. That means he's made you spiritually alive. who were dead in trespasses and sins. In times past you walked according to the course of this world. We all had our conversation in times past, fulfilling the lusts of the flesh and fulfilling the desires of the flesh in mind And we were by nature the children of Wrath. What does this passage tell us? Well it tells us that at the heart level before conversion We walked according to a certain course because our nature was bent in that direction. And when a person is made alive in Christ, regenerated. Their nature is changed. They are now spiritually alive. And so it begins to focus the bent or the disposition of the person That's why the preaching of the gospel was the heart of what they needed. Ephesians 2. 10. We are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good work. Romans 8, which I think is really the heart of this statement. He says, What the law could not do, and that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh. and for sin, condemn sin in the flesh, that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit To be carnally minded is death, to be spiritually minded is life in peace. The carnal mind is enmity against God. It is not subject to God's law. Neither indeed can be, so that those who are in the flesh cannot please God Do you see what all these passages of scripture show us? They say if you really want to see transformation, then the law can't do it The law restrains evil, the law holds people accountable, but the law doesn't change people's natures. You know, you can present a a list of rules and regulations and and preach a morality and say you need to do these things, you need to be a different person, and we focus on all these external issues. But all that does is it creates a facade. It doesn't get to the heart level. We could push a government to conform all of the laws to what we believe that they should be. And by the way, I think that the laws of a land should reflects the righteous laws of God. They really should, because what God says is right and what God says is wrong is what is right and wrong, no matter what society thinks. But the idea is that what really transforms a person is not a law, it's not a regulation, it's not a morality, it's not a new government, it's a new heart. It's a new nature that is alive in Christ that was once spiritually dead. And so the only thing that has the power to change the nature of a person is the gospel. You might say, well, Joel, what do we take away from this? How can we apply this? Let me give you a couple of things to think about. First of all, I want to start with some questions. What is your ultimate authority? You know, this this whole discussion over the entire week has been about authority. The Apostles' authority, Christ's ministry through the Apostles, the verification of that authority. Now the focus of their ministry, which was the preaching of the gospel, what is ultimately your authority? Is it your internal impressions, your feelings, your emotions? Or is it something that is solid and that is objective, that is the Word of God in the gospel? Are you being into being molded into the image of culture? and the world's disposition, or you becoming more and more like Christ, your Lord and your Savior. What defines your identity? What shapes your values? What drives you to action? What we believe is the ultimate source of what we do. And so if I've trusted in Christ, not only has my thinking changed and my belief system has changed, but my nature has changed. And so what we have to realize this week, practically speaking, is that the foundation for the Christian faith And the foundation for living the Christian life, it's all rooted back in the gospel, which was delivered to the apostles. Through the apostles, verified by signs and wonders, written down for us in the scriptures and preserved for us today, so that we can see it, we can read it, we can preach it. We can teach it, we can embrace it, we can live in the light of it. This week, our focus has been on how Christ worked through his apostles. But where does this ultimately lead us? It leads us to what Christ told them to do, preach the gospel. I ask you this morning, are you passionate about the gospel? Is your life built upon that solid foundation of Christ's blood, righteousness, and resurrection? Are you living a life that is rooted in him? My prayer is that it's exactly where you would be today. If this has been a challenge to you or an encouragement, please share that. And Lord willing, we will meet on Sunday. I know many that follow this don't necessarily live in our area or attend our church. But I hope that you'll be in a good solid gospel preaching church this Sunday. And those who are part of our church family, we'll look forward to seeing you And I'm excited about the text of scripture we'll be dealing with this Sunday. We're going to be talking about the feeding of the 5,000 and some important implications that I think are rooted. and illustrated in that story. Have a blessed weekend. We'll talk again, Lord willing, by now