Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church and hope that you've had a great week and uh got a little bit extra sleep last night, which was really good. Probably all of us needed it at least a little bit. And so we're looking forward to our service this morning. If you're visiting with us today for the first time, or maybe the first time in a long time. We hope that you feel very warmly welcomed and want to encourage you, if you'd like us to reach out to you, to take a moment and to fill out uh one of the connection cards, visitor cards, and there's a little box in the back. Uh that's for our offering as a church. And uh so as as we give to the Lord and tithes and offerings and our missions giving, we put it in that box, but we'd ask you to just take a moment to fill out a card, put it in the back there, and we'll reach out to you if you do that. And looking forward to a great service. We have a couple of announcements and then we'll open up with our scripture reading. Good morning. Uh first thing I want to talk about is if you haven't noticed as you guys come in, there's a big table set off to the back of the Narthex And we are beginning our fall food drive up until Thanksgiving or even after for the Baltimore Rescue Mission. So if you would like to donate anything, there's a table set aside. Tonight, teens, there is a SyncSpiration This Thursday there is a baby sprinkle for Victoria Crane. She has a sign-up , but also just a little thing there talking about what she was um asking for. This Friday, college and career, we're a week early, but we are going to be at Pastor's House. This Saturday, I want to make one note about visitation and breakfast. They are an hour earlier, so men's breakfast is at 8 a. m. and then the visitations at 9. Starting next week, we also have the Baltimore Rescue Mission. And then there are several things coming up that we just need to sign up for. Senior luncheon in a couple weeks. We have a sign up there, teen activity. We have an exciting 50th anniversary. There's a dessert sign-up um there on the sign-up as well. And then a month away lit conference. It's right around the corner. But there's a sign-up for workers and if you'd like to bring food, there's a sign-up there. Um but that getting into the holiday season things are getting busy. Our open scripture reading is found in Psalm 34, and we will start reading God's word in verse 1. I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul shall make her boast in the Lord. The humble shall hear thereof and be glad. O magnify the Lord with me, and let us exalt his name together. I sought the Lord, and he heard me, and delivered me from all my fears. They looked unto him, and were lightened, and their faces were not ashamed. This poor man cried And the Lord heard him, and saved him out of all his troubles. The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him, and delivereth them. O taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man that trusteth in him. Our theme of worship for today is let's rest in God's tender care and deliverance. I'd like to invite you to bow together with me for a word of prayer. Also I want to mention about the men's breakfast that is uh Veterans Day, so I'm gonna have a a special uh remembrance for our men that have served in the armed forces. Uh either they have or they are right now. So uh guys I hope that you will come to that breakfast not just for the food, the fellowship, but also those who have served or do or are serving in the armed forces. We want to uh specially recognize you um to since it is veterans day. Let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer and uh we will open up our service Father, we're richly blessed people. And as we read Psalm 34, we are reminded to taste and see that you are good. And blessed is the man who trusts in you. I pray that as we open up the Word of God and as we reflect on these wonderful truths, that we would be reminded freshly that in fact what the scripture says is true and the invitation is available. And I pray that we would gen we would genuinely trust in you and experience the sweetness. of trusting and delighting in you. Father, we pray for your rich blessing on this service. May all that is done to win honor and glory to you. I pray that you would be with those who are visiting us for the first time. I pray that they would feel very warmly welcomed and that they would be encouraged by the Word of God as it's presented. They'd be encouraged by the music as it points our attention to Christ and allows us to express uh our love for you. I pray for those who've traveled, those who are sick. May you uplift and strengthen them. And uh we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Good morning, Anchor Baptist Church and esteemed guests. Thank you for joining us live. And also joining us on live stream. So as we begin our morning service, glad to see you all made it out Turn the clocks back correctly. And so as we start though, we're going to start with number one. Page 1 in our hymnal, rejoice, the Lord is king. Please stand with me and join with me as we make a joyful noise unto the Lord. Rejoice the Lord gives a light. Amen. Now let's turn back. to 177 or follow along on the screen. If you know the melody, you know the parts, sing it out for our great Savior, page 177. We are we all here , I am we live one. Amen. Go ahead and have a seat. Y'all sound like you enjoyed that extra hour's sleep last night. Okay. Turn to page 243 or follow along on the screen. All four verses of when I surveyed Is a wondrous cross. We are in heaven, and the road from And amen. Good and beautiful. As we go back to the scriptures, we're going to pick up where Pastor Josh left off in Psalm 34. Psalm 34, we're going to start in verse 9. So follow along in your Bibles, or along the on the screen with me. Verse 9 begins, O fear the Lord, ye his saints, for there is no want to them that fear him. The young lions do lack and suffer hunger, but they that seek the Lord shall not want any good thing. Come, ye children, hearken unto me. I will teach you the fear of the Lord. What man is he that desireth life, and loveth many days, that he may see good? Keep thy tongue from evil and thy lips from speaking guile. Depart from evil and do good. Seek peace and pursue it. The eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous, and his ears are open unto their cry. The face of the Lord is against them that do evil, to cut off the remembrance of them from the earth. The righteous cry, and the Lord heareth, and delivereth them out of all their troubles. The Lord is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart, and saveth such as be of a contrite spirit Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivereth him out of them all. He keepeth all his bones, not one of them is broken. Evil shall slay the wicked, and they that hate the righteous shall be desolate. The Lord redeemeth the soul of his servants, and none of them that trust in him shall be desolate May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. All right, for our next song, we're going to turn to page 251 in the hymnal. Page 251, again, follow on the screen. So it's near the cross. Tell the law shall lie as they are there. Say the colour by the Silvia so shall I We don't cross our law , who pain for the world Say the main. Amen. Now for our next song, you'll need to pull out the blue book or just follow along. Page 192 is in the back of the blue book. On page 192, we're going to sing all four verses of Complete Indeed. And on the fourth verse, I'd ask the instruments to ballot. God we can be the world I share more place of mine I will have for me Stand with me on the last two verses. Please stand. Come in each one where I know that they might all be I am not me. They don't make it far. Dear say you're with him before I are all right and on the same ar On my closing I come with me Jesus Thy will have been by for me, and for thy tour shall be Amen. Please be What a wonder to know this true the Lord are God in God. Everlasting for a daily for it For the Lord art , for the Lord art, in the goddess, in the garden, she gave it God liking with me with all them right. Oh la dive Was a conflict we aren't in love with never changed. We stay in birthday for the Lord our God, for the Lord our God. Finance, give the badness , many given, and you give it more day with more. For the Lord God is my son. Giving place and warning that is done and short. Don't you die? Thank you so much for that. Our children who are in junior church age can be dismissed to the back for their class. And the rest of you I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles and let's all turn turn to Psalm 34. And Psalm 34 is a psalm that we covered about two months ago. And for those of you that uh you've not um don't know the pattern that we have, On the first Sunday of every month, we are working our way through the Psalms. And what you can see is that we have gone 34 months. in our series through the Psalms, and uh when we hit 150, we probably won't be quite done because some of them are a little bit lengthy, but uh that's how long it's going to take us to go through the entire Book of Psalms. And Psalm 34 is full of rich, rich truth to unpackage. And so We decided, or I decided, to to deal with it in two months as opposed to in one. So Psalm 34, verse 11, is where we're going to pick up this this morning. We're going to read down to verse 22. And then we're going to dig into this passage with a little bit of a reminder of what we talked about several months ago. Here's what it says. Come, you children, hearken unto me. I will teach you the fear of the Lord. What man is he that desireth life, and loveth many days, that he may see good? Keep thy tongue from evil, thy lips from speaking guile. Depart from evil and do good. Seek peace and pursue it. The eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous, and his ears are open unto their cry. The face of the Lord is against them that do evil, to cut off the remembrance of them from the earth. The righteous cry, and the Lord heareth. And delivereth them out of all their troubles. The Lord is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart, and saveth such as be of a contrite spirit. Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivereth him out of them all. He keepeth all his bones. Not one of them is broken. Evil shall slay the wicked, and they that hate the righteous shall be desolate. The Lord redeemeth the soul of his servants And none of them that trust in him shall be desolate. Please let's bow together as we dig into this very rich psalm. Our Father, we thank you for the text in front of us, and you know every heart. You know the burdens that are brought into this room, the cares, the troubles, the struggles, the aches of heart. You know the difficulties that people have encountered over the last many weeks and months that really come to bear on this text. So Father, I pray that as we open up the Word, that the Spirit would open up our hearts, that we would see exactly what you have for us this morning In such a beautiful psalm. Father, help me as I communicate these truths to do it with clarity and in a way that is very easy to follow in exactly what the text is saying. And Father, I pray that at the end of this psalm that we would recognize that the Lord Jesus Christ is the heart of the psalm in front of us. And I pray that we would flee to him and find our greatest comfort in what he has done for us. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Psalm thirty four is a very interesting psalm. In fact, as we get into some of the details, there are going to be some things that unless you have ever read the book uh of the Psalms in Hebrew and looked at Psalm 34, you might not actually know are part of the text in front of us. Psalm 34 teaches us that God often chooses to permit trouble. God is not obligated to insulate his children from every difficulty in the world. In fact, there are times that it is the sovereign purpose of God to allow us to encounter great struggles in our life. And it's not because God is cruel and mean or unloving. It's because He has bigger purposes in mind than our temporary comforts in the moments. of our day-to-day lives. The reason that he chooses to permit trouble is so that he can ultimately teach us his goodness. And you say that seems like a paradox. It seems like it's completely impossible for God to permit us to struggle and to use that to help us to see He's good. They don't seem like they go together. But when we understand what God is ultimately doing, the last little statement is the key. His goodness, which is rooted in Christ's redemptive work. You might say, Joel, how in the world do you find the cross in Psalm 34? Well, you will find out by the end of this Psalm or by the end of our Sunday morning service, that in fact the cross is the central theme of Psalm 34. You say, how in the world do you find? Well just pause. We're going to get there in just a minute. What God's going to want us to see from the text is that we've got to stop and we've got to reflect on how good he is and how powerful he is and what this psalm reveals to us. about God's character and ways. So first of all, I want to begin with a couple of introductory thoughts that are partially reminding us of what we talked about a couple of months ago when we dealt with the first half of the psalm. Psalm 34 is an acrostic. That means that each of the lines of the Psalm begin with a different letter of the Hebrew alphabet. And there's only one exception to this, and that would be the final portion of the psalm, which is actually the key to understanding the entire psalm. He repeats one of the letters in the acrostic, and I want you to see that later on in the service because it will open our understanding to the significance of this psalm, I think, very beautifully. The way that you could divide the Psalm is this way. Part one is how God uses trouble to reveal his goodness. That's the first ten verses. And then part two, how God uses trouble to invite us. to contrast the end of the righteous and the end of the wicked. What I mean by that is if you live a wicked life, what will that take you to? And if you are one of the righteous, and we need to define what that means, where will that take you? The fact is there will be a day, a judgment day, when God will separate his children from those who have rejected him. And so this psalm is not just looking at what happens in the here and now moments of life, but it's looking at the long-term ultimate destination of two groups of people. The wicked and the righteous. We saw as we examine the first portion of this psalm But Psalm 34 starts with one of the most humiliating seasons in David's life. It says in the prefix, it says it is a psalm of David when he changed his behavior before Abimelech, who drove him away and he departed. You may not remember all the details, but the fact is that David went through a period in his life where he was running from Saul, who happened to be his father-in-law, who was trying with that with all of his might to kill David and to destroy him. And he was willing to take all the military resources of a nation and instead of defending its borders like he was supposed to, he was consumed with a personal grievance with David and he was trying to hunt him and kill him. And so David fled to the land that was beside the land of Israel, the land of the Philistines. And he did something very shocking. He went and lived in their borders and he pretended as if he was actually willing to be in league with the Philistines. The same group of people that he kills Goliath, the hero of the Philistines. And as David is in this position, this predicament, he's living a lie, trying to find uh safety from Saul. And then at a point in time, the ruler of the Philistines looks at David and he says To the king, they said, why in the world are we in league with David? Don't you remember what he did? Don't you remember he killed Goliath? He is a champion in Israel. He is one of Saul's most trusted generals, and here he is living amongst us, being close to our leaders. How can you trust this man? And so David understands what they're saying, and he acts as if he is a crazy man. He's foaming at the mouth, he's acting like he's out of his mind. This is one of the lowest moments of David's life. The things that David encountered in life, some of them were the direct result of nothing he had done. There was no justifiable reason for David to be hounded. And to be hopefully killed by Saul in Saul's mind. There was no justification for that. Nor was there justification for him to run to the land of the Philistines To lie to the people, to pretend as if he was a wild man, and now David is in a huge predicament. And God in his grace intervenes, and David survives, and Psalm 34 is what he writes. This is where it starts. This experience was the catlas for a godly resolve in David's heart. We see this in verses 1 and 2. He says, I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise will continually be in my mouth. In verses 2 to 3, we see that the way he responded to this hardship affected other people. David was not living in isolation, but the way he responded to God and to his circumstances that affected the people around him. And he says in verses two to three, the humble shall hear, excuse yeah, the humble shall hear thereof and be glad, O magnify the Lord with me, and let us exalt his name together. We then saw that God allowed these hardships to give him a richer sense of God's goodness. As David was lying, God did not play defense for him. He didn't eliminate all of the consequences. As David went to the land of the Philistines, God didn't somehow put this insulating bubble from all the consequences that David was experiencing. But God was behind the scenes protecting him even as he allowed him to experience some of these hardships. And God was ultimately doing it to bring him to this point where he would have a richer, deeper sense of his. Goodness. He says that I sought the Lord and He heard me and He delivered me from all of my fears. O taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man that trusteth in him. That is a summation of what we talked about in the first half of this psalm. You say, man, it would have been easy if you would have just preached it that quick. Sorry guys, you've got to develop the stuff a little more than that. But these details will help us to appreciate the rest of the psalm. And that's what I'd like us to dig into these next couple of minutes this morning. The first thing we're going to see in this text is that we must be taught to fear the Lord. And verses 11 through 16, we're going to see these details laid out. Let me read to you what it says. He says, Come ye children, and hearken unto me. I will teach you the fear of the Lord. Now, why does David pause and say, you need to come and I need to tell you something? Well, it's because by human nature we need people to teach us to fear God In fact, a lot of times as we're going through difficult circumstances and we encounter the harsh realities of painful decisions and sinful choices We do not understand why we are dealing with these consequences without somebody sitting down and saying, let me explain to you why this is happening. This is happening because when you do this, then this happens, and when this happens, then this happens. You see, there's a law of consequence in the world that we live in. And so David is compelled by his own experience, because he has personally experienced the harsh reality of sinful choices, and the harsh reality of sinful choices Toward him that he wanted to tell the people, you need to learn this lesson. So he says it in verse 11. Come, hearken unto me, I will teach you the fear of the Lord. Isn't that an amazing statement? But there's a second aspect to this, not just the experience that David had, but David is compelled by love. He's inviting people to learn from him because he loves them and does not want them to experience the same things that he's experienced. And so, verse 12, he says it this way: What man is he that desireth life? You say, well, hold on a second. How can you be alive and desire life? Well, when he uses the term life in this context, he's not talking about physical life versus physical death He's talking about physical life that is either spiritually dead and without vitality, or spiritual life that is alive and vibrant, and we are literally living life the way he intended it. This is the common way that in the book of Proverbs, Solomon talks about life. When he says life, he says, choose the way of life. It's because he wants people to live a rich life. He wants there to be a real prosperity of existence if you want to use it that. And not in the material sense entirely, but he's talking about in vibrancy. He's talking about internally. He's talking about the way that we live our lives. He says, what man is he that desireth life, loveth many days, that he may see good? He says, what I'm about to tell you is like the key to having the kind of life everybody wants. Now the problem is what people want, they don't know how to get it. Because they try to get it outside of God. Or they try to use God to get it the way they want it to be. And so he says it starts with a fear of God, which is a concept we're going to have to unpackage a little bit. Because when we use the word fear, I don't want you to think in terms of I'm trembling because God's about to crush me. I'm his child. I love God and he loves me. That word fear is a very rich concept that we need to understand. And so that moves us to the practical component in verses 12 to 14. Many blessings flow directly to those who walk in the fear of the Lord. And he states it like this in verse 12. He says, the person who desireth life, and he loveth many days, that he may see good. The simplest way to put it is, if you want a rich life, it's got to come through God's ordained means. And God's ordained means begins with our attitude toward Him. The Bible has a lot to say about, we could say, the prosperous life and the richness of life. Proverbs 1. 7. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom and knowledge, but fools despise wisdom and instruction. Proverbs 248, 248, if thou seekest her wisdom as silver and searchest her as for hid treasures Then shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord, and find the knowledge of God. Out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding. He layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous. Proverbs three, one to four Let not mercy and truth forsake thee, bind them about thy neck, write them upon the table of thine heart. So shalt thou find favor and good understanding in the sight of God and man. In fact, if we were to work our way through the Proverbs, we would see that this concept is just repeated over and over and over again. It says, if you want to walk in the path of wisdom, it starts with your view of God. If you want to walk in the path of blessing, it starts with your view of God. Because blessing flows directly from God. But blessing also flows directly through those who fear God. He says it this way in 13 and 14. He says, keep thy tongue from evil and thy lips from speaking guile. Depart from evil, do good, seek peace, pursue it. See, what is David saying? He's saying, you know how people bless other people? It starts with a fear of the Lord. And he talks about very specific ways, like he talks about restraint of words. He says, keep your tongue from evil And from guile. You know what guile is? Guile is deceit. It's craft. It's speaking in a way that's dishonest so that you get advantage and you can undermine others. And I asked this question. How much hurt is done in the world by people not restraining their words? I mean, how many people in this room have been able to navigate life to the day that we stand here today without somebody devastating you with their words? There's nobody in this room like that. Nobody. I hate to say this, but how many of us could not turn it around and say we've done the same thing to others? By our words, we have dehumanized the person. We have spoken of them as if they have no value and they have no dignity. And we have undermined them and it has hurt them deeply. So he says, a person that fears the Lord, it affects how they talk. He talks about departing from evil. It's a restraint in action. You know how many people have experienced the tremendous difficulties of life as a direct result of the unjust actions of other people? It could be a parent, it could be a spouse, it could be a child, it could be a friend, it could have been a coworker, it could have been a neighbor. You just you go down the list, there are people in life That have done evil towards others, and you know what's at the root of that evil? They don't fear God. The next statement is doing good. Simple statement. They invest in productivity. God didn't create us to just exist. He created us to be people who are productive. You know, there's a really big difference between somebody just handing a person a hundred bucks and someone saying, I'll give you a job and you can earn a hundred bucks today. And if you come back tomorrow, you can earn a hundred bucks tomorrow. And if you come back the next day, you can earn another hundred dollars And after a couple of years of that, they say, hey, I would like to teach you this trade so that you can start your own business. And one day that guy Who was earning a hundred bucks a day because he was working and learned a skill, builds a business, and he employs hundreds of people who feed their families. Say what is that? That's called productivity. That's the difference between someone just being a consumer who's taking it all in and someone who produces things and builds things and manages things and actually does good for others. You know where that starts? Fear of the Lord And then the last statement is he seeks and pursues peace, working to maintain relationships. The simple fact of living in a fallen world is that we're sinners and the people that we encounter are sinners, and so we have problems between ourselves all the time. It happens in marriages, it happens amongst siblings, it happens in workplaces, it happens in church context, it happens every aspect of life. If you have two people working together, Because they're both sinners, there's going to be a day that something happens between them and they're going to have to work it out. And there's some people in the world that they refuse to work things out with other people. They walk away and they don't want to do it, and there's others that say, you know what? I fear God. I value you. I'm going to work it out with you. Where does this all start? A fear of the Lord. So there are certain blessings that come directly to us from God, and there are certain blessings that come from God through us, and the key is a person fears the Lord. So there's a theological component to this, and we find this in verses 15 and 16. We see that God lovingly and tenderly is attentive to his children And he states it this way: it says that the eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous. It's not just that he sees what they're doing like he's detached from it, but he he literally observes them. He watches them tenderly. He cares about them. I'll give you this illustration. Let's say that you have your first child. And this child is just a few weeks old. And this child is laying in this bassinet. And you're sitting there next to this bassinet and you're watching this child. And you're watching their little back go up and down. Up and down. Up and down. Up and down. You put your hand on the child's back. You feel the warmth of their back and you can feel their pulse. And there's just this warmth and this affection towards that child because they're sleeping. Because this is your child, you love this child. You know what's the difference between that kind of a relational watching your child and just being like, oh yeah, I see what's going on over there. Now which one is it with God? Well he's watching us tenderly. He loves us dearly. And this is really going to come out in the rest of the things that he says. The other thing he says is that his ears are open unto their cries. The same little baby sleeping in that bed next to you. And every little whimper, Mama wakes up, what's going on? I better check on that child. Dad sometimes is like that, sometimes it's not. Kind of depends on the season of life, right? But every little whimper, you hear it. You're attentive to it. Why is that? Well, because you love that child. You value that child. Do you realize that God's like that with his children? You say, nah, he's the creator of the universe. He had a time for us like that. He what do you think the text is saying? His eyes are on the righteous, his ears are open to their cries. God loves them. But there's another component to this thing as well, and that is that God is a God of wrath and justice. He's a righteous judge who judges evil. It also says in the same text that the face of the Lord is against them that do evil to cut off the remembrance of them from the earth. And you say, how is it this God who is so tender and compassionate can also be so So harsh. It's because he's just. God defends what he loves. He defends what is good. He hates what is evil. And to put it in another term, this little child that you love, that you're attentive to, that you watch. If someone came into your house and was going to do anything evil to that child, you'd do anything you could to stand between that child and that individual. Why is that? You'd put your life on the line. You would fight this person. Why? Because you love the child. So this is the cod that we serve. And so that leads us to what we call the fear of the Lord. A true knowledge of God That grips the heart of a person will lead them to this deep sense of awe, unworthiness, admiration, and gratitude. As a child of God, I recognize that the creator of the world Who owns it all? He cares about me as a person. He established a basis through the death of Christ on the cross, that I could come into fellowship, communion with him. He invites me into his presence. And when I begin to understand the God who made the world , And understand the extent to which he accomplished his purpose of redemption. And I think about how it is personally applied to me. I cannot help but sit down and say, how awesome! How unworthy. How grateful. That's the expense uh that is the that is the sense of the fear of the Lord for the Christian And we see this concept in many, many places expressed, and I want you to hear it for yourself, because this is how we should think about God. 1 Chronicles 29 verse 11, the same man David writes the following. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty. All that is in heaven and earth is Zine. Thine is the kingdom. There it exalted as head above all. Riches and honor come from thee, thou reignest over all, in thine hand is power and might. In thine hand it is to give make great and to give strength unto all. Therefore, our God, we thank thee. Praise thy glorious name. And he says, Who am I? That is the fear of the Lord. Isaiah 6, 5 When Isaiah saw the Lord high and lifted up, he says, Woe is me, I am undone, I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of unclean lips. Mine eyes have seen the king, the Lord of hosts. And that text, God says, who's going to go for us? He says, here am I send me. I'm willing to give my total devotion to this God. It was so amazing. So good. Daniel four thirty-five. All the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing, and he doeth according to his will in the armies of heaven, and among the inhabitants of the earth, and none can stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? This is just a couple of passages. The Bible's full of them. Where a person that sees God as he is, they recognize I am unworthy, I am undone, I am sinful, and God invites me into his presence through the finished work of Christ. And I can't help but be thankful. Second truth. Don't worry, this one won't go as long as the first. We need to remember how God cares for us people Verse 17 says that the righteous cry and the Lord heareth and delivereth them out of all their troubles. The Lord is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart, and saveth such as be of a contrite spirit. Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivereth Him out of them all, he keepeth all his bones, not one of them is broken. Now these are some of the most encouraging verses in all of the Bible. I mean, the Lord hears and delivers those who are in trouble. He's nigh to those of a broken heart. He saves those of a contrite spirit. But I want us to reflect on what he's saying here. The first is he listens when we cry out. We kind of already touched on that, but it says when the righteous cry, the Lord, he hears. And he delivers. And notice he states how thoroughly he is. He says, out of all their troubles. That's pretty amazing. Verse 18. He never abandons us even when we are emotionally broken. Now notice the way this is worded. The Lord is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart. You know that word broken heart, that statement broken heart means? This is a person who feels like they have no value. This is a person that is at the end of everything. They feel like they have no hope. And all they can do is whimper to God and say, God, I don't even know where to turn. I don't even know what to ask you, but I just I need help. Anybody ever been there? In Romans, it talks about how there are times where the Spirit intercedes for us with groanings that cannot be uttered. Like literally, you and I can get into places in life where we don't even know what to say to God. We know He's the one that can help us. And we know he's the only one we can turn to. And we know that he hears us, but we don't even know what to express directly to him. And literally God's spirit that indwells his people intercedes for us. In those situations. He doesn't abandon us. Romans 8. 38. I'm persuaded there's nothing and no one that shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Hebrews 13, 5 He says, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. These are promises to the believer. There's nothing that can take us out of his hand. There's nothing that can separate us from his love. There's nothing that can push his presence away from us where he doesn't still love us and we're not still his children. This is the security of the believer. And these are precious promises, but it's not just the security of the believer. It's the access to the Father in the security of the believer. But then verse 19, he uses everything in our lives to accomplish good. I'm convinced that most Christians don't believe that. You know why that is? Well, because I have conversations with lots of Christians in difficult situations. And I will hear things like this. There is no way that God could use this to accomplish good. Now, the scripture doesn't say it becomes good or that somehow it was good. It says he uses it. Those are very different. And so we see statements like this in Genesis 50. As for you, you thought evil against me. But God meant it unto good, to bring to pass that it is as it is today to save much people alive. 2 Corinthians 4. 17. Our light affliction, which is for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. Romans 8. 28, we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. James 1, 2, My brethren, counted all joy when ye fall into diverse temptations, knowing this that the trying of your faith worketh patience. And so the text in front of us says, many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivereth them out of them all. There is nothing that the believer can face or will face that God is unable to use to accomplish goods. That is a promise. That is straight from the scriptures. And we need to believe it. We need to embrace it because it's true. And it will transform the way that we live our lives. But there's a piece that you cannot leave out of this. And you know what that piece is? That piece is verse 20. When you read through the Psalm, did verse 20 seem weird to you? Notice what it says. He keepeth all of his bones, not one of them is broken. You say, why did David put that little statement at the end of the psalm? He keepeth all of his bones, not one of them is broken. Well, this is actually the heart of the psalm. And I want to draw your attention to some details that I think are very important. I don't want you to miss. David's focus in this Psalm, Psalm 34, has been point after point after point focused on a plural group of people. I want you to notice this, verse 7. The angel of the Lord encampeth around them. That fear him and delivereth them. Verse 9. O fear the Lord ye his saints. There's no want to them that fear him. Verse 15, the eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous, and his ears are open to their cry. Verse 17, the righteous cry and the Lord heareth and delivereth them out of all their troubles. Verse 18, the Lord is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart, and saveth such as be a con of a contrite spirit. Verse 20 He keepeth all his bones. That's not the same, is it? Oh, David must have messed up when he was writing the song. He meant to put their bones, right? No. That was no mistake. That was very deliberate. David was not talking about them. He was talking about him. He was talking about a person. Who is distinct and different from everybody else that the Psalm is talking about? And this person is what makes the statement in verse 19 that the Lord delivers them out of them all. He's the reason. You say, I don't get it. This verse was referenced nearly a thousand years later during one of the most significant events in human history. Listen to what it says in John chapter 19, verse 32. This is when Jesus is hanging on the cross. And by the way, when he was hanging on the cross and these words were written, he was already deceased. It's physically dead. When he's hanging on that cross and he was bearing the weight of God's wrath against our sin, there was a point where he looked up to heaven and he says, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And he says, It's finished. And he gave up the ghost. Now normally when people were being crucified, they didn't die that fast Normally, when they came around, they were still struggling on those crosses. And what they would do is they would come to every single person who was dying, and they would crush their legs. And then that person would suffocate. And they go to the next person, they crush their legs, and that person would suffocate. And they went through every single person so that they were dead, and they could take them off the crosses, so that they would not They would not defile the Sabbath day. As amazing as that could be. And so it says this in verse 32. Then came the soldiers and broke the legs of the first, and the other which was crucified with him. But when they came to Jesus and saw that he was dead already, they break not his legs. One of the soldiers with a spear pierced his side, and forthwith came out blood and water. He that saw, this is John, bear record, and his record is true. He knoweth that he saith true. that he might believe that ye might believe. These things were done that the scriptures should be fulfilled. A bone of him shall not be broken. And again another scripture saith, they shall look on him whom they have pierced. Do you think that Roman soldier knew about this psalm? No Do you think he was thinking, man, I just want to make sure that we fulfill scripture here because I mean this guy that we just killed, he's the Messiah and the scriptures talk a lot about him and we don't want one of those one of those prophecies about the Messiah to fall short. Do you think he was thinking that? No. He's like getting my job done today. Crack. Goes the next person. Crack. Comes to Jesus. He's like, he's dead. Well we got to prove that he's dead. So they take this spear. They thrust it up aside He says we don't have to break his legs. Let's go to the next one. Now that seems like crass. But do you realize that Jesus is physically dead? He has paid in full the penalty for our sin. There was still scripture that needed to be fulfilled. And it happened exactly as it was written in this psalm. This statement is the climax of Psalm 34, and we see it by the content. Without the cross, there is no ultimate triumph in a fallen world. But you know we actually see it in the structure of the psalm as well. You know, I mentioned it's an acrostic. He goes through the whole Hebrew alphabet, and then at the end of the psalm, he repeats one of the letters. a second time. You say, well, why did he do that? It's to draw attention to the fact that this is the point. This is the point of it all. And you know what's also very interesting? He was deliberate in which letter he chose to repeat, because it tells us where this concept is parallel in the Psalm. Verses 16 and 22 are the parallel verses. And I want you to notice what it says. The Lord redeemeth the soul of his servants And none of them that trust in him shall be deafflit. You know what the heart of the Psalm is? That statement right there The Lord redeemeth the soul of his servants. None of them that trust in him shall be desolate. We need to take our greatest comfort in the ultimate salvation that's provided in Christ. And so as he goes through this Psalm, he comes to the end and he says, God redeems the souls. Souls of his servants. You know what verse 16 says? The face of the Lord is against them that do evil. To cut off the remembrance of them from the earth. The whole psalm is to simply say this: On the judgment day, there's a people that will be cut off forever. And the judgment day, there's a people that will be redeemed forever. And you know what the key is? It's the Lord Jesus Christ. The one who not a bone of his body is going to be broken. That's what this psalm is all about. And if you look at Romans chapter 8 and verse 28, what does he emphasize? He emphasizes that all things work together for good because we are Christians. Because we are conformed to his image through these things. It's because there's nothing that can separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. He expounds Our eternal security and the implications of that. What we do with Christ is the key. We cannot have redemption without the sacrifice of Christ. So you say, Joel, well, what's the point of the whole psalm? I'll put it this way. We need to fear God. We desperately need a renewed sense of who he is that grips our hearts and leads us to a deeper sense of awe, unworthiness, admiration, and gratitude. But that fear of the Lord needs to be coupled with our understanding of the gospel. This is not a terror outside of Christ, but this is a reverence within him. And there's a really big difference between those two things. He listens when we cry, as the text says. He never abandons us even when we are at our lowest moments, as the text says. He uses everything in our lives to accomplish his good purposes in us, as the text says. And so this morning I want to remind you that all of this is possible because of the cross of Christ. If there was no cross, those verses would be flat. But because of the cross, God can take anything in our lives. Sometimes He uses the things in our lives to bring us to see that we need the cross. Sometimes he uses the things in our lives to bring us who are in Christ to recognize where we are not living the way that we should, not consistent with our position. and he brings us back to himself and he reminds us freshly of who we are in Christ and how we are to live in Christ. And it completely reorients what's going on in our lives. He uses all these things. Sometimes it's for us to appreciate the incredible sacrifice that he had for us. And in the midst of difficulties, as someone has been nasty toward us because of Christ, we start going, what did he do for me? How harsh was his suffering for me, and all of a sudden we begin to feel this comfort in the fact that he did far more than this for me than I'm doing for him. This is the effect of Psalm 34. May God help us to celebrate the wonderful work of Christ as we think about it. Let's bow for prayer. Father in heaven, I thank you for this very rich psalm. That just lays before us some of the most comforting truths in all of the word world. But it lays these truths before us in the setting of the cross. Father, help us to recognize that all of our comfort ultimately directs us back to Christ. directs us back to his person, his love, his sacrifice, his triumph over sin on the cross. His rising victorious from the grave. It all goes back to him. And so I pray that you would help us today to have a renewed sense. of the heart of this psalm. Please comfort those whose hearts are aching in these moments, who carry deep burdens and desperately need you to uplift them today. May you do it. May you point them to yourself. I pray that you would help us to think biblically about these issues, and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. The song that I'd like us to close for our service in is hymn 162. And the song is Pharis, Lord Jesus. And I want to say this as you turn. That if there's anybody in our room today that does not know the Lord Jesus as your Savior , I've been talking about the death of Christ and the resurrection of Christ and how everything points back to Him, and in your mind you go Okay, I'm glad that the text talks about that, but I really don't understand how this works. Please come by and say, Joel, I need to talk to you about this issue. I don't understand it. Now sit down with the Bible. You come to Pastor Josh or any of those in leader. You come to just an ordinary church member and say, I don't understand this. Can you talk to me about this? They can sit down with the Bible and show you what Christ did for you. Walk through the scriptures. Help you to understand how you can be safe from your sins. Don't leave this place if you don't understand that And if you do understand it and you've not trusted in it, then this is the time to do that. Turn to Him. Trust Christ. Even as we sing this song. Cry out to God and say, God, I understand I need salvation through Christ and what he did. And I need to talk to somebody to understand this more fully, but I want to trust you today, right now. Don't leave this place without understanding this message. Let's stand together, please. We'll sing the first and the last verses of Pharaoh's Lord Jesus. Harris for Jesus , ruler of all nature, of love of God and man. Praise our relation now I for What a great song for us to close this morning's worship service. Just want to remind you that tonight uh we will be back in the Old Testament looking at uh Israel's history and And I've received a lot of questions, some by email, just after services, people asking, Pastor Joel, what's going on in the Middle East? How does this relate to Bible prophecy? If you want that question answered, come tonight. Because I'm going to walk through Israel's history, beginning with Abraham, up to where we are today. and where we will one day be in eternity. And so don't worry it won't be an everlasting sermon. But uh I have done my very best to put these details together in a way that I hope will be Very helpful and very practical and help you to understand not the nations of the world's perspective, but God's perspective. Because he actually states very emphatically what he will do. And so I want to encourage you, and by the way, when you look at what the scripture says, you recognize it's only the Lord who can do that. And so that's my uh my tidbit for tonight. If you want to hear that, please do come. And also um we mentioned we have an anniversary service on the 19th. Um some of you know this, some of you don't, but on the 15th of November is the 50th anniversary of when our church was um formally uh I don't know if it Incorporate is the right 's incorporate is probably not the right word, but it was formally assembled and uh by laws we're agreed on in those things. So obviously that's on a Wednesday. We're not gonna do that on a Wednesday night, or we'd be celebrating with the people that come to Bible study. But the next Sunday, that's the 19th , it's going to be a normal service. However, I'm going to uh do some uh I'm gonna say, I'm gonna tell you the history of our church, okay? Not for 20 minutes, but I'm going to give you, I try to do some research so that I understand the different pieces, and I think that you'll find that to be very, very interesting And more than anything, I hope that as we look at how God has been very gracious to this congregation for 50 years. And uh church has gone through high points and low points, and I'm not gonna go deeply into those things, but the truth is that every church does. And what God has done is he has just continually blessed our congregation. And so um we'll have pictures, uh some of them are very old and uh will have some interesting documents um that uh are a part of the church's history. We won't have everything out there but we will have a burnt orange chair that was a part of the original uh building. So actually, Frank, you might be sitting on it over there. Yeah, it's right there in the sound booth. So if you want to know what the pews look like uh back in the 70s, they were burn orange. Beautiful in those days. And then after the service, we're going to have a fellowship, and I our fellowship Paul cannot really contain The whole size that we have here. So what we are doing is we are actually going to have a tent in the back that will be an overflow tent. And um I just want to encourage you to come to that and don't bring food for the potluck. That will be provided, but uh do sign up for dessert We do have desserts that will be part of that. And I just I just pray it's a very encouraging time. It's a time that we reflect on how good God is. Um it's a time that we uh find out a little bit about the history. Those who are older Church members um live through. Um Carrie Teague. She was an original founding member, and she's here this morning. And uh She was a part of that original group. And uh we have over 40 church members who have been a part of the church for over 20 years. So there's a lot of history. And um I'm I'm looking forward to us directing our attention to the Lord. We will not have an evening service on that night because I think it'll be a long day and afternoon. So I'm just going to say that as well. Let's bow for prayer. And uh Pastor Josh, can you close us in prayer, please? We just thank you so much for this beautiful psalm and how you used the acrostic of pointing us to your Son and our Savior Jesus Christ. Christ and to reflect his goodness and how he took from us our own sin and bore it upon himself on the cross. And that we can enjoy and celebrate that for all eternity based off what He has done for us. And as we read through all Scripture, could we just be observant? To see the truths that you have that you can teach us through Christ and how it points to Him, and how we should be overwhelmed with the truth and your goodness toward us, that even our lowest points of life Father, we could turn and see and trust that you can work it out for good and that you can work through the challenges and circumstances of life to help us to conform and transform to the image of your Son and our Savior, Jesus Christ, in whose precious name we pray. Amen