Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church and hope that you've had a great weekend and we're looking forward to a wonderful service. Uh Pastor Chris has a couple of announcements and then we'll open up our service. All right, good morning. I hope you had a chance to grab a bulletin. It's uh actually a little shorter than usual as far as what's coming up, but A lot of important things coming up. Like tonight we have our quarterly business meeting after the evening service. And then we have our senior luncheon on Thursday at twelve PM. And if you are planning to join us for that, please do sign up so we know. how many uh tables to set up for that. And then Friday is our college and career Bible study. That will be at the Benedict's home at 7 p. m. So college and career be ready to go. And looking forward to a Great evening on Friday. Pastor? And also if you're visiting with us for the first time or the first time in a long time, we want to warmly welcome you. you and hope that you receive one of those welcome packets and inside is a connection card and if you'd like us to reach out to you please fill that out and put it in the little box in the back and that'll be a way that we can connect with you. If you have your Bibles, let's turn together to our opening scripture, and that is in the 24th Psalm. Psalm 24. I'm going to go ahead and read the entire section together as we think about our theme this morning. It says, The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. The world and they that dwell therein. For he hath founded it upon the seas and established it upon the floods. Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord, or who shall stand in his holy place? He that hath clean hands and a pure heart, who hath not lifted up his soul into vanity nor sworn deceitfully, he shall receive the blessing from the Lord, and righteousness from the God of his salvation This is the generation of them that seek Him, that seek thy face, O Jacob. Lift up your heads, O ye gates, and be ye lifted up, ye everlasting doors, and the King of glory shall come in Who is this King of glory? The Lord strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle. Lift up your heads, O ye gates, even lift them up, ye everlasting doors, and the King of glory shall come in Who is this King of glory, the Lord of hosts? He is the King of Glory, Silah. This morning the focus of our service and the message this morning will be on Christ's power over creation. And so as we sing these hymns, we're going to have a very distinct emphasis, and I pray that the Lord will use that to really prepare hearts for the preaching of His word later. Let's bow for prayer, please. Father, we are so grateful that we can gather together as a body of believers. And we are so grateful for the way that you work in our lives. I pray that you would help us this morning to be able to set aside the cares and the frustrations of the day that may cloud our ability to focus, and I pray that we will be able to have all of our attention directed to you As we sing these hymns, I pray that our hearts would be lifted up with great praise. I pray that as the Word of God is open, that our hearts would be instructed in the Word. And that you would use all of these things to build our thinking about you and ultimately uh help us to walk in your ways more faithfully Be with those in our congregation who are dealing with challenges and burdens. I pray that you will uplift them and strengthen them. And I thank you for those who've been able to visit with us this morning, maybe for the first time. I pray that they would be very warmly welcomed and that you'd use your word to really minister to them. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning, Acre Baptist Church and esteemed guests. I hope you're still glowing. In the after effect of worshiping last Sunday and celebrating the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ, we're going to start off our music. With uh hymn six, all the way back to page hymn six, if you're going to follow along in the book, or please follow along on the uh screen. Please stand with me. Stretch out those lungs, the abdomens, and sing out, make a joyful noise unto the Lord. All three verses of I sing the mighty power of God. I have to get the high Amen. We're going to just turn over a few pages to page twelve. And after singing the mighty power of God, all hail the power of Jesus' name, all four verses Where everything is on this to the next one, we 'll be all the way. Amen. That's good singing. Please have a seat. Please have a seat as we turn to page 116. Page 116. Page 116, one more page, there we go. This is my father's world. I hope he's your brother. So I asked one I need to meet and you need to be kind of Allah together. Amen. That's good singing. For our scripture reading, we're going to go to the book of Luke. Looking at chapter 8, verses 22 through 25, Luke 8, 22 through 25. And the scripture says, Now it came to pass on a certain day that he went into a ship with his disciples. And he said unto them, Let us go over unto the other side of the lake. And they launched forth. But as they sailed, he fell asleep And there came down a storm of wind on the lake, and they were filled with water, and were in jeopardy. And they came to him and woke him, saying, Master, Master, we perish Then he arose and rebuked the wind and the raging of the water, and they ceased, and there was a calm. And he said unto them, Where is your faith? And they, being afraid, wondered, saying one to another, What manner of man is this? For he commandeth even the winds and the water, and they obey him May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. All right, as we continue now with our songs, we're going to turn to page 38. Page 38 for the musicians and those who want to sing along with parts. Otherwise, read along with the screen. How great thou art. And amen. This is the I hope I believe I need to do it. They might have a Then take my own I Oh my favorite Amen. Ooh, we're gonna have a revival breakout. Okay. You're gonna have to read along with me on the screen We don't have this one in the pews, but before the throne of God above, I think most of you know it. So sing out. All three verses. Okay , there 's one, my father, my little friend , the way I think of my Man, please be seated When please I tell my way. When sorrow Whatever my Lord thou hast taught me to say in Israel It is one with my soul. It is swimming With my soul, with my soul, in his wife , in as well, with my soul O station should buff it for trial should come. Slash I showed control, my Christ has regarded my state And hash is almost for my soul. It is why it is work with my soul, with my soul It is well It is well with my show My sin not in heart It 's near to the cross and thy merit no more. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord almost. My soul It is well with my soul with my soul it is well It is well with my soul and for his stud When my face shall be signed, the cloud be rolled back and thus roll But rough shall resonate, and the law shall be send, even so it is well with. My soul, it is why it is well With my soul, with my soul, it is well, it is well, with my soul. Uh who are junior church age can be dismissed to the back for their classes. And the rest of you, I'd like to invite you to turn with me to the book of Luke. And we're in Luke chapter 8 this morning. Luke chapter 8, and we are looking at verses 22 through verses 25. And the passage in front of us is a passage that, in fact, is very familiar. I know that when you were in Sunday school at some point you heard this story being taught about Jesus. And what I'd like us to do this morning is I'd like us to look at what this passage tells us about the identity of Christ and also what it tells us about how God works in his providence. And if you're looking at the passages of Scripture we'll be looking at over the next several weeks, you'll notice that the emphasis is on God's authority, his Sovereignty is power over certain aspects of creation. And so this will be the first of several messages looking at that topic. Here's what it says in Luke chapter 8, verse 22. Now it came to pass on a certain day that he went into a ship with his disciples. He said unto them, Let us go over unto the other side of the lake. They lost four forth, but as they sailed he fell asleep. And there came down a storm of wind on the lake, and they were filled with water and were in jeopardy. And they came to him and awoke him, saying, Master, Master, we perish. Then he arose and rebuked the wind and the raging of the waters, and they ceased, and there was a calm And he said unto them, Where is your faith? They being afraid wondered, saying one to another, What manner of man is this? For he commandeth even the winds and the water, and they obey him. The passage in front of us is the story of Christ miraculously instantaneously calming the seas And what they do is they remind us that he is God in flesh. It also shows us that he has full authority over his creation, over nature. And so as we dig into this passage of Scripture, I want us to examine those two sides to this particular topic. One is who is Jesus? And the other is how does he actually govern his creation? I feel like these are both very, very important topics for us to dig into this morning. And so we're going to dig into some very heavy, theologically rich concepts, but also some very practical concepts. So the first thing I'd like us to do this morning is I'd like us to look at how this miracle reveals the identity of Christ. If someone on the street was to walk up to you and say, can you tell me who Jesus is? I would really be curious to know how you'd answer that question Probably within this room, some of you of you would say, well, he was someone who lived about 2,000 years ago. He went and he was crucified, and he rose from the dead, and because of Jesus' death and resurrection, we can be saved from our sins. Someone might say, but but who is Jesus? You've told me what he did, but I want to know who he is. Do you see the difference between those two things? Well, this morning I want you to notice what these verses show us about who he is. And we're also going to see some of what he does in these verses, but what he does is connected back to who he is. So look at verses 23 to 25 again, and we'll notice who he is. It says, as they sailed, he fell asleep. And there came down a storm of wind on the lake, and they were filled with water and were in jeopardy, and they came to him and awoke him, saying, Master, Master, we perish. Then he arose and rebuked the wind and the raging of the waters, and they ceased, and there was a calm. And then if you skip a few more statements later, it says, And they being afraid, wondered, saying one to another, What manner of man is this? He commandeth even the winds and the waters, and they obey him. Think about this for just a moment. Here is Jesus who is tired and he's weary and he's so tired that he lays down in this boat and there's a massive storm. that's raging all around them and the men are so scared. These are people who lived by the Sea of Galilee. They were fishermen. These are not like the faint of heart kind of people, okay? These are tough, rugged individuals. And here the disciples are afraid that they're going to die. Jesus sleeps through that storm. They have to shake him and they have to wake him up. And then he stands up and he says, peace be still. And boom, just like that, it stops. What kind of a person is so tired they can sleep through a storm and then they get up and they tell the storm to stop and it does just like that? Isn't that a fascinating paradigm? How we have these two extremes, the weakness of Christ, yet the power of Christ demonstrated in the same passage of Scripture. How does that all work together? Well, what I want us to do is I want us to notice a couple of things about the person of Christ that really prefigure or tell you what Jesus was going to be like. The first passage I want to mention is in Isaiah 53. It's a prophecy of the identity, the nature of the Messiah. Here's what it says. It says, Who hath believed our report? To whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant and as a root out of a dry ground. He hath no form nor comeliness, and when we shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him. And notice those statements. He is like a tender plant or as a root out of a dry ground. Basically what Isaiah is saying is that when you saw the Lord Jesus Christ, He would be someone who appeared to have very little promise in the future. If you were to interact with Jesus, you would have said, he's just an ordinary, normal person that we're interacting with. No former comeliness, when we'll see them, there's no beauty that we should desire. And people are not attracted to Jesus because he just had this aura of power about him. He looked like an ordinary Judean man. From the place that he grew up, he just seemed like an ordinary person. But Jesus was no ordinary person He is someone who is unique, one of a kind. There's never been anyone like him, and there never will be anyone like him. And for us to appreciate who Jesus is and his identity We need to go to Philippians chapter 2, because in Philippians chapter 2 it gives us more information about the nature of Christ. So if you could turn there for just a few minutes. And I want you to notice what Philippians chapter 2, 5-8 says about Jesus. This has tremendous bearing on what we're looking at in these verses. Here's what it says. He, that's Jesus, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God. but made himself of no reputation, and took upon himself the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Now, Philippians 2, 5 to 8 are going to affirm two aspects of God's nature that are very, very important for us to understand. It's going to emphasize the fact that Jesus is God 's. It's also going to emphasize the fact that Jesus is a man. Now you might be sitting here going, how in the world can someone be both God and a man at the same time? Well, only Jesus was able to do that. And I want you to notice what it says. Two statements are very important. He says, being in the form of God and thought it not robbery to be equal with God. What does he mean by being in the form of God? Well, what he means is that when you're looking at Jesus, you're seeing someone who at his essence, at his core, who he is, he is God. Okay? He's not someone who is partially God. He is God Himself. That's what the text is saying. Being in the form of God is not talking about a physical quality. It's talking about the essence of who he is. And there are many other scriptures that talk about Jesus being God. For instance Hebrews chapter 1 verse 3 it says that he made the world and he is the brightness of his glory, the express image of his person. That little statement, the express image of his person, is another way of saying that his essence is God. That's what he's saying. Or in Colossians chapter 1 verse 15, he says, he is the image of the invisible God Now, this is very different than saying that someone is created in the image of God. You and I, as humans, are created in the image of God. Jesus wasn't created. He's not in the image of God. He is the image of God. Those two things are different. You and I reflect our Creator in a very unique way as image bearers, but we are not the image of God. Jesus is the image of God. Colossians 1 through 3 But then another passage that really, really states this clearly is John chapter 1, verse 1. And John's prologue is kind of like the introduction. He says, here's what I'm going to prove to you throughout this entire book. And here's what he says. He says, in the beginning was the word. That's a fascinating statement. That means when time began, there was someone who pre-exists time. And that's the word. That's the Lord Jesus Christ. In the beginning was, he's eternal, he's outside of time. In the beginning was the word. The word was with God and the word was God. You say, how does that work? With and is. How does that work? Well he's talking about the distinction of person between the different persons of the Godhead, the Father, the Son, and the Spirit. and what they have in common, those distinct persons, and that is their essence. They are God. So we're not looking at three different gods. Jesus is a God and the Father is a God. We're looking at a God, God the Creator. Who has three distinct persons? That's what we're talking about. And so Jesus is the Son of God. The next statement is very important as well. He thought it not robbery to be equal with God. We talk about someone who is a thief. A thief is somebody who goes to take something that does not belong to them. Okay? So let's say that in my house I have some things that are valuable to me and somebody else decides they want those things. They don't belong to them. They break into my house. They steal those things and they take it. We would say that person is a thief. They have grasped something that does not belong to them and they've taken it. But if I walk into my kitchen and I, you know, go into my fridge and I take something out and I decide I'm going to you know make a meal or I go and I put on clothes from my from my uh my my bedroom or something like that or I get in my car and I drive I'm not sure. Stealing those things, they belong to me, right? Well, that statement is important. He did not think it robbery to be equal with God. In other words, Jesus was not stealing something when he takes The full essence of the divine nature and its glory. Why is that? Because that's who he is Jesus is not stealing something. And that's what basically Paul is saying in Philippians chapter 2. He's saying that Jesus is not stealing something that does not belong to him. All of those verses tell us very simply that Jesus is fully God. There's no way to get around it. The Bible is explicitly clear on this point. When we look at the Son, we are looking at God in flesh. But then there's a second part to what is affirmed in Philippians chapter 2. And all of these things are going to be demonstrated in the passage that we're looking at this morning. The second thing that we see is that Christ is also at the same time fully man. Not partially God and partially man, fully God and fully man. The text describes how Jesus voluntarily emptied himself of all that God could lay aside to take on humanity, yet still maintain his full divine nature. And so he expresses it this way. He made himself of no reputation. At a point in time, Christ temporarily, voluntarily emptied himself of his privileges, power, and position. But not his divine nature to take on humanity. This is an absolutely stunning thing to consider. The person who created all things Who sustains all things by the word of his power became flesh. And as John 1 says, and he dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father. Full of grace and truth. The best way that I can express it is this. The omniscient one had to learn. The omnipotent one, the all-powerful one, had to physically rest and he had to grow physically and mentally and emotionally. The creator of all things experienced physical birth. The creator of all things experienced physical death. The great physician got sick. The author of the scriptures studied the scriptures. That 's what the text is telling us. The Lord Jesus Christ took on the weakness of humanity. And we're going to see that in these verses. Notice how the text lays us out. In verse 23, we see his weakness. It says, he fell asleep. That means he was tired, he was exhausted. There are lots of other passages of scripture in the New Testament where we see these things. You know, think about the story of the woman at the well. Jesus comes to the well and he sits down. And he's tired, and this woman comes and he says, Can you get me a drink? What is he doing? He's showing the weakness of humanity. And we see that in these verses Yet in the very next verse we see his full authority, his power , his sovereignty over nature. In verse 24, it says And he arose and he rebuked the wind and the raging of the waters, and they ceased, and there was as calm. Isn't that absolutely incredible? In other words, Jesus experiences the same weaknesses that you and I experience in a physical body, yet he still has the authority and the power. To command nature. That's what we're talking about when we talk about Jesus. So let me kind of put this all together in a way that I hope will be helpful to you. Jesus is a unique person, and there is none like him. Verse 25. They said, What manner of man is this? He commandeth even the winds and the waters, and they obey him The disciples understood that it was about Jesus' nature. That was really the heart of what they were witnessing. They're seeing his weakness and how he seems to just be an ordinary, normal person, and then they see his power and his authority, and they say, This is not just an ordinary person. That's what we're talking about. So what do we see? We see that God is our Savior. Titus chapter 1, verses 1 through 3. Paul a servant of God and apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the faith of God's elect and the acknowledging of the truth, which is after godliness. And hope of eternal life, which God that cannot blie promised before the world began, but hath in due time manifest his word through the preaching committed unto me, according to the commandment of God our Saviour. Do you realize when the Bible says that God is our Savior, he's saying that the Father has a very unique role in our salvation, and the Son has a very unique role in our salvation, and the Spirit has a unique role in our salvation? We're not just saying that we are saved by the Son. We're saved by all three persons of the Godhead, acting as unity to give us salvation. Without the doctrine of the Trinity, we don't have a gospel. There are so many passages of Scripture in the Bible that would make absolutely no sense if it wasn't for Trinitarian doctrine. For instance, 1 John 4, verse 12. We love one another. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us. His love is perfected in us. Hereby know we that we dwell in him, and he in us, because he hath given us of his spirit. And he has we and we have seen and do testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. All three persons of the Godhead are uniquely involved in giving you and I salvation. Without the full humanity of Christ, we don't have a gospel. 1 Corinthians 15, 21-22. Since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. As in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. What these verses show us is the uniqueness of the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the perfect unity of God and flesh. And that's the way that it had to be in order for you and I to be safe from our sins and have the guarantee of eternal life with God. There is no one else who is so uniquely qualified to redeem us from our sins. Aren't you thankful for our Savior? That's one side of what we see in these verses, but I want you to see a second side. Truth number two, it reveals to us the mystery mysterious way through which God governs his creation One of the things that we're going to see in these verses is that God rules over nature. And God works through nature. And we see that laid out in these verses. Look at verses 23 and verse 24. It says, There came a storm of wind on the lake, and they were filled with water, and were in jeopardy. And then verse twenty four says, Then he arose, and he rebuked the wind and the raging of the waters, and they ceased. And there was a calm. Let me remind you of a very simple truth that is so important for us to live in a light of. And that is that God meticulously governs his creation in all things. When we live in this world, I know there's a lot of chaos, I know there's a lot of things that confuse us, and a lot of things that discourage us and frustrate us. But we live in a world that belongs to our God. We live in a world that is governed and guided and upheld by the word of his power. In other words, the things that are going on in this world are not just subject to random chance and disorder. God literally is personally involved in what's going on in the world around us. And there are so many scriptures that talk about this issue. Let me share a few with you this morning. One is Daniel chapter 4, verse 34. This is what it says. His dominion is an everlasting dominion. And his kingdom is from generation to generation. All the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing. He doeth according to his will in the army of heaven And among the inhabitants of the earth, and none can stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? Now who is giving us this statement? Well, surprisingly, it's actually Nebuchadnezzar, a pagan king, a man who believed that he was the most powerful person in the world. And he could do anything that he wanted. And technically speaking, he probably was the most powerful person in the world at that time. But what Nebuchadnezzar did not understand and what God taught him was that even though Nebuchadnezzar had tremendous power and authority in the human realm, he was answerable to a king, a sovereign who was far higher than he was Someone who had allowed him to come to power, and someone who could bring him down in an instant if that was what he so chose to do. And so Nebuchadnezzar was humbled. And Nebuchadnezzar was restored, and in Daniel chapter 4, Nebuchadnezzar testifies that there is a king in heaven and earth that is far higher than any heaven, any any earthly king, and that is God Himself. Another example, Colossians 1, verse 16, it says this. By him that's a reference to Christ were all things created that are in heaven and that are in earth Visible and invisible, whether there be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by him and for him. And he is before all things, and by him all things consist. And that statement, all things consist, has the idea is that the reason that things continue to endure is because he is personally involved in and upholding those things. Basically it's saying that God made the world and God sustains the world. If God were to have created the world and just walked away and just kind of left it to go as it is, the world would fall apart. He has to be actively and personally involved in upholding what's going on in the world. Again, a reminder that God is personally governing his creation. Romans chapter 11, verses 33 to 35. It says, O the depths of the riches, of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out. Pause for a moment. What Paul is basically expressing here is that God is in control, and how God governs his creation is something that is mysterious. It's beyond our full ability to comprehend. But I recognize, Paul is saying, that the depths of God's wisdom and knowledge are far greater than I can fully grasp. That's what he's saying. He says, who has known the mind of the Lord? Or who has been his counselor? Who understands everything that God is doing in the world? Nobody does. Who is able to sit down and tell God what God should do in a situation? Nobody can. That's what he's saying. He says, who hath first given to him and it shall be recompensed to him again? For of him and through him and to him are all things. What do all these passages of Scripture have in common? They emphasize that God rules his creation. This is his world. I think of the song that was played on the piano. This is my father's world. That is so true. This is his world. We have the privilege of living in it. And so that leads us to another question. How exactly does God actually govern his creation? I would say in the ordinary series of circumstances, he does it through what we call ordinary natural means. Things that are going on in the world that you and I don't even think twice about. For instance, in Genesis chapter 1, verse 14, it talks about how God created the cosmic order. Just a simple statement, but listen to what it says. God said, Let there be lights in the firmament of the heavens to divide the day from the night. Let them be for signs, for seasons, for days and years. Why do we have seasonal change every year? Some years it's not as pronounced as others, it seems. But why do we have those seasonal changes? Well, because that's the way God ordered it When God created the world and he spoke it into existence, he established signs and seasons and days and years. And when God put all the stars in the sky and when he put us the exact distance that we are from the sun and all of the things that That we just begin to know a little bit more as time goes on and as we can look out into space and we see those things. All that we're seeing is what God established. It all works according to these laws that he has ordained, that he has appointed. And that's an example of how God governs the world. He created all these natural laws. That rule the cosmos. Think about biological order, Genesis 1. 22. God creates the animals. God creates you and me. And what does he say? He says Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth. And what is that telling us? It's telling us that God created these laws that govern these different aspects of His creation. Ecclesiastes 1, 4-7. He says that the sun ariseth and the sun goeth down, and hasteth to his place where he arose. The wind goeth toward the south and turneth toward the north, and it whirleth about continually. The wind returneth again according to his circuits. All the rivers run into the sea, yet the sea is not full. Isn't that a fascinating thing to think about? All this rain and the ocean just kind of stays the same. How does this work? Because there's natural laws that govern these things, unto the place from whence the rivers come, since they return again. The reason that we have seasonal change and the reason that we have all these different aspects to creation is because God created laws. You know, when we study science and we study mathematics, what are we doing? We are discovering the laws that God made that keep everything running the way that they do. We learn what God has established. And this is one of the ways that God governs His creation. All of those laws, the way that they all work together, There is a mind that is far greater than you and I could even fully comprehend that put all those things together so that the world can function the way that it does. Just think about that for a few minutes That's an absolutely stunning thing to consider. But there's another side to this equation. And that is God also governs his creation through ordinary human interaction The things that go on in the world, the decisions that we make, they're not subject to random chance. God is personally actively involved in those kinds of things. And I want you to see some of the ways that the scriptures talk about the unseen yet active hand of God in the lives of people. How God providentially works in people's lives to accomplish good purposes. One of the greatest examples is Genesis 50, verse 20. It says, as for you, you thought evil against me, but God meant it unto good, to bring to pass as it is this day, to save much people alive. God allowed, God permitted, Joseph's brothers with hatred and animosity in their hearts To take their brother Joseph, to throw him into a pit, hopefully to kill him. That was in their mind. And then they said, wait, you know what? Let's let's make some money off of our brother. And let's not have to deal with him anymore. So they sold him as a slave and he ends up in Egypt. God permitted that. God allowed that And you and I might sit down and say, God, you have no right to allow Joseph to experience what he did. But Joseph is saying in Genesis 50, many years later, he's saying You meant it for evil. God meant it for good. In other words, he's saying that the reason things unfolded the way that they did is because God, in his own providence, allowed it to happen the way that it did. And God was using it. God was working, orchestrating in ways that were unseen to us to accomplish good. That's what he's saying. Or another example, Ezra chapter 1. Listen to this statement. Fascinating. In the first year of Cyrus, king of Persia. That the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled, the Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus, king of Persia. That he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdoms, and put it also in writing, saying, Thus saith Cyrus, king of Persia, the Lord God of heaven hath given me all the kingdoms of the earth, and he hath charged me to build him and house at Jerusalem. Which is in Judah. Is that not a stunning statement? Oh, he was a godly Christian pastor. No, he wasn't. He was a vicious tyrant. God stirred up his heart. Do you know why Jerusalem's walls were rebuilt? Do you know why they sent back a group of people that had been uprooted from their homeland several generations? before why those people ended up back in Israel and they were able to rebuild and all the things that went on after that, the rebuilding of the temple. Do you know why that was? Because God works providentially in the lives of people. Haggai chapter 1 verse 14. The Lord stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel, the son of Shaptiel, governor of Judah. The spirit of Joshua, the son of Josedek, the high priest, and the spirit of all the remnants of the people. And they came and did work in the house of the Lord of hosts their God. Now, this is a fascinating thing to consider. God uses Cyrus to send people back to Israel When they get back to Israel, guess what? They get very complacent and they don't do what God wants them to do. So what does God do? He raises up individuals. He stirs up their heart, he strengthens them, he stirs up the hearts and strengthens the people of those around them, and eventually the work is accomplished That's the way that God works. You can't see this going on, but it's evidence to the fact that God is providentially working in the lives of people. These are all very ordinary things, yet testimonies to God's providence. Proverbs 16:1: The preparations of the heart in man, the answer of the tongue is from the Lord Proverbs 16. 9, a man's heart deviseth his way. The Lord directeth his steps. Proverbs 16. 33, the lot is cast into the lap. The whole disposing thereof is of the Lord. You might be sitting here this morning going, okay, so then then then we don't have to make decisions and God just kind of like you know makes us do what we have to do and we're these little robots going around the world. That's not what these passages are saying. Well these passages are saying is as people go about their business and do the things that they desire to do, as they plot and plan and scheme and they take decisions and they embrace opportunities and things that they wanted to do fall apart and they don't happen. What they don't realize is that God is at work in all those situations to accomplish what he wants to accomplish in their lives. That's what he's saying. We're not robots. We're making decisions we want to do. But God hasn't just turned us loose and left us alone. He's actively at work in our lives. That's what these passages are saying And that should comfort us. That should make us realize that when things seem to be out of control and falling apart, God is still on his throne. He's still at work in our lives. He hasn't abandoned us. He hasn't left us to the side. He's still actively at work in our lives. And there are things that he is accomplishing that at the moment we cannot see. But one day we will be able to look back and see his hand guiding and working. He also at times interrupts in miraculous and extraordinary ways. And that's what we witness in these verses. God, generally speaking, works through the ordinary means, but he's not bound to that. There might be a health situation that you and I are aware of. And the doctors say there's absolutely no hope. There's nothing that we can do to help this person. Oh, we need to just chalk it up for whatever happens, happens. No, we can pray Is God obligated to answer our prayer the way that we desire? No, he's not. But he can do what he wants to do. God answers prayer, God works in situations. And there are times that God works and moves that are far beyond the natural, and we could put them in the realm of the extraordinary and the miraculous, and that's exactly what we see in these verses. Because truth number three, I want you to notice it reveals how we need to respond to God when we face troubling situations. Notice what he says in verse 25. He said unto them, Where's your faith? Did you see that? He said, Where's your faith? What's the point? The point of all this is that Jesus says, don't you know who's in the boat with you? Do you think that I don't know what's going on? Do you think that everything is out of control and that that I'm I'm just I'm gonna die in the boat with you and I'm not gonna be able to go to the cross and The whole plan that the Father has, it's all going to fall apart because we drown in the Sea of Galilee. That's what Jesus is basically saying. Where is your faith? And you know, there's many times in our lives that God would say the exact same thing to us. Where's your faith? There are many times in our life we find ourselves feeling and responding exactly like these people here. And so when he says, where is your faith? What does he mean by that? This is what he means. Where is your total exclusive trust in the character of God? Where is your trust? Where is your reliance? Where is your dependence on his character and his ability and his care in your life? That's what he's saying. There are many, many times that God has to say the same thing to you and to me. We find ourselves in a situation we feel like we can't carry on anymore. We are discouraged, we are frustrated, we are weary, we think the situation is out of control. And if God would speak to us in the same way that He did here, this is what He'd say: Where's your faith? Where is your willingness to depend upon my character and my ways and my commitment to take care of you? That's what he's saying. Do you remember what Jesus said when he talks about worry and anxiety in Matthew? He says, look at the fields. And in the fields you see all these beautiful lilies. He says, they do not sow or they spin, yet God takes care of them. He says, look at the birds of the air. God takes care of them. He says in the same way he takes care of you. Don't be anxious. Don't be a worrier. Don't be overcome with anxiety. Trust God. He is good. He is able. And he is committed to doing what is best for you and in your life. That's what he's saying. How in the world do we do this in a very practical way? That's the question I want to answer for just a moment. Well, you know what it starts with? It starts with knowing who he is. It starts with knowing his character. One of the reasons many times we do not trust God is because we don't actually know what he is like in his character. We don't believe that he's wise, infinitely wise, wiser than we are. We kind of see ourselves and God as We could say peers or sometimes we almost need to tell God how he needs to run things because most certainly he needs to learn something from us That's the mindset we carry. Now I don't think anybody in this room will say, oh yeah, I know I'm smarter than God, but many, many times we find ourselves in these discussions with God in our own mind saying I don't understand why you're doing this. I think you're wrong in this situation. And we we treat him as if he is a peer. But he's not. He's infinitely wise. He's unlimited in his resources. Have you ever had a situation that you had a very significant problem and it was stressing you out and it was stressing you out and it was weighing you down? And you you go to bed and the next day you wake up and all of a sudden this thought pops in your head that's like like the perfect solution to resolve the issue. Anybody ever had a situation like that? I have most certainly had situations like that. And in the back of my mind, they go, how in the world did I not think about this situation earlier? That never happens to God. You realize that? It does not happen to God. He doesn't go to sleep and wake up the next morning and go, huh, I never thought of that. Why is that? Because he's infinitely wise. It's not like God sits down sometime and he says, Boy, I wish I had a little bit more money and I had the resources so that I could actually do this work that I desire to do. God isn't like that. He owns everything. His resources are unlimited. God is personally interested in our lives. This is sad, but it's true. Even people that we love very dearly, some of the closest people to us in our lives, we sometimes get, could we use the word fed up with them? And all of a sudden we're like, you know what? I don't want to have this conversation again. I don't wanna I don't wanna rehash this. I just kinda want to walk away and have my own little pity party and not think about this for a while. Was God like that with us? No. God is bigger than that He is personally interested in our lives. He's personally involved in our circumstances. God doesn't get caught off guard. He doesn't say, I never considered that potential situation. God doesn't go back on his word. The reason that we should trust God is because that's the kind of God that he is. We trust people that aren't even close to this. It's true. We trust people who don't even come close to this level of character. Yet we doubt God, who is perfect. It also comes down to knowing his jurisdiction. I think sometimes as Christians we get in our minds that there's like the areas that God oversees and he rules, and then there's other areas, it's like the wild, wild west. And anything can go wrong in those areas. And and it's just like God can't touch those areas. Interestingly enough, next week we're going to talk about God's authority over Satan. And sometimes in our minds it's like, well, there's this realm that God can't control. There's this realm that God doesn't have authority or jurisdiction over. But the scripture doesn't give us that teaching. The scripture says he rules over everything. His jurisdiction is unlimited. That doesn't mean that he's going to govern it the way that we want him to, that he's going to move as fast as we want him to But it's his jurisdiction. He rules over all things. There's no place or person that falls outside of his jurisdiction that should comfort us. And God's word is full of specific comforting promises. For instance, he promises that he'll never leave us or forsake us. He promises to keep us by his power. He's talking about our salvation. We are kept by the power of God. He promises that there's nothing that can separate us from the love of God, which is then Christ Jesus our Lord, Romans chapter 8. He's promised us a future inheritance that is secure. He has promised us that all things work together for good. To them that love God, to them are all the called according to his purpose. There are endless promises in the scriptures. When we read through the Bible, many times we'll come to a statement and we'll go, I know that's true, and I know I'm supposed to live like it's true, but it doesn't feel like it's true right now. Your feelings don't change reality, folks. They don't. Mine don't either. And lastly, I'll mention this. He has verified who he is. His jurisdiction and his faithfulness to his word throughout thousands and thousands of years of biblical history. Psalm 19:7 says that the testimonies of the Lord are sure, making wise the simple. Romans 15, 4, Whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning, that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. You know what this passage of Scripture is ultimately about? It's not just a Sunday school story. Wow, it's really neat. Jesus had calm the seas. It tells us who he is. It doesn't just tell us who he is, but it tells us how he governs his creation. He rules, he has authority over nature. But you know what it also tells us? It tells us that there are times that we're like the disciples. We need to trust him. That's what it tells us. It might be that this morning you find yourself in a situation like that. A situation that has really thrown you, it has discouraged you. And just like Jesus said to the disciples, where's your faith? He's saying the same thing to you. And I want to remind you again that he is the same God. He rules over everything. And not only does he rule over everything, he's personally involved in your life. Let's bow for prayer. Father in heaven, I thank you for the word. I thank you for this simple little statement about Christ. Falling asleep in the boat, the disciples being terrified that their life is in danger, and Jesus standing up and calming the storm. And saying, where is your faith? Father, I pray that you'd help us to recognize that we are so much like these disciples. We forget who you are. We forget what you've promised. We do not live like what we affirm to be true. And so I pray that this morning you'd take these words and use them to comfort and encourage someone who certainly needs to hear it today. Father, help us to be a people who rely and depend on you. We rest in you and we cherish how you work in our lives. We ask all of this in Christ's name, Amen. This morning we're going to close with hymn number fourteen, worthy of praise. So I'd ask you to turn there, and as you turn there, I just want to remind you If there's anyone here that says, Pastor, I really need to talk to you about could be the issue of salvation. Maybe you don't understand the gospel. I know this really wasn't a gospel message. This was to challenge believers. Maybe you don't know the Lord is your Savior. Maybe there's an area that you are struggling in. You just you need to reach out. Please don't hesitate to do it. People do that all the time. And uh that's what the Lord wants us to do. So it's not just what how the Lord works in this moment, but how he works after. It continues to work in our hearts. So please don't hesitate to reach out if you need to. Let's stand together and we'll sing number fourteen worthy of praise. I now I will go, and I worthy and be all alone, for you are worthy , worthy of me. Word of my writing. You are being I come, and we 'll give you alone , for you know , All right, well I want to remind you that tonight uh after our evening service we have a business meeting. So uh it's our first quarterly meeting. There's not really much on the agenda, mostly just to look at the the financials but please do pick up the financials after the service and uh the volleyball net is set up so uh if you're interested in playing volleyball I don't know um I'm not sure exactly what time it's getting dark right now, but uh that is set up and there are even lights there. So if you're interested in playing volleyball um after the evening service, um We have that starting up now too. Until people get tired of it because of how hot it gets. But um now's a great time to do that. So looking forward to that. Uh Hugh Mason, would you be able to close us in prayer this morning? And uh good to see each of you out today. And uh hope you have a great afternoon and look forward to seeing you tonight. Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, thank you, Lord, for this wonderful, beautiful day you've given us. Thank you for being you, Lord, for um living and dying for us, Lord, for calming the storms of our life daily, and for keeping us on the straight and narrow. And we pray, Father, that you would continue to bless us with your wonderful love and watch care as we go forward through this week and through the rest of our days. These and other blessings we ask in Jesus' name. Amen.