Let's go ahead and take out our Bibles and turn to First Corinthians chapter two tonight. First Corinthians chapter two and the text in front of us is one that I think will be very practical, and I hope that as we dig into the Word of God together, the Lord will really speak to our hearts about an important topic. And that topic is Christ centered biblical preaching. Christ -centered biblical preaching. So let's read the text together and then dig into this topic from 1 Corinthians. And I, brethren, when I came to you, came not with excellency of speech or of wisdom. declaring unto you the testimony of God, for I determine not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ and Him crucified. I was with you in weakness and in fear, in much trembling, and my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom, but in demonstration of the spirit and of power, that your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. What a fascinating text of Scripture. I want to begin this evening by talking about a couple of what I would say are dangerous trends in the church. as it relates to a trend to replace biblical preaching and teaching. In fact, I think that we're living through a time where we're seeing in some circles uh a resurgence of biblical preaching and teaching and in other circles we're seeing a regression of biblical preaching and teaching. Hopefully We are on the side where we see a resurgence or maybe we should say a continuation of biblical preaching and teaching. But I want to mention some of the things that I think are starting to replace or have begun to replace biblical preaching in some church context. One would be intellectual discourses and debates. Now, I know that it's fun to listen to debates. In fact, sometimes I like to go to YouTube and listen to uh theological debates. And when I'm listening to those theological debates, if I was to be totally honest, I'm not listening to them because I want to learn and I want to worship. I want to hear my side crush the other side. Right? Isn't that kind of why we watch debates? We want to see the skill levels. We want to learn so that we can do it ourselves. Isn't that really what God wants us to do with His Word, though? Or how about academic theological lectures? I remember when I was in seminary, uh, we'd have these papers that we would have to write on certain topics and Sometimes when people come to their doctoral work and they write their dissertation or there comes their master's thesis, they write on these academic things that to be honest with you, nobody in the church even cares about it because It's got nothing to do with people's practical daily lives. It's really just uh it's kind of an interesting topic for people to chase down, but what is the true value of it to the church? Interesting topic question. In some churches there is a ranting of personal grievances. It's all about politics. And it's not biblical preaching. It's just the pastors let it uh Most recent pet peeve has got to get it off of his chest, put it out there, and uh and that that gets people shouting and saying amen, but it probably doesn't help them grow spiritually very much. Careless expositions. A lot of people that believe that they are expositing scripture, but if you were to be totally honest with you, they completely miss the point of the text. What they say is not consistent with the flow of the book, and if you look at it, it's really a very careless called exposition, but really not that. Some churches have moved away from preaching to more of informal chats. Let's sit down and let's have a panel discussion. And by the way, during Missions Month, I enjoy having panel discussions. I think it's very informative. I think there are a lot of things that we can learn from that. So it's not that it's always negative. The problem is when it replaces consistently the preaching and the teaching of Scripture. Here's another one that's very common, group discussions, where everybody kind of gives their point of view on a text of scripture. What does this mean to you? Now, why do I bring those things out? Well, because I want to rant on my personal grievances, right? No, that's not why. I want us to think about the way that we do ministry and the way that we expect ministry to be done in the church. As I mentioned these things, intellectual discourses and debates, informal chats, I'm not going to say that there's never a time for those kinds of things. There definitely can be a time. But that should not be the primary way that the church communicates the truths of scripture. That should be secondary. That should fall uh way down the list. That should be in a different category altogether because we need the word of God to hit us squarely week in and week out. Impress us. into submission to God and worship of the Lord Jesus Christ. So what do those trends cause? What is the danger? Well, for the intellectual discourse and debate, there's the danger of appealing to intellectual pride. Or the academic theological lectures, the danger of failing to connect theology to practice and worship. With a ranting, the danger of establishing ourselves as the ultimate authority and inciting an angry divisive spirit. This is a a great problem sometimes in very conservative churches It's us versus them. We're right. They're wrong. And uh and and sometimes you go, is there any love in this place? Is there any grace? Is there any desire to actually make connections with people who we may differ on some d some areas? And so we have to be very careful. The danger of treating something as authoritative that falls short of that standard. The danger of failing to speak from a point of authority with the intent to persuade. That's the whole idea of what does this mean to you? presenting this idea that you don't have to submit to the standard of Scripture, rather, you can interpret it however you want to. The reason I bring these up is to simply say this. We need to understand and we need to believe in the supremacy of biblical preaching in the church. And so in 2 Timothy 4, verse 2, he says, preach the word, be instant in season, out of season, reprove. Rebuke, exhort, with all long-suffering and doctrine. Now the Greek terms, it's not important for you to write to know them, it's just to realize that there are different terms that are used in the New Testament in relation to preaching. The first term that you can see up there has the idea of someone who is heralding a message by a representative under the authority of a king So we hear the word apostle, or we hear the word ambassador, or when the Bible talks about pastors as overseers, bishops is the way it's translated. in the King James Version or you see the word elder a lot in relation to the pastoral office. The reason that we mention that is because these are people who are speaking on behalf of God So when we say that the apostle wrote, he's writing as God's representative. Or when Paul says, we are ambassadors for Christ, he's saying, we represent Christ. We speak by his authority. Or when someone gets up and preaches the word of God, hopefully what they're saying is consistent with the scriptures. That's where the authority lies. So in Matthew 4, 17 it says, From that day Jesus began to preach and to say, Repent, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Or Matthew 10 he says, As you go preach, saying, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. We could go to passage after passage after passage where that Greek term is used over and over and over again to say these men were heralds of the message. They preached with the authority of Christ. They preached with the authority of God. They said, thus saith the Lord. That's what preaching is. It's not just talking about God. It's heralding the truth with authority. That authority is not our authority, it's God's authority. Or the second word is the idea of preaching the good news Young Galidzo, I think, is how you would say that. The preaching of the good news. The evangelist is the person who we tend to think of doing this. But a pastor is supposed to preach the good news, preach the gospel. Not talk about the gospel, preach about the gospel, but to preach the gospel itself, compelling us to respond. Paul says in Romans 15, he says, so have I strived. To preach the gospel, not where Christ is name, lest I should build on another man's foundation. Or 1 Corinthians 1, 17, he says, Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel. So what we see is that we are supposed to be preachers of the gospel. So the question is, how are we supposed to be preachers? To do this correctly. Is it just about giving the message or is there more to it than giving the message? And the text in front of us is going to give us some great insight. into how Paul would have answered that question, how am I supposed to preach the gospel? I'll summarize what Paul says this way. Paul understood his Corinthian audience, and this caused him to be extremely cautious in the way that he taught them Scripture, so that they would not be tempted to elevate him rather than following Christ. So Paul literally framed the way that he handled the Word of God in such a way that people would not be tempted to put him on a pedestal and follow him rather than follow Christ. He literally preached in a way that diminished his own authority and elevated the authority of the one he was representing. Very important for us to notice this. And as we work our way through this passage of scripture, I think you will see that that's exactly what Paul is saying he did. So, the first truth we're going to find in the text Is that his understanding of his audience shaped his approach to preaching? Notice what he says in verses 1 and 2. I, brethren, when I came to you, came not with excellency of speech. or of wisdom declaring unto you the testimony of God. For I determined not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ and him crucified. Now these verses tell us something about the way that Paul processed the context that he was in. And one of the things that a person has to do if they're going to be an effective communicator is not just focus on knowing some concept. But knowing the people that they're trying to communicate the concept to, and they try to communicate it in a way that they will grasp exactly what it's saying. So when a missionary goes into a missions context, you know, an American, for instance, when I went to Ga to Ghana and I'm preaching and teaching in Ghana, maybe when I'm looking at my notes, I'm going, hey, what I'm saying to them is exactly what the text is saying. But if what they're hearing is different than what I'm thinking they're hearing, then I have a communication problem. Kind of like when a husband and wife sit down and have a conversation sometimes. Husband thinks that he's communicated to his wife, and then by the end of the conversation he realizes he hasn't communicated to his wife. Or the wife thinks that she's communicated to her husband, and by the end of the conversation, it's very clear there's been a lack of communication. So it's not just what we say. It's how the person that we are talking to, communicating with, how they receive it, how they understand it. And so we have to be so very cautious that we present, yeah, okay, sounds like some personal experience over here. So, you know, we've got to learn how to communicate something in a way that is grasped. So what does Paul know about his audience? He knows that these are people who love philosophical arguments. Are philosophical arguments bad? Well, it kind of depends on the arguments. But the concept of philosophical argumentation is not necessarily a wrong thing. These people love to engage in these intellectual, theoretical discussions. Kind of like the junior high boys in Sunday school, right guys? You sit there in class and you throw out some concept or Pastor Josh or one of the guys, they come in there and say throw something out there, and then you all kind of debate it out yourselves, right? And um we adults we we could learn something from you. guys, right? That's what they think. We can all learn something from one another. But anyway, in that discussion you see that there's this excitement about opinions. This is excitement about I'm right, you're wrong, and I'm going to prove to you you're wrong. And it goes back and forth. And so in that context, what happens is the egos get elevated really, really fast. And Paul knows that that's what his audience is like. They like the theoretical debates. They loved rhetorical skills that could move people through skillful oratory. It's kind of like when I was in college, they were like the speech people. And they just talked in a different way. And you're like, easy there It's like they like listening to themselves talk. Sometimes you listen to preachers and you're like, is that how you normally talk? Is that how you talk to your kids? Is that how you talk to your wife? Is this how you talk to a person just in a normal setting? It's like they get into this totally different zone. They like speaking in a rhetorical way. And Paul knows his audience loves that. They loved walking down to the theater and sitting there and listening to a drama. They loved listening to people debate ideas in the public square. These values established a spectator sport mentality. In fact, one of the great dangers that can happen in the church is a spectator sport mindset I mean, one of the reasons that I really like us to emphasize congregational singing as opposed to specials all the time is because you don't come to church to be entertained. I hope. You come to church to worship, to actually participate, to contribute, to get up and sing as a congregation. You say, well, my contribution is not so sweet and lovely. Well, that's okay. We sing as a group, so God is pleased with your joyful noise, right? But the idea is that we don't come to church to just be entertained, to be spectators, we come to learn. We come to worship. We come to submit to the Word of God. We come to let the Word of God hit our hearts. And Paul knows that his audience has a blind spot in these areas, a tendency, a temptation towards this. These values that were so prevalent in that society fed into pride and the worship of people like they were heroes and factions. And the truth is there are there are there are churches in our country today that this is exactly how they treat those who are ministry. When their pastor walks up there to preach, they'll actually stand up and clap for them. It's shocking, but it's true. There are people that will elevate that, just another man in the church, okay? Elevate that individual like they're far closer to God than they are because of their their role or their position in the church. That is absolutely deadly in the church. It's not good for the congregation. It's not good for those who minister in the word. It's not good for the world around us. And so Paul was very, very concerned about this happening in the church. There's a reason he talks about, some say I'm of Paul, and I'm of Apollos, and I'm of Christ. Why? Because he knows that this hero worship spectator mentality is prevalent. So how does this shape the way that Paul preaches? Well, he states it both negatively and positively. Negatively, he says, that he rejected dependence upon rhetorical skills. He says, when I came to you I came not with excellency of speech. So when Paul got up to preach and to teach, his intention was not to use big Deep philosophical words that when people listen they said, Oh, that's a smart guy right there. Like I don't even know what that word means. He must be really intelligent. I better listen to what he's saying. But I don't even understand what he's saying because It's beyond me. In fact, if you were to uh to look at different times in church history, there are some times where It was like ministers were considered like professionals and they were kind of like going to your lawyer or going to your doctor. A pastor wasn't just an ordinary guy who was proclaiming the word of God, but it was someone who's who's We could say their education level was way up here and everybody's was way down here and people said, I could never question. I might even be able to interact with the ideas that are being presented Because they're too high and they're too noble. But I like that. I like having a pastor who says things I don't even understand what they're saying, but that's great. Makes me feel good. Paul says, I didn't do that. I did not come with excellency of speech. Even when we talk about the New Testament, the Greek that was used in the New Testament was not classical Greek. It was ordinary layman's Greek. It was the Greek of the ordinary person. It wasn't high and elevated. It wasn't the Greek of the philosopher. It was the Greek of the guy working in the market. Or the woman working in the market. People walking to school. It was ordinary language. So what does he say? I chose to not speak to you like I was a philosopher. Secondly, he says he rejected complex philosophical arguments. He says, or of wisdom. Now Paul is not suggesting that what he's saying is unwise. He's saying it does not appear to be philosophically high and noble and grand. I think sometimes as Christians we have this tendency in our thinking to go, if I want to reach that person, I've got to learn how to speak very philosophical. I've got to learn how to argue all of these things with them. And you know that's not what Paul did He did the exact opposite. He said, I chose, and Paul was a brilliant man He was very knowledgeable. He was very skillful. He had a lot of ability, but he chose to not approach the preaching and teaching of God's Word in that way. He speaks of it positively. He tightly argued God's revelation. I think it's fascinating how he puts this. He says, instead of coming to you with excellency of speech and of wisdom, I declared unto you the testimony of God. What does that tell you? What God said is what I communicated. He didn't add to it. He didn't take from it. He didn't try to dress it up so that it was bigger and grander than what God did. He said, I'm just going to communicate the way he puts it is The testimony of God. He was going to present it as if this is the facts. Take it or leave it. If you don't like this, I'm just telling you, this is the way that it is. Real simple, real direct. God's testimony. Instead of getting into all these arguments, he goes simple. He kept his arguments on the heart of the gospel. He says, I determine not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ. And him crucified. So if someone was sitting down with Paul and he's explaining the gospel to them, and they start getting into some philosophical argument over here, you say, I'm not interested in that discussion. Why not? Because this is what really matters. He pulls them back. And then they go over here. And you know what he does? He said, I'm not interested in that discussion. I'm talking about this right here. And he pulls them back. And they say, we're not interested in hearing what you have to say. All right, well, I have nothing else to say then. They walk away and go talk to somebody else You say, well that that doesn't seem like a real great approach. What about those really smart people, those really high and lofty people, those really philosophical people? If Paul would have used all of his skills and all of his gifts, he could have reached them and he said, No, I couldn't have Because it's not me that reaches them. It's the power of the gospel. It's the power of the Spirit. So what this tells you is that he does not Well, I'll say this. It's not suggesting that he rejected argumentation and persuasion altogether. What it's telling you is that he was cautious. And the way that he taught and used those elements. I mean, Paul obviously argued points. He obviously presented things in a logical way But he didn't do it in the same way as the philosophers of his day. He actually chose not to do it that way. It suggests that he was concerned about the ultimate result of the way he got to the points he was making. Paul did not want the church to be filled with all these people. Who said, wow, you know why I'm a Christian? Because Paul's really smart and he's convinced me through philosophy and through his amazing abilities that being a Christian actually isn't bad. And being a Christian actually is the smarter way. He has convinced me through his arguments. Guess what happens when a new pastor comes in? Who's not Paul? I'm not interested in that guy. Why? Well, because he's not as smart as Paul is He's not as persuasive as Paul is. He's not as whimsical as Paul is. He's not as philosophically tight as Paul is. Well, who is your faith in? Is it in Christ or in Paul? And so Paul says, I deliberately chose not to appeal to you in a way that I knew could get people into that building, but I knew would not draw them to Christ. It would draw them to me. Second truth we see here is that his attitude towards the work was humble. In verses 3 and 4, he says, I was with you in weakness, and in fear, and in much trembling. And my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom, but in demonstration of the spirit and of power. Now this is a pretty amazing statement that Paul's making. He says his attitude would have been completely different than the typical politicians and philosophers in Corinth at that time. Now I want to give you a little contrast here. And the reason I'm going to give you this contrast is not to uh not to trace the statement I'm about to make because I think that In certain contexts, it's actually a good statement, but it's very different than the way that Paul is communicating here. When I was in uh speech 101 in college, This is something we had to memorize. I think I memorized it and I'm saying it the right way. We'll find out. Somebody will probably tell me if uh I'm wrong. The effective speaker is a person whose character Knowledge and judgment command respect. Did I say that? Why I says I was right. Alright? Was I right? Sounds good. Alright? Alright. So I don't think that that's a horrible statement, but that's not what Paul did. Paul didn't say, hey, you need to listen to me because my character and my knowledge and my judgment command your respect. He said, you need to listen to what I have to say because I'm speaking to you the word of God. And if I stumble through the message If I'm not the perfect example of this message, doesn't change the fact that it's true. Now, was Paul suggesting that he should be sloppy? No. Was Paul suggesting he shouldn't be consistent and live the way that the Christian life is uh telling us to live? No, he's not saying that at all But he says the way that I preached and the way that I taught was not about building up my credentials so that people would give me audience, but it was about proclaiming the truth of Scripture because that's the authority, not me. And notice how he puts this. I'll say this. A minister's goal is not to gain following, but to point people to Christ. And that's what Paul was doing. His approach was transparent. It was vulnerable. He says, I came to you in weakness. I came to you in fear. I came to you with much trembling. Do you think that the philosophers of the day sat down and said, hey, you guys should listen to me because I'm a weak person? You should listen to me because I'm very fearful about this conversation. I'm actually trembling right now. I think we'll go talk to somebody else. But that's what Paul said. I came to you in weakness, in fear, in much trembling. What's he saying? This is a hard work. Don't listen because of me. Listen because of whose word is being communicated. That's what he's saying His approach was very transparent. It was very vulnerable. In John chapter 3, verses 26 to 30, we see a great example of exactly what Paul is doing here. Listen to what it says. And they came unto John, and they said unto him, Rabbi, he that was with thee beyond Jordan, to whom thou bearest witness, behold, the same baptizeth, and all men come to him. John answered and said, I'm not the Christ, but that I'm sent before him. He that hath the bride is the bridegroom, but the friend of the bride uh he that hath the bride is the bridegroom, but the friend of the bridegroom Which standeth and heareth him rejoiceth greatly because of the bridegroom's voice. This, my joy therefore, is fulfilled. He must increase, I must decrease. What John's saying is pretty amazing. When you go to a wedding, do you celebrate one of the grimsmen? No, they didn't invite you to the wedding. They're not getting married. They're there to support the groom The bridesmaids are there to support the bride. The focus of that event is not the friends, it's the people getting married. It's not even their families. Some families don't seem to realize that. But anyway, I'm just going to say that, you know. So when these people come together, it's about their wedding. And so we celebrate the blessing of God bringing these two people together, holy matrimony, the covenant of marriage. It's a beautiful thing. People don't stand up at the at the reception and say, I'm just so glad you all came to my friend's wedding. I'm really glad that you came to hear what I have to say right now. And then everybody's like, ah, we didn't come to hear what you had to say right now. And what does John say? John says it's not about me. I'm here to point people to him. My greatest joy is that my disciples leave me and go follow him. That's what he's saying That's the way that we're supposed to live the Christian life. That's the way pastors are supposed to live the Christian life. That's the way moms and dads are supposed to live the Christian life When our kids get to that age we're sick they start getting restless and it's time for them to go and To uh be independent, we need to rejoice in that and say, oh, come back, come back to mama, come back to daddy. You can't make it out there. No, you prepared them to go do this. When it's time for one generation to pass the baton on to the next generation, they shouldn't all be going, well, they just won't be able to do it like we did it I mean, they might do it better. Who knows? Maybe they won't do it as well because he didn't prepare them well. I don't know. You know it's amazing. God just keeps doing his work. A lot of people stumble out of the gate when they uh become adults. A lot of people stumble out of the gate when there's transitions and church situations. One generation to the next, there's there's complications and difficulties, but you know what? God just keeps doing his work because God's faithful. And so this reminds us that Paul was not setting himself up to be the hero of the story. He was deliberately trying to point people away from himself and to the Lord. His dependency is stayed in the text. His confidence was in the authority of God's word and the power of the Spirit rather than his ability to impress and persuade. We see the same kind of thing in 2 Corinthians 5. 20. He says, We are ambassadors for Christ. As though God did beseech you by us, we pray you in Christ's stead be reconciled to God. You want to talk about the emphasis is on the authority of Christ, not the authority of the apostles? There it is. We preach Christ. We are ambassadors for Christ. God is beseeching you by us. Be reconciled to God. In that text, Paul's just conduit. He's the one communicating the message, but the message is supposed to go right past him. And these people are to turn to God, not to turn to Paul. Paul rested in the inherent power of the message that was being driven by the work of the Spirit. 1 Thessalonians 1:5, he says, Our gospel came not unto you in word only. but in power and in the Holy Ghost and in much assurance, as you know what manner of men we were among you for your sakes. Interestingly, when Paul went to Thessalonica, he wasn't there very long. He was probably there maybe like three weeks. He got thrown out of the city. He got driven out. But when he writes to the church at Thessalonica, he says, you know what? When the message came to you, it did not come just as words. But it came by the power of the Spirit of God. You were convinced because he worked. And we didn't have the time to spend and to disciple you and to work with you and to pour our lives into you. We got driven out of the city. You know the story. But here you are today, an example of a faithful church because he's a faithful God. What's Paul saying? My dependency isn't on my abilities, it's on his power. What an amazing statement. Truth number three. He wanted people to follow Christ, not himself. Verse 5, he says, show that your faith. Should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. He made a great effort to discourage them from following him. A worldly approach to success often involves self-promotion and undermining rivals. I mean, isn't that how people get authority? They promote themselves. They take every single opportunity to make themselves look good and the people around them look bad so that they can move forward and do what they need to do. You see it in all kinds of different contexts. Paul says that's the way the world does it. That's not the way that we do it in the church. A godly approach to success involves deflecting praise away from self and pointing it to God Himself. And so Paul was always thinking in terms of, it's not me, it's him. He must increase, I must decrease. Just like John the Baptist was saying about Christ. Paul would have said the same thing about his relationship to Christ when it came to the preaching and teaching of the Word of God in the church. He wanted these people to have confidence in the power of the Spirit, not in the abilities of Paul. He wanted them to remember that the Spirit convicted them of sin, righteousness, and judgment. John 16, verse 8. When he comes, he'll reprove the world of sin, righteousness, and judgment. That's how he draws people to himself. That's how people are converted through the convicting work of the Spirit, drawing people to repent and believe. How do people grow and how do they mature and how do they change? Through the Spirit's work. 2 Timothy 2. 25. In meekness, instructing those who oppose themselves if Peradventure God will grant them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth. Who shapes people into spiritual maturity? It's the Spirit of God, Second Corinthians 3 18. We all with open face beholding as in a glass the truth. Glory of the Lord are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. What do these things tell you? The power is in the Spirit of God, not the message. messenger. And that was how Paul approached this. And he recognized that the Spirit does this through the Word of God, and so that was where his heart was so focused. Preach the word. The sword of the Spirit is the Word of God. The Word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword. Romans 10, 17, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing comes by the word of God. So the question is Seeing that this is how Paul approached preaching and teaching, how do we apply a text like this? Well, I want to break it down into a couple different groups. The first group is everybody here. Whether you're a Sunday school teacher, whether you're on the pastoral staff, I guess I'm the only one on the staff here at the moment. Braxton's down there, Josh is there, okay. Doesn't matter where you are in the church, a deacon, a Sunday school teacher, for everybody in the church, there's an application for us to take away. Here they are. One, realize that pride often finds footholds in the most unsuspecting places like religious duty, issues of conscience, and religious practice It's shocking, but it's true. That one of the ways that Satan gets a foothold in the hearts of people who minister the word is through their attitude towards themselves as they minister the word. It's sad, but it's true. So someone does a great job, and guess what? Hey brother, that was a great message. Brother, I don't know what you're talking about. Oh. So deflating. That was the weirdest illustration I've ever heard. My wife and I, we drove home, we were trying to figure out what you were saying. We couldn't figure it out. My kids tried to take notes, and there wasn't one note we could take because we couldn't follow what you're saying. Deflating. Inflating. What's the deal? You know, pride has a way of getting into our hearts. Through something like preaching, teaching, being involved in religious service. Oh, brother, that was an amazing song that you sang. Well good. Now what's going on in your head? You know what I'm saying? Boy, the way that you handled that one question in Sunday school, that was incredible. Okay? What's going on in your head? We can be so very careful. Well in our church we do it the right way Everybody else, they're kind of off, but we do it the right way. What's going on in our heads? We gotta be so careful. We need to be discerning about what healthy ministry practices actually look like. We need to be careful about the way that we think about people and ministry. Don't allow yourself to put people on a pedestal. Don't allow yourself to put people between you and God. If you have a prayer request, if you ask me to pray for it, I'm going to pray for it. But God doesn't hear my prayer more than he hears your prayer. Just understand that. If you ask 20 people to pray and you get alone with God and you pray yourself, it's not like the 20 people are going to like pull and twist God's arm more than your prayer before the throne of grace. It's great when people uphold one another in prayer. It's great when we know that somebody that we that loves us and we respect, that they will take that request to the Lord's presence. But they are not on a higher footing when it comes to ability and opportunity to relate to God than any other person in the church. When we talk about Baptist distinctives, we say that we believe in the individual priesthood of the believer. You know what that means? That means everybody has equal access to the Father through Christ. I'm not anybody's priest. I'm not my wife's priest. I'm not my kid's priest. I'm not your priest. My priest is Christ. And your priest is Christ. And we need to be so very cautious that we don't start lifting up people and putting them in a place that we shouldn't. We need to be careful that we don't allow ourselves to become disillusioned with the gospel of the church because of the weaknesses and failures of people in ministry and churches. You know how many people say, I'm not going to go to church because I know people in church they're they're hypocrites. I hate to say it, but yeah, a lot of Christians are hypocrites. So are a lot of people saying that. I don't like those people. They're hypocrites. Well, I mean, have you ever done the same thing? Well, we're not talking about me. Folks, you know what makes the gospel true? Not me and not you. It's true because that's what it is. It's true because that's what God did. It's true because that's why He did it. We need to be careful that we don't allow our confidence to be in men rather than God. And the fact is, every single one of us, one day, it's going to be our last day. It'll be the last, there'll be a last sermon that I preach. There'll be a last conversation that I have with my wife and my children. There'll be a last conversation you have with your wife or your husband and your children. There's going to be a day that all the work that you've done is going to come to an end and somebody's going to have to take up the slack that is left because you're gone. And guess what? They're going to do it. They're going to do it. And so let's not allow ourselves to put our confidence in men. Let's put it in the Lord. The second group I want to mention is those who are in ministry roles. And I guess Maybe it doesn't apply to lots of people here, but if we start thinking about areas like teaching Sunday school, junior church, working with children, there are lots and lots of areas where people in the in the congregation right here, right now, you do have ministry type roles. And so here are some things to think about. First of all, let's guard our hearts against pride. Do not feel like you're entitled to what you do. Do not feel that you're entitled to praise and honor from people because they need to see how good you are at what you do. That's true for me, that's true for you, that's true for all of us. We need to be careful that we don't allow ourselves to become lured into manipulative or self-promoting behavior. I remember when I was in high school, I was reading a book. About ministry. And uh I wouldn't recommend this book to someone going into ministry, but one of the chapters that I was reading when I got a detention in my physics class, my senior year of high school. was on how to have better offerings. It's true. I'm not joking. He said, well you know the the how fast you play the music. And the way that the ushers are dressed when they pass out the plates, all of it has an impact. If that's the way you think, you better just put a box out there in the back and not play any music because you're trying to manipulate people. But that's just one way. There's lots of ways that people do this. You ever heard someone give an invitation? And uh If I I saw I was at camp one time, I hate to say this, but if you're gonna live for God, stand up. And it at some point got harder to stay sitting down than it did stand up. Why is that? Because everybody was standing up. That's pretty manipulative to be very frank about it. That doesn't really give you an honest assessment of what's going on in people's hearts. The truth is we have to be very careful that we do not manipulate people by the way that we present things. We need to be simple in the way that we present spiritual truths. We need to be wise about the way that we relate to people that we are serving with. We should not set up people to stumble by the way that we do the work of ministry. Paul was thinking in his mind, I do not want to set up the church at Corinth to start promoting people in an inappropriate way. And I'm going to start by not doing it myself. That's what Paul He's doing. is Even when people go to the mission field, sometimes missionaries, when they're starting out a church plate, in the in the in the forefront of their mind, they say, you know what? I don't want to introduce things into the church that I think down the road are going to create stumbling blocks and difficulties. for the people that are in this church. That's the way that we should think. I don't want to introduce things into my household that I think are going to create problems for my children down the road. So I think carefully about what I do and what I don't do and why I do That's the way that Paul thought in ministry. To those who aspire to be in ministry roles, do not pursue ministry because of selfish motives. There's a reason that there are pastoral qualifications. There are people who say I'm called into the ministry. Okay, but I'm looking at the expectations of those in ministry and you kind of fall short in some of these areas. They're there as a check-in balance to somebody who says, I'm supposed to do this. Be careful. That you do not allow genuine encouragements of Christians to go to your head. Now, if someone comes up after a service and says, hey, that was a very encouraging message, I don't think that they're saying that because they're trying to like inflate somebody's ego. And it's not wrong for them to do that. But when someone does that, we better be very cautious about the way that we relate to that. And this goes into every single area. Teaching class, doing a song, being in the choir, prayer after a service. Running a class during vacation Bible school, it can go into so many different areas. We've got to be very cautious about how we receive and think about the things that people say genuinely that are very encouraging. We need to be careful that we allow ourselves to be sharpened by humble, seasoned, godly people who will encourage us and challenge us. We need to be careful to not neglect the regular ministry of the word and prayer and Christian fellowship. One of the things that keeps people grounded is just being with God's people. Interacting with godly people who love the Lord and they challenge us. There are certain people, if I get together with them, I feel so uplifted, I feel so encouraged, I feel so challenged. And I've got to be around those kinds of people. And you have to be around those kinds of people too. And hopefully we are those kinds of people from time to time ourselves. That's the beauty and the value of the church. We need to learn from the best available examples, but we only follow and promote one, that is Christ. So let's ask the Lord to help us. To do that. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, as we think about your word and all of these concepts and the things that Paul said about the way that he preached and taught. I pray that you would help us to learn from his example, his carefulness about the way that he preached, his carefulness about the way that he did ministry. Father, help us to do things well. Help us to do things honestly. Help us to do things purely. And help us to constantly guard our hearts Against that temptation to pride. It is in all of us, and we desperately need you to strengthen and help us. We ask that you'll bless our time of prayer together. May you be exalted and may our hearts be knit together And we ask it in Christ's name, Amen