Back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that you're having a good morning. And if you have a Bible, let's turn together to Luke chapter 4. And we're looking at verses 31 down to verse 37 this morning. Again, that's Luke 4, 31 to 37. And the topic before us is Christ's sovereignty over Satan's kingdom. Let's look down at what the scriptures say. And Christ came to Capernaum, the city of Galilee, and taught them on the Sabbath days. And they were astonished at his doctrine, for his word was with power. And in the synagogue there was a man which had a spirit of an unclean devil, cried out with a loud voice, saying, Let us alone. What have we to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? Art thou come to destroy us? I know thee. Thou art the Holy One of God. Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace and come out of him. And when the devil had thrown him in the midst, he came out of him and hurt him not. They were all amazed and spake amongst themselves, saying, What a word is this! For with authority and power he commandeth the unclean spirits, and they come out. And the fame of him went out throughout every place in the country round about. Now, when we look at this passage of scripture, we're seeing a terrifying scene. We see an individual in the synagogue who was known by the people to be afflicted by demonic oppression. He is literally in a state where he's not in his right mind. He's in an uncontrollable state, and he's being afflicted. And so this man comes into the synagogue. We don't know if he normally came into the synagogue or if he just came at this particular moment, but when he comes into the synagogue, it would have put the people in a very uncomfortable and unsettling situation. To to kind of understand what's going on. Imagine if someone came into church on a Sunday morning and the person was clearly out of control. They're speaking in a loud and terrifying way. They're saying things that are making everyone uncomfortable And the person is so strong that three or four men really couldn't control them. That's the kind of situation that's going on in this synagogue where Christ is teaching. So let me give you a simple summary statement of kind of the section that we're looking at. And then I want us to look at a couple of facts from this passage and how they're very practical and can have an incredible encouragement to us today. The summary is this. The following section of Luke's gospel gives a series of signs that were meant to validate Christ's ministry. The first of these miracles reveal his authority over the kingdom of Satan. Now let me kind of put this in perspective. When we come into Luke chapter 4, we see that Christ is sent out into the wilderness. And when he's there in the wilderness, He's tempted of Satan. So we see, first of all, that Christ's temptation in the wilderness demonstrated his ability to resist temptation. If we go back to chapter 4, verse 8, this is what the scripture says. Jesus answered and said unto Satan, Get thee behind me, Satan, for it is written. And we see that this is the way that Christ responded to each of the three temptations that were presented to him by Satan. You say, well, what does this tell us? Well it tells us that Christ three times resisted Satan's responses, or resisted Satan's temptations By responding with a submission to his father's authority. He says three times, it is written. In other words, he says to Satan, no, because my father says You say, well, what's it telling us about Christ? Well, it's revealing to us the nature of Christ's humanity. When we talk about Jesus, we're talking about a person who is God in flesh. We talk about the dual nature of Christ. He is a perfect human. He's a sinless human. And so what we see in Luke 4, 8 is that Christ was able to resist Satan's temptations in his humanity. He was able to demonstrate that he is in fact sinless. He is righteous. He is perfect humanity. Well, when we come to this section of Scripture, verses 31 to 34, we're going to see the other side of Christ's nature. Not his humanity, but his deity. Now he didn't stop being God when he was tempted in 4 verse 8. He didn't stop being man in verses 31 and 34. of chapter four, what we're seeing is that he is at the same time fully God, fully man, yet it's revealing something about his dual nature. So not only do we see that Christ resisted in his humanity the temptations presented to him by Satan, but the second fact we find in these verses Is that this section demonstrates his authority or his sovereignty in two ways. And when we say his sovereignty, we're saying that Christ actually rules has the right, has the power, has the authority to command Satan's kingdom. And it's really interesting to think about this. I mean literally He's resisting in his humanity Satan's temptations. Now he's commanding Satan's kingdom and saying, you have no right to do such and such. He commands them. So let's look at the verses, verses 31 to 34. It says, He came down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee, and he taught them on the Sabbath day, and they were astonished at his doctrine. For his word was with power. We're going to talk about that in just a second. In the synagogue, there was a man which had a spirit of an unclean devil. And he cried out with a loud voice, saying, Let us alone. What have we to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? Art thou come to destroy us? I know thee, that thou art the Holy One of God. Now what we're going to see is that there were really two ways that Christ is going to demonstrate his authority, his sovereignty. The first way that he demonstrates his authority or sovereignty is by the way that he taught. The scripture tells us he taught as one who had authority. There's a difference between the way that Jesus taught and the way that your pastor teaches, or the way that I teach. Or even the way that someone like the Apostle Paul would have taught. When Christ preaches, he preaches in a different manner And there's a difference of authority. For instance, if I'm getting up on a Sunday morning and I'm preaching God's word, I will say something like this: Thus saith the Lord. I read the Bible, I preach the Bible, I expound the Bible, I try to give the implications of what the Bible is teaching, and so I'm not speaking on my own authority. I'm speaking the authority of Christ. So I'm pointing people to what God said, not to what I have to say. And if your pastor is faithful to the Word of God, he's doing the exact same thing. He doesn't get up and say, hey, this is what I have to tell you today. This is what I want you to do today. You should be saying this is what God says to do. This is God's authority. Submit to God's word. I'm simply here as an instrument to point you to the authority of Christ And even the apostles, who had tremendous authority in the church, were doing the exact same thing. When we preach, we say, thus saith the Lord. So do what God says. But that's not the way that Christ preached. When Christ preached, he said things like this: You have heard it said of old, but I say unto you There's a really big difference between me saying, This is what God says do it. This is what I say, do it In other words, one has an authority that is ultimately not in the speaker, but in the one that the speaker is expounding to you. And the other finds his authority in and of itself. The Lord Jesus Christ spoke with authority in the sense that he could command and he could speak as one who is in the place of God because that's exactly who he is. He's God in flesh. So when the people are listening to Christ's teaching, they recognize the difference between the way that he was teaching and the way that the rabbis and the scribes were teaching. They were pointing to a different source of authority. If they were doing it faithfully, Christ was pointing to his own authority in the way that he was handling the scriptures. And so there's a huge distinction between those two things. And what is it there? It's there to validate his authority, his sovereignty, his right to command as God. And so Jesus is basically demonstrating his deity, his authority, his power, his position by the way he taught. A second way that he demonstrated his authority, however, is in a visible demonstration of his authority over the kingdom of darkness, over Satan's kingdom. We see it this way. There's a difference between the way that the Apostle Paul dealt with a woman who was possessed by a devil and the way that Christ dealt with a person that was possessed by demons. For instance, in Acts chapter 16, this is what the Bible tells us, Paul said. And it says, and this woman, a demon-possessed woman, did many days afflict Paul and his group of men. And Paul, being grieved, turned and said to the Spirit, I command thee, notice how he puts it, in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her. And he came out the same hour. Now, Paul didn't say, I command you, come out of the woman. He says, I command you in the name of Jesus Christ. The idea that Paul was not commanding a demon to leave this woman who had afflicted this woman, an unclean spirit, he didn't command in his own authority or on the basis of his own position. But he appeals to an authority that is above him. And you could even say that the Apostle Paul and the other apostles had a delegated authority where Christ literally told them I give you the authority to cast out devils in my name. By the way, there's nothing in Scripture that would indicate that you and I have this kind of authority that 's been delegated to us It was delegated clearly to the apostles. But even when the apostles made those statements, they didn't make those statements on the basis of their authority. They made the statements on the basis of an authority that was higher than them, Christ's authority. It demonstrates that they recognize that they are not the ones that have authority over the kingdom of darkness. In fact, it's Christ, the one who put them in a position as an apostle that gives them the ability or the right to make such statements. But I want you to contrast that with the way that Jesus handles this person who is afflicted by an evil spirit. The way that Christ spoke was with his own authority, not the authority of someone else. In verses 35 and 36, he says it like this. Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace, come out of him. And when the devil had thrown him in the midst, he came out of him and heard him not. They were all amazed and spake amongst themselves, saying, What a word is this! For with authority and power he commandeth the unclean spirits, and they come out. And then in verse 36 he says, What a word is this! For with authority and power he commandeth the unclaimed spirits. They come out, and the fame of him went out into every place and the country round about. So if these people understand that when Christ made this statement come out, he did it on the basis of his own authority, not the authority of someone else. By the way, this is a stunning thing to consider. What that tells us is that Satan and Christ are not peers. They are not on the same level Even in Christ's humiliation, even when Christ is walking on this earth and suffering the hardships of a real man living in a real fallen world, God in flesh dwelling amongst his people. His glory is being set to the side for a season. He's in his humiliation. Even Christ in such a state had authority over the kingdom of Satan. That tells us something about who Jesus is. It tells us that he's God. It tells us that he's in the position of the ultimate sovereign over all things. And so in two ways in these verses, Christ demonstrates his authority. his nature, his position, his person. He demonstrated it in the way that he taught, and he demonstrated that in the way that he dealt with Satan's kingdom. And particularly this poor individual who was afflicted and oppressed and dominated by an evil spirit. And the text even leads us to believe perhaps more than one in this particular situation. So here's the question for us this morning. How do we practically deal with a text like this? How do we live in the light of it? How does this encourage us and help us today? Well, I want you to realize there's actually a lot of practical implication that we can draw from the text in front of us. So let me give you a series of thoughts that I that I jotted down this morning as I was reflecting on the text. The first is this. There really are two realms or kingdoms, and they're constantly at war with one another. We are caught in the midst of a struggle between the kingdom of darkness and the kingdom of light. Between God's kingdom and the kingdom of this world and Satan's forces. I want you to realize that the kinds of things that we witness in the world are not just explainable. by normal, natural, physical types of explanations. There really is a kingdom of darkness. There really is a Satan, and he really does have evil forces. that are working on his behalf and they are actively at work in the world today. The fact is that there are people who rise into positions of power and prominence And they're able to do terrible and evil things, and they are being empowered, and they're being guided, and they're being encouraged by Satan's kingdom. And we are caught in the midst of this struggle. And we see this happen over and over throughout human history, that there is evil in the world, and evil actually does triumph for a season in this world. We see that Satan is real. He has real power. He really exerts his power in the world. And when he does it, he does it to evil ends and disruptive purposes. And so we're reminded that there is a spiritual dimension to the struggles that we see in this world. It's not just a physical world. There's a spiritual realm, and we see evidence of that in the text in front of us. The second thing I want to mention is this. God is sovereign. That's a very important thing for us to recognize. When I say sovereign, I don't mean That he and Satan are equals. They're peers and they're in this vicious struggle. And we hope that God prevails over Satan. And occasionally Satan gets the upper hand, and sometimes God gets the upper hand. We're not talking about peers here. We're not talking about equals Satan has limited, limited authority. He can only go as far as God permits him. We could put it this way: Satan is on a leash. He can only go as far as God says, okay. We see so many examples in the scripture of Satan's limited authority being demonstrated. Think of the situation with Job. Job is there. He doesn't know what's going on behind the scenes. And Satan comes to God and he basically says, if you'll let me Basically go after Job and take away all the goodness and all the prosperity that he's enjoyed in this world. If you take it away, he'll curse you. And God says, go ahead. But there's a limit. And we see that there's this interaction. In other words, Satan can only go as far as God permits. And so when God says stay, he has to stop. We also see that God's word tells us that this drama of human history is going to end in God's victory We go to the book of Revelation, we see that Christ will return. He will crush Satan and his forces. He's going to establish justice and righteousness for eternity. He's gonna set everything right that has been wrong. He's going to deal with sin and evil. He will triumph in the end And so everything that goes on in this world that is very evil and very disruptive and very difficult to to watch and to be actually living in a world that has all these things going on, we need to realize that in the in the end God is going to rule and he's going to win. And so we see that he will ultimately demonstrate his authority, as he did in this text. We also see that Satan's power and activities can only go as far as God permits, and when God permits, he has a reason for it. And we don't always understand that reason. We may not always agree with that reason in the early analysis But when we can step back and we can see the big picture, we will realize that God's purposes for allowing what he allows are good and wise and righteous. And so we see that God permits for purposes that are far greater than we fully understand at the moment that we're going through those circumstances. I also want to leave you with this final thought. We can trust God to rule his creation, to personally manage the events that unfold in our lives. According to his goodness and his perfect wisdom. We have to be a people that trust God And so in Ephesians 6, 10 through 18, we are reminded how we are to relate to this concept of living in a fallen world caught between two kingdoms that are at war. This is what the scriptures tell us. Be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. Take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day. Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit. and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints. I want to remind you that in the midst of the struggle, we can have victory. We can learn of God. We can see Him get the victory in our lives. We can see His work in the world, and we have to learn to trust Him. We have to learn to pick up the tools that He's given us so that we can be victorious. And we need to be humbled in the midst of this struggle and recognize that victory only comes by God's gracious, sovereign hand I hope that this has been an encouragement to you this morning. As I read this passage and as I reflected on it, it really encouraged me a lot. And I want you to realize that this passage is just one of many passages in the Bible. that remind us that God ultimately rules over all creation, including Satan and those that do his bidding. Let's be out together for a word of prayer, and I'll pray that you have a great day. Father, we thank you for the opportunity to study your word. Please use these truths to encourage and strengthen us. Help us to walk in the light of Scripture. Help us to be victorious by your enabling as we walk through the hardships and challenges of life. We are so grateful that you are sovereign, that you rule over all things. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it's been good to be able to share these thoughts with you this morning. I hope that you were blessed by them. I hope that you'll jot a note of encouragement. Perhaps share this with a friend or someone who maybe needs to hear this and needs to be encouraged by it. And Lord willing we'll continue our study tomorrow. Have a great day. Thy now.