Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection and hope that you've enjoyed the study this week and I hope that it's been very encouraging to you. We're going to turn one more time to Luke chapter 8, and we're going to look at this passage and then just kind of give you a synopsis of our discussion and talk about how we can practically apply the things that we've learned over the last several days. Again, that's Luke chapter 8, and we're going to begin in verse number 26. Here's what the Bible says. And they arrived at the country of the Gadarenes, which is over against Galilee. And when he went forth to the land there met him out of the city a certain man which had devils long time. He wore no clothes, neither abode in any clouse, but was in the tombs When he saw Jesus, he cried out and fell down before him, and with a loud voice said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou Son of God, most high I beseech thee, torment me not. Now if you can remember over the last several days, the first thing we talked about was the reality of the kingdom of darkness and we saw that uh Satan is a real person, he is an angelic creature, and uh he has strengths, he has limitations, and Uh he was able to convince a a large host of angels to rebel with him. And since uh Satan has rejected God's authority and rebelled against him, he's done everything in his power to disrupt God's purposes. and to destroy God's people. And so we saw uh what what I hope was a balance on this issue where we see both the strengths and the terror and the things that should drive us to Christ. And then we saw the limitations of Satan, which would give us tremendous encouragement that we have the ability, because of our position in Christ and the tools that God has given us. We have the ability to be victorious. And we saw yesterday as we were looking at this passage that God actually uses Satan to accomplish good purposes. And we saw that through this demon-possessed man The Lord Jesus Christ was able to reach into a very dark community, a Gentile community where there was no gospel witness essentially, and many, many people came to Christ as a result of this man's testimony. What I'd like to do this morning is I'd like us to stop and kind of go back over these things and ask how do we walk in wisdom knowing what we know about the kingdom of darkness. And so what I want to do is go back to some of the questions that we asked on the very first day in our introduction. And I want us to look at those with a biblical lens, understanding what the Bible teaches about this. So let me work one through one or one at a time through these things, and then I want to share with you some final thoughts. First of all, we talked about how our world uh reflects both the good design of God, because he is the creator. We are image-bearers, we're created in his image, and the heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork. At the same time as those things are true, we also see the effects of evil and corruption in the world. Yes, we are created in the image of God. It's also true that we have a sin nature. And so we see the goodness of God being reflected in us being image bearers, and we see that we are also sinners and we we push against God's authority and we suppress the truth and unrighteousness. And so we see both of those things at play in the world. It also reminds us that there is a spiritual tension here That means that there's a great battle going on between God and his purposes and Satan and the disruption of those purposes. Now when I say there's a great spiritual tension, any battle going on. I don't want to give the impression that Satan is God's peer, because most certainly he's not. He is a vicious foe, but he is also a creature and he has limitations. And so the the the power of Satan and the influence of Satan and his devices And his vicious assaults on God's people should drive us to God so that we stand fast in the equipping that we have available to us. We also see that this kingdom, the kingdom of darkness, is under the dominion or the rule of God Himself. Ultimately, Satan has to submit to God's purposes. He understands who God is, he understands God's authority, and he has to submit to that. God and Satan are not peers They are not equal. Satan is under the dominion of God. And we also see that God uses Satan as a tool. By restraining his vicious assaults, when God permits him to do things that he desires, he always does it with limits. He always does it with a purposeful intent to ultimately accomplish good. And this passage of scripture that we've looked at this week is a great example of that. The last thing I want to do is I want us to talk for a few minutes about two of the tools or the equipping that God has given us so that we can stand fast when we face Satan's assaults. The first of those is found in Ephesians chapter 6. And we talked about this on the first day. But it says in verse number 10, put on the whole armor of God. that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. Take into the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day. If you go back over those pieces of the armor, you will see that every single one of those pieces is in some way connected back to the gospel. For instance, when he talks about having our loins skirted about with truth He's talking about the fact that our lives cannot be built on a shaky foundation. They have to be built on a solid foundation of truth. And that truth is rooted in the gospel And so he talks about having the breastplate of righteousness, the helmet of salvation, our feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. Those are all gospel-related pieces. He talks about the sword of the spirit. He talks about having a shield of faith that extinguishes the fiery darts of the wicked. Well, what is our faith rooted in? It's rooted in the gospel. What is the sword of the spirit? It reminds us of gospel-oriented truth and sound doctrine. So when he says to put on the whole armor of God, it's another way of saying, have a life that is built entirely and rooted in the foundation of the gospel. That's what he's saying. You need to be a gospel-centered person. A person that has a deficient understanding of the gospel and its implications. is a person who Satan is going to exploit you in the areas that you have deficiencies. And so we need to have our lives built on the gospel. Secondly We need to stay committed to the ministry of the word. And the passage I'll draw your attention to is 2 Timothy 2, verses 24 to 26. Now this is at the end of Paul's life, and he's talking to Timothy about what his ministry has to be built on, and this is what he says. The servant of the Lord must not strive, but be gentle unto all men Apt to teach, patient, in meekness instructing those who oppose themselves If peradventure God will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth, that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil who are taken captive at his will. Well here's the question we should ask ourselves. What is the primary focus of the Christian minister? It should be the preaching and the teaching of God's Word. It's not fighting people into submitting to God. It's explaining the truth. It's laying the authoritative scriptures before people. And letting the Word of God speak for themselves. He says that we're not to strive but to be gentle. We're to be apt to teach. We're to be patient. We're to instruct in meekness. people who are opposing themselves. And he's talking about what people believe. He's saying the ideas that they are building their lives on, they're false, they're lies, they're not true. And so the only way that that person can be we could say, release from the snare of the devil who has captivated them, is that their their lives have to be built on truth and the lives have to be torn down and they have to be exposed. And so the Christian minister 's primary focus is that of teaching the Word of God. So we see the emphasis of having a life built on the gospel. And then the second emphasis is having a life that's built on sound doctrine, the teaching of Scripture. Satan's devices are rooted in causing us to believe lies in so many different ways. And the way that you can see that something is a lie is you have the truth born right before it and you say here's the truth now I can see what the lie is. Our lives have to be built on that. And so when we talk about how we face this vicious foe, our lives have to be rooted in the gospel and in sound doctrine. I want to remind you of a couple of scriptures that that are very, very helpful on this point. Revelation 12 verse 11 says That they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, that's rooted in the gospel, by the word of their testimony What that word of the testimony is talking about is those who have gone before us, who have demonstrated what a life built on sound doctrine looks like, who have endured as seeing him who is invisible Our lives are built on those testimonies, the gospel and sound doctrine, and the life that is built on that. And it says that they love not their lives even unto death. Even death itself was something that was not the end for the Christian. We see that Satan's devices are ultimately, they're exposed and they're triumphed over through the gospel. and sound doctrine. First Corinthians chapter 10 verse 13. There is no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. God is faithful, who will not suffer, or allow you to be tempted. Above that ye are able, but will with the temptation also make a way of escape, that ye may be able to bear it. God always provides a way for us to be freed from Satan's lies and his devices. So you say, well, Joel, what's the primary takeaway from this passage of Scripture and this study that we've looked at this week? Well, my first takeaway is this. Don't become complacent in your understanding of the gospel and its numerous implications. When somebody gets up and starts preaching on the gospel, hopefully every single time the gospel is laid before you Those those precious truths of the death, the burial, the resurrection of Christ, his righteousness imputed to us, uh the wrath of God being satisfied through the substitution or death of Christ. Hopefully every single time those truths are laid before you and the implications are borne out in practical context, your your heart is strengthened, your life is built more firmly on the truth, and you are in a better position to stand in the evil day. Don't get over what you have in Christ. It's not just about an intellectual exercise and having this knowledge in our minds. But it's about our our affections also being engaged. It's about us being grateful. It's about us being humble. It's about us expressing our gratitude to God and living in the light of these truths with faith. passion and with clarity. That's what it's all about. Thirdly, be a diligent student of the word. We need to be people who have built our lives on sound doctrine The way that we can stand strong in the evil day is to have a life that is practically built upon the truth. Every single time you open up your Bible, you have an opportunity to be strengthened in the inner man. Every time you sit in a church service and the pastor or a Sunday school teacher opens the Word of God and presents the Word, if he's presenting it with clarity and if it's being expounded appropriately, you have an opportunity to have your life built upon the solid foundation of sound doctrine and truth. This is such an important thing for us to be doing. Be careful about the books that you read. Be careful about the preaching that you hear. You want to have a steady diet of sound biblical preaching and teaching That's my encouragement to you this Thursday morning. I hope that you have a great rest of your day. And Lord willing, tomorrow we will have a bonus episode as we close out the week. Have a blessed day. Bye now.