My goal in these next couple of minutes is simply to take everything that you've heard and try to put it together so that we understand the picture that has been put in front of us this evening. Because the picture that's been put in front of us is one that if we don't understand it and we've never responded to it as the Bible commands us to, we will experience an eternity of separation from God. And so it's very important for us to understand that the Christmas season is not just about traditions, beautiful music, it's about Christ. It's about the miracle of the incarnation. It's about the reason that this person, the Lord Jesus Christ. God with us, Emmanuel, took on flesh. The reason he came, it's here in the text in front of us. So what I'd like to do is kind of take some of those passages that were read tonight, and I'd like to highlight some of the most significant things that were said in several of those passages. The first one, if you have a Bible, I'd invite you to turn there. If not, just listen. The first passage that was read was Luke chapter 1, verses 1 through 4. And there was an important statement that was made in that section. Listen carefully to what it says. It says, it seemed good to me also, having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first to write unto thee in order, most excellent Theophilus, that thou mightest know the certainty of those things wherein thou hast been instructed You say, what was this section, Luke 1 and Luke 2, all about? It was about a literal historic account. of a person, Jesus of Nazareth, who the Bible claims is Emmanuel, God with us, who came to save us from our sins. And so the word that I want you to remember when you think about that statement is the word sure. When we think about the Christmas season, we are not just talking about something That is a tradition or a myth. We're talking about something that actually took place and God has recorded for us in his word perfectly every single detail that he wanted us to know. so that we could be safe from our sins through the work of Christ. The second detail that I want to draw your attention to is the second passage in Luke chapter 1, verses 26 through 38, where the following statement was made. It says, with God nothing shall be impossible. The story of Christmas, the story of Christ. taking on flesh, ultimately to die for our sins, is one that defies the impossible. In fact, when we look at these verses, it said that a woman Mary would bring forth a son, and this woman was a virgin. That is a miracle. In fact, earlier in chapter one, when it talks about Elizabeth, it said she was beyond the ability physically to conceive. She had been barren her entire marriage, yet what does God do? He gives her a child. This is a miracle. The fact is, God interrupted history and he did something that only he could do. Our salvation is the result of the miraculous work of God on our behalf. It is all of his grace. It is all by his power. And that's what the Christmas story is all about. Third passage. that I want us to notice is Luke chapter 1, verses 65 through 79. And I want you to listen to some of the things that Zechariah said When God opened his mouth and he was able to communicate for the first time, now that he is holding his new child, John, in his hands. This is what it said. Zechariah speaks of the Holy Ghost. Blessed be the God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people. Later on, he says he has done this to perform the mercy promised to our fathers, to remember his holy covenant, the oath which he swore to our father Abraham. Later on in the passage, he says that this is to give knowledge of salvation unto his people by the remission of their sins. Out of all of the statements that are made about Christ in Luke chapter 1 and Luke chapter 2, I think that these these words made by Zecharias are some of the most powerful because what they show us is that God did something according to his mercy in faithfulness to his promise, remembering his covenant, and he did this so that people could be saved from their sins. And I love that word remission. That word remission means that God, through the work of Christ, was going to take our sin and remove it. Literally, Christ would be nailed to a cross He would die in our place. Our sin debt would be placed upon him, and he would be punished in our place so that God would be satisfied with that sacrifice. The wrath of God against our sin could be removed. And our sins could be entirely washed away. That's what Christmas is all about. It's about God in his mercy, God in his grace. Doing for us what we were absolutely incapable of doing for ourselves. The removal of our guilt, the removal of our sin by the precious sacrifice of the Lord Jesus Christ. But then I turned to a third passage that was mentioned this evening. And that is the passage, Luke chapter 2, verses 25 and 32. Actually, this is the fourth passage. And I love this passage as well. Because here is this man, he is Simeon, and he is a very old man. Pastor Josh is not picked because he's an old man to read that. However, I love this picture in my mind. Of here is this elderly man, for all of his life, as far as we know, he was anticipating and looking forward to the promise of redemption. He was looking for the Messiah. And God in his mercy, for this man who was an Old Testament saint, he's looking for the redemption of Israel, the Lord Jesus Christ. God reveals to this man, before you die, you will see the Lord's anointed. That's an amazing thing to think about. And this is what Simeon says as he holds this little baby in his hands. He says, Lord, now letest thy servant depart in peace according to thy word. For mine eyes have seen thy salvation, which thou hast prepared before the face of all people, a light to lighten the Gentiles and the glory of thy people Israel. You say, what is that telling us? God's salvation wasn't just for people 2,000 years ago It wasn't just for this old Jewish man who had the Old Testament scriptures. He believed that God was going to send the Messiah, and because he believed, God was going to save him. But this gospel is for people who are stumbling in darkness, people who are ignorant of the truth. As he put it, a light to lighten the Gentiles and the glory of thy people Israel. This is what Christmas is all about. But I want us to understand this is something that is to be personalized. When we read these verses, I want you to realize that Luke 1 and Luke 2 were written so that you, not just Theophilus, that you also would understand the certainty of those things. Not just so that Theophilus would understand that this is in fact a miraculous Work of God, not just the cross work and the resurrection work, but also the incarnation, the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. All of this was a miracle. Those things weren't just written for Theophilus. They're written for you, and they were written for me to understand these things and respond to that. And then as those words of Zecharias were written down, where he talks about the fact that this was about God's mercy and about God remembering and being faithful to his covenant. And about the remission of sins through the sacrifice of this child who would eventually grow up and go to the cross and die for our sins. That wasn't just for Theophilus. That's for us. And then when we read those verses about Simeon saying, Lord, I have seen your salvation. Which you have prepared before the face of all people, a light to lighten the Gentiles and the glory of thy people Israel. Do you know who he's talking about? He's talking about you And he's talking about me. And the fact is that if it was not for the grace of God sending the Lord Jesus for us , If it was not for him going to that cross and being nailed to that cross and dying for our sins and rising triumphant from the grave, we would have no hope. And if it was not for God's mercy and giving the gospel to you in a moment just like this one, where he brings the word to us And the Spirit of God opens our eyes to our sin and our incapability of coming to God through anything that we do for Him. And anything that we give for him. And he draws us to himself and he says, repent, believe. Christ alone. It's not for that grace. Nobody's saved. So ask this question tonight on this Christmas Eve, 2024. Have you personally responded to this message? The message of redemption through what Christ has done? Have you understood? This is not a myth. This isn't just some like story that we talk about every year. This is fact. This really happened, and it happened for a reason. So that we could be redeemed. Have you understood that? Have you understood if it wasn't for the work of Christ, you would have no hope of salvation. Have you understood that he died for your sins? He rose from the dead. And whosoever believeth on him should never perish, but have everlasting life. Have you turned to this Savior in repentance, trusting alone in his finished work? Being declared righteous through the perfect righteousness of Christ, not yours. Being forgiven through his perfect sacrifice, not your efforts. All of his grace, faith alone. Have you trusted Christ as your Savior? There might be someone here tonight. Maybe through the live stream you're listening to this. Maybe somebody's going to listen to this three years from now. I have absolutely no idea. Maybe you're here tonight and you say, you know what? I am not certain. That I have understood and embraced this and I need to talk to someone about it. I would love to sit down and talk to you. I know it's a it's a family time, but after after this service, We're going to be out in the the lobby, people be getting oranges, candy canes. Um there's going to be a fellowship in the back for those who'd be interested in that. And there'll be time to talk about these things. If you have any questions Please do not hesitate to come and speak with me. I would love to take a Bible, take as much time as needed, work through the passage of Scripture. Maybe you say, hey, I I can't do it tonight, but uh I'll reach out to you by email. Okay, go ahead. Send me an email. Reach out. I would love to sit down and show you what the Bible says about what Christ has done for you and how you need to respond to it in repentance. And faith. May God help us to personalize this redemptive promise. May we respond to it in repentance and faith.