Please take your Bibles and turn with me to Luke 22. And that's a very short little song, isn't it? But it's so reflective. It really has a mellow tone as we think about What it's talking about, and that is that Christ, as he was there in the garden, got on his knees before his father, and he said, Father, if But not my will, but yours be done. Luke 22, we're going to read verses 39 through 46. It's a little bit smaller section. We're not going to look at the entire section that was read earlier by Doug. But I want us to focus in on that prayer that Christ prayed in the garden. And I want us to consider the agony of Christ as he was in the garden and ask the question, why? Why was Christ in such agony as he was there in the garden? And what was he willing to do and what was that going to actually accomplish? So some of those questions are the questions that should be rolling around in our minds this morning as we read the text. Here's what it says, Luke 22, and we're going to pick up in verse 39. And when he was at the place, he said unto them, Pray, that ye enter not into temptation. And he was withdrawn from them about a stone's cast, and kneeled down and prayed, saying, Father, If thou be willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but thine be done. And there appeared an angel unto him from heaven, strengthening him. And being in an agony, he prayed more earnestly, and his sweat was, as it were, drops of blood falling down to the ground. And when he rose up from prayer, he was come to his disciples, he found them sleeping for sorrow. He said unto them, Why sleep ye? Rise and pray, lest ye enter into temptation. Let's bow together for prayer. Really ask the Lord to speak to our hearts this morning. Father, as we think about this passage, what tells us about the heart of Christ. The tremendous burden that he carried as he considered the cross and the true agony of the cross. I pray that as we examine this passage and as we think about what he said, and we think about what happened. That we would have a fuller understanding this morning of the true weight of the cross. It was not nails that were driven through hands. It was not a crown that was planted in one's skull. It was not the beating. It was not the mocking. It was not the sheer agony of the physical suffering on the cross. But rather, it was a cup That Christ drank willingly so that we could be redeemed to you. And so I pray that this morning, as we examine this truth, that you would help us to understand it in far greater depth than we've ever before this morning. And I pray that as we think on this, that you would stir up our hearts, that we would be overwhelmed with gratitude, that we would consider the true value and weight and the glory of the cross. And that the Lord Jesus Christ would be exalted in our hearts and in our midst this morning. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Passage in front of us is a very interesting passage. In fact, I want to remind you of some of the things that we talked about over the last couple of weeks. We talked about the Passover and how really a large chunk of the gospels are dedicated to the things that Jesus said while he was there in the upper room. In fact, almost half the book of John is dedicated to that one topic. And if you remember last couple of weeks we've been talking about the Passover and the picture of the Passover. And what exactly is pictured now as we look back at that event? And that is that the blood of Christ was shed for our sins And the body of Christ bore our guilt so that we could be redeemed. And so looking back at the Passover, we're reminded of three basic truths. The first is that we have, and by the way, when I say this we, I mean if you have understood the gospel, if you place your faith in Christ as your Savior You're depending on his sacrifice, his righteousness, his death, and his resurrection. We have been redeemed to God. Now make that distinction to also say this. If you have not experienced new birth in Christ, you've never placed your faith in Christ. You can take care of that right here this morning, here in this service. You can cry out to God, be merciful to me as sinner, and place your faith in Christ. And so I make that distinction because it's very important But all of us who have placed our faith in Christ are a redeemed people to God. That means that God has bought us and brought us to Himself. And we see that in 1 Peter 1. 18, it says that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold. That means we didn't pay money for this redemption. But rather it was through the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot And then if we go back to what Jesus said during that Passover and we examine it carefully and we think about what we remember every time we come to the Lord's table and we celebrate it. He emphasized two things, one being the body of Christ and two the blood of Christ. And so that redemption came through his body, which bore our sins. As it says in 1 Peter 2, who his own self bear our sins in his own body on the tree. So as Christ hung on the cross, our sin was placed on him. And he literally bore our sin. He bore our guilt. He was made sin for us who knew no sin. Why? So that we could be made the righteousness of God in him. So his body bore our sin and was punished in our place. And then the third thing we see is that it came through his blood being shed for the remission of our sins. And there were two passages that we really emphasize when we talked about this. a few weeks ago. The first was Romans 3. 25, which says that God set forth Christ to be a propitiation through faith and his blood. to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are passed through the forbearance of God. And if you remember how we dealt with that text, we said that when God forgave sinners in the Old Testament and He gives them eternal life, unless Christ went to the cross, that forgiveness of sin would have been unjust. But God demonstrates that in fact that forgiveness was justified because Christ literally went to the cross. He literally died for our sins, and he poured out his blood for the remission of our sins. And so that really is the sense of Romans 3. 25. And then again in Romans or Hebrews 9, verse 22, it says Almost all things are by the by the law purged with blood. Without the shedding of blood, there's no remission of sin. There's that word again. And it says, but now, once in the end of the world hath he, that's Christ, appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. So Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many. So that's where we've been over the last couple of weeks. We've talked about the fact that we are redeemed. We're redeemed through his body that bore our sin. He was made sin for us. He was punished in our place. He shed his blood on Calvary's cross, and through his death we can be redeemed to God. So the question is, what exactly is in front of us this morning? What is the sense of the text that we're examining today? Well, it's not out of the line of where we've been over the last couple of weeks. Because what we're going to see in these verses is Christ in his humanity, his physical and his emotional feel how he responds to this impending sense that he is going to experience the full weight of our sin. And he's going to go to the cross and he's going to die on behalf of us. He's going to take our guilt, and through that, we will be able to be redeemed to God. How does the Lord Jesus Christ in his humanity, how does he process Such a heavy weight? And the answer is these verses tell us how he processed it. And so I'd summarize it this way. As Christ prayed in the garden, he felt the full weight of his future suffering. And he expressed to the Father both his willingness to face it and his desire to be rescued from it. Do you see that tension there? He understands what it's going to cost. He understands what's going to happen. And he desires to be able to not have to feel this weight. in his humanity, but he's also willingly submitting to the purpose of the Father, and he understands that in fact this is why he came into the world. That is what we're looking at in these verses. We're seeing the raw humanity of Christ and his willingness to submit to the Father no matter what it cost. And you know what? That's what it took for us to be saved. So what do we take away here? What we're going to take away, I hope, is that we need to understand the weight of the cross and the cost of redemption. So that is where we're going this morning. Let's go ahead first of all and dig into Christ's prayer and kind of examine a couple of details that are a part of what Jesus expressed in the garden. And by the way, This is recorded in all the other gospels, and as it's recorded, we have a little bit different sense that comes out so that we get the fullness of what Jesus is saying. Don't get in your head that Jesus kneels down, he praises one little prayer. And then he goes, hey guys, why'd you fall asleep? This is not what's going on here. We have Christ agonizing in the garden. He's on his knees. He's feeling the full weight of these things. And as he feels the weight of these things, he is in such an agony that in fact he begins to pour sweat, as the text says, as if it is great drops of blood. This is a man in great agony. What did he pray? Look down in verse 42. He says, Father, if Thou be willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but thine be done There is so much being stated and that short little statement, if it is possible, remove this cup, but not my will, yours be done So let me examine four elements of Christ's prayer. The first is I want you to notice the conditionality that is expressed in these verses. In Luke 22, 42, he says, if You be willing. If you be willing. Interestingly, if we go to Matthew 26, verse 39, we see that there's another element that's a part of Christ's prayer as well. And he says, if it be possible. Now it's not an either-or, it's both. He is describing his great agony of soul, saying, if you are willing And if it be possible, remove this cup from me. Now why does that matter? The reason that matters is because it shows you that if Christ goes to the cross And Christ takes the cup and he drinks it. This is the metaphor that's being used in the text. If Christ did this, then we know for a fact that there is no other way That we could have been redeemed to God unless Christ did what he did. Does that make sense? Here is Christ who is on his knees saying, if it's possible, if you're willing. But in fact, it's not possible. It is your will that redemption comes and it has to come through this way. So as Christ is there on his knees and he's expressing this condition, what it's showing you is the weight of his sorrow, the weight of this sacrifice, but also his willingness to face it. Both of those things are being expressed there. I'm going to come back to this a little bit later. But I want you to notice a second thing, and this is very, very important. He says, if you be willing, remove this cup from me. You know, a lot of times when we read the Bible and we read this passage of scripture, We have no concept of what Jesus means when he says, remove this cup. Now he's not saying that there's like this physical cup that's sitting here on a stone in the garden, and I don't know if I want to drink it or not. God, I don't know if I should drink this. But if you're willing and if it's possible, I won't have to do that. That's not what we're talking about. Christ is using a metaphor that is used all over Scripture that's describing something that in fact is very heavy. It is very deep. It's very dark. You say, what does he mean when he talks about this cup Interestingly, there's another portion in the Gospels where the disciples are arguing about their willingness to sacrifice for Christ. And he basically says this, he says, Are you able to drink this cup that I'm going to drink? Are you able to be baptized with this baptism that I'm going to be baptized with? And he says, you're not able to drink it, and you're not able to be baptized with the baptism that I'm about to experience. What is that telling you? This is something that only Jesus could do. The disciples couldn't do it. Only he could. You say, well, what exactly is he talking about? In fact, in John 18, this comes out as well. It says, The cup which my father hath given me, shall I not drink it? He understands this is something he has to face. Well, what is the cup? There are several scriptures I want to ask you to turn to so you can see for yourself what Jesus is referring to as he talks about the cup. That is causing him to be in great agony. The first passage is Jeremiah 25. In Jeremiah 25, verses 14 and 15, this picture, this metaphor is used. And I want you to notice the tone of the text that we're reading. It says, many nations and great kings shall serve themselves of them also. I will recompense them according to their deeds and according to the works of their own hands. Take the wine cup of this fury at my hand and cause all the nations to whom I send thee to drink it. Say, what is that? You know, if we were to read history and we were to read about some of the most debased and evil and horrific cultures that have ever lived. Some of them would be the cultures that he's talking about in these verses. He's talking about people that were some of the most ruthless, barbaric people that have ever walked the planet. In fact, it's so ruthless and so barbaric, you would not want your kids to read the kinds of things that these nations did to those whom they conquered. Entire cities completely decimated. Men, women, children, brutally killed. And the question is, what do those people deserve? The answer is they deserve to face the full wrath and justice of God because they are evil, wicked people. And what does that look like? Well, here it is in Jeremiah 25. He says, they're going to take the wine cup of his fury, and he's going to cause them to drink it. So what is the picture here? Nations who've rejected God, who are evil, who are wicked, who are terrorizing, they're going to face the full judgment of God. And that's what the picture is there. We go to another text of Scripture. This is not in the Old Testament, in the New. By the way, I could go to probably dozens of passages that use this analogy, but I'm just going to give you a couple of highlights. A second one is Revelation 14, verse 10. It says, the same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out without mixture. It's strong. Okay. There's no holding back, that's what he's saying there, without mixture into the cup of his indignation, and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels and the presence of the Lamb You say, what's that talking about? That's talking about people who live during the tribulation, who are going to viciously persecute those who are converted during that time. This is going to be one of the most tyrannical moments in all of human history, and there's a lot to compete with. This is going to be the most authoritarian government that has ever existed on this planet. And those who embrace the gospel during that tribulation period are going to face tremendous hardship, tremendous persecution. They're going to see unspeakable evils because they are converted during that time period. And the question is, what should God do to those who commit such unspeakable atrocities? Who are so evil, who are so wicked, who go after God's people and persecute them so severely. The answer is they should face the full wrath and fury of God's justice against their heinous sins. Do you get the picture? I'll give you a third example. And this is also from the book of Revelation. This is talking about the city of Babylon. And Revelation 16, 19, it says, Babylon came in remembrance before God to give unto her the cup of the wine of the fierceness of his wrath. Revelation 18, 5. Her sins have reached unto heaven, and God hath remembered her iniquities. Reward her even as she rewarded you. Double unto her, double according to her works. And the cup which she hath filled, fill it to her double. I know this is kind of sobering, isn't it? Folks, God is not a push-over. When God sees evil, he doesn't turn his eyes away from it. God is a glorious judge who is going to judge those who have committed such evils. And by the way, that should comfort you. You know why that should come for you? Because there are unspeakable evils that have that have gone throughout all of human history, and God's not just going to overlook those unspeakable evils. He's going to actually judge the wicked. And in all of these examples, and there are many more than the ones I just gave you, when he talks about a cup that these people are drinking, it is a reference to them facing the full judgment of God for their sins. So here's the question that we should all ask. Why is Jesus facing a cup of God's judgment? Why? The answer is simple. Because you and I need a substitute Why is Jesus willing to take that cup and drink it on the cross? Because God wants to redeem people to Himself. And that is the only way. And we see that expressed in these verses. He literally experienced this judgment in his own body on the cross for us. 1 Peter 2. 24. His own self bear our sins in his own body on the tree. That's what it means. Isaiah 53, 5. He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him. Isaiah 53. 10. It pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath put him to grief. What does this show you? This shows you that Christ was willing to go to the cross, not just to experience physical pain and suffering. but to literally be punished as an innocent man for you and for me. That is stunning. That is sobering. That should move us to our core. If you don't feel any kind of sense of gratitude, there's something deeply wrong in your soul. If that doesn't humble you, there is a deep problem in your soul. Third thing I want you to notice is this: the conviction of Christ. He says, nevertheless, not my will but thine. What is this telling us? Christ understands fully what he's about to experience. And it does in no way change his conviction to do what is right. His willingness to go to the cross for us, that's what it tells you. And so what was the conclusion of this prayer? The conclusion is that Christ drank the cup. And we see this expressed as Christ is hanging on the cross. For instance, in Matthew 27, verse 45, it says, Now from the sixth hour was there darkness over all the land until the ninth hour. And about the ninth hour, Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? He experienced the estrangement from the Father that was necessary for you and me to be redeemed to God. Luke 23, 44, the sun was dark and the veil of the temple was ripped in the midst. And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father, into your hands I command my spirit. Having said this, he gave up the ghost. He committed himself into the hands of the Father. John 19, 28, Jesus knowing that all things were now accomplished, that the scriptures might be fulfilled. Said, it is finished, he bowed his head, he gave up the ghost. What you may not realize is that Jesus actually, as he's on the cross, was quoting from Psalm 22. And Psalm 22 is a very rich psalm that describes in very personal detail the kind of suffering, the personal suffering that Christ experienced on the cross. But what I love about Psalm 22 is that there are two parts to Psalm 22. There is a part of the Psalm that focuses in On the cross and the agony and the shame and the brokenness of the cross. But there's a second part to the psalm that focuses in on the triumph of the cross once it is done. Listen to what the text says in Psalm 22 verse 22, after the cross has accomplished its purpose. The psalmist writes, I will declare thy name unto my important word here, brethren. What does that mean? There are people that through this action have been redeemed to God, brothers. In the midst of the congregation, I will praise thee. He hath not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted, neither hath he hid his face from him, but when he cried unto him, he heard. You know what this tells us? This tells us that as Christ hung on the cross, that was not the end. The cross was the beginning. Because through the cross the sacrifice was paid in full. And when it was accomplished, Three days later he rose from the dead and he looked back and he said, O death, where is your sting? O grave where is your victory? The sting of death is sin, the strength of the sin is law. But thanks be to God which gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. And so Christ's prayer in the garden, it explains all of this. So what can we conclude here? Well we conclude that God willed to redeem us to himself despite the personal cost his son would experience. It tells us it was impossible to be redeemed to God without the cross. Christ faced the just wrath of his Father against our sin as he hung on that cross. This wrath was temporary but sufficient to satisfy God's justice. And Christ submitted willingly to God's purpose in the cross That is what we can conclude when we read this prayer and we consider it within the context of what it was given. The second thing I want you to notice here is Christ's obedience. And we're going to look at passages outside of this text to consider what Jesus did and why that mattered. The first passage I want to mention is Philippians chapter 2, verse 8. This passage focuses in on the humiliation of Christ. It says that Jesus, being found in fashion as a man, He humbled himself and he became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. When Christ goes to the cross, he experienced the full weight of that sacrifice. And he experienced it in the flesh and his humiliation. A second passage I want to mention to you is Hebrews chapter 2. Where it talks about how he tasted death. By the way, what does that mean? That means he experienced it in its fullness. He tasted death for every man. Hebrews 2. 9. We see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels, angels for the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor. For it became, excuse me, crown of glory and that by him, that he, by the grace of God, should case set for every man. It became him for whom are all things, and by whom are all things to bring many sons unto glory, to make the captain of their salvation perfect through suffering. Notice it says he tasted death for every man. That word for is important. It means that you and I had some contribution to that cross. That means his willingness to go was not for himself. It was for you. It was for me. It was for us. He tasted death for us so that we could become the children of God. He obeyed the Father. Hebrews 5 talks about how he learned obedience by the things he suffered. This is an amazing text It says, Christ glorified not himself to be made and high priest, but he said unto him, Thou art my son, today I have begotten thee. By the way, that statement, today I have begotten thee, is actually a reference to the resurrection. It's not a reference to the day he was physically born. This is not what he's talking about. He's talking about when he was begotten from the dead, the resurrection. And so you can see how the Psalm 22 passage is significant here. Because he's emphasizing the suffering. He's emphasizing the triumph. And what is the triumph connected to? The resurrection from the dead. Thou art my son. Today I have begotten thee. Who, in the days of his flesh, when he offered up prayer and supplication with strong crying and tears unto him that was able to save him from death, he was heard, and that he feared. Though he were a son, yet he learned obedience by the things which he suffered. Being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him. What is this passage teaching us? It's teaching us that Christ is willing to suffer and to die, and he rose from the dead so that we could be redeemed to God. I'll give you one more, Hebrews 12. 2. Funny how they're all in Hebrews, right? You realize Hebrews was a sermon, a long sermon, an intense sermon, but in fact it was a sermon. Hebrews 12, 2. Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross. Despise the shame and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. Why do I bring this up? It's simply to say this. Christ obeyed his father's will. And you and I can be forgiven and cleansed and made God's children because of his obedience. If it wasn't for his obedience, not a one of us could be redeemed to God. Third thing I want you to notice is Christ's triumph. And this is very, very important for us to contemplate together I'm going to go to Isaiah 53 because Isaiah 53 really emphasizes both the suffering of Christ, but also the triumph of what those sufferings accomplish. Listen to what it says in Isaiah 53, 10. It pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath put him to grief. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he will He will see his seed the travail of his soul. The pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand, he shall see the travail of his soul, and shall be satisfied. By his knowledge my righteous servant shall justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. Therefore I will divide him a portion with the great, and he shall divide a spoil a spoil with the strong. Because he hath poured out his soul unto death, he was numbered with the transgressors, he bore the sins of many, and he made intercession for the transgressors. Now, I read through that very quick, but I want us to notice some of the blessings that are secured for us through what Christ did. In verses 10 and 11, it says that it pleased the Lord to bruise him. In verse 11, it says that he would see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. You know what that tells us? That tells us that the death of Christ provided a satisfaction. What does the word propitiation mean? It's not a word that we use very often, but it literally has the idea of providing a satisfaction Between two parties that are at war. I remember when I was uh serving in Ghana, West Africa, we were going through the Fonti translation, and we came to a passage that was dealing with propitiation. And the way that that passage was translated, I remember the man that I was working with looked at me kind of funny and he said, that is a really interesting word to describe what Christ did on the cross. And I said, Well, can you explain to me what it's saying? He said He said, well, I'll give you an illustration. It's kind of like this. You have this person who has done something highly offensive to this person. And there's a conflict between them, and nothing can resolve the conflict. And this person gives something to remove that displeasure. He said, is that what it means? I said, exactly. That's exactly what it means. So what was given to remove the dissatisfaction, the answer is the offering of Christ. He died in our place. When he said it is finished, that really was. And what's very interesting is these verses are really going to highlight the sacrificial nature of this. God was pleased when it was done. The second thing we see is his death was a final sacrifice. Verse 10, thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin. Now, people in the Old Testament understood sin offerings. I have sinned, an animal is innocent, we kill the animal, I confess my sin over this animal, that animal sheds its blood, that animal dies in my place. That animal is offered to God as a sweet-smelling savor before God. Jesus said, that's what I am. That once and for all sacrifice pictured in all of those sacrifices. The final sacrifice. You know why we don't have a temple that we go up to today? Because we don't need it. Do you know why we don't offer sacrifices to God? Because He wouldn't accept them. There is a once and for all sacrifice that has been given. It's done, and now we live in the light of it. What an amazing thought to consider. And his death was history's greatest triumph. And he talks about several specific blessings that are a direct result of what Christ did. Verse 11, my righteous servant shall justify many. He shall bear their iniquities. Do you know what the word justify means? It means if you stood in a courtroom and your sentence was, or they said, here's what you've done, here are the charges, and here's the evidence, either they're going to say you are guilty or you are innocent. You have to prove that in fact the charges are guilty if you're trying to commit or trying to trying to prove this person is wrong or you're trying to demonstrate that in fact you are innocent or in our country we're supposed to be innocent until proven guilty. That is a uh a Christian thought perspective, not a pagan thought, innocent until proven guilty. But the reality is this: nobody standing in the courtroom of God should be declared not guilty. Because we all are. Unless our sin debt's been taken care of. And it has. We can be justified because Christ Dealt with our sin, and being united to him, we are righteous in him. Justification. The second word is inheritance, verse 12. This is an interesting one. Therefore I will divide him a portion with the greats. He shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he hath poured out his soul into death. Now, we don't uh do this today, I don't think, but in the ancient world it was a pretty common thing. The spoils of victory. I guess there's cultures where they still do that. But if you go and you decimate a city, guess what? Everything that's left is yours if you're a part of the victory, right? And what is Jesus saying, or what is Isaiah saying here, when Christ goes to the cross and he pours out his soul into death, there is a victory And there is something that is secured through that action that he's going to give to people. And who are those people? It's us. We are the ones Who are going to receive the portion, who are going to receive the spoils. Why? Because we have been united with him. That's a triumph. Verse number 12, reconciliation. He bare the sins of many, and he made intercession for transgressors. You and I are brought into the presence of God because Christ made the way. Not because we've earned it, not because we've proved it, not because we are working on it, it's because he paid it all. And so what is the point of what we're looking at in these verses? The point we're understanding here is that Christ understood what it took for someone to be redeemed to the Father. He knew the weight of it. He felt the intense pressure of that moment. And he said, if it's possible, remove it. If it's your will, remove it. But I'm willing to do it because I know it's the only way. That's what this passage is all about And he willingly did it, and through what he did, we can be redeemed to God. How do you apply a passage like this? Well, there's two groups in this room. Maybe only one, I don't know. But there's the potential for two groups in this room. Those who have never placed their faith in Christ. We could save the unbeliever or those who have. Those who have understood the gospel, those who have placed their faith in Christ. I mentioned this at the very beginning of the message. I said that we have been reconciled to God through the death of his son if we have trusted Christ as our Savior. Just because Christ went to the cross doesn't mean you're saved. It means there's the potential for you to be saved. It means that you can be reconciled to God. He's done all the work, but you have to actually respond to the gospel. You have to hear the message. You have to recognize that you're a sinner. You have to recognize there's no other way. You have to turn to God. with a repentant heart and place your faith in Christ. And so if you're someone who's never done that today, this is the application for you. You need to realize there is no other way of salvation. You don't get salvation by putting money in the box back there when you walk out of the service. You don't get salvation by sitting in a pew here this morning. You don't get salvation by getting on your knees and praying every single morning. and reading the Bible. You do not get salvation by being kind and benevolent to the people around you. You do not get salvation by trying to live an austere and perfectly righteous life. Those things can never get you to God. We were not redeemed by corruptible things, like silver and gold, received by tradition from our fathers, but rather the precious blood of Christ. Realize the implication of thinking you can earn your way to God. In another text in the New Testament, Paul writes that if righteousness can come from the law, Then Christ died in vain. If I believe I can earn my way to God and I am attempting to do it, I am literally living my life by saying, God, the cross was a waste of time. You say, well, I don't think that. I mean, you may not process it that way, but you're literally rejecting God's one and only offer salvation through Christ to establish your own way. And at the end of your life, what you find out, there's a way that seems right to a man, but the end thereof is the way of death. And there is no other way to salvation but through what Christ has done Thirdly, do not treat the cross as a cheap and wasted sacrifice. If you've never placed your faith in Christ, I pray that today You'd humble your heart before a holy and righteous God and say, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. I believe that Christ died for my sins. I believe he rose from the dead, and I want to be saved. Call on the Lord and ask him to save you. Whoever will call on the name of the Lord shall be saved. You say, is it a magic prayer? No. With the heart one believes into righteousness. You may not even speak the words, but in your heart you call out to the Lord and ask him to save you. He'll do it. Don't leave this place. Without having turned to God for salvation. The other application is to the believer. The truth is when we live our Christian lives, there are many, many times that our thinking gets really twisted. And our thing could get twisted through a lot of different means. Sometimes it's because of circumstance, and those circumstances are very painful, they're very frustrating, they're difficult. And in the midst of those circumstances, one of the things that pops into our heads. And I know this because I've been there. I know this because I have children. I know this because I've been a pastor. When we go through hard times, you know what the first thing we do is? We doubt God's love for us. Now we don't say, God, you hate me. I mean, some people do. You would not allow me to encounter these difficulties. You would not let me go through these things if you really loved me. That's a very natural, normal, typical pattern of thought. But I tell you, it's a lie. If you ever doubt God's love, remember Christ on his knees in the garden and say, God. The son kneeled down in the garden and said, if it is possible, if you be willing, and you said the cross is necessary, and he did it. And that demonstrates the love of God for each of us. Second, we never diminish the significance of the cross. I think every day when we get up in the morning, We should get on our knees or sit down in a chair or while we're driving to work, if you don't have kids in the car with you, who are making a lot of noise. In a solitary moment, remind yourself of the weight of that cross. Remind yourself what Jesus did for you. Remind yourself of the infinite love of God for your soul. And do not allow your mind to diminish in any way the significance of that cross. Never forget the weight of Christ's sacrifice for you. Rest in what you have in him. Don't get into this mindset where you think you can earn your way to God. In fact, you know what? You can be a genuine believer, place your faith in Christ, but you can put back on the thinking of that old man who is dead. We can get into this mentality that yes, we know that the cross is what purchased our redemption, and yes, we know that the resurrection is the triumph over death, and yes, we know we are righteous in Christ. But if God really loves me, if God really accepts me, I've got to do good, be good, look good. I've got to prove that love. And that is also a lie. We live in the light of position. We can truly serve God out of love when we recognize we don't change the position in any way through our obedience. We live in the light of it. Our obedience is an expression of love and gratitude. May God help us to be there. Rejoice in what it tells you about that love. Regularly remind yourself of these truths. And might I also add this? Be a channel of that love to others. People who are not believers, be patient with them. Point them to the cross of Christ. Answer their questions. Be willing to go the extra mile. Pray for their salvation. Those who are Christians and they're not not living like it and they're making your life difficult because they're not living like it, be a channel of God's love toward those people. Be forbearing, be patient with them. Forgive. Forbear. Demonstrate God's love for them. Be a channel that He uses. May God help us to not get over the weight of the cross this morning. Let's bow together for prayer. With every head bowed and every eye closed before we go to the Lord in prayer, I have A simple question I want to ask, is there someone here this morning that would say, Joel, I have never placed my faith in Christ, and I need to do that today? I'm not going to ask you to stand up. I'm not going to ask you to come forward. I'm going to simply ask you to raise your hand so that I can see that. And then I would encourage you to come and talk to me after the service. Or reach out this week. Is there anyone here that would say that? Yes, that's me. I need to trust Christ. If that's you, just quietly raise up your hand so that I can see that. I'm gonna look very quickly. I'm not gonna call you out or anything like that. I'm just gonna see that so that I know that I need to connect with you. Anybody like that at all? Anybody at all? If you need to trust Christ, do it. Don't sit back. Don't delay it. Today's the day you need to settle this issue once and for all before the Lord. Let's bow before God and ask him to bless the preaching of his word. Our Father, we thank you for the word. I thank you for the sacrifice of Christ. Your love for us is something we will never fully grasp, but it's something we can glory in, and something that we can live in the light of, and it's something that we should be a channel to others of. I pray that you would help us to live consistent with the position we have in you. Help us not to embrace the lies that often bombard our minds. Help us to be a godly people. Be with that one who might be struggling on this issue of salvation. If they don't have that settled, I pray today will be the day that they get this issue settled once and for all. They'll experience what it means to be born again, having placed their faith in Christ. Christ. May these choose not depart from our heart this week and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen.