Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church and I hope that you've had a really good week. I know that it's ended with a lot of rain and it's starting with a lot of rain. But really looking forward to focusing our attention on the Lord this morning. If you're visiting with us today for the first time or the first time in a long time, we want to warmly welcome you and hope that you received a welcome packet. Inside that there's a little connection card and if you would like us to connect with you during the week please take a few moments to fill it out and there's a little box in the back. You can put that card in that box and we'll reach out to you during the week Pastor Chris has a couple of announcements and then we'll open our service. Good morning. Just a few things to point out in our bulletins. Uh this morning we got our ladies' luncheon coming up this week on the sixth. That's at eleven AM. And we also have two weeks to Mother's Day. So that is that is your warning. I mean, uh, we got two weeks to Mother's Day, and then our senior luncheon uh is next on May 18th. So, seniors, if you would sign up, uh let us know that you're coming to that. With that, Pastor. Okay, well the text of scripture that we're going to open with is Psalm 36. So if you have your Bible, let's turn there together, please. And if not, you can follow along on the on the uh The screen behind us. Psalm 36, and we'll read verses 5 through 10. Here's what the text says. Thy mercy, O Lord, is in the heavens. Thy faithfulness reacheth unto the clouds. Thy righteousness is like the great mountains, thy judgments are a great deep. O Lord, thou preservest man and beast. How excellent is thy loving kindness! O God, therefore the children of men put their trust under the shadow of thy wings. They shall be abundantly satisfied with the fatness of thy house. Thou shalt make them drink of the rivers of thy pleasures. With thee is a fountain of life, and in thy light shall we see light. O continue thy loving kindness unto them that know thee, and thy righteousness to the upright in heart. This morning, as we open up the scriptures, we're going to look at the importance of recognizing God's compassion. And we're going to look at the story of Jairus. And how the Lord Jesus Christ raised his daughter back to life. She was very sick. Jairus was very concerned for his daughter. He goes to Christ and pleads with them to come. And by the end of the story, we see Christ's compassion just being laid out in every single detail of that story. And so that'll be the focus of our attention this morning. Let's be out together for prayer. And really ask the Lord to help us to appreciate and understand these truths and as we sing together as a body that we would have hearts that are really knit together in corporate worship. Father, we're so grateful that we can gather together as a body of believers. We recognize that there is nothing in us that makes us acceptable to you. There's nothing that we will bring into your presence this morning, nothing we will give to you, nothing we will promise before you that will give us a righteous position in Christ. Christ. We are righteous only because we are righteous in Christ. We thank you for his death on the cross that gave us a full forgiveness of sins, his triumph over death and the resurrection. As he demonstrated his power over sin and death, and as he purchased for us the free gift of eternal life. I pray that this morning, as we open the word, that our hearts Would be attentive to the word, I pray that the Holy Spirit, who indwells each believer here, would take the word and impress it upon our hearts would open our minds to the unders uh and our understanding to the weight of these truths, and that you would take these truths and press them upon our hearts, so that our eyes are opened, and we understand more clearly how we ought to walk wisely in a fall. I pray that you would be richly exalted and that we as your people would be overwhelmed with praise and gratitude to you. May we be an encouraged people today. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning, Anchor Baptist Church Soggy kind of little morning, but uh we're still not as inundated with rain as California is, let me tell you. So anyway, I'll take this You know, they've got reservoirs out there that have been dried up that are all of a sudden full. So uh they've got an abundance of rain. Anyway, but for us It's gonna make the grass grow up, your zoia grass will green up uh quicker this way, so hang in there. We've got a good start on the spring coming up Let's take our hymnals and turn to page 83. Stand with me. We're going to sing, Guide Me, O thou great Jehovah. All three verses, so sing up and make a joyful noise. Вере на море, не ве на тебе , і є вівні на водою, або закроє, і віма. And we're going to turn to page 134. 134. And we're going to sing all four verses of and And can it be? Keep singing out So Привет, я кислорода, привет, імені того, що надо військові, а надо в тебе немало, не відео, не вийде мого. I might be doing all the meeting, I will come to Amen. Have a seat that's Excellent singing. Well, we turn back to page 89. Page 89, all three verses of all the way my savior leads me. Isn't that a blessing? Not partway. Oh Amen. That's good singing in spite of the weather outside. So good. You come to worship and to sing. We're going to go to the scriptures now. We're going to go to the book of Luke. We've been in for a number of days. We're going to go to chapter 8 and read verses 40 through 56 Luke 8, verse 40 through 56. And it came to pass that, when Jesus was returned, the people gladly received him. for they were all waiting for him. And behold, there came a man named Jarus, and he was a ruler of the synagogue, and he fell down at Jesus' feet, and besought him that he would come into his house For he had one only daughter, about twelve years of age, and she lay a dying. But as he went, the people thronged him. And a woman having an issue of blood, twelve years, which had spent all her living upon physicians, neither could be healed of any. came behind him and touched the border of his garment, and immediately her issue of blood snatched. And Jesus said, Who touched me? When all denied, Peter and they that were with him said, Master, the multitude throng thee and press thee, and sayest thou who touched me? And Jesus said, Somebody hath touched me, for I perceive that virtue is gone out of me. And when the woman saw that she was not hid, she came trembling And falling down before him, she declared unto him before all the people for what cause she had touched him, and how she was healed immediately. And he said unto her, Daughter, be of good comfort. Thy faith hath made thee whole. Go in peace. While he yet spake, there cometh one from the ruler of the synagogue's house Saying to him, Thy daughter is dead. Trouble not the master. But when Jesus heard it, he answered him, saying, Fear not, believe only, and she shall be made whole. And when he came into the house, he suffered no man to go in save Peter and James and John and the father and the mother of the maiden. And all wept, and bewailed her. But he said, Weep not, she is not dead, but sleepeth. And they laughed him to scorn, knowing that she was dead And he put them all out, and took her by the hand, and called, saying, Maid, arise. And her spirit came again, and she rose straightway, and he commanded to give her meat. And her parents were astonished, but he charged them that they should tell no man what was done. And may the Lord add the read of the blessing to the reading of his word I don't think And Danny, could you come up just asked where to maybe? Oh , yeah. Okay, that's not the first time that's happened, but I want it to be the last. Okay, well now we're gonna go to page 411. Page four hundred and eleven. Page four hundred eleven. The solid rock. All four verses. Sing out with me. But anyone you know, the whole commitment is what all this is right and everything, but you have to make me scream up, whatever that we have. All right, for the next song, we'll go to our blue book, if you're singing along with us. And we're going to go to page 151. 151. And we're going to sing I Run to Christ. All three verses. Please stand with me on this one. And water high , then I go on easy. I die to try to read my I want to try to show it. I bore my Trust me as your God, though my path for you is still Will you lean on your own way or resolve support me I am still your supper king, who has led you with my loss Send nice leave on your view. Surely trust me boldly. Do you trust Just as your God while the storm still wages off. Every day no birth is grow, every night I give a song To the brain as Prince of Peace. Smash your mind on things above. Everlasting strength is mine , for we trust me with re Will you trust me when you 're alive? When you think through a final life Soon to leave this wrote and war, that 's him for my Jasper I am who was dead. Now I like my suffering. You will report our rose. I'll be with me, paper. Thank you for that beautiful song. Our children who are junior church aged can be dismissed to the back for junior church. And the rest of you, I'd like to invite you to turn with me to the book of Luke. And we're in Luke chapter 8 this morning. I'd like to again read this passage of Scripture, and then I'd like us to be all together, really ask the Lord to help us to appreciate the very rich truths that we'll find in these verses. And I recognize that the topic that we're going to address that we find in the text in front of us is in fact a very heavy topic. It is a very personal topic. It's one that most certainly we need to hear this morning. So I really want to take a moment to ask the Lord to really quiet our hearts to help us to be able to understand the intent of His word. Word. Luke chapter 8, verse number 40 says the following. And it came to pass that when Jesus was returned, the people gladly received him. For they were all waiting for him. Behold, there came a man named Jairus, and he was a ruler of the synagogue, and he fell down at Jesus' feet. And besought him that he would come into his house. For he had one only daughter, about twelve years of age, and she lay a dying. As he went, the people thronged him, a woman having an issue of blood twelve years, which had spent all her living upon physicians. Neither could be healed of any, came behind him and touched the border of his garment, and immediately her issue of blood staunched. And Jesus said, Who touched me? When all denied, Peter and they that were with him said, Master, the multitudes thronged thee and pressed thee, and sayest thou who touched me? Jesus said, Somebody had touched me. I perceive that virtue is gone out of me. When the woman saw that she was not hid, she came trembling, and falling down before him she declared unto him, before all the people, for what cause she had touched him How she had how she was healed immediately. And he said unto her, Daughter, be of good comfort. Thy faith hath made thee whole. Go in peace. While he yet spake, there cometh one of the ruler of the synagogue's house, saying to him, Thy daughter is dead. Trouble not the master. But when Jesus heard it, he answered him, saying, Fear not, believe only, she shall be made whole. And when he came into the house, he suffered no man to go in save Peter and James and John and the father and the mother of the maiden. I'd like us to bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to help us to appreciate what we will be looking at this morning. Again, a very sensitive topic, but one that we really, really need to understand from the Scriptures. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we come to this passage of Scripture, we recognize that within our own congregation, there are many people who carry heavy physical burdens. People who deal with chronic illnesses, people whose lives have been affected very personally by weakness and sickness and challenges physically. Father, we recognize this morning that in fact this is a topic that is so very personal because it is so very heavy. And Father, I pray that this morning, as we open up the Bible, we would see the tremendous power of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. His authority, his ability to heal. But Father, I pray that right alongside the power of our Lord Jesus, we would see his tender compassion His mercy, his love. We would also recognize the wisdom of God as He orders the circumstances of our lives according to His purposes. How God does use infirmities and weakness, not just to bring glory to himself, but to build the character and the perspective of his people. He uses difficulties in a fallen world to ultimately do good in our lives and through our lives. And so, Father, I pray that this morning as we look at this text We would have a good, solid biblical understanding of your ways just a little bit more. And Father, I pray that we would be comforted and we would be strengthened. And I pray that we would be willing to order our lives biblically when it comes to this issue. I pray that you'd help me as I communicate the word to do it with clarity. And I pray that your spirit would use it in Christ's name. Amen. I'd like to begin with a summary of the passage as I often do. The passage in front of us demonstrates Christ's compassion toward people who are suffering. His willingness to minister to them in their infirmities. And ultimately what this text will do is it will drive us to recognize That there is comfort for us no matter our circumstances, no matter how long and how personal and how painful and how exhausting and how devastating our situation may be. There is comfort because God cares about us and our infirmities and our sicknesses and in our weaknesses. What I'd like us to do this morning is I'd like us to notice the tremendous resolve of the Lord Jesus Christ in a very chaotic situation. And I'd like us to also recognize beside this how God does use sickness and infirmity and weakness and even chronic illnesses to ultimately do good in our lives. And we must learn to both pray with compassion for those who are struggling and pray with fervency for ourselves and also with a submissive heart say, God, whatever your purpose, accomplish it in my life. I want to begin by looking at this topic, by thinking biblically about suffering in prayer and God's mercy on people in such situations. But truth is, what we're going to endeavor to do is take a very broad topic, a very personal topic, a very weighty topic, And try to summarize it with some things that I hope will be helpful to you this morning. And then we will dig into this text and we will see many of those very principles and many truths laid out in a very practical way as Jesus encounters this woman. Actually two people's great problems First of all, I want to start with saying this. There are many questions that fall under this broad and very personal topic. If you're in our room in this room this morning, or you've joined us on the live stream and you're dealing with chronic illness, There's no question that when you read a passage of scripture like this, there are many questions that flood into your mind. You ask, to what extent should I go to the doctors? How much money should I pay on these things? How should I pray? How long should I pray? Should I anticipate that God will heal? How will God heal? To what extent should I expect those things? When should I decide to reorient my prayer in a different direction? And the fact is, I cannot answer all of those issues for you in just one simple sitting. But what I can do this morning is I can give you some biblical principles that I hope will be a help to guide you. And not only do I want to give you biblical principles this morning to help to guide you, but I want you to know that I'm available. And I would love to sit down with you and pray with you and talk with you through these things if indeed that's what you feel needs to happen This is a heavy topic, and we need to spend time this morning looking at it. The first thing I want us to notice from the Bible is how God views us when we suffer. I think one of the first things that I personally struggle with when I am going through suffering or when I examine others that are suffering, and by the way, as a pastor, you see some unbelievable suffering. You see tragedies. You see people at their lowest and at some of their weightiest moments. You see people who are dying and people who have chronic illnesses. And you see many, many burdens. And when you see those things, there are questions you ask yourself. But those questions become a lot more personal when you are the one suffering When you are the one who's in pain every single morning. When you're the one who opened up your Bible and you say, God, do you love me and do you care about me or not? These are real-life questions. And so I want to begin with two texts of scripture that I think we all need to hear this morning. No matter whether we are in a position of strength or weakness, or we are caring for someone who is weak, we are praying for someone who is weak, how does God view us? Psalm 86, verse 15 says the following. Thou, O Lord, art a God full of compassion. Gracious, long suffering, and plenteous in mercy and truth The word mercy is a powerful word that we see over and over and over again in Scripture. The word mercy means that when God sees us in a moment of weakness, and affliction and misery, he actually is moved with compassion in his heart toward us in that moment. And us in that season, when God sees his children suffer, he is moved in his heart. When you and I see a person who is suffering many times, it affects us internally in a great way. One of the reasons I think it's so important for us to minister to those who are infirmed is that it gives us an appreciation for what we do have in our health and what we do have in our strength. And it helps us to realize how compassionate and how grateful we should be. Hebrews 2 takes it even further. In verse 17, he says the following: He says, In all things it behooves him, Christ, to be made like unto his brethren. That he might be a merciful, there's that word again, and faithful high priest pertaining to God, and that he himself hath suffered being tempted and he is able to succor them that are tempted. That word succor has the idea of he comes alongside and he strengthens And he nourishes and he upholds, he ministers to us in our sufferings. It's important for us to recognize when we suffer that Jesus knows what it feels like to experience the pain you experience. One of the things that's so very helpful to us when we do suffer is a person who has gone through such things or is personally experiencing such things, they come alongside of us and they just sit with us and they say, My heart is heavy for you. I'm here for you. I'm praying with you. I'm praying for you. If there's anything you need, just tell me. And then they sit there. When they say that, you know that they know what that is like. Someone who's physically strong and vibrant has never experienced such a thing, they may say that you appreciate it, but not the same way. When Jesus says I'm here for you, to uphold and strengthen you, he means it by experience Hebrews four fifteen, we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but was tempted in all points like we are, yet without sin. Let us come boldly before the throne of grace and obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of Need. He says, Jesus knows. And so he says, Come into my Father's presence, I will take you there. And I will give you mercy and grace. That's what he says. The second question I want to answer is, well, why doesn't he just insulate us from suffering and remove all of our pain? Because if he really loves me so much and he's so kind and he's so compassionate and his heart is moved toward me in my weakness and my infirmities and my frailties Well, why doesn't he just remove all these things from my life? Because very obviously he does not. You know, even within a church the size of ours, we have many people who suffer long-term chronic illnesses. Out in society, there are people all over communities like this, Christians and non-Christians, people that have prayed for decades, and people who never pray at all. Why doesn't God just remove all these things, insulate us from them? And the fact is, I can't answer all the questions, but I can give you a couple of things that I know scripturally are taught. One is this. God does not want you and I to become self-absorbed or entitled or arrogant. You may say, I've suffered enough. I am not entitled. I am not arrogant. I would like this to change. Why he chooses not to in such circumstances, I can't answer, but I can say this: he knows what we need. He doesn't want us to live with the illusion that we are the center of the universe. That this universe does not need to be restored. If God never allowed you to be tempted, yet the Bible talks about temptation, would you take it seriously? I wouldn't. And neither would you. If God talked about the fact that He has compassion towards you and your infirmities and you never experienced infirmities, would you really think that such things existed? When the scripture talks about the fact that this is a fallen creation and he's going to burn this creation, he's going to create a new heaven and a new earth, and it's going to be a kingdom of righteousness. And we're going to enjoy him for all of eternity. And he's going to wipe away every single tear from our eyes, and there'll be no more death or sorrow or crying and no more pain. Because the former things are passed away. But that was not the experience of such a life in this world. Would you believe it? Would it comfort you? Would it matter to you at all? The answer is no. It wouldn't at all. The fact is, he knows exactly what we need to turn us to himself. To turn our eyes to our future inheritance, to build us and to strengthen us and to mature us and to shape us in character into Christ's likeness. He knows the perfect balance needed in your life and in my life to produce what we most need. And what we most need is not an easy life. What we need most is not a lot of money and comfort and all the conveniences of life. What we need most is to know Jesus And to walk with him, and to delight in him, and to live consistent with the position that he's given us in Christ. And have our eyes said on eternity, not on the things of this world. And the fact is, God uses these things in our life. To turn our hearts away from what we are living for that is worthless and empty and sucking life out of us. And he says, Turn yourself to me. That's what God does. How does God answer our prayer when we cry out in affliction? I want to mention a few things preliminarily. One is that we need to recognize it is not always God's will to heal us in this Life. Now, I did not say that we shouldn't pray. I did not say that we shouldn't persevere in prayer. I did not say it is never God's will to heal us. I said, it is not always God's will to heal us. But it is his will that we pray. It is his will that we seek his face in such circumstances. I also want to remind you, in addition to that, that anytime God heals a person on this side of eternity, that healing is temporary. So let's say that you have an illness when you're 30 or 40 years old and you plead out to God and you say, God, deliver me from this infirmity, this weakness. And he does it. He removes the sickness. He restores your health. He gives you strength. I asked this question, will you live like that for all of eternity? The answer is no. Think about Lazarus. Lazarus got sick, Lazarus died, and then four days later, there is Jesus talking to him. And he's got to go through the whole thing again. Every single person in Scripture that was healed, it was a real healing, and it really lasted for a period of time, but it was temporary. It was not the final healing. The final healing is when we receive our glorified bodies. When we run our race, and he says it's time to come home. And so we must keep those three concepts in our minds as we dig into this concept. I then move from that to give you some simple things that I know that Scripture most certainly affirms. The first is this: God will always give you and I the grace to endure. He always will The problem is not on his side. The problem is on our side. Maybe we refuse to say, I need the grace. Maybe we refuse to pick up the tools that are available to us. Maybe we have a misunderstanding of how God does this. But the grace is always available for you and for me to endure as long as God allows us to go through such Second Corinthians twelve, nine, my grace is sufficient for thee. My strength is made perfect in weakness. Ephesians chapter six, verse ten be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Philippians 4, 12 and 13. And I know everybody loves Philippians 4 13. I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. And then I ask, well, what are the things he talks about? Well, he says, I know both how to be abase. And how to abound. I like the abound part, but not the abase part. Everywhere in all things I'm instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer needs. I can do all things through Christ which strengthens me. Do you see what he's saying? He's not saying, oh, you can bench 350 pounds, young man, because you can do all things through Christ which strengthens you. You could be a national champion. He says you can learn how to suffer and endure. You can grow through infirmities. You can handle success without it destroying you. I can do all things through Christ. Christ which strengthens me. You see the grace that's available? 2 Timothy 2:1. Be strong in the grace That is in Christ Jesus. Endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. If you are dealing with infirmity of heart, you are weak, you are burdened, you are weighed down, you know for a fact Not that God will remove your sickness, but that he will give you grace to endure it. Two, he uses affliction as a catlass to shape our perspective. Psalm 119, verse 67. Before I was afflicted, I went astray. Nobody's ever done this, I'm sure. That's been my experience. I can tell you the reason I'm in the ministry today. Because God literally knocked me upside the head in athletic competition. And it so sobered me. And as I sat in the hospital And I thought about everything that I've experienced. God humbled me. He humbled me so much. The psalmist says, I was afflicted. Before I was afflicted, I went astray. But now I kept your word. Psalm 11971, it is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn thy statute. Psalm 11975, I know, O Lord, that thy judgments are right, and that thou in thy faithfulness hast afflicted. Afflicted me. The most dangerous thing that you can do as a Christian is to embrace a perspective that you know is wrong and throw caution to the wind. Do not do that. He uses affliction to mature us. Now, this is a little bit more than shaping perspective. This is actually building our strength. This is taking the qualities that God wants to. Build in us and he makes them fuller and richer and deeper. We can say that we love someone, but is that love mature? We can say that we have endurance or patience, but to what level can we endure? We can say that we're a person of joy, but what about when circumstances turn dark and heavy and wearisome? That joy, that love, that patience That is a mature love, a mature joy, a mature kind of quality. He does this in us. Second Corinthians 12, 19, or 9. My strength is made perfect. That word means a maturing in weakness. James 1:3, the trying of your faith worketh patiently Let patience have her perfect. There's that word, that maturing work, that you may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. God allows us to suffer to build maturity in us. One of the great tragedies is that when we suffer, we ignore what He's doing. And we become very self-centered and we become very complacent, and all of a sudden we miss the purposeful intent of God's good hand. Next, he provides opportunity to connect with and invest in others. Listen carefully to what Second Corinthians 1, verse 4 says Who comforted us, uh comfort us in all our tribulation, that we may feel good about ourselves Oh, it didn't say that. That we can sit back in isolation and praise God quietly in our rooms. Doesn't say that. That we may be able to comfort them which are in trouble through the comfort with we have been comforted ourselves of God. You know what often happens when we suffer? We pull ourselves into a corner. We turn away from everyone around us, and we just want to sulk in the dark by ourselves. And you know what God says? I will strengthen you so you can minister to others. Some of the most powerfully impactful people that I've ever met. Are people who suffered great sufferings and they stepped into the light and they were transparent about it? They were willing to sit down with people who endured such things, and they walked through that with them. And they had a commonality because they had endured And they had grown and they had matured, and their perspective had been shaped, and they ministered from that infirmity. But that's not the way it always works. We can go the other way, or we can endure in the quiet. We can fail to learn the lessons. We can fail to influence others. He provided specific reminders. He can use this to provide specific reminders of his power and compassion. Think about the blind man in John chapter 9. As Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was blind from his birth. The disciples asked him, saying, Master, who sinned this man or his parents that he was born blind? And Jesus said, Neither. Neither this man hath sinned nor his parents, but that the work of God should be made manifest in him. And so what Jesus did is he healed this man to demonstrate his power. To demonstrate his compassion, to demonstrate his goodness. Think about the story of Lazarus. In John chapter eleven it says when Jesus heard that he said, This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, and that the Son of God might be glorified thereby. In verse thirty three it says, When Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews also weeping, he came with her, and he groaned in his spirit and was troubled, and he said, Where have you laid him? They said, Come and see. Jesus wept Then said the Jews, Behold, I love them. You know what's amazing about that story? People came to Jesus, they said, Your friend, the one who you love, Lazarus, he's he's dying. He needs you. And Jesus said, Okay, thank you. And he didn't go. And then Lazarus dies. He doesn't go right away. He waits a few days. You say that's so cold and so callous. The way that he describes Jesus isn't cold and callous. He weeps, he groans, they see how he loved him. Why did Jesus allow it to unfold as it did? Because he wanted to demonstrate compassion and power. God may very well be doing that in your life and in mine too. So why does God permit suffering? It's because there's a process that produces his loving purposes in us and through Us. Our long-term perspective and spiritual health and maturity are more important to God than our short-term comforts. So that moves us to a second thing. God's compassion is demonstrated in the raising of Gairus' daughter. I want to begin by looking at the chaos of this moment Now, if you can remember when Jesus came to this community before, when he first comes, he meets a man who is crazy, he is wild, he's demon-possessed. And Jesus heals this man, he casts out the demons, they end up in this these swine, this herd of pigs, and they run down into the sea, and all of a sudden the people come out of the sea, they say, What's going on? And there is the demoniac, who is a wild man, sitting down at Jesus' feet. He's clothed, he's in his right mind, and Jesus is being told by these people, please leave, I don't want you here. And then that man looks at Jesus and he says, Can I go with you? And he said, No. Go to your family. The ones that won't let me live with them? Yes, go to your family. And then he says, tell them what I've done for you. Go to your family, tell them what I've done for you. That was what Jesus said. Told him. And the next time Jesus comes to this place, it's complete chaos. When I say it's complete chaos, the people are crowding around him. They want to see him. They want to speak with him. Those who are infirmed are trying to be healed of their infirmities. There's an overwhelming opportunity for Jesus to minister in this community, and it's because of the miracle performed And the word that came through the demoniac, whose life had been radically changed. Verse 40, when Jesus returned, the people gladly received him. For they were all waiting for him. But then that moves us to a very specific situation that caught Jesus' attention. In verses 41 and 42, it says, There came a man named Jarus. And he was a ruler of the synagogue, and he fell down at Jesus' feet. And he besought him that he would come into his house, for he had one only daughter, about twelve years of age, and she lay dying. Now, please get in your mind this picture, if you will. Here is Jesus, here are the disciples. This is a primarily Gentile community. But there are Jews living in this region, and there is a synagogue, and here comes the man who is the ruler of the synagogue. He is the person who is the one who planned out the order of worship, planned out the scripture reading. plans out the psalms that they will be singing. He is leading. He is ruling, if you want to put it that way. And so he's probably the most prominent person in the Jewish community in that city. And what does this man do? He comes to Jesus and he lays down in the dirt and he grabs a hold of his feet and he says, I plead with you, come to my house. You say, What a disrespectful thing to do. This is what people do when they're in pain. This is the way people respond when they are desperate. All the chaos. And this man is at Jesus' feet saying, please come with me. My daughter is very sick. She's going to die. Now, what is implied in the way that he comes to Jesus is that he needs to come now. There's a reason he needs to come now, because she's about to die. It's almost as if you have a person who is right at the end of their life, and they call everybody in the family and they say, if you want to see dad, you better come now. If you want to see mom, you better come now. If you want to see your grandmother, you better come now. Because if you don't, you will not see this person alive again. That is the sense of what's going on. And so as Jesus is moving, it tells us that there's a lot going on all around. And in verse 42, it says, He went and the people thronged him. There are people all around him. They want access to Christ. And then it tells us about another person who is also in a desperate position. It says in verses 43 to 44, a woman having an issue of blood twelve years. which had spent all her living upon physicians, neither could be healed of any, came behind him and touched the border of his garment, and immediately her issue of blood stock. For twelve years, this poor lady had done everything in her power to get medical help. Every doctor she could think of, she went to the by the way, it's interesting that Luke records this as being a medical doctor. Not only has she gone to these doctors, but she's given them so much money she doesn't have any more to give them. She has to resign herself to the fact that she's going to be ceremonial and clean. She can't participate in the synagogue and the worship and all those things. This woman is living as an outcast. It is a painful, miserable existence. And she says, if I can just touch his garment, maybe I'll be healed. Just like Jarius comes to Jesus and he pleads with him, Come to my house. This woman just wants to try to touch this garment. Carmen. And you know what happens? She's healed. Jesus stops in the midst of everything going on. He didn't just keep moving, oh she's healed. Great. Let's keep moving. He stops and he says, Who touched me? Now you can imagine Jairus at this time he's going, We need to go. My daughter's dying. You can't have a conversation with these people. What are you doing? The disciples are saying, Jesus, everybody's touching you. you everybody's pressing on you everybody wants to talk to you everybody wants access to you how in the world are you going to determine who touched you we have no idea how long it took But in the course of the time that he has this who touched me, and everybody says I didn't, and finally she comes forward and he says, Daughter, your faith hath made thee well. Somebody's coming from the house. Daris, don't worry. She's gone. He can't help you now. That's what we read in these verses. Chaos, but the focused resolve of Christ. In verses 48 and 49, he says, Daughter, be of good comfort He says, Thy daughter is dead, trouble not the master. In verse 50, Jesus said, when he heard it, he answered and said, Fear not, believe only, she shall be made whole. And verses 52 and 53, they come to the house and people are weeping, and they're bewailing her. And he said, Weep not, she is not dead. She sleepeth, they laughed him to scorn, knowing that she was dead. Here's the question. Was Jesus too late? If he'd have been a little faster, maybe he could have saved her. By the way, if if if we had a medical issue and we had to call paramedics And someone died because the paramedic came five minutes too late, we would all be asking the question. If they'd been a little faster, could that person have lived? Every person in this room would be asking that question That's what happens when you have moments like this. The question is, does Jesus operate like that? The answer is no Jesus isn't bound to our timetables. He doesn't have to work according to our per our our will and our desires and our timing. He doesn't have to do those things. He's God. He operates according to his own purposes and his own will. His timing is best and perfect. Not our timing is best and perfect. And he's going to demonstrate this. But what's very interesting to me about this in the focused resolve amongst the chaos is that Jesus goes to the house and tells everybody, leave. Unlike the miracle that was performed on the demoniac, Christ raises Jerusal's daughter to life in private and commands them not to broadcast what had happened. You remember the story of the demoniac? He says, go to your house and return and tell them how great things God hath done for you. But this is a very different miracle. In verse 51, when he came into the house, he suffered no man to go in save Peter and James and John, the father, the mother of the maiden. In verse 56, he charged them that they should tell no man what had done. Somebody glibly said, Well, he didn't say anything about telling no women. That's not the point. You know what the point is? One miracle was meant to be public, the other was not. To catch that. Jesus did not heal this young woman, bring her back to life to prove he's Messiah. He's already done that. The whole community is there to come to him because they believe he's the Messiah. For whatever their purposes are, they are there. He didn't do this so that they could go around this Gentile community as the Jewish family who runs the synagogue and say, Look what Jesus did for us. And they say, Oh, He's the He's the Jewish God, not the Gentiles. That's not what he did. He said, Don't tell anybody. So then why did Jesus do it? He did it out of compassion. That's the conclusion I've come to. He did it because Jairus asked And he had compassion. When we pray and we plead with God to answer prayer, many times that's what he does. It's not because he wants to send out this platform, I'm God, and I want everybody to know it. He does it because he's kind. So what do we learn in these verses? Well, we see the purposeful nature of Christ's ministry. He is deliberate and measured in how he deals with people. We see how controlled Jesus is. His dis the disruptions and the setbacks didn't matter. It didn't change anything on his timetable. It's not like he he goes, Oh no, what do I do? He didn't do that. He said, Let's keep going to the house. She's not dead, she's sleeping. We see mercy. This is the primary motive of mercy, compassion. And lastly, we see answered prayer. His mercy was a direct answer to Jairus' humble, passionate request. Why did he heal this woman? Who for twelve years had paid all of her money, gone to every single doctor she could, and she had no more hope, and she just grabs a hold of his garment in the midst of a crowd. Why'd he heal her? Compassion. That's our God. He loves us. He cares about us. He is compassionate. So it leads me to the final question. How do we respond to God when we suffer? I'd like to take all the things we've talked about and just kind of lay it out in a couple of simple thoughts that I hope will be a help to you this morning. The first thing that I would say is this: we need to have a firm conviction that God is good. The very first lie that Satan will put into your minds And by the way, he will not only put it in there, but he will water that seed. And he will water that seed. And he'll do everything in his power to convince you to embrace such a lie, and that is that God is not good. Now, I didn't suggest that we always understand the whys and the how longs and all those things, but what we do know is that he's good. The reason he permits when and for how long and all those things, it does not in any way negate his goodness. Two. We need to have a firm conviction that he is guiding our situation according to his goodness and wisdom. You know, it's one thing for me to say, I know that God is good. I'm willing to accept that he's good, but is he wise? Is he doing what is best? You know, it's like a person who comes to you in a moment and they say something to you, and you know that their intention was good, but what they said didn't help at all. Is God like that? No, he stopped. We need to have this conviction that he is good and his goodness and wisdom guide how he works. Number three, we need to pour out our hearts to him with transparency when we are vulnerable and hurting and fearful. I think sometimes we get in our minds that you know we don't have the right to go into God's presence and weep. We don't have the right to go into God's presence and lament, or we don't have the right to go into God's presence and And crabs him and say God I don't feel I can endure a whole lot longer. I'm having such a difficult time making sense of what I'm doing. Have you not read the Psalms? Have you not read the book of Jeremiah? Have you not read the book of Lamentations? That's inspired scripture. These people poured out their hearts in the presence of God. And they said, God, I need strength. I need answers. I don't understand. Sometimes we need to do that. I didn't say complain and tell him he's wrong. But do tell him you're in pain. Do tell him you are suffering. Do tell him you're at the end of your rope. Express your heart transparently to him. And it's not as if God will sit back and go, Oh, I didn't know that. Really? Whew. Thanks for unloading on me this morning. God's not like that. Now we might be like that with other people. They unload and we go, I didn't know, I didn't know. God's not like that All of a sudden, in those moments, you know what God starts doing? He starts impressing on our hearts certain truths. He might bring somebody across our path to minister to us. He has his ways of bringing comfort in these moments. And that's what we need to do. Fourth, we need to have confidence that he has both heard our request and has compassion toward us in our pain and our weakness. When God's children cry out, he hears. There's a scripture that says, O God that heareth prayer, unto thee shall all flesh come. He hears our prayers. He knows our weaknesses. In fact, the text even tells us in Hebrews, it says that our high priest will bring us into the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. It's not just that God hears, but literally at times when we can't even express what we want from God, the Holy Spirit intercedes on our behalf with groanings which cannot be uttered. There are times that we are tongue-tied, we don't even know what to say to God. The pain and the grief we experience, the question marks that are on eye, we do not know how to express. And the Holy Spirit intercedes on our behalf. What does it mean to pray in the Spirit? It means that He's guiding us. Maybe He's carrying us. We need to draw upon the daily supply of grace that God has provided. God will give you what you need today. I didn't say today for tomorrow, though He can do that. Or today for next week. Or today for next year. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. That's what Jesus said. We have to learn to draw on his daily grace. There's a scripture where Paul talks about the fact that there's no temptation that's taken us, but such as is common to man. God is faithful who will not. Suffer or allow you to be tempted above it, you're able, but he will with the temptation also make a way of escape that we might be able to bear it. We need to draw on the grace that's there. So many times we are dying inside because we are trying to draw on our own strength, and our own strength is spent. We have nothing more to draw from. We need to submit to what He's doing in our lives. We need to allow the situation to humble us To press us close to him, to reorient our perspective toward him, towards the gospel. We need to be built in maturity. We need to be shaped in the image of Christ. Ask this question If God has permitted suffering in your life, so that He can draw you to Himself, so that He can build you and mature you and strengthen you. and change your perspective and give you an opportunity to minister to others and all you can focus on is him taking it away and you ignore all of his purposes. I asked the question, what is better? For him to allow you to continue till you get what he's doing, or for him to take it away and you miss his purpose I think it's a valid question we need to ask ourselves. We need to submit to him and what he's doing. Let patience have her perfect work. James chapter 1. And lastly, we need to look for opportunities to minister to others through our suffering. If we are suffering, we need to have compassion on others. We need to strengthen and bear the burdens of those from the strength that He has given us. Through the wisdom that He has taught us, we need to invest in the lives of others. We need to have a clear understanding of the kinds of things others are dealing with. The fact is that we as God's people Need to look for opportunity to take what He has brought us through to use to help others. We are a church, a body. We're not a hundred and fifty plus people who just sit in this room, hear a sermon, and live live disconnected lives. At least we're not supposed to be. We're supposed to be a body who is interconnected. Just like your head and your hands are connected, and your eyes and your ears are connected. And your feet and your brain is connected. We're supposed to work in unity together. That means we bear each other's burdens. Well, if nobody knows you have a burden, then how do they bear it? They can't. If I'm not available to help others bear their burdens and I don't ask questions, then how do I know what's going on in their lives? The fact is, if I have endured and I have grown and I have matured, I do have something to share with people. And I have a platform for them to listen in a way that I would not if I had not gone through such things. This is a heavy topic, is it not? So the question is, well, what about you? God wants you to find comfort in his comforting ways. He wants you to view him correctly in suffering. He doesn't want you to doubt his goodness and his wisdom. He wants you to believe that he is sovereign and his purposes. Are good and continuing to be intact. He wants you to be willing to respond properly to him when you are feeling vulnerable. May God give us ears to hear and eyes to see. Hearts, let's submit. Let's bow for prayer. Father, I think about the text before us. It is very heavy because it conjures up an unbelievable number of questions Yet there are answers if we're willing to hear them. I pray that you help us as your people to not chafe at your ways But to draw on your grace, to not question your goodness, but to learn it, not to shrink back into isolation, But to step into the light and be transparent and rub shoulders with others so that we can endure together. Father, help us to be a praying people who uphold one another in prayer. And may we see you working in our midst as we get on our knees and bring our petitions as you worked in the life of these people. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. If you could, let's please turn to our closing hymn, and that is hymn 147. Amazing grace How sweet the sound. Save the wretch like me. And as I said this at the beginning of the sermon, it may be that after a message like this you need to reach out after the service, come by, say, Pastor, I need to meet with you this week. Uh send me an email. Give me a phone call. I want to be available. I want to help you, pray with you. The fact is that these are heavy issues. They're not to be taken lightly And we need one another. Very, very important. Let's stand together and let's sing this hymn together. We'll sing the first, the second, the third, and the fifth verses together. The fifth verse we will sing a cappella. Oh yeah , we 're gonna cross the For the friends I love to be. I think that one we stay as far. On the last single archipelago, here we go. When we We go three Aren't you thankful for God's grace and the gospel? If it wasn't for that, a message like this would be pointless. Um, Brother Eric Hudgens, can you close in prayer, please? And I hope that you'll be able to make it back tonight as we continue our study through Old Testament passages. And uh good to see each of you. I know it's a nasty, wet day, but it's good to be in the Lord's house. Let us pray. Dear Father, we thank you for this day. We ask for safety as we travel here. We thank you for the sound preaching, Lord. That we ask that you protect this congregation and that you bring us back together safely this evening. Thank you for everything you provide. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.